Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on September 13, 2011
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

September 14, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee held
September 14, 2011 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair James; Chair Kemp; Directors Bagley, Cohen, Daly,
Deadwyler, Hoy, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer and Tobiassen.
Directors Anderson and Riley

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jeff Becker, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Carolyn Conover,
Martell Dyles, Eric Farrington, David Genova, Mike Gil, Gary Googins,
Kenn Hardin, George Hovey, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Marla
Lien, Barbara McManus, Brian Matthews, Tony McCaulay, Doug
MacLeod, Tai-Shrae Parish, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Jannette
Scarpino, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna, John Shonsey, Greg Smith,
John Tarbert, Christina Tubb and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Kevin Abels – FRESC, Howard Alton – ATU 1001, Greg Amparano –
DTP, Joe Anzures – Anzures & Associates, Gus Avila, Celina Benavidez
– Celina Inc., Chris Blackwood – PFM, William Cash – CDC, Chris Cruz
– Celina Inc., Dwight Cunningham – Advance Network Solution, Selena
Dunham – Classique LLC., Philippe Gervaise – ACS, Matthew Helfant –
Douglas County, Kris Korteweg – Lamar Advertising, Claudine Minor –
Minor Construction, Massimo Rolle - ACS, Chris Stoneman – iCAST,
Landri Taylor – Urban League, Katrina Wert – CCP/WIN,
****

Call to Order:

I.

Committee Chair James called the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee meeting to order at 8:07 p.m.

Recommended Actions


Authorization of RTD Investment Policy

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on September 13, 2011
Page 2 of 4

Board of Directors adopt the Investment Policy Statement (the “Policy”), as amended.
Committee Chair James noted that he asked for one item to be changed so that the
Board will review the investment policy annually.
Terry Howerter added that Chris Blackwood with PFM, one of our investment advisors
was in attendance and could help answer any questions the Director’s might have.
Teresa Sedmak noted that the TIFIA loan has been approved for $280 Million for the
Eagle project which is the last piece of the financing for that project. We anticipate
bringing that forward to the Board for approval in November for an early December
close. The investment policy is being brought in advance of when we would typically
bring the policy to the Board during the fourth quarter. There have been significant
changes in the market in the last few months, including a downgrade of US Government
debt. As a result of that a downgrade the district’s ability to invest in agency securities
has been impaired, which is a large part of our portfolio and provides a return in excess
of treasuries. Colorado State statute will most likely be revised to address that
downgrade and allow government entities to invest in agency securities regardless of
downgrade but they do not come back to session until January. These revisions allow
for us to continue to invest in agency securities with some limitations. In addition, we
have added a pre-refunded municipal securities class which are refunded municipal
securities that are backed with an escrow of government securities that are not subject
to the revenue risks or other projected risks associated with other municipal securities.
Director O’Boyle indicated that it would be a great help to see the current policy to
compare it with the new proposed amended policy to see what was edited.
Director Tayer added that he was struck by the change in option 1 and the rationale to
invest because of the downgrade of the US Treasury Bonds. He inquired if we could
create a more liberal policy or have some sort of understanding that Treasury Bonds are
relatively safe.
Teresa Sedmak noted that our policy follows state statute and US Treasuries do not
have a rating requirement on them. However, the agency securities that we could invest
in did have a rating requirement and current state statute indicates that no rating agency
can rate them below the AAA level, but now those securities are below that level.
Chris Blackwood added that the new policy allows room for further downgrades should
they happen.
Motion:

Director McMullen made the motion
to forward this item to the full Board
at the September 20, 2011 Board
Meeting.

Second:

Director
motion.

Bagley

seconded

the

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on September 13, 2011
Page 3 of 4

Vote on
Motion:
II.

The Motion passed Unanimously.

Second Quarter 2011 Performance Report
Jannette Scarpino indicated that customer complaints for the 2nd and 3rd quarters will be
reported in the 3rd quarter update.
Bruce Daly noted that we have had increased vandalism in some of our elevators and
inquired what has been done to alert security. David Genova explained that we had a
few elevators at Dayton that had been cracked and broken, and the issue is isolated to a
couple of areas.

III.

2012 Requested Budget Discussion
Terry Howerter noted that we had a few open questions from the Operations and
Customer Service Committee. The interest rate and expenses in the Base system are
monitored very closely, and all of our debt is fixed rate debt. If we were to find favorable
financial findings in 2012, those savings would be placed into the fund balance. Once
we had an adequate fund balance, we could then look at incremental service additions.
Jannette Scarpino explained that last month we approved the SBP and as Terry had
mentioned the theme this year is long term fiscal sustainability. The importance of this
allows us to meet our mission statement in a cost effective manner. It also allows us to
maintain our assets and replace them on a timely basis without pushing that cost out
into future periods.

IV.

July 2011 Monthly Financial Status Report
Doug MacLeod indicated that ridership year to date is up 515,000 and we have seen
increases in light rail and express services due to fuel prices and fare revenue is still up
12.2% year to date. Sales and Use tax trend seems to be 5.4% ahead of last year’s
numbers.

V.

Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Action Item Update
Terry Howerter indicated that we want to keep the Board informed of Task Force
recommendations and the purpose of this report is to update the Board on the status of
these recommendations. At this point in time, staff is focused on the sales and use tax
projections.
Director Tayer noted that this demonstrates that we are making progress toward
addressing the opportunity for either savings or other revenue. This is a great
opportunity to break out of the cutting service or raising fares paradigm that we have
been in.
General Manager Washington added that as we bring this forward on a monthly basis we
will list both the internal staff member and the external stakeholders for each
assignment.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on September 13, 2011
Page 4 of 4

Marla Lien explained that some of those things are implemented as we move forward
with certain projects.
VI.

Other Matters
None

VII.

Next Meeting Date – October 18, 2011

VIII.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 8:47 p.m.

