2025-01-23
Executive Committee Meeting
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. So this is the Thursday, January 23rd Executive Committee will now come
to order. We are convened as of 11:17 AM. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to
mute yourself, unless you're recognized to speak. Please note that the committee meetings of the RTD
Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded.
The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as
practicable on the board's website. During today's meeting, we're providing Communication Access, RealTime Translation, also known as CART.
Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript can be
automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like access to a live transcript of this meeting
in Spanish. A live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
I would now like to call the role of the committee members; First Vice Chair O'Keefe-PATRICK O'KEEFE: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second Vice Chair Whitmore-TROY WHITMORE: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary Nicholson-CHRIS NICHOLSON: I'm here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Treasurer Benker-KAREN BENKER: I'm here also.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And I am present as well. So all five members are here. So for the record, I also see
Director Peggy Leary present, Director Catlin present. And I believe that is the only other Directors I see
present. Perfect. So for the record, Director Peggy Leary and Director Catlin. Thank you for joining us.
I'd like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any topic
listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and a meeting immediately preceding month. If you
wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your
phone.
During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you'd like to
be contacted your public comment, please email the RTD Board Stat Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtddenver.com.

Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you're dialed in, press star 6 to toggle your mute
settings. Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you're being recorded. If you do not
wish to be recorded, then your comments will need to be added via writing. Comments can be submitted
to the Board Office at the following email addresses; rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names, and each speaker will have three minutes to
speak. With that being said, are there any speakers who have their hands up, Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Chairman Bouquet, at this time, I am not seeing that anyone present from the public has
raised their hand in desire of providing public comment.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Are there any emailed comments received for today's meeting?
JACK KROLL: There were no email comments specific to topics on this morning's agenda. However, as I
communicated to you all via email last week, I failed to mention during the Operation Safety and Security
Committee meeting that you all received public comment by way of former Director Jamie Lewis, who
forwarded an email from someone who I reached out to him regarding access on demand and some of
the proposed and ongoing changes to that program.
So that email has been forwarded to you all, but since I mentioned I would ensure that email was shared
at this meeting. I wanted to make sure I did that for the record, and that email came from Brenda Mosby.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. With that being the only participation then and seeing no hands raised, I
will now close public comment at this period. Excellent. OK. Before we approve the January Board
Meeting agenda, I would like to note that staff will make one correction to the 2025 committee
appointments.
First Vice Chair O'Keefe was listed as an appointed member for the Performance Committee, when in
reality, that is actually Secretary Nicholson should be listed in that spot. So after this meeting, Board
Office staff will republish the Executive Committee agenda with that change and make that correct for the
Board meeting.
Secondly, at the request of Performance Committee Chair Guzman, the Board Office will add any
proposed amendments that were submitted by 5:00 PM yesterday for the 2025 performance assessment
framework for the GM CEO. This item is listed as the 2025 GM/CEO short-term goals in our packets. Any
proposed amendments submitted by the deadline will be included as an attachment to the recommended
action.
The inclusion of a proposed Amendment does not indicate that the proposed amendment will be adopted,
only that it is being proposed. Any proposed amendment to the 2025 performance assessment framework
must still be brought to the floor at the next week's meeting by way of a properly recognized motion, as
well as a second. Amendments not included in the packet are still allowable under Robert's Rules.
However, please keep in mind that to ask to include proposed amendments in the board packet came
from a commitment to both no surprises and also public transparency.
So on a different topic as well, I'd like to change our practice to how we agendize our Executive
Committee action items, which are unanimously approved by the committee. Currently, items approved
unanimously by the Executive Committee are listed under recommended actions at the board meeting.
These items that were approved unanimously by any other board committees are automatically placed in
unanimous consent during our board meetings. So as a check to that process and to ensure the board

has the ability to review items in full, any Director has an opportunity during the board meeting to remove
a unanimous consent item to recommended action.
As always, the Chair, ask before seeking approval of the items listed in the unanimous consent portion of
the agenda. If any Director wishes to pull an item of unanimous consent as well-- I'm proposing this
change to streamline the process and to match how the other committees are really doing this. So
basically, items that are recommended action and unanimous consent.
If you have any strong feelings about this, just please let me know. I expect this to move forward, and,
ultimately, it's going to be more efficient and save time while still remaining every director's right to
request an item to be removed from unanimous consent. I think we're good going forward, unless there's
any conversation with that, Directors.
Basically, it's going to streamline the process and kind of follow what the other committees ultimately will
go forward with. So-- Yes, Director Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Just for my own clarity-- so what would happen basically now is anything that
comes out of any of the standing committees or really any committee that forwards something to
Executive Committee for inclusion in the agenda, those items, after we've approved the agenda-- those
items would go on to the draft agenda in unanimous consent, and then at the board meeting could be
pulled from unanimous consent?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes. Mr. Kroll, did you want to add anything?
JACK KROLL: Yeah, just the one clarifying comment there, Secretary Nicholson, is that the items must
first be unanimously approved at the committee level to go on to the unanimous consent portion of the
agenda for the full board meeting. So if there's any split votes on an item that comes out of a committee,
that automatically goes to recommended action.
What the change Chair Bouquet is proposing today is to afford that same opportunity to items that come
out of the Executive Committee that are unanimously approved. Currently, those items are by default
placed under recommended action. And in December, there were four items that came through the
Executive Committee at its November Executive Committee meeting.
The full board meeting occurred in December because of the Thanksgiving holiday, and there were four
items that the Executive Committee forwarded unanimously to the board, and not a single one of them
received substantive conversation. Yet the board still procedurally had to move through all of those
motions, second, discussion, vote. And it just ate up a bunch of valuable time at the meeting.
What Chair Bouquet is proposing here, it would allow those items to go on to the consent agenda. And
then, of course, if anyone had any concerns, they could easily ask to pull them off. And the practice of the
Chair has been consistently to say, hey, before we approve the consent agenda, does anyone want an
item or items removed? If now, just raise your hand and we take it off, and it's no big deal.
So this is really a forwarding-- just a path, again, to the board to complete its work more efficiently, while
not removing any capacity for the Directors to inquire further on a topic.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. Yeah, that makes complete sense to me.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Treasurer Benker?

KAREN BENKER: I would be open to seeing how this works, but the way it's been described to me-- so
here's what I'm thinking, and add more information to what I'm thinking. All the major issues that we're
going to be voting on throughout the year are going to Operations or Finance Committee. So the
committee talks about the issue, comes up with a proposal, wants to put it on the board agenda. OK.
So these major issues, it could be extremely significant stuff. I mean, that's why we have committees,
right? We're going to be taking some big issues, talking about it, trying to find solutions. So then it
automatically would get put onto the consent agenda for the entire board.
See, this sort of worries me because I think debate is good, and especially when the public is there
listening and watching. And I have seen some of the meetings where no one really says too much. And
you vote, and it's all, yes, it passes. And I guess I'm not used to that. I'm used to some vigorous debate.
And yes, it may take some time, but that's what we signed up for.
And I think a good debate is healthy. And so I'd be willing to try it for maybe a month. But as it evolves, I
may have second thoughts about it. So just wanted to put my two cents in.
JULIEN BOUQUET: No, I appreciate that, Treasurer Benker. I just wanted to clarify as well that as Mr.
Kroll mentioned, any item that falls into unanimous consent can be pulled from unanimous consent during
the board meeting so we can ultimately have a discussion. It happens very often that we have items that
are pulled that are going to be more debatable items or items that we might want to discuss. So even
though ultimately it will be seen as unanimous consent, we will have the opportunity, or Director has the
opportunity, to say, I would like to pull it, move it to recommended actions, and then we could ultimately
discuss it.
Again, the process that's getting proposed is we're just kind of following what the other committees are
doing. And again, it's kind of to streamline the efficiency of it. But I do appreciate-- I do appreciate the
comments. And luckily, there are mechanisms in place for us. If we want to discuss an item during the full
board meeting, we can. As you'll see-- as you'll see, there's some items that are pretty easy and generally
don't have much debate compared to other items. But I appreciate your feedback. Secretary Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I was just going to say, we also have the ability to pull items in Executive
Committee if we're like, hey, this is almost certainly going to or we think this should be discussed. We can
just get ahead of the game and be like, OK, we're moving that. Or if we got a flag from one of the noncommittee members who would have voted no, we can take care of it here. So-JULIEN BOUQUET: It's funny-CHRIS NICHOLSON: --it takes 30 seconds in the Executive Committee meeting.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Funny you mentioned that, Secretary Nicholson, because I think that's what we're
going to be talking a little bit about. Yeah, Treasurer Benker?
KAREN BENKER: OK, so it might even be possible that everything that we would debate on a regular
board meeting would be on the consent agenda?
JULIEN BOUQUET: So for the unanimous consent agenda?
KAREN BENKER: Yeah. So the entire meeting might just be one unanimous consent agenda, unless
something was pulled?

JULIEN BOUQUET: Mr Kroll, do you want to jump in on this?
JACK KROLL: I mean, Treasurer Benker, your observation is theoretically correct. But in practice, that's
never been the case. And in fact, large items, such as the budget, are frequently pulled in advance from
the consent agenda prior to it going forward to the board.
So, yes, theoretically, the board could end up in a situation where all the items before it for approval are
under consent. But in practice, the board has never gone through a meeting with only consent agenda
items, since I've started here, that were of significant importance.
KAREN BENKER: But don't you think perhaps, maybe it's the Executive Committee's role where as
things are coming to be put onto the agenda, maybe we could recommend what should be under consent
and what would be under normal-- let's debate the issue. I just hesitate putting all of these things under a
consent agenda. It just doesn't-- that's my thoughts. So leave it there.
JULIEN BOUQUET: No, I appreciate it, Treasurer Benker. And you're actually about ready to see
something get moved based on my next action that I'm going to go forward. But Second Vice Chair
Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Just anecdotally, six years and one month on the board, don't ever recall a meeting
where we had that type of agenda. And certainly, more often than not, things are moved into debate. So I
don't see that happening often. And if it does happen, it's really easy decisions. And as you've learned,
we don't have a plethora of those. We have a lot of difficult ones. So I think history would say, yeah, we'll
have plenty of debate.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. And speaking of taking items off unanimous consent, given that we are likely
to see proposed amendments on the 2025 GM/CEO short-term goals item, I'd like to see if there would be
any objection from the Executive Committee in moving that item from unanimous consent to
recommended action. Are there any members who would be against that? Perfect. And so, Treasurer
Benker, this is an exact example of what we could do.
We had a lot of debate and discussion, potentially, with the 2025 short-term goals. And even though it
passed through performance with unanimous consent, we're now moving forward. And we'll have it for
recommended action and talk on Tuesday. I'd also like to state for the-- state of the record, Director
Larsen, I do see, has joined us. First Vice Chair O'Keefe?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Mr Chairman, are we going to discuss that today? Is that the process for this, or are
we just-- we're not pulling it off and-- we're not moving that forward without some discussion today, right?
JULIEN BOUQUET: So we potentially could. We ultimately are going to be recommending for it. And so
there will be some time to discuss it as well once we get to it.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: OK.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yep. OK. OK. Lastly, I would also like to note for all the Directors, we will have a
special-- we will have a special board meeting with an Executive session related to collective bargaining

agreement negotiations. That is a scheduled meeting that will commence at 4:00 PM next Tuesday. That
will be happening right before our scheduled board meeting. So for everyone's note, please make sure
that we'll be having that special board meeting. OK.
So let's move along. All right. Perfect. OK. With that being said, is there a motion to approve the board
meeting agenda with the change to where the short-term goal items will be moved for our board meeting
on Tuesday, January 28th? Do I have a motion?
TROY WHITMORE: So move.
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right-PATRICK O'KEEFE: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: --Second Vice Chair Whitmore as the mover. And I have Secretary Nicholson as the
second. Thank you. Is there any further.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I was muted the whole time, so it was definitely not me who seconded.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: It was me.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Oh, Director O'Keefe, OK. Perfect.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: We sound very similar, Patrick.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Free, free, free-- OK, and then I'll move on to discussion. Secretary Nicholson, I saw
your hand up first.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, I got that one in early. So I recognize-- I'll first off say that we're using a
probably slightly different process here around committee amendments in advance and all of that than I
think I've seen before from the board. And I first want to say I thank you to Mr. Kroll for facilitating that
process.
But also, I think it's actually a really solid process for us to use, because this is something where we know
as public officials that these amendments were coming. We talked about the thing. We've seen some of
them. Some people may have shared theirs with other Directors one on one. And it behooves us, in the
interest of public disclosure, as you stated, to make those visible to the public, knowing that they will be,
at a minimum, very likely moved by someone at the meeting.
So I actually think that this is something we should seriously consider doing for committee meetings in the
future. If there are Directors who intend to make amendments, including Directors who are not on the
committee that the thing has been coming through, and that's why they want to make-So for example, if I wanted to amend something that's coming out of Finance, it would be good practice
for me to then say, I'm going to send this to the Board Office so that it can be included in the packet so
that everybody can read it and the public can see it, because it's likely to be something that's going to be
part of the meeting. I know that, other Directors know that, but the public doesn't know it, unless I include
it in the packet.

So I'm actually really appreciative that we're doing it this way, and I appreciate Director-- Mr. Kroll-- not
Director Kroll, Mr. Kroll for taking care of that. I wanted to just clarify quickly-- Mr. Kroll, when you see the
Board of Directors report on that item, which is on page 17 of the packet, I assume that these will be
mentioned at the bottom of the director's report, listed as attachments?
And then I would hope that somewhere actually written in the document it would say, see attached
amendments on page whatever, or some written reference. Hey, scroll down a little bit. There are a bunch
of attachments related to amendments that if you're reading this Board of Directors report, you should
take a look at, because people may not know that that's something that they should take a look at.
So I think this is actually really great that we're doing this. And I just want to applaud the Board Office for
taking the time, and I hope that this is something that we can continue in a formal, planned way where
there is not going to be, you have to move on this in a day and a half kind of thing because I think that it
does facilitate substantially more informed public engagement.
I've seen many times in the legislature where proposed amendments come the day of, and they are not
circulated to the public, and there is no way to find out what is going to be run as an amendment on a bill.
I think that's very bad practice for public disclosure. So I would love to be part of making an improvement
here where we can do better than the General Assembly does when it comes to making amendments
visible to the public. Thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Secretary Nicholson. Mr. Kroll, you're recognized.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Thank you for the question, Secretary Nicholson. One thing that I can commit to is
absolutely that these will be included in the board packet in direct juxtaposition to the proposed short-term
goal item. One thing that I do want to note with respect to our process is that the board report itself, as
you can see in the packet, is approved by Director Guzman.
And so I wouldn't necessarily be able to unilaterally, say, add content to that report without the
commitment of Director Guzman. But what I can do is follow what he asked us to do, which is to include
those proposed amendments and any associated materials with those amendments directly next to this
board report for the public's awareness.
Further, to answer your question with respect to our processes, or to address your question with respect
to our processes, the board operating guidelines dictate that items of-- maybe not dictate, but
recommend, suggest, strongly encourage that items of significant importance come before the board,
first, as a discussion item and then as an action item.
And the design of that system is really set up so that there is this opportunity for board members to weigh
in, and in fact, especially items that you will see that come through the Executive Committee is our
practice has been to present an item, such as, potentially, a bylaws amendment, get feedback, revise it in
a less formal sense, and then return that item to the board for consideration at the subsequent month's
meeting, at which point then amendments would potentially be appropriate.
With this specific item that I believe you're referring to with respect to the 2025 GM and CEO short-term
goals, the board has had a number of discussions on those items within the confines of Executive
session. And due to timing constraints, I think the challenge that everyone faces is that there wasn't that
time to bring the item, first, as a discussion and then as a subsequent action item.

So it's a bit wonky in that sense. However, the thing I'll perhaps end on here is to state that it has been
our practice, separate and aside from this instance, to receive amendments in advance and distribute
those to the board. I would absolutely love to have items come in as soon as possible for distribution.
In the past, we have seen items come from the floor that have been challenging to address. We've seen
items come several hours before a board meeting. If I get them in advance, I do my best to distribute
them, but I'm not necessarily always sitting around waiting for those items to come in and get them out
the door. And in the future, if we can include items in the packet, that would be my preference. But that
puts the onus on Board members to get those items to us in advance.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Thank you very much, Mr Kroll. Yes, I highly recommend-- I've witnessed
amendments get thrown on the floor, and sometimes it's a little tough to write something up right on the
floor compared to having something actually ready to go. So thank you. First Vice Chair O'Keefe, you're
recognized.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr Chairman. So just some of this is a little philosophical, but it is a
general commentary about the process of policy actions and how it is considered and moved on to the
Board. So bear with me. But specifically to the CEO goals, this-- and I know everybody has heard this,
and this is not meant as a pointed criticism of any individual or a group of Board members.
But this process is fraught with-- the goal approval process is so fraught with problems in how it's being
considered that what has become my number one priority is getting some sanity into our schedule. So
this falls in the don't ask the question if you don't want an answer.
There were goals set last year under a different set of Directors, and then a new set of Directors came in
and was asked to approve them. That's just wrong. There's nothing functional about that. the new
Directors have been in the field campaigning, and we have heard very specific feedback on the
organization, including challenges the organization is facing.
And having a process that is only three weeks long after we're approved, and the first two weeks was
deemed unamenable because the calendar was so short, is just set up to make people frustrated, period.
So now turning to where we're going right now, I actually want to apologize to GM CEO Johnson. This is
no way to have goals set for an individual, CEO or otherwise.
Now, I also want to apologize to the people that sent us here, the taxpayers and the riders that asked us
to come in and make changes, because we have been asked to make some very specific adjustments to
the organization, and one of the best ways to do it is to have the CEO focused on it. And that has been
made really difficult with this process.
So both apologies are sincere, and I hope we can avoid it going forward. I think our intention is to do that.
Now, as I mentioned, the CEO is the organization. And the thing that frustrates me more about this than
anything, it's not the content of the goals, it's the fact that there are three goals.
This is a big organization. We serve a massive area, and there's no way that we are focusing on three
very specific actions as the goals for the organization. Even the ridership goals are very narrow. The goal
on increasing feedback is just simply not appropriate. It's not an appropriate organizational goal to get
survey feedback, which is at best subjective in the feedback loop as a focus of the organization.
The end goal, customer satisfaction, is absolutely something that's worthy of it. But getting survey results
is just a piece of that. Now, when we were going-- over the past week, I was asked to submit examples of

previous CEO goals that I've helped write, and I sent those in. And I think they were probably
misinterpreted.
It was not a proposed amendment. It was proposed thoughts for something that would be worthy of focus.
And I certainly don't think individually any of those pieces are worthy of a goal. The one on CEO
succession, frankly, terrifies me that we don't have an emergency succession plan that the Board agrees
to with the GM CEO.
That just is so inappropriate for an organization this size, I don't know what to say. So that was pulled out,
as an example. But the full slate of things that I sent in were examples of something that you could put
into a single goal.
Now, go going into the Board meeting next week-- let me give one other point of disappointment. The
reason why we have committees is to take action. And when committees punt action to the bigger Board,
they are degrading the purpose of that committee. You can change stuff at the Board. The Board also
gets to vote.
But the best possible package should be created with the committee, not kicked to everybody who is not
on the committee. And I hope that we are held to that same accountability with Finance that when issues
come forward, we have done our best to incorporate the input from the members of the committee and
not push those forward. So I hope that's another process that we fix.
I actually will not be submitting any amendments. And honestly, I think this goes back to my apology to
GM CEO Johnson. This is just-- we're three days before a deadline, and we're going to rewrite goals with
amendments? The process for amendments is great. The fact that we're doing that so close to a deadline
and in light of a CBA, which also involves the CEO, I mean, we're discussing the relative strength and
support for a CEO while we're doing a CBA. And I think that is really bad process.
So it's going to be a very steep threshold for me to accept goals. I think we're at the best place we're
going to be right now, and I intend to turn my focus to using the Finance Committee to drive some of the
changes with budgetary adjustments this year to some of the areas of focus of the committee and of the
Board. So thank you for that, for bearing with me on a relatively long rant. But this is not something that I
would have expected to come in and face, and it's confounding to about everybody that I've talked to.
Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, First Vice Chair O'Keefe. Before I recognize the other Executive
Committee members, I do want to just make some statements to what First Vice Chair O'Keefe said. First
off, as a school teacher, one of our core principles that we teach our students is ultimately ownership.
And as your Chair and as someone who is a returning Director, I own up to the process that we have
been doing when it comes down to setting our goals is, as you said, is not the most efficient.
It is not the most efficient for us to ultimately be trying to add amendments when these goals have been
set as it is. It is not efficient for us to not have mechanisms in place where the Board of Directors-- we're
putting last minute items to this when it comes down to these goals being set. So that being said-- so I'd
like to own up to that.
That being said, as you know, First Vice Chair O'Keefe, one of the main tasks that I believe I'm asking our
Board to do ultimately, is to figure out what is going to be the most efficient way to set goals for our CEO
and our GM. Yeah, we are in the process right now, and I can tell all the Board Directors, of figuring out

the best solution when it comes down to us not waiting to the very end of the year to set our goals for our
CEO and GM.
Rather us as Directors, taking a more active role in actually having a voice when it comes to setting our
budget as an agency, doing what us as Directors should be doing, being the voice of the people, hearing
what we hear on the campaign trail, hearing what we're hearing from our stakeholders, setting our goals
in the early part of the year, and then going forward so that our CEO and GM is successful in setting the
budget based on what she's hearing as us as a 15-body member.
So that would be my statement as, again, the goals that are being presented for 2025 are not perfect. The
goals going forward for 2026 will not be perfect. But if we continue to strive forward and try to better our
practices as RTD Directors, and I think the switch that we will be doing later in this year, in the next
couple of months, will be such a significant-- such a significant win for this organization and for this Board
of Directors. I'm very excited for it.
With that being said-PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you. And that's why I'm thrilled you're the Chair of the Board.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Well, thank you. With that being said, I recognize Treasurer Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Thank you, both, Chair Bouquet and Vice Chair O'Keefe. I agree with just about
everything you've said. We have been thrown into this situation, and this is what we're facing right now.
And I'm glad you brought up the campaign and what we've been hearing and what's been in the press
and all that.
It is what it is right now. And this is what we're faced with. And I do think it's important for us to proceed.
We'll go through the amendments. We'll have a good discussion at the board meeting, which I think is,
again, is healthy. We also have to let folks, like the state legislature, to know that we are concerned about
some of these issues, and we're going to go forward.
To not have a vibrant discussion over these things, I think, would be a mistake. And I think it would be
interpreted by many outside folks as more of the same, nothing new here. So anyway, my question,
basically-- and/or maybe you can just clarify. I don't know how many amendments have come in. I've not
seen them. Maybe they were sent to us, maybe they weren't. I don't know. Probably were, and it got lost
in my email.
But Chair Bouquet, can you tell us then how many would be included to our Board packet? Have you
received them? Are there going to be several?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, I might turn over to Mr. Kroll on this. I just want to clarify and give some
context for it. Originally, when this was discussed, when it came to the Amendment process, the folks who
were actually getting the amendments were Miss Johnson, Miss Snyder, and Mr. Kroll. I have had a
couple forward to me. I'm not sure if that's all of them. So maybe a better resource might be Mr. Kroll, and
then I'll come and jump in.
KAREN BENKER: OK. Mr. Kroll, can you give us an idea of what has come in and what the language
might look like?

JULIEN BOUQUET: I have a theory, though, real quick, because it looks like-- are you guys seeing they
all just froze? Or am I froze?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I'm just seeing Mr. Kroll as having frozen.
JULIEN BOUQUET: If I were to give-- I think our staff just lost-CHRIS NICHOLSON: I can clarify on this one because I spoke with Mr. Kroll about this topic like an hour
ago. There are three amendments. So I believe there are two from Director Larsen and one from myself is
what has come in, unless Director Larsen has submitted a different number of amendments than I was
expecting him to submit.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah.
KAREN BENKER: OK, so then how will it appear on our agenda? It'll be in the Board packet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: So from my-- yeah, I need to wait. I think they just all lost internet at Blake Street, if I
were to give a guess because we just lost-- we just lost Miss Johnson. We just lost Miss Snyder, and we
also lost Mr Kroll. So, yeah, to answer the question, it is looking like three amendments so far.
One point of caution, I would say-- and I talked with some folks who do want to add amendments. If we're
getting past that point, to be frank, we're going to get lost in a dialogue that ultimately is not going to be
helpful or efficient, in my opinion. I'm going to wait for them to come back to clarify when it comes to the
question of if it officially be added to the packet or not.
So if you're OK, Treasurer Benker, could we come back to your question while we wait for them to hop
online, unless they're hopping on right now?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Can we make a bunch of motions right now?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Oh-[LAUGHTER]
PATRICK O'KEEFE: A point of privilege.
KAREN BENKER: Good idea. I like that.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yeah.
JULIEN BOUQUET: So, Mr. Kroll, if I were to guess, my investigation, did you all just lose some internet
at Blake street?
JACK KROLL: Yeah, and I've joined on my personal phone here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK.
JACK KROLL: It's the only device not connected to the internet. I would suggest, perhaps, that the
committee stand in a brief recess. I can't even-- I don't know if anyone else from Blake has made it back.

JULIEN BOUQUET: You're the only one so far, Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: And probably because I'm not on our network. Yeah, if you're not opposed to it, I would
just recommend maybe a 5, 10-minute recess here for us to investigate and see what we can do to get
back online.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah-JACK KROLL: It seems like a total system failure here at Blake, which is very, very rare to occur.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: That's not good. We may clearly need back up internet-JACK KROLL: Yeah.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: --services at Blake. So yeah-JULIEN BOUQUET: So if the committee is comfortable, I say we reconvene at 12:02 to see if our
members are back, OK? So let's take a 5-minute break, and we'll see if we get everyone back.
JACK KROLL: Sure.
JULIEN BOUQUET: We'll be back at 12:02.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: OK, sounds good.
JACK KROLL: We'll see what we can do here.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: OK.
[AUDIO OUT]

JULIEN BOUQUET: All right. We are at 12:02. I do see members starting to pop on, though. I'll give it
another minute to see if we can get our staff back on.
[AUDIO OUT]

JOYANN RUSCHA: Hey. So I was just reading the transcript, and I was wondering if I missed the
meeting, and then you guys left, because I hopped on. So we haven't started our meeting yet? [LAUGHS]
JULIEN BOUQUET: So, Director Ruscha, for some clarification, we did start at 11:15.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, and then did you just take a break?
JULIEN BOUQUET: We took a break because it looks like-- I believe they lost internet at Blake Street. So
we lost Mr. Kroll. We lost Michael Davies. We lost Miss Johnson. But it looks like they are slowly popping
back on through innovation, which I love to see. I see Mr Davies, so--

JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. All right. I was reading this transcript, and I'm like, I'm on the Zoom. No one's
talking. And I was trying to catch up. OK, well-- wait are we live? Are we recording? Are we streaming
right now?
JULIEN BOUQUET: We are recording right now, Director.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, well-- oh, I'm sorry, Mr. Chair. I've entered the chat. [LAUGHS]
JULIEN BOUQUET: You're good.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I didn't know where we were.
JULIEN BOUQUET: You are good. And you are recognized as state of the record. So-JOYANN RUSCHA: OK.
JULIEN BOUQUET: For the Directors with their hands up, I again, I'm going to just give a couple minutes
for our staff to hop on. I think it's going to be best practice for us, because there are potentially going to be
questions that are going to be popping up that we as Directors don't know.
And I'm getting a call from Miss Snyder, so I'll be right back.
[AUDIO OUT]

JOYANN RUSCHA: Do we get to talk when the teacher is out of the room?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: JoyAnn, we made a bunch of motions as soon as staff left.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yep.
JOYANN RUSCHA: [LAUGHS]
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Chris meticulously wrote them down.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes, as the Secretary, that is my responsibility. Just to be-JOYANN RUSCHA: So when the-CHRIS NICHOLSON: --clear-PATRICK O'KEEFE: And we're all unanimous. They're all unanimous. They're all unanimous, OK.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: --we have agreed that there will be donuts at every Board meeting going forward.
KAREN BENKER: Oh, I like that.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: We have agreed to rename Blake Street as the Blucifer RTD headquarters.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I will support that one for sure. Yeah.

PATRICK O'KEEFE: We will only take interns from Colorado State.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Oh, my.
JULIEN BOUQUET: So Directors and those who are virtually assembled, so just-JOYANN RUSCHA: Oh, the teacher's back.
JULIEN BOUQUET: --got off-- Yes. So I did hear your comments as well. So let me say that-JOYANN RUSCHA: [LAUGHS]
JULIEN BOUQUET: So first off-CHRIS NICHOLSON: We are kidding about that, for the record.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Well-JOYANN RUSCHA: I wasn't kidding-JULIEN BOUQUET: --you are on record.
JOYANN RUSCHA: --about Blucifer, but we're going to pay attention and behave. Sorry, Mr. Chair.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Let me remind you-- none of you have been recognized. All right. Let me remind you
all that, one, this is a recording, two, we are streaming on YouTube, so anything you do say is public
record. So I would just be conscious of that. I just got off the phone with Miss Snyder. It looks like they do
need another five minutes to figure out their internet.
So I'm going to extend our break until 12:10 to wait for the staff members to come back. As a reminder,
as I just said, we are being recorded. We are being streamed via YouTube. So anything you do say in
break will be on recording. So be conscious of that. And I will see you guys back-- I'll see you back here
at 12:10. And if we're not ready then, we're going to find a solution. All right. See you all at 12:10.
[AUDIO OUT]

JACK KROLL: OK, everybody, this is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office, chiming in here.
I apologize for the continued delay. We do have, it sounds like, the capacity to get online via our wireless
network. So the Board has a dedicated wireless network here, and we've been able to-- I've been able to
join via that network. However, I'm not sure if we can get other members on that are in the building. So
give us a few more minutes to see if we can get that up, and we'll be back rolling as soon as possible.
[AUDIO OUT]

DEBRA JOHNSON: Jack, are we taking a recess?

JACK KROLL: Yeah, I heard Director Bouquet chime in about three or four minutes ago that we're taking
a recess, so-DEBRA JOHNSON: OK.
JULIEN BOUQUET: We gave it until 12:10.
JACK KROLL: Oh, OK. Great. Thanks.
[AUDIO OUT]

MELANIE SNYDER: OK. So are you-- Jack and Debra, are you on the Wi-Fi or are you on the-DEBRA JOHNSON: I'm on whatever Tyshrei just provided, the-MELANIE SNYDER: OK.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah.
MELANIE SNYDER: OK.
JACK KROLL: Yeah, that's what I'm on too.
MELANIE SNYDER: OK.
JACK KROLL: But, Michael, are you on the Wi-Fi or are you-DEBRA JOHNSON: Michael's on the Wi-Fi. I had Tyshrei walk it over to him as well.
MELANIE SNYDER: OK.
DEBRA JOHNSON: And I know John's on it. So it's all of us here at Blake.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yeah, looks like we are ready to go again then, maybe.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Perfect timing. I said our breaks ending at 12:10, and we are back. Well,
excellent. Great to see staff on Blake. I saw you guys freezing out for a minute while we were all still
talking. I was like, I think they just all lost their internet. So I am happy to see you all back.
With that being said, I will continue forward. Mr. Kroll, right when you guys did cut off, Treasurer Benker
was asking-- oh, we are reconvened at 12:10. Treasurer Benker was asking about the amendments being
in the packet itself. I'm not sure if you wanted to address that or not.
And sorry, Miss-- sorry Director Benker if that was misquoted.
JACK KROLL: So we received three amendments last night by the 5:00 deadline, one, from Director
Pagliari, one from Director Nicholson, and one from Director Harwick that we are intending to include in
the packet. Obviously, if other amendments are contemplated, the strong preference would be to get
those to the Board Office for distribution prior to the meeting.

Additionally, Robert's Rules, as I outlined in my email to you all on Tuesday afternoon, does not prohibit
anyone from raising an amendment from the floor. But, again, getting back to the intent of this exercise
was to ensure public transparency as well as no surprises and continue the Board's commitment there to
its operating guidelines.
So while you certainly cannot rule out any additional amendments coming forward, other than the three I
referenced, the hope was that people had their ideas put together for us to communicate out to the public
and to the Board and to GM and CEO Johnson.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Thank you, Mr Kroll. Yeah, I saw-- so in my queue I do see Second Vice
Chair Whitmore. And then don't worry, Director Larsen, I see you next.
TROY WHITMORE: I have a point of parliamentary order question for Miss Snyder. The main motion that
I made was to approve the agenda, if I'm not mistaken. And I'm not sure that all of this discussion is
germane to that motion. So I think it would be appropriate that we go ahead and finish our work on the
main motion.
And I assume that all of the other input would be appropriate in other matters. I don't want to squelch the
input from three other people in queue and all the others that may have items. So I'd like to, Mr Chair, ask
Miss Snyder if that is correct. And if so, could we move forward with the motion as moved?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, thank you, Director Whitmore. Mr Chair, I would concur with that. I think we're
getting a little far afield from the main motion, but certainly we can take up this conversation in other
matters.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. So with that being said, I believe comments then, I will probably save for
other matters. In that regards with the hands that are being raised, I can-- I have a-- Director Larsen?
MATT LARSEN: Yeah, I just want to say I sent in two amendments yesterday by the time limit, and I'm
concerned that-- I sent them to Guzman, Snyder, Johnson, and Kroll, and I'm concerned that I guess you
didn't get them. I'm not sure what went wrong. But anyways, that's all I had to say.
JACK KROLL: No, I apologize. I see those here. I have them. They will be included.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Director Ruscha and Secretary Nicholson, I think I'm going to move us on
going forward. And if you could save your comments for other matters, that would be excellent.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I have a comment on the main motion actually.
JULIEN BOUQUET: On the main motion? OK, you're recognized on the main motion.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. Well, I would just very quickly like to say that I actually do think this
discussion is relevant to the main motion, because it's about the process that led to the main motion. I'm
fine with moving it to other matters and dealing with this, but just for as a point of clarification, I would
make the argument that it's absolutely germane.
But regardless, and I do have other comments around-- anyway, I'll let you go on to take care of this.

JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, perfect. Thank you, Secretary Nicholson. So with that being said, we do have a
motion, which was Director Whitmore as the mover and Director O'Keefe as the second. And with the
plenty of discussion has been put into this, are there any no votes on this action? Seeing none. I see five
in favor. I see five Aye votes, zero no votes, and no abstentions. So this will pass. Perfect
All right. So there are two discussion items on today's agenda. The first item is the monthly Government
Relations report. And I'm going to turn it over to Mr Davies, our Government Relations Officer, to present
this. Mr. Davies, you're recognized.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Thank you, Chair and members of the committee. Michael Davies, Government
Relations Officer with a brief Government Relations report for you all. Starting at the federal level, really
the focus has been on confirming President Trump's nominees to run the Department of Transportation.
There was action taken prior to the holidays.
On December 21st, Congress approved and the president signed a continuing resolution to keep funding
going for transportation programs that are administered through the Department of Transportation. That
continuing resolution goes through March 14th. Something that's not included in the written report that
has happened after the written report was submitted, and good news for RTD, is that FTA did move
forward on January 17th with a partial year apportionment of funding.
And what that means is essentially that because we only have a continuing resolution through March
14th, what FTA has done is said that agencies that rely on grant funding are able to draw down on five
months of the apportionment through March 14th. So that's essentially from October 1st through March
14th. And that really allows RTD to essentially be reimbursed for grant dollars that we receive through
formula funding from the FTA.
Moving on-- also, not included in the written report, but something that's important. On January 20th, a
number of executive orders were signed by the president. And one of those executive orders that was
signed, and I will get you the title in two minutes here. It was called "Unleashing American Energy." That
executive order did have some reference in there with regards to federal funding and essentially directing
departments to stop dispersing funding that came out of the IRA, or Inflation Reduction Act, or the IIJA,
the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act.
Upon essentially that executive order going out on January 21st, Office of Management and Budget had
to move forward and put out a clarifying memo to all department heads, essentially clarifying what money
should not go out. And of course, this is a big concern for all agencies and departments around the
country that receive federal dollars.
What the clarifying memo stated was that it is really only applicable to a specific section of dollars that go
out of the IIJA, and that is with regards to clean vehicle programs. So think the charging programs that go
out to states to put in charging infrastructure for electric vehicles, things that are associated with that. And
the memo really clarifies that is the intent of money that is not to be dispersed and really needs to go
through a review process at the Office of Management and Budget.
So therefore, my long winded way of saying that it is not expected to impact, say, formula dollars that
RTD relies on through the Federal Transit Administration. Of course, we will continue to watch for impacts
on that, but I think the clarifying memo out of the Office of Management and Budget should give us
direction that it is not intended to impact, say, the formula dollars that this agency relies on.

Moving to the state level-- as you all know, the General Assembly began their 75th General Assembly on
January 8th, and there has been a lot of bills introduced so far. With regards to RTD participating in state
committees on January-- or yeah, on January 17th, RTD did participate in the SMART Act hearing. That
is the State Measurement for Accountable, Responsive, and Transparent Government Act. And staff did
attend and present on items that were requested of the agency.
And then lastly, two notes that were not included in the written report, but I want to make sure that the
Board is aware of. This goes back to-- the background on this is that during the Accountability Committee
several years ago, there was a recommendation for RTD to report efficiency based on RTD's operating
costs. And as a result of the 2024 Office of the State Auditor report, there was a recommendation in that
report to say that the state never changed the definition in state law of what RTD's operating costs were,
and therefore made a recommendation to the state to say, we'd recommend you dealing with this through
legislation.
The Legislative Audit committee took that matter up and took the recommendation from the Office of the
State Auditor recommended legislation-- this is back in October of 2024. Recommended legislation be
moved forward to alter the definition of operating costs that are in RTD's statute, and that bill has been
introduced. The bill number is SB-25051. And that is scheduled for a hearing next Wednesday, January
29th at 1:30.
Of course, previously, RTD, working with the Office of the State Auditor, agreed with the recommendation
of the Audit Office. And it really does, in practical terms, align the definition of operating costs in state
statute with how RTD reports operating costs to the federal government under federal law. That, of
course, is reported to the National Transit Database.
So this is really aligning state definition with the federal definition of operating costs and allows us to
move forward with the recommendation of how we report our operating costs and efficiency measures
that rely on operating costs. So that bill is moving forward next week in the Senate Transportation and
Energy Committee.
Lastly, I just want to make a note that RTD staff does expect a potential bill to be introduced regarding
RTD and many of the matters that were discussed during transit Tuesday calls that were held over the
last summer. RTD staff has not seen bill language on that and does not have a firm date of when that
would be introduced, but want to make sure that the Board knows that there has been speculation that a
bill will be coming. And of course, we will disseminate any language that we get from bill sponsors to the
Board and look forward to working with the Board to contemplate what is in that bill.
Moving to the local level, continue to engage with local municipalities. On January 21st, GM and CEO
Johnson presented before the Land Use Transportation and Infrastructure Committee with the city and
County of Denver. RTD regularly reports to the Land Use-- or to the LUTI committee, or Land Use and
Transportation Infrastructure Committee, on a regular basis from time to time. And that is really our
partnership with municipalities that we're happy to go and join local municipalities in any capacity that
they would like to really pass on information and take questions from our municipal partners. So this is
just one example of us being a good partner to our municipal partners.
And then not included in the written report, but important for you all to know is that currently we have staff
out in the city of Aurora meeting with Aurora officials currently, and we do that on a regular coordination
meeting with the city of Aurora staff. And again, that is a meeting that takes place every few months and

really meant to just make sure that we're all on the same page and hearing any concerns they have and
providing answers to any questions they have.
So with that, that concludes my report and happy to answer any questions.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. Thank you very much, Mr. Davies. Secretary Nicholson, you're
recognized.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. Just quickly, can you talk a little bit about the relationship that RTD has
with the sponsors of the RTD legislation that is in the works? Have we been working with them fairly
collaboratively on that over the last couple of months? Has that been the goal? Tell me a little bit about
how you're feeling about that relationship.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Mr. Davies?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yeah. Thank you, Director Nicholson, for the question. Of course, I think we have a
great relationship with-- our bill sponsors have worked with both. My understanding is that Senator Winter
and Representative Froelich are likely to be the bill sponsors of pending legislation that might be
introduced.
With both of those, they chair the Senate Transportation Committee and the House Transportation
Committee. We've worked very collaboratively with them for years and have a great relationship and look
forward to continuing collaborative work.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Awesome, that's great to hear.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Sorry. My apologies, I should wait.
JULIEN BOUQUET: You're all right.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I just wanted to say that's really great to hear. And I appreciate that. RTD has been
working really well with the legislators and facilitating that process. So thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, both. Any other questions for Mr. Davies before we move on to our next
item? Excellent. Seeing none again. Thank you, Mr. Davies, for your continued work in representing the
agency. Greatly appreciated. OK. Moving on, our second item is for the Executive Committee work plan,
and I'm going to give this over to Executive Manager Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Bouquet. As introduced, Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board
Office. I'm not, again, going to spend too much time recounting the process for how we got here with the
work plan, as that was done thoroughly last week with respect to the Operation Safety and Security
Committee, as well as the Finance and Planning Committee.
I do want to make note of a couple items, though, that appear on the work plan due to a change in the
Board's bylaws from last fall. You'll note in June, there's an item related to an executive session for
performance conversation with myself, the Executive Manager of the Board Office. That's because the
Board updated its bylaws last fall to enshrine in the Executive Committee's duties conversations with me
around my performance.

While the Board's primary employee and arguably the much more significant employee in the dynamic is
the GM and CEO. But I just want to make sure that you all recognize there's a responsibility here on my
end as well for that performance conversation. And then the second item, again, due to the change in the
Board's bylaws, is I've added a discussion item in April with respect to the Board's office's budget. I think
it's important that the Executive Committee have some further insights into that budget.
Otherwise there's kind of the standard fare here on this work plan. This is a space for you all to discuss
and offer items for consideration. I know Director O'Keefe and I briefly exchanged some thoughts on an
idea he had yesterday, so I want to encourage that this is a good time and space for you all to share
some further input on what you might like to see on this work plan for the year.
And lastly, I'll close with a recognition of Director Benker, who has, at this juncture, been the only Director
to submit forms requesting certain policy objectives be placed on the Board's horizon for this coming year.
So I thank you, Director Benker, and I encourage all other Directors to please utilize that resource by the
stated deadline of Monday, January 27th at 11:59 PM.
As you all can see, and I think even those folks who are new to the Board, the Board's time is by far its
most valuable resource and its most valuable commodity. And how you choose to use it makes a big
impact on what you can and cannot get done over the course of the next few months. So with that, I'm
happy to yield the floor or take any questions, and I'll certainly be taking any notes with respect to
objectives that you all may have for the work plan for the Executive Committee.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. So I really appreciate this, and the agenda-- I'm sorry. --the work plan looks
great. I want to speak to a project that I've been discussing with General Counsel Snyder that I actually
think would fit well into this work plan for probably March or April at the earliest. And that is around Board
communications and open meetings.
Right now, there is not any tool by which we can have a discussion with multiple Board members other
than-- digitally, I should say. --other than getting on a Zoom together. We are not allowed to email with
two other Board members at the same time or text with multiple Board members at the same time. I
believe that there are technological solutions to this problem.
I believe that if we can have a video conversation where we can have multiple Directors on at the same
time and have an open meeting and have an open communication, then we can almost certainly do that
with things like a chat room or some other text-based tool that we're all familiar with using in order to
facilitate more open, flexible communication while also complying with open meetings.
And I think that is something that the Board should-- or the Executive Committee, excuse me. --should
very seriously pursue this year as an item to figure out what tools we can use to facilitate that open
communication while complying with COML. And then look at what kind of purchase would be required to
enable that. Because if we can do it, the types of work that we can get done outside of meetings, while
still being compliant, would be significant.
Think about all the emails that you wish you could send and the discussions you wish you could have, but
that are literally not possible outside of a meeting. So I would ask that we add to the work plan a
discussion-- an item I should say. --on Board communications in compliance with open meetings is the
way that I put it, or specifically digital communications in compliance with open meetings.

And I will bring, after discussions, with GM/CEO Snyder, some additional information forward about what
that can look like. And then we can work on, as an Executive Committee, how to figure out if that is
something that we see as doable as we're willing to spend the money as process wise, all of the details of
that. So-JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Thank you very much, Secretary Nicholson. Yeah, I mean, I would be in
favor of having it as a discussion item. I mean, sometime during this time. As it sounds from you, I heard
the word "open" multiple times. So that's the biggest thing, obviously, is making sure that our constituents
and the public know what those communications would be.
But I would be open to-- I would be open to this being a discussion item during an Executive Committee
member. So-CHRIS NICHOLSON: Awesome.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. Yes, Secretary Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Oh, I was going to say, Jack, is there something you need from us to approve it
being put on? How does that process work?
JACK KROLL: Given the Chair has provided his interest in it, I'd be happy to put it on there for the next
time you all see this document, which will be at the February Executive Committee meeting. One thing I
cannot stress enough, however, is please with issues you raise here and with issues that you may not
choose to raise here, please submit the form, as I've mentioned. That will help us keep an eye on
everything so that nothing gets lost here.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Good.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. Yeah, that actually leads-- and thank you, Secretary Nicholson.
The form-- this is my inner teacher coming out right now. This is a new tool. I did send out two things
we're been able to introduce. One, I am sending out a weekly update as a PDF to all of you guys as
Directors. Please read it. I'll try to keep it as brief as possible. It does talk about, in that weekly update, the
form itself.
As mentioned, this is a new tool to us as Directors to basically centralize and organize potential policy
ideas, work plan ideas, potential study sessions. So please make sure you're actually using that. And as
Mr. Kroll said, the deadline for that is next Monday, the 27th at 11:59 PM.
I just highly recommend it. It's going to make it a lot easier for an organizational perspective. If you have
things that you really want to see discussed or potential ideas, please use that form. It helps me. It helps
the Board staff. It helps all of us just in an organizational standpoint. And shout out to Treasurer Benker.
So thank you for utilizing the tool. I greatly appreciate it.
And that goes for my Executive Committee members as well. If there are things you want to see during
the Executive Committee, as Mr. Kroll just said to Secretary Nicholson-- Secretary Nicholson will be sure
to submit a form, and we'll have the conversation in regards to the matter that he brought up. So Director
Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I apologize if this is out of order because you're talking about
your workplans, but you and I did have a discussion previously about those forms. And I don't know if

that's something that you could address now or if I bring it up in other matters just since they're coming to
you and the other chairs might have a little bit of a bottleneck before our February 1 retreat.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Sure, I'm going to bring it-- I'm going to move it to other matters-JOYANN RUSCHA: All right. Thank you, sir.
JULIEN BOUQUET: --which we're coming up on. So luckily-- with that being said, are there any other
discussion for us or for Mr. Kroll as Executive Committee members in regards to the work plan? Perfect.
All right, seeing none. So we're going to move on to the other matters. I do want to forewarn everyone. I
do have to teach the future of America in about 30 minutes. So if we could keep our other matters to that
30 minute time frame, that would be excellent.
And since Director Ruscha, I just saw you. Would you like to start us off?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I have a couple of things. Would you just let me know if you want me
to do one at a time, or just get the three ones out quick? Let's do the three ones out quick. All right. Thank
you, sir. So first, just what I just said. We have the form that's going to you.
I'm still not able to access it. And I heard a couple of other members were not able to, even when they
were logged in to their system. So that might be an IT issue. Maybe the Board Office can help us with
that, but I just wanted to flag that for Chairs of committees.
If we receive the forms on the 28th, that only gives us a couple of days before the retreat. So I was just
asking if we can get them as they come in, and then we can just set our own time aside to just filter for
what's for us? And then we are more prepared and can meet your expectations of getting these work
plans done and having a good breakout in that retreat.
You and I talked about that last week, and I was hoping it would be OK if-- I don't know if you had an
answer for it for today. I didn't mean to put you on the spot.
JULIEN BOUQUET: No, you're good. So to address the first question, when it comes to accessibility, one,
I did mention that during the weekly update I sent out yesterday, please make sure we are talking to
Board staff or communicating with them so that you guys do have access to the accessibility standpoint. I
know we did talk about you guys as Chairs seeing the forms in real time. I'm going to have to-- I'm going
to have to get back to you on that. In all honesty, I have to think a little bit about that.
In regards, again, this is a pilot program. We're trying to figure out the best possible way to go forward.
Once everything is collected, my plan was to send it out to you guys as Chairs. And I know your question
is in regards to getting it in real time. I need a little bit more time to consider that. I lean towards, in full
transparency, Director Ruscha, of making it equitable to all of you guys and actually sending it out on the
28th instead of sending it in real time, because I just think that's going to be the more efficient process, to
be honest with you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Well, it is your decision. You put a lot on the Chair's shoulders, and I think we
can rise to the occasion. But at least as far as my committee is concerned, and you were on that
committee for three years, it does hear a lot. And it's not as high and tight as F and P in terms of the work
plan. So it would make me more comfortable if I got a little bit more heads up than the 28th, so I can be-so I can meet expectations two days later, three days later.

And then I did reach out to the Board Office regarding the IT issue. So maybe that's something Mr. Kroll
can help me with today, before I spoke with you. And then just moving on, I just wanted to say-- I just
want to make a note about our script and our-- well, actually just our pilot that we have for CART. So
actually it was one year ago this month that we were piloting CART.
And I made a note then that CART should be easy to access. So is that something that maybe we can
work with the Board Office on or whomever controls what our web pages look like? Because if you do
need CART or Spanish language translation as a constituent, you really have to know where to go. And
you kind of have to listen to a meeting and then get the instruction.
Does that make sense? It's not readily available on our website or in our packets. So right now, I'm the
only person I know heavily using it because of a hearing impairment, but that's just something that we're
not sharing with people. So I feel like a pilot is really a pilot if we market it. So I just wanted to bring it up
because we are one year post-pilot, and that's maybe something you guys could take up in the next
month.
And then just thirdly, I-JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah-JOYANN RUSCHA: Oh, yes. Sorry, sir.
JULIEN BOUQUET: No, go for it. What's your third point?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. And then just thirdly, moving on, I do have an amendment that I spoke
with Performance Chair Guzman about, and I was just working in collaboration with our GM/ CEO on the
language. And so he did give me an extension. And then this meeting started.
So it's coming to Mr. Kroll in about 30 seconds, and I hope that it can be included in the packet. I was,
again, meeting expectations of a deadline, but also meeting our Board operating guidelines and
collaborating and conferring with staff before I submitted something to the Board to look at or to be
published. So I just wanted to put that on the record, and I hope that can be accepted. Thank you, sir.
And that's all I had.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Ruscha. So in regards-- I'm going to work
backwards. So, obviously, if it isn't in the packet, you have every right, as you're aware, to bring it to the
floor as an amendment. So just wanted to throw that one out there. And, Mr. Kroll, did you want to
respond to the second point that Director Ruscha in regards to the CART?
JACK KROLL: Yeah. So we received some initial feedback from the Executive Committee when we
began the pilot process last year. And then we reported back to the Executive Committee in November, I
believe, with the results of the pilot process. And at that point, it was determined by the Executive
Committee to continue CART services indefinitely for the Board's meetings.
We do communicate. At the bottom of every Board agenda, there is information on who to contact for
accessibility services. After receiving feedback from the Executive Committee last year, we did update the
Board's website to put that information front and center as well. So we continue to look to find ways to
share out this information as widely as possible.

As I reported back in November to the Board, we have not received many inquiries for CART services in
real time. So at the beginning of every Board committee meeting and at the beginning of every Board
meeting, contained within the Chair's script is instructions on who to contact to receive CART services.
And we have not received any substantive amount of inquiries in that regard.
However, we're going to continue the practice of providing this service because, as Director Ruscha
mentioned, it is a very valuable service. And we know that it has been utilized by a number of Directors,
even if it isn't being particularly taken advantage of by members of the public.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll, for the comments. All right, moving on. I do see-JOYANN RUSCHA: Sorry-- I'm sorry, Mr. Chair.
JULIEN BOUQUET: You have not been recognized yet, Director. Sorry. Appreciate it.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK.
JULIEN BOUQUET: So I'm going to-- I'm going to move on to Treasurer Benker. And then we're going to
move forward, as she is a committee member. And we'll come back, potentially, Director Ruscha, OK?
KAREN BENKER: OK. Thank you. I will be quick, and maybe you can just answer my question or put it
out there. I had talked to-- and this has been a little while ago --to a couple of Board Directors about,
would you be interested in sponsoring coffee and donuts at some of our facilities, like a Platt?
A couple of them said, yeah, they'd love to do it. It looks like we could use our personal budget. But here's
a question. We can certainly invite the entire Board, which of course, we would do. But would that be
something that maybe the Executive Committee would want to take the lead on, or should it just be an
informal thing where we say, whoever wants to can come?
We just want to get a chance to meet some of our employees and say hi. And we wouldn't do this, of
course, until after the Union negotiations are done. So it's just an effort to show that we're there. We want
to listen, connect. So just a question as to procedure, I guess. What would you prefer?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, I think-- so speaking as a Chair personally, I think the Directors that are
interested, as long as we're communicating with our staff and working with Board staff of how to
collaborate with that, I give it to the autonomy of the Directors who are interested. In all honesty. I think
that, Treasurer Benker, if that's something that you and other Directors want to push forward with, I want
you guys to lead the charge.
Mr Kroll, any comments on that?
JACK KROLL: Yeah, I would just ask that if this is something that the Executive Committee or individual
Board members would like to do that we afford an opportunity for the Board Office to collaborate further
with the GM and CEO and other staff, because there already are a number of employee recognition
events that occur throughout the year.
As a bit of levity, you're always welcome to bring coffee and donuts to the Board Office staff. We would
love to-- we would love to enjoy that with you. In fact, Director Chandler brought some wonderful pumpkin
bread a couple of weeks ago, and we were very delightful.

But enough of the self-serving comments. I'm more than happy to collaborate, but would just ask that we
afford some time to collaborate further with the GM and CEO and HR staff that do employee recognition
events on the regular.
KAREN BENKER: OK. And that'll probably be in a couple of weeks. But yes, I'm interested in trying to
reach out. We've done that previously. And speaking of staff and reaching out-- so the next thing is, Mr.
Chair, I had sent you an email about whether or not our management staff is going to be at the retreat.
And you said no, that it was mostly. And I understand, for all of us Board members to get to know one
another, which I think is extremely important.
But then I would also ask then, how can we have some sort of event or maybe-- I'm not quite sure how to
frame it, but I would love to have a one-on-one, informal meeting with all of our managers at RTD so we
can get to know them, and I feel it's really-- I really want to get to know our staff and feel comfortable both
ways. So if they want to reach out and talk to me or any of the other Board members, they feel that way.
So I just want to put that out. Any ideas? I'd be more than welcome. I just want to be able to have some
access and get to know them and not everybody call you Director so-and-so, but get to know each other
on a little bit more personal basis.
Study sessions-- I'm assuming there have been a few conversations about, wouldn't it be great if we had
more study sessions? I'm assuming that might be a topic of discussion at our retreat. I think that would be
good, because it's a good way, again, for everybody to get together, ask questions, learn, all that good
stuff. So I saw that there's a study session that's coming up soon, and I'm just thinking it'd be great. And it
would also be great-- if we do have study sessions, I would encourage, if it's possible, to do it together on
site instead of Zoom.
And then my last request-- well, and this will come up. Jack, you had sent me something just a little while
ago that I haven't had a chance to take a look at, but I would like to be able to take a look at the Board
procedures, shall we say, to meet and have conversations with some of our other staff. I really want to sit
down with our CFO as soon as possible for at least a few hours, because my list of budget questions is
getting longer and longer.
So I'd like to take a look and have some discussions about going forth and having some more staff time
because it's the staff that's got the information, the knowledge, the expertise. So and with that, I am
finished. Thank you, Mr Chair.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Thank you very much, Treasurer Benker. So there's a couple comments that
got brought up, and I'll address them. I did see Mr. Kroll's hand raised for him to potentially-- so I want to
clarify with the retreat there will be management staff, mainly CEO Jim Johnson will be there.
KAREN BENKER: No, I understand.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah. In regards to that in which we as Directors have time to potentially talk to more
management staff, I can check with Miss Johnson during our one on ones and potentially have that
conversation of what that potentially would look like. I'm not against it.
I just know for this retreat coming up, since it's coming up so quickly, I want to respect their time
ultimately.
KAREN BENKER: Yes.

JULIEN BOUQUET: But 100% I'm in favor of finding some kind of time to actually speak with our staff.
When it comes in regards to study sessions that you also brought up-- and you're doing a great job of
this, which I appreciate. The form, the form itself also has time when it comes down to the study sessions.
Please make sure-- my fellow Directors, please make sure you're using that, because that allows Board
Office staff to ultimately figure out what is going to be the best time and how we can put everything in our
calendar and our schedule. So please make sure you guys are using that form with the study sessions
In regard to talking to staff. I will be frank on this one, I did, in my weekly update, did address when it
comes down to communications with staff members. Please make sure we are respecting our staff
members' times. And this is obviously not just-- this is obviously you, Treasurer Benker. This is all of us
as 15. Our main staff contact, when it comes down to it, is CEO/ GM Johnson. And I did let her know that
if there are communications that are ultimately sent, we should be the ones contacting CEO/ GM
Johnson. Mainly so that if we have inquiries, I want to hear about what other inquiries Directors have
potentially. And that should be shared out with the other 14 members.
So I would encourage it when it comes to contacting staff members. Contact CEO/ GM Johnson, and
then she can get us to the most efficient possible way. And that's ultimately respecting our staff time. I
believe I addressed most that was brought up. Mr. Kroll, did you have anything else that you might want
to address for Treasurer Benker?
JACK KROLL: Sure. I'll just go very, very briefly. We have a conversation set for the February meeting on
the Board operating guidelines, which was the document you referenced, Director Benker. Also set for
February are two additional conversations at the Executive Committee meeting, one around continuing
education. So we conducted a Board assessment last fall, and we also reached out to subject matter
experts on the staff at RTD to see where the Board's strengths and weaknesses may be with respect to
knowledge around transit and running the agency or governing the agency, I should say.
And so my intent with that conversation was to outline for you all that information. And then we have
placed holds throughout the year for study sessions, and the Board could avail itself. One of the
outcomes of that conversation that you have next month at the Executive Committee meeting is a set of
potential study sessions, continuing education sessions for the Board to take up throughout the year.
Again, in addition to what we might see coming through the form.
And lastly, with respect to your comment, Director Chair Bouquet, regarding the types of inquiries that
Directors are submitting to staff, that is also a discussion set for the February meeting. And we plan to do
a whole scale report out on the types of questions, the number of questions, the amount of time that staff
is spending responding to those questions, and then seek your feedback on any improvements we can
make to that system.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. And thank you, Treasurer Benker, for your
questions and comments. It's greatly appreciated. I do see two hands. I would please advise if we can
make comments as brief as possible, or I will have to-- I potentially am going to have to give it to First
Vice Chair O'Keefe. So all right. I see Secretary Nicholson in my queue.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. Yeah, I was originally first in queue. I accidentally lowered my hand
very quickly, but I have been waiting for 20 minutes to speak. In other matters. So I will make them as
brief as I feel comfortable. I wanted to come back to what Director O'Keefe referenced. I think that we, as
an Executive Committee and as a Board, need to have a very frank conversation in the months to come
about both how we-- not just what we do going forward, but how we got here.

And I want to say that I don't believe that where we have gotten with this-- and I'm just going to be really
frank. I don't believe where we have gotten with this is the fault of almost anyone specifically on the call
right now. I believe that there is a process that was not in place previously over the multitude of previous
years that the Board has been addressing this.
And that lack of an ability to facilitate a really engaged dialogue, especially with new Board members, is
what led to this. I mean, these, these goals-- I'm going to just be straight up. These goals finish in October
15th. This is something that should have been done in June or July of last year. There is no reason why
we should be crafting goals this far into the period when those goals are already-- we are well into the
period in which these goals are required to be measured against, and we're setting them with the person
whose job that is. That's insane to me.
And like I said, I do not fault the Chair. I do not fault the GM/CEO in this case. You both have worked
extremely hard to accommodate the new Board members in this process and to allow us to have an equal
say in what we are doing. And I deeply appreciate both of you for the work that you have done. And I
know that there has been pushback in that process, that there have been people who thought that we
shouldn't make changes, that we should just pass these straight out. We should not include a broader
discussion. And I really, genuinely on the part of, of everyone who has made this possible, deeply
appreciate it.
But we need to not-- we need to acknowledge and learn from the past and recognize that we don't want
to make these mistakes again, and we want to make sure that there is the time, because I expect that
with this new Board, there will be more need for discussion than there was previously. I've watched the
Board meetings in previous years. I expect there will be more conversations and more pushback and
more adjustments.
And so we need to be asking ourselves, how do we structure our agenda? How do we ask questions?
How do we frame this so that everyone feels included? Because the worst thing we could have happened
is to put ourselves in a situation where a good crop of Board members feel like they are getting
railroaded, and where the public, as a result of that, feels like the change that they have voted for is not
getting seriously considered, or that change is happening too quickly and we're not considering the
people who have been here.
So I am happy that we are dealing with this the way that we are. I want to caution us to make sure that we
take into account the lessons we have learned from the last three weeks and really take to heart what is
going to be required to facilitate the kind of discussions where everybody's going to come away feeling
like they are an equally valued member of this body. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Secretary. Sorry if I did not point this out earlier. Director
Guzman did join us a while back. I'm not sure if I put that in the record or not, but I wanted to put it there.
In regards to your comments, again, as mentioned, greatly appreciated. I'll take ownership as a returning
Director when it comes down to lessons learned, and I think this process has been a great lesson for all
of us.
I think going forward, I'm very optimistic, especially-- to be frank and to be transparent, we are in the
process of making this process better. And that's what I'm excited about. We're in the process of making
sure there's more dedicated time for Directors to ultimately have their say and see that in realistic goals
and make it and see it in our budget. So I am excited about that. All right. Thank you very much. Director
Ruscha, you are recognized.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr Chair, for your kind recognition. So going back to the previous, I was
trying to raise a point of clarification or a question, which actually is proper for a member of the body. And
the Chair doesn't usually interrupt until the person can finish a sentence. I'd asked a direct question about
my ability to submit an amendment in the packet because I was following the directions of our Chair of
Performance, but I could not meet expectations of a deadline and also speak with staff and get requisite
information from staff.
So I waited until my turn again, and I'm really familiar with Robert's Rules. So I apologize if I offended you,
sir. I was asking for-- I was asking clarifying question. Did you say, yes, It will be included in the packet?
Or if it's not included in the packet, you can bring your own copies? I was asking for your ruling on that as
our Chair, if that makes sense. Because I did follow the rules given to me, the instructions given to me.
That's what I was asking. That's it.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Thank you. And sorry, that might have been a miscommunication on my
part. I'm sorry if anyone was disrespected. My apologies. So in regards to it being added to the packet, I
actually might refer to Mr. Kroll in seeing if that is possible or not.
And if not, I understand. I do want to respect staff's time. If it is a better process for it to be potentially
printed, as Director Ruscha said-JACK KROLL: Given that the item was raised in this meeting and that there's some general public
awareness around it at this juncture, I think it would be appropriate to include in the packet. So we would
be happy to have that included.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. That's what I just need to know. And I can hop off this meeting, and I'm
going to send that email right now. Thank you, Sirs.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Thank you, Director Ruscha. Are there any other comments or discussion in
other matters at this time? OK, seeing none. Greatly appreciate everyone's patience with this. I know we
had a technical issue in the middle, but we survived and we're adaptable. And that's the great thing about
this Board and this agency. There is resilience.
All right. I will now entertain a motion to adjourn.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I got Director O'Keefe. The meeting is adjourned as of 1:02 PM. You all have a
lovely afternoon. Thank you.

