1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Paul Rosenthal, District E
Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Erik Davidson, District I
Bobby Dishell, District D

Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Marjorie Sloan, District M
Doug Tisdale, District H
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, March 9, 2021
REMOTE MEETING
5:30 PM
To join the meeting: Click Here
(connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or to listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 821 4507 4972#

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Kate Williams

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions
C. Discussion Items

• Stakeholder Engagement Service Adjustments
• June 2021 Service Change
• Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee (APAC) Report
D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - April 13, 2021

F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Stakeholder Engagement Service Adjustments

Committee Meeting Date:
March 9, 2021

STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Pauletta Tonilas, Assistant General Manager Communications
Jessie Carter, Acting Senior Manager, Service Development
PRESENTATION LENGTH
15 – 20 minutes
BACKGROUND
This is a recap of the stakeholder process for the June 2021 service change.
DISCUSSION
Stakeholder Listening Session Recap for the June 2021 service change.
ATTACHMENTS:
•

Stakeholder Engagement Service Adjustments

(PPTX)

Prepared by:
Jessie Carter, Manager, Service Planning and Scheduling
Approved by:

Authorized:

Packet Pg. 3

Stakeholder Engagement Service
Adjustments
Pauletta Tonilas, Assistant General Manager of Communications

Packet Pg. 4

Attachment: Stakeholder Engagement Service Adjustments (4487 : Stakeholder Engagement Service

1.C.1.a

Enhanced Stakeholder Engagement Process
§ Listening sessions hosted prior to service change
process

§ Hearing input to inform service adjustments
§ Service and financial reality transparency
§ Solicited input about COVID-19 transit services

• "Are there things happening in your community that
would help RTD make the next round of service
updates?"

2

Packet Pg. 5

Attachment: Stakeholder Engagement Service Adjustments (4487 : Stakeholder Engagement Service

1.C.1.a

Listening Session Participant Groups
§ Ten meetings between Jan. 28-Feb. 22
§ Key stakeholder groups/organizations

• Boulder County Mobility for All
• Denver Local Coordinating Council
• RTD Citizens Advisory Committee
• Regional Transit Mobility Organization/Association Group
• Denver Public Schools

§ Five geographic sector meetings

• Stakeholders with knowledge of RTD service needs

participated
• Mayors, city/county staff, TMO/TMA representatives

§ Attendees: 154

3

Packet Pg. 6

Attachment: Stakeholder Engagement Service Adjustments (4487 : Stakeholder Engagement Service

1.C.1.a

Stakeholder Input - Themes
§ Equitable service return:
• Transit reliant
• Essential workers
• Students

§ Vaccination services
§ In-school learning support
§ Suspended vs. cancelled services
§ Transparent communication about service process/design
§ Highly utilized routes frequency
§ FlexRide and on demand services
§ Reliability on rail and bus
§ Appreciation for the process/start earlier
§ More service (i.e. R Line, Route 51)
4

Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: Stakeholder Engagement Service Adjustments (4487 : Stakeholder Engagement Service

1.C.1.a

Expanded Engagement Process Lifecycle

Stakeholder
Listening
Sessions

Board
Draft
Service Plan

Proposed
Service
Adjustments

Public
Hearings

Board
Approval

Next Steps:
§ Service development process input
§ Share listening session themes with stakeholders
§ Host public hearing meetings for proposed service adjustments
§ Finalize service changes
§ Review, refine and repeat engagement process
§ Continued transparency on the effects of the pandemic on RTD

Final Service
Changes
Made

Repeat
Engagement
Process

5

Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: Stakeholder Engagement Service Adjustments (4487 : Stakeholder Engagement Service

1.C.1.a

Upcoming Service Change Meetings
§ Three virtual meetings:

• Tuesday, March 30, noon-1 p.m.
• Wednesday, March 31, noon-1 p.m.
• Wednesday, March 31, 5-6 p.m.

§ Recorded meeting presentations in English
and Spanish

§ Social media promotion for all virtual and
recorded meetings to encourage input

6

Packet Pg. 9

Attachment: Stakeholder Engagement Service Adjustments (4487 : Stakeholder Engagement Service

1.C.1.a

Attachment: Stakeholder Engagement Service Adjustments (4487 : Stakeholder Engagement Service

1.C.1.a

June 2021 Proposed
Service Changes
Jessie Carter, Service Planning and Scheduling Manager

Packet Pg. 10

Financial and Service Impacts
§ Federal funding

• Received $232 million in CARES Act funding in 2020
• Will receive $203 million in CRRSAA funding
o Intended to support transit operations, including keeping staff employed
o Recalled laid-off represented employees
o Rescinded furlough days and pay cuts for salaried employees
o Providing supplemental service on busier routes

§ COVID-19 services

• Carrying 40% of pre-pandemic ridership while providing 60% of service
• There is limited ability to increase service due to:
o Operator availability
o Capacity limits- social distancing requires supplemental service
8

Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: Stakeholder Engagement Service Adjustments (4487 : Stakeholder Engagement Service

1.C.1.a

Service Changes During COVID-19
§ Considerations:

• Overall system ridership
• Ridership on route/line level supports some

Pre-COVID
1 operator 1 bus

increases and adjustments
• System maintenance to improve on-time
performance, reliability and contract compliance
• Adjustments for transit system connectivity

§ Challenges:

• Maintaining resource capacity to support social

distancing
• Transforming unscheduled hours into scheduled
hours
• Expectations of "return of service"

25 customers
COVID Service
2 operators 2 buses

9

Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: Stakeholder Engagement Service Adjustments (4487 : Stakeholder Engagement Service

1.C.1.a

Service Changes During COVID-19
§ Board-adopted guidance:

• Service Standards/service utilization
• Effects on integrity of the transit network and transit

dependent
• Alternative services available to impacted customers
• Title VI of the Civil Rights Act
• Response to changes in the communities
• Cost-effective distribution and the ability to enhance service
when possible

10

Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: Stakeholder Engagement Service Adjustments (4487 : Stakeholder Engagement Service

1.C.1.a

June 2021 Service Proposals
§ Notable service change proposals:

• Route 15 – East Colfax: increase service frequency from 15 to every 10 minutes
• Route 20 – 20th Avenue: extend east terminal from the Anschutz Medical Campus to East
Metro Division

• Route 28 – 28th Avenue: extend service east from 30th & Downing Station to Central Park
Station

• Route 40 – Colorado Boulevard: discontinue extension north of 40th & Colorado Station to
60th/Dahlia

• Route 44 – 44th Avenue: change terminal at Ward Road park and Ride to Ward Road Station
• Route 99 –South Kipling: restore hourly service from Southwest Plaza to Federal Center
Station

11

Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: Stakeholder Engagement Service Adjustments (4487 : Stakeholder Engagement Service

1.C.1.a

June 2021 Service Proposals
§ Notable service change proposals:

• Route 169L – Buckley Road/Denver Airport: restore previous weekday schedule
• Route 324 – Main Street Crosstown: increase weekday service frequency to 30 minutes from
current hourly

• Route 483 – Parker Road/Lincoln Ave: restore weekday service
• Route BOUND – 30th Street: increase weekday service frequency from current 30 minutes to
15 minutes

• Route RX – Brighton/Denver Express: schedule adjustments to address on-time
performance and operator recovery issues

12

Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: Stakeholder Engagement Service Adjustments (4487 : Stakeholder Engagement Service

1.C.1.a

June 2021 Service Change Summary
§ Overall estimated financial impact cost neutral
§ Operator headcount at 29 FTEs
§ Scheduled service increase by 73,000 hours annualized
§ School service suspended for Summer

13

Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: Stakeholder Engagement Service Adjustments (4487 : Stakeholder Engagement Service

1.C.1.a

Thank you.
Attachment: Stakeholder Engagement Service Adjustments (4487 : Stakeholder Engagement Service

1.C.1.a

Packet Pg. 17

1.C.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
June 2021 Service Change

Committee Meeting Date:
March 9, 2021

STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Jessie Carter, Acting Senior Manager, Service Development
PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes
BACKGROUND
The Regional Transportation District (RTD) Board of Directors holds a bi-monthly Communications and
Government Relations Committee meeting. The meeting is an opportunity for the Communications
Department staff to provide the Board with an overview of communications activities and progress,
highlighting matters of interest to Board members. Staff and the Board also engage in dialogue and staff
fields questions or clarifies information as necessary.
At the February 2, 2021 committee meeting staff shared with the Board the plan to launch an
overarching enhanced approach to stakeholder engagement across the agency, as a continuous effort to
foster open dialogue. This is an opportunity for the Board and staff to hear directly from key
stakeholders on RTD matters that matter most to them. One aspect is conducting a round of stakeholder
engagement sessions at the beginning of each service change process to hear feedback from
stakeholders about RTD service in their communities. The stakeholder listening phase is in addition to
the public listening phase, which will begin this month as part of the June service change process. Both
the stakeholder feedback and the public input will help inform RTD’s future service plans.
DISCUSSION
System ridership remains significantly lower than pre-COVID levels, affected by low commuter activity
and employment center occupancy. Public health orders remain in a protective posture and the agency’s
COVID 19 service plan levels are reflective of the current challenges facing the District.
While system ridership remains relatively unchanged, a review of ridership at the route/line level does
support increases and adjustments to some route services showing higher levels of ridership.
Additionally, system maintenance to improve on-time performance and service reliability is needed on
both bus and rail services. The proposals herein, contain a mix of service enhancements and adjustments
that address transit system connectivity and contract compliance, while maintaining the necessary
resource capacity to support social distancing on the transit network.
It is intended that the service adjustments proposed to the current COVID 19 service plan be adopted as
further modification to the initial COVID service plan implemented April 19, 2020 and modified in
January 2021. Many of the routes proposed for service improvements serve vulnerable communities that
rely on transit. These customers often perform essential jobs and have continued to ride during the
pandemic.
The Board adopted guidance for proposed service changes continue to be:
• Service performance evaluation based on the RTD Service Standards;
• The effects on the overall integrity of the transit network and on transit dependent markets;

Packet Pg. 18

1.C.2

•
•
•
•

The availability of alternative services to affected riders;
Cost-effective distribution throughout the District and Family of Services and the ability to
enhance service when possible;
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act: benefits and services are provided without regard to race, color or
national origin; also disparate effects on low income and minority populations; and
Response to changes in the communities where services are provided

Given the current economic conditions due to the COVID induced economic slowdown, the overarching
guidance for the proposed June 2021 service changes come from the Board adopted guidance for
COVID-19 Budget Reductions, especially Principle number three (3):
“We will prioritize mobility for people who must depend on transit during the pandemic: we will strive to
maximize mobility during the pandemic for those customers who most depend upon our services to
access essential jobs and their necessities, while also keeping our community activity centers
appropriately connected.”
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED SERVICE CHANGES

Route proposed for service reductions
Route 31- Federal Boulevard: suspend the 4:41 am trip northbound on Sunday
L line – 30th&Downing to 16th&Stout Station: reduce service span to end at 11:00 p.m.

Routes proposed for mixed service improvement/service efficiencies
Route 9 – West 10th Avenue: extend service to Allison-Virginia terminal and interline with Route 1
Routes 38 and 44: relocate the western terminal of Routes 38 and 44 from Ward Road PnR to Wheat
Ridge/Ward Road Station
Route 40 – Colorado Boulevard: discontinue service into Commerce City, duplicates Route 49.
Route 49 – Commerce City: extend current service spans for weekday and Saturday

Routes proposed for service improvements
Route 12 – Downing Street/ North Washington: add trips between Downing/Colfax and 38th & Blake
Station, peak periods,
Route 15 – East Colfax: increase weekday frequency from every 15 minutes to every 10 minutes,
weekdays from 6:00am to 6:00pm, between Union Station and Colfax/Billings
Route 20 – 20th Avenue: extend east terminal from the Anschutz Medical Campus to East Metro Division
Route 24 – University Boulevard: begin weekday service one hour earlier in each direction, to begin at
approximately 5:30am
Route 28 – 28th Avenue: extend service east from 30th & Downing Station to Central Park Station
Route 34 – Martin Luther King Boulevard: increase weekday AM peak frequency from every 60 to every
30 minutes
Route 99 – South Kipling: restore hourly service
Route 169L – Buckley Road/Denver Airport: restore previous weekday schedule based on DEN peak
times
Route 324 – Main Street Crosstown: increase weekday service frequency to 30 minutes from current
hourly level
Route 326 – Westside Crosstown: increase weekday service frequency to 30 minutes from current
hourly level
Route 483 – Parker Road/Lincoln Avenue: restore weekday service over full route, with 60 minute
frequency

Packet Pg. 19

1.C.2

Route BOUND – 30th Street: increase weekday service frequency from current 30 minutes to 15
minutes, 9am – 6pm

Routes proposed for routine service adjustments (schedule adjustment/ schedule
analysis)
Route 12 – Downing/North Washington
Route 20 – 17th Avenue
Route 21 – Evans Avenue
Route 24 – University Blvd.
Route 37 – Stapleton Industrial
Route 43 – Martin Luther King Blvd.
Route 72 – 72nd Ave Crosstown
Route 88 – Thornton/ Commerce City/ Central Park
Route 88L – Thornton/ Commerce City Limited
Route 93L – North Colorado Blvd.
Route 104L – Wagon Road/Denver Airport Limited
Route 120L – 120th Avenue Limited
Route 323 – Skyline Crosstown
Route 520 – Brighton
Route RX – Brighton/Denver Express
Route BOLT – Boulder/Longmont
E line – Union Station-Ridgegate Parkway
W line – Union Station - Jefferson County Government Center
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The overall estimated financial impact contained in this proposal is designed to be cost neutral. Impacts
to operator headcount is an estimated increase of 29, being assigned scheduled work.
PUBLIC HEARINGS
There are three public hearings scheduled to be held virtually between March 30 – March 31, 2021.
ATTACHMENTS:
•

June 2021 Attachment A

(DOCX)

•

June 2021 Attachment B

(JPG)

•

June 2021 Attachment C

(JPG)

•

June 2021 Attachment D

(JPG)

•

June 2021 Attachment E

(JPG)

•

June 2021 Attachment F

(JPG)

•

June 2021 Attachment G

(JPG)

Prepared by:
Jessie Carter, Manager, Service Planning and Scheduling
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 20

1.C.2

Authorized:

Packet Pg. 21

1.C.2.a

Attachment A

BUS
Route 9 – West 10th Avenue
Change terminal at Wadsworth Station and extend route to Lakewood Commons (AllisonVirginia) to provide operator restroom as required in the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
No anticipated cost impacts.

Route 15 – East Colfax
Due to customer capacity challenges regularly experienced on this route, it is proposed to
increase weekday frequency from every 15 minutes to every 10 minutes, weekdays from
6:00am to 6:00pm, between Union Station and Colfax/Billings. It is also proposed to begin
early morning service one hour earlier at approximately 3:45am, and end late evening
service one hour later at 1:15am. Cost impacts anticipated to be an estimated 68
weekday hours.
Route 20 – 20th Avenue
Extend east terminal from the Anschutz Medical Campus to East Metro Division, for
operator restroom. The medical campus will continue to be served. Running time
adjustments Anticipated cost impacts estimated to be 16 hours daily.
Route 21 – Evans Avenue
Running time adjustments. No cost impacts anticipated.
Route 28 – 28th Avenue
Addressing requests for service to senior housing in the area just east of the CBD, this
proposal extends service east from 30th & Downing Station to Central Park Station, with
60 minute frequency weekdays from 6:00am to 6:00pm. Anticipated cost impacts are
estimated to be 13 weekday hours.
Route 34 – Martin Luther King Blvd.
Improve weekday AM peak frequency from every 60 to every 30 minutes between
5:30am and 8:00am. Anticipated cost impact estimated to be 3 weekday hours.
Route 37 – Stapleton Industrial
Minor running time adjustments, no anticipated cost impacts.
Route 38 – 38th Avenue
Change terminal at Ward Road park and Ride to Ward Road Station to improve
connections between bus and G Line Commuter Rail. No anticipated cost impacts.

Packet Pg. 22

Attachment: June 2021 Attachment A (4486 : June 2021 Service Change)

Route 12 – Downing Street/ North Washington
It is proposed to add trips between Downing/Colfax and 38th & Blake Station, peak
periods, weekday, between 6am – 9am and 3pm and 6pm, to address current customer
capacity challenges. Anticipated cost estimated to be 16 weekday hours.

1.C.2.a

Attachment A

Route 40 – Colorado Blvd.
Discontinue extension north of 40th & Colorado Station to 60th/Dahlia in Commerce City.
Upgraded service will be provided in the Route 49 proposal. Anticipated cost savings
estimated to be 16 weekday hours.

Route 44 – 44th Avenue
Change terminal at Ward Road park and Ride to Ward Road Station to improve
connections between bus and G Line Commuter Rail. Running time adjustments. No
anticipated cost impacts.
Route 49 – Commerce City
It is proposed to extend current service spans for weekday and Saturday, from 6am – 8pm
to 5am – 10pm, and for Sunday from 8am – 6pm to 6am – 8pm, due to removal of Route
40 from 60th/Dahlia. Anticipated cost impacts offset by Route 40 proposal, (4 hour
savings).
Route 72 – 72nd Ave Crosstown
Running time adjustments, weekdays, to address on-time performance and layover/
recovery issues. No cost impacts anticipated.
Route 88 – Thornton/ Commerce City/ Central Park
Running time adjustments weekday and Saturdays, to address on-time performance and
layover/ recovery issues. Anticipated cost impacts are estimated to be 8 hours weekday
and 8 hours Saturday.
Route 88L – Thornton/ Commerce City Limited
Running time adjustments, Weekday, Saturdays and Sundays, to address on-time
performance and layover/ recovery issues. Anticipated cost impacts are estimated to be
13.5 hours weekday, 13.5 hours Saturday and 10 hours Sunday
Route 93L – North Colorado Blvd Limited
Running time adjustments, weekdays, to address on-time performance and layover/
recovery issues. No cost impacts anticipated.
Route 99 –South Kipling
In an effort to cover a geographic gap in our current COVID network of services, it is
proposed to restore hourly service from Southwest Plaza to Federal Center Station.
Anticipated cost is estimated to be 16 weekday hours.
Route 104L – West 104th Ave/ DIA
Running time adjustments weekdays, Saturdays and Sundays, to address on-time
performance and layover/ recovery issues. Anticipated cost impacts are estimated to be 5
hours weekday and 1on hour weekends.

Packet Pg. 23

Attachment: June 2021 Attachment A (4486 : June 2021 Service Change)

Route 43 – Martin Luther King Blvd.
Running time adjustments, no cost impacts anticipated.

1.C.2.a

Attachment A

Route 120L – 120th Ave Limited
Running time adjustments, weekdays, to address on-time performance and layover/
recovery issues. No cost impacts anticipated.

Route 323 – Skyline Crosstown
Running time adjustments to address on-time performance and operator respite time. No
anticipated cost impacts.
Route 324 – Main Street Crosstown
It is proposed to increase weekday service frequency to 30 minutes from current hourly,
due to passenger load capacity challenges. Anticipated cost impact estimated to be 8
weekday hours.
Route 326 – Westside Crosstown
It is proposed to increase weekday service frequency to 30 minutes from current hourly,
due to customer capacity challenges. Cost anticipated to be an estimated 16 weekday
hours.
Route 483 – Parker Road/Lincoln Ave
To cover a geographic gap in service, it is proposed to restore weekday service over full
route, with 60 minute frequency. Anticipated cost impact is estimated to be 48 weekday
hours.
Route 520 – Brighton
Running time adjustments, weekdays, to address on-time performance and layover/
recovery issues; No cost impacts anticipated.
Route BOUND – 30th Street
It is proposed to increase weekday service frequency from current 30 minutes to 15
minutes, 9am – 6pm, due to customer capacity challenges. Anticipated cost impacts
estimated to be 16 weekday hours.
Route BOLT – Boulder/ Longmont
Running time adjustments, weekdays, to address on-time performance and layover/
recovery issues. No cost impacts anticipated.
Route RX – Brighton/Denver Express
Running time adjustments, weekdays, to address on-time performance and layover/
recovery issues. No cost impacts anticipated.

Packet Pg. 24

Attachment: June 2021 Attachment A (4486 : June 2021 Service Change)

Route 169L – Buckley Road/Denver Airport
Restore previous schedule based on customer requests and increased DEN activity. Will
serve Denver Airport employee peak times daily. Anticipated cost impacts are estimated
to be 20 weekday and 15 weekend hours.

1.C.2.a

Attachment A

RAIL

L line – 16th & Stout – 30th & Downing
Reduce service span to match the rest of the light rail lines to end at 11:00 p.m. Impacts
1 trip with current ridership of 2 customers. Anticipated cost savings 1 hour daily.
W line – Union Station - Jefferson County Government Center
Schedule adjustments to improve operator respite time at terminal. Anticipated cost
impact is estimated to be 16 weekday hours.

Packet Pg. 25

Attachment: June 2021 Attachment A (4486 : June 2021 Service Change)

E line – Union Station-Ridgegate Parkway
Minor schedule adjustments to better space out trains to improve performance on through
the rail signal system and improve transfers to the D line. Anticipated cost impacts include
adding an additional train to the schedule to improve layover/recovery times at terminals
(16 weekday hours).

Attachment: June 2021 Attachment B (4486 : June 2021 Service Change)

1.C.2.b

Packet Pg. 26

Attachment: June 2021 Attachment C (4486 : June 2021 Service Change)

1.C.2.c

Packet Pg. 27

Attachment: June 2021 Attachment D (4486 : June 2021 Service Change)

1.C.2.d

Packet Pg. 28

Attachment: June 2021 Attachment E (4486 : June 2021 Service Change)

1.C.2.e

Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: June 2021 Attachment F (4486 : June 2021 Service Change)

1.C.2.f

Packet Pg. 30

Attachment: June 2021 Attachment G (4486 : June 2021 Service Change)

1.C.2.g

Packet Pg. 31

1.C.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee (APAC)
Report

Committee Meeting Date:
March 9, 2021

STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer

PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes

BACKGROUND
In the early 1990s the Regional Transportation District (RTD) established the ADA Paratransit Advisory
Committee (APAC) to promote i t s effective, efficient, and customer-responsive paratransit services
known as Access-a-Ride.
APAC members engage in dialog with RTD staff on issues, trends, needs, policies, and resources
pertaining to Access-a-Ride services throughout the District and offer a unique perspective with the goal
of continuously improving those services. Paratransit is a demand-responsive transit service required by
the Americans with Disabilities Act. APAC provides input to RTD that is intended to:
• Improve the quality and accessibility of Access-a-Ride services.
• Advance the needs of the disabled customers who rely on Access-a-Ride services.
• Strengthen communication between RTD and organizations that advocate for the needs of
Access-a-Ride customers.
• Promote collaboration, transparency, and information sharing.
• Ensure meaningful and diverse community input, participation, and involvement in RTD’s
paratransit-related activities.

DISCUSSION
Brenda Carney, an APAC member, will provide a summary from the January 12, 2021 APAC meeting
and will be available to answer questions.

FINANCIAL IMPACT
None
ATTACHMENTS:
•

APAC Summary January 12th 2021

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Paul Hamilton, Senior Manager, Paratransit Services
Larry Buter, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 32

1.C.3

Authorized:

Packet Pg. 33

1.C.3.a

Meeting Objectives:
1. Updates (quick):
a. Mobile App/web portal
b. Eligibility and transit training vendor RFP
c. Combine Access-a-Ride and Fixed-route Pilot
d. Dispatch and scheduling software RFP
e. Pilot for ride-share option
2. Discussion: What data and/or discussion topics are needed for the coming meetings?

I.

Public Comment: Non-APAC members in attendance may provide 3-minute input (information to
the APAC, not a discussion with APAC).
No public comment.
II.

Update: Advisory Committee for People with Disabilities (ACPD) Meeting – Brenda Carney, APAC
liaison
ACPD meeting was November 19, 2020, 2-4pm online and phone. The meeting included:
• Two ADA hero awarded.
• High-Block Access Discussion – RTD initially blocked access to them for non-ADA needs, then, due
to a lot of complaints, started a pilot to allow use of the ADA high-blocks to access light-rail cars
for strollers, bicycles, and wheeled-luggage. RTD is working to ensure priority use of the highblocks is for people with disabilities, and, once on the train car, access to and in the area for ADA
use remains clear and available. The discussion was spirited. Some ACPD members felt their input
wasn’t being taken seriously, while others acknowledged there was a need for non-disability
wheeled access to train cars (particularly for strollers that cannot easily be lifted up the stairs).
Two ACPD members spoke of their experience of not being able to access the high-block. ACPD
will send RTD ideas on the implementation of high-block access policies.
• 16th Street Mall Reconstruction Project Discussion – City/County of Denver is considering two
possible candidates for the design-build contract.
• Vehicle Operator Barriers for COVID Protection – 100% of the barriers will be installed by the end
of 2020. RTD is not expecting to remove the operator barriers if/when the COVID risk decreases.
III.

Updates:

Membership – Jody Erikson, JSE Associates (facilitator)

Malia Munson has changed jobs (from DRMAC) and stepped down from APAC. DRMAC will stay engaged
with APAC; they will attend individual APAC meetings as public, and their ACPD representatives will
attend the joint meetings APAC&ACPD meetings.

Mobile App/Web Portal – Brandon Fowler, RTD
Since the mobile app/web portal went live in October 2020, RTD has continued to get suggestions for
improvements. Small ones are done immediately, more significant changes will get additional beta testing
by volunteers.

Page 1 of 5

Packet Pg. 34

Attachment: APAC Summary January 12th 2021 (4476 : Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee (APAC) Report)

Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee (APAC)
January 12, 2021 – Time: 10-00am – 12:00pm
Online meetings and call

1.C.3.a

Some of the bigger improvements for beta testing includes:
• Ability to manually enter a pick-up or drop-off location (currently, one can only choose those on
their ‘favorites’ list). The manually entered location will not be automatically added to customers’
‘favorites’ list, but will be easily accessible on the “frequently used” list. The system will check if
the location is within the boundaries, and will be marked “under review” to ensure RTD staff can
review if the address is in the boundaries.
• Showing expected pay for any upcoming trips on the schedule tab (including quests).
• Showing vehicle number on the ETA tab, better for riders to find the right vehicle.
• Showing Access-a-Ride general phone number at the bottom (replacing the RTD customer care
number), as well as the customer care email address.
• Ability to book trips 2-5 days ahead (one more day than currently).
Discussion
• Question: Is the mobile app screen reader accessible?
Answer: Yes, RTD worked to ensure the portal is accessible for screen readers.
• Question: If manually entering a location, how can it be added to my favorites list?
Answer: Put a note in the comment section to have it added, or call to have it added.
• Question: How many locations are allowed on the favorites list?
Answer: The system allows 10 favorite locations.
• SUGGESTION: Update the ETA tab to auto refresh for those with voice over/screen readers
(currently it is not auto refreshing if using screen reader).
ACTION: Volunteers for additional Beta Testing of portal (need to be Access-a-Ride eligible): Current APAC
(3) - Brenda, John, Tex; Past APAC (4) – Becky/Heather Pyle, Brian Novak, James Triplett, Tim Brotzman;
and non-APAC (1) - William Astrada.

RFP for Eligibility and Travel Training Vendor (no process changes/reviews) – Larry Buter, RTD
Last week, RTD released/published the request for proposals (RFP) for a combined eligibility and travel
training vendor. RTD awaits written questions from possible bidders; then RTD will publish questions and
answers. The RTD Board is expected to select a vendor at their March 31, 2021 meeting, with a vendor
start-date of May 1st. The contact will be for 5 years.

Pilot for Combine Access-a-Ride and Fixed-Route Usage – Larry Buter, RTD
RTD has been conducting a pilot to combine paratransit and fixed-route for those who can access fixedroute but need help getting to/from a station/stop. Access-a-Ride takes the rider from a location to the
fixed-route stop/station, and/or from a fixed-route stop/station to a final destination. The pilot is testing
whether this works and whether it helps alleviate pressure on Access-a-Ride schedule at peak times allowing more trips for shorter distances. Often times the location-to-destination could be 20 minutes
(+/-) of travel time on Access-a-Ride, where a ride to a fixed-route stop/station would be 5-7 minutes.
Travel training will include instruction on accessing fixed-route, if that is appropriate.

Page 2 of 5

Packet Pg. 35

Attachment: APAC Summary January 12th 2021 (4476 : Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee (APAC) Report)

RTD APAC Meeting Summary: January 12, 2021

1.C.3.a
RTD APAC Meeting Summary: January 12, 2021

RTD is still reviewing and developing the extensive detailed list of requirements for any new software
vendor. RTD is considering the needs of both end users - customers and staff, including visually impaired
staff. The expectation is to release the RFP by/in March and award a contract by the end of 2021.
Discussion
• Question: How are accessibility requirements being developed?
Answer: RTD is requiring compliance with all the standards, which will be listed in the RFP.

Pilot for Using Ride-Share Options

In the end of October RTD began a 6-months pilot with Uber/ride-share. This first phase of the pilot is
focused on the areas in the 80013-80016 zip codes (south-east Denver, Aurora, Centennial area) and on
ambulatory customers or those who can fold a wheelchair into a sedan trunk. This focus allows for testing
if the ride-share option would work first. Then, if it works, consider the expanded details necessary to
wheelchair accessibility vehicles (WAVs). This first phase is also testing how much the use of the rideshare option alleviate stress on the system during peak periods.
Thus far, there have been 150 trips in phase one of the pilot. The impact of COVID on this number is not
known, but the guess is that if not for COVID there would have been less ride-share trips.
The second phase of the pilot will focus on the use of WAVs. The expectation is RTD would provide and
operate the WAVs utilized by the ride-share system. RTD is working on developing the details of this
second phase of the pilot.
The third phase will focus on lift-vehicles for fixed wheelchairs.
Discussion
• Question: Are the ride-share drivers getting any ADA training, or is it open to any driver?
Answer: It would be open to any ride-share driver. RTD doesn’t consider the first phase of the
pilot paratransit trips, it is up to the customer to choose the ride-share option.
• Question: Will the ride-share drivers know it is a trip for a person with disabilities?
Answer: It is unknown if the ride-share driver knows. When phase two of the pilot starts, utilizing
RTD WAVs, the driver would know if the WAV was selected by the customer.
• Question: What is the policy for ride-shares about seeing-eye dogs? There are stories of people
being refused a ride because of the dog.
Answer: Uber and Lyft have become more sensitive to seeing-eye dogs (sued in court), and set
policy that a driver cannot refuse a trip based on a seeing-eye dog.
• Question: What/who is responsible for training ride-share drivers about people with disabilities –
there needs to be increased awareness? Example: For the visually impaired customers, drivers
should not expect the customer will see them and walk over.
Answer: RTD is still working out these details and other needs in the first phase of the. When
second phase of the pilot starts, with RTD WAVs, those drivers will have received specific training.
• Question: How is pricing being handled if a customer goes through the ride-share app? Currently
a wheelchair customer has to select Uber XL and the corresponding price increase (seems unfair).

Page 3 of 5

Packet Pg. 36

Attachment: APAC Summary January 12th 2021 (4476 : Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee (APAC) Report)

RFP for Software Replacement for Reservations, Scheduling and Dispatch Vendor – Larry Buter, RTD

1.C.3.a

•

•

IV.
•
•

•

•
•
V.

Answer: This is part of conversations during phase one of the pilot, and will be part of any final
agreement developed.
Question: For pricing/payment, will the driver know it is an RTD trip?
Answer: The ride-share option is intended for short trips, and first and/or last mile trips. Once
approved through RTD, Uber will provide the customer a link to book trips as an RTD pilot
participant – the customer would go into the Uber app and then click on/go to the section to
schedule an RTD/Access-a-Ride trip. By going into/clicking on the link Uber will know to charge
the customer $2 and RTD the additional $3-20, and if the trip is more than $22, will charge the
client the overage.
Concern: When booking with Uber or Lyft in the past and picking an accessible vehicle type, it will
say “looking for a ride” over and over and over, leading to missing your appointment, while
thinking a vehicle will be found. It never says “vehicle type not available”, it should say this so the
customer can make alternate plans.
Discussion: What data, information, and/or feedback would APAC members like to get or give in
the coming year?
Pilot of the Access-a-Ride + fixed-route (use of Access-a-Ride for first/last mile).
Travel training.
o Once the eligibility and travel training vendor is contracted, the vendor will come talk
with the APAC about their plan for both.
Denver’s 16th Street reconstruction project, and any public input opportunities.
o Larry will email APAC members if he finds any public input opportunities coming up
before the next APAC meeting.
Colfax investments, will they progress – RTD, Denver.
Central I70 construction impacts on transit in/around the area of northeast Denver.
Next meeting – March 9th, JOINT with ACPD
REMAINING 2021 Meetings: May 11th-APAC, July 13th-JOINT, September 14th-APAC, November
9th-JOINT

Page 4 of 5

Packet Pg. 37

Attachment: APAC Summary January 12th 2021 (4476 : Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee (APAC) Report)

RTD APAC Meeting Summary: January 12, 2021

1.C.3.a
RTD APAC Meeting Summary: January 12, 2021

APPENDIX A: Attendance – conference calls

X

Name

Name

Brenda Carney

Melisa Mascarenas – Shalom/Denver

Brian Novak

X

Merv Martin

X

Craig Towler – Center for People with Disabilities

X

Renee Schofield– Rocky Mtn. Human Services

*

Donna Thurston – Laradon Hall

X

Roberto Cabrera – CO. Commission for the Deaf

X

John Fahlstrom

X

Tex Elam

X

Lindsey Leith – Goodwill

X

Lyndsey Sent – Global Down Syndrome

* Informed of absence

RTD & Providers
Organization

Staff

RTD

Anne Hillyer, Larry Buter, Paul Hamilton,
Web Portal/IT: Brandon Fowler
Marcellinus Andres

First Transit
MV
Transdev

Travis Menefee

Via

Ty Coleman

Others
Name – Organization or Interest group
Carol Buchanan - DRMAC

Page 5 of 5

Packet Pg. 38

Attachment: APAC Summary January 12th 2021 (4476 : Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee (APAC) Report)

APAC MEMBERS

