1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, Ph.D., District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
District N, Vacant
Larry Hoy, District J

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
February 27, 2018 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Tisdale called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance
Chair Tisdale asked everyone to stand and join him in the Pledge of Allegiance. He stated
that the Board was privileged to be joined by Cub Scout Webelos, Den 10, Pack 414, from
the Reunion area of Commerce City in District K. Chair Tisdale introduced the Scouts that
would be posting colors and leading the Pledge of Allegiance:





Daryan Hull (announcing)
Matias Gomez (flags)
Caleb Pelster (flags)
Gabriel Menezes (flags)

Chair Tisdale thanked the scouts, Ryan Hull, Mobile Technologies Supervisor, and the
parents of the fine young gentlemen for taking the time to allow them to lead us in the
pledge.

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Attendee Name
Lorraine Anderson

Title
Director, District L

Status
Present

Arrived
5:31 PM

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

5:26 PM

Bob Broom
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District F
Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Absent
Present

5:30 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

5:30 PM

Judy Lubow
Ken Mihalik

Director, District I
Director, District G

Present
Present

5:37 PM
5:29 PM

3:49 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

5:44 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

3:52 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:29 PM

Doug Tisdale

Director, District H

Present

5:24 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District D
Director, District A

Present
Present

5:29 PM
5:24 PM

Barbara McManus called roll. There were 13 Board members present at roll call. Director
Deadwyler was absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Shirley Bennett, Louie Carbone, Nicole Carey, Jessie
Carter, Lou Cripps, Norene Curran, Sean Douglass, Raleigh Elstun,
Michael Ford, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, Steve Gieske, David
Genova, Bob Grado, Chris Harmon, Dave Johnson, Pamela Kachka,
Roger Kane, Coyne Krupske, Annette MacNeal, Brian Matthews,
Robin McIntosh, John McKay, Heather McKillop, Barbara McManus,
Mike Meader, Daniel Menter, Clay Moore, Paul Mrak, Mike Nabhan,
Tai-Shrae Parish, Chris Quinn, Michael Riker, Susan Sandoval, Ruth
Seleske, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Bill Van Meter, Michael
Washington, Luke Westland, Cui Xiaoxin

Others Present:

Andrew Amey, Nathan Axvig, Andrea Chrirboger, Jenee Donelson,
Jason Hargrove, Jamie Perkins, William Gross, David Martin, Brady
Menezes, Jenifer Mongomery, Colin Scott, Julia Stewart, John
Thompson, Gary Van Dorn

Chair Tisdale discussed RTD’s safety procedures in case an emergency occurred.
Chair Tisdale requested that all those in attendance participate in a Moment of Silence for
Christine Campbell, an RTD Bus Operator who passed away recently while completing her
shift.

IV.

Retiree Awards
Chair Tisdale noted there were four (4) retirees this month with one (1) in attendance:
Louie Carbone.
Chair Tisdale asked Lou Cripps, Senior Manager of Asset Management, to introduce Mr.
Carbone. Mr. Cripps stated that Mr. Carbone brought knowledge and contributions that
defined his career. He added that Mr. Carbone would be missed because of his great
contributions and dedication to RTD.

Mr. Carbone thanked RTD and stated that he began working at RTD as a mechanic and
moved into the State of Good Repair for Asset Management Department. He added that
when asked what advice he had for younger people, he replied eat more salad, drink less
beer, and most importantly do not bring your work home with you. Mr. Carbone explained
that RTD and all the departments he had been a part of over the years did a great job
moving people and keeping up to date with new technology. He concluded by thanking
everyone that he had worked with at RTD.
Chair Tisdale also recognized the following individuals for their many years of service to
RTD:
Tony Delgado – Bus Operator – 40 years
Marchelle L. Kirby-Hope – Bus Operator – 21 years
Paul Perkins – General Repair Mechanic – 20 years

V.

Public Participation
Chair Tisdale stated that the public participation period was open to anyone who wanted
to speak. He explained that elected officials were invited to speak first, and others would
be called in the order they signed up, and then additional speakers would be invited at the
end of the list. He reminded the audience that each speaker was allowed three minutes
and to approach the lectern when called and state their name and address. Chair Tisdale
asked that if any speaker had documentation or reference materials for the Board to give
those materials to the Board staff prior to speaking.
Roger Harris, Denver, requested that the Board provide him and other operators with
safety and protection. He stated that operating a bus was dangerous and that RTD
needed to do more to protect operators not only from verbal assaults but also from
physical threats that continue to be an ongoing issue to operators. Mr. Harris offered some
solutions to adding protection such as smart readers for collecting fares, operator
plexiglass enclosures, and added security on buses.
Jamie Perkins, Denver, stated that she was grateful to be at the Board Meeting to speak
about the Pass Program Working Group (PPWG). She added that she appreciated that RTD
had convened the PPWG and for the effort that had gone into a thoughtful analysis of a
pass program. Ms. Jenkins stated that she recommended that passes be provided for
people who lived at 185% of the federal poverty level. She explained that early in her
career she had qualified for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program that was
instrumental in allowing her to become successful. Ms. Jenkins stated that providing
transportation assistance would add to RTD ridership and give many people the
opportunity to become successful and thriving members of the community. She added that
public transportation was an important part of community lives and that the recommended

low-income passes would be vital to many communities. Ms. Jenkins stated that she
would like the Board to endorse the recommended low-income passes.
David Martin, Denver, stated that he represented all residents along the University of
Colorado A Line and urged RTD to find an alternative to end the constant train horns while
waiting for the implementation of quiet zones to mitigate noise impacts. Mr. Martin asked
how RTD planned to solve the train horn issue if the CPUC did not allow implementation of
quiet zones at the rail crossings. He also requested that RTD respond to his email
regarding this issue. Mr. Martin also asked why there was only one left-hand turn lane at
40th Avenue and Colorado Boulevard, when based on the East Corridor Record of Decision,
two left turn lanes had been required.
Clay Moore, Denver, stated that last two years he had been a bus operator out of East
Metro and that it had been a unique and challenging experience. He added that he was at
the Board Meeting to explain that there was a crisis with the shortage of drivers and many
negative characteristics regarding the job causing low driver morale. Mr. Moore stated that
wages did not keep pace with cost of living in Denver. He added that RTD operator
shortages resulted in routes being dropped every day, drivers being mandated, and low
morale. Mr. Moore stated that all these problems would be fixed with a 10% increase in
wages.
Andrea Chrirboga-Flor, Denver, stated that she worked for 9-5 Colorado and stated that
her group supported of the 50% pass discount. She stated that, with the lost service
hours, shortage of drivers, and the changes in service to new lines, the agency’s priority
should be to keep and expand ridership rather than add more trains through the completion
of FasTracks. Ms. Chrirboga-Flor stated that fare increases cause a decrease in ridership
and that funding should come from other outside sources rather than riders. She added
that RTD should focus on those who depend on RTD services and increasing ridership.
Janae Donaldson, Denver, stated that fare increases hurt the drivers, that 90% of driver
assaults happen because of fare disputes, and a fare increase will only cause more safety
and ridership issues. She added that cutting routes hurts drivers and causes riders to find
other transportation methods. Ms. Donaldson stated that RTD was a public service and
not a business and that people were hurt by decisions made by the Board.

VI.

Committee Reports
Chair Tisdale stated that the committee minutes were included in the Board packet. He
asked if there were any other questions.
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Chair Tisdale
Executive Committee – Chaired by Chair Tisdale
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Mihalik

GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Walker
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Deadwyler
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
Director Walker stated the meeting schedule would be ready for review shortly and that
goals would be discussed at the Board/Senior Leadership Team Retreat.

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of January 30, 2018
Motion:

Director Lubow made the motion to approve the
Board Meeting minutes of January 30, 2018.
Director Walker seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 13 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams).
Director Deadwyler was absent. Director seat for
District N was vacant.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

ACCEPTED [UNANIMOUS]
Judy Lubow, Director, District I
Jeff Walker, Director, District D
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Sisk,
Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Deadwyler

Chair Tisdale declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

IX.

Chair's Report
Chair Tisdale stated he would share a summary of the most pertinent events on the
horizon, as well as other items the Board members should be made aware.
Chair Tisdale stated that information was provided at the last Board meeting stating that
RTD would not provide a bus bridge from Dry Creek to the Lincoln Station during the
South East Rail Extension (SERE) tie in construction from March 16 – 26, 2018. He added
that after a lot of feedback that, with the cooperation from the Almagated Transit Union,
RTD would be providing the bus bridge in order to maintain the service during the ten-day
tie in construction work.

EVENT HIGHLIGHTS:
 Southwest Transit Association (SWTA) Annual Conference is March 5-7,
2018 at the Colorado Convention Center.


Wednesday, February 28: The Mobility Choice Blueprint Board will meet at
the Denver Metro Chamber of Commerce, 1445 Market St.



A delegation from Mongolia would be visiting RTD He explained that Denver
was the only city in United States that they would visit.



Tuesday, March 13: The first Finance Workshop of the year, regarding the
Strategic Budget Plan, would be held at 1660 Blake St. in the Board
Conference Room.

Chair Tisdale stated that Telephone Town Halls for each District, as well as a Spanishlanguage telephone town hall for the entire RTD District, would be held in the coming
week. He said to refer to the Two-Week Calendar on the RTD Board of Directors website
for details as they become available.

X.

General Manager's Report
General Manager Genova stated that he met with an investment group in Ontario, Canada,
the Ontario Teachers’ Pension Program, looking to invest in transportation opportunities
and discussed funding for RTD remaining project needs regarding FasTracks.
General Manager Genova stated that the Colorado Public Utilities Commission (CPUC)
hearing had occurred on February 15, 2018, and there would be nothing to report until the
Administrative Law Judge prepared the findings and presented those finding to the CPUC.
General Manager Genova explained the Collective Bargaining Negotiations (CBA) are
ongoing but that one of the most interesting developments was that the Department of
Labor denied the union the right to strike and ruled that, if an agreement could not be
reached, negotiations would move to binding arbitration. He stated that RTD and CBA
continued to work through the final pieces of the negotiations and hoped to reach a
resolution soon.
General Manager Genova thanked all the stakeholders and staff for their hard work and
commitment to the Pass Program Working Group (PPWG). He added that the team had
their final meeting and would present their recommendation to the Board in March. He
added that that the recommendation from the PPWG was just that, and that the Board
would make the final decision. He thanked Michael Washington, Transit Equity Manager,

for leading the PPWG and working hard with all members to develop a good model and
process.
Director Menten asked if an invitation to apply to bus driver positions was presented
during the PPWG meetings as reminder to all stakeholders of the need for operators.
General Manager stated that the agency continued to reinforce the need for operators and
continued to work with all other agencies interested in connecting people with
employment.
Director Menten asked about Mr. Martin’s question during public participation about what
the agency would do if the CPUC came back with an unfavorable decision regarding the
quiet zones.
General Manager Genova stated that RTD would have to wait to see what the decision
was before taking secondary measures to address noise impacts, because there were
several secondary options to consider.
Director Sisk thanked Michael Washington and RTD staff as to how they handled
expressing their views at the District O open house.
Director Lubow also thanked Michael Washington and asked RTD staff to reach out to
constituents regarding solutions for the quiet zones.
Director Walker offered his support to all operators and the challenges that they deal with
during their workday.

XI.

Unanimous Consent
Chair Tisdale stated that, if there were any questions or need for discussion of an agenda
item, a Director should request it be removed from the unanimous consent agenda.
Seeing none, he asked for a motion to approve items A through C.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to approve
items A through C on the unanimous consent
agenda.
Director Broom seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 13 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik,

Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams).
Director Deadwyler was absent. Director seat for
District N was vacant.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Sisk,
Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Deadwyler

Chair Tisdale declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
A.
Contract Amendment; 1st year (2018) option 2017-2019 Street Improvements &
Shelter Installations Contract # 37DM002
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to award a Contract Amendment to initiate the first option year (2018) of a
three-year contract for the annual Street Improvements & Shelter Installation contract with
Manion Construction, Inc. for $371,409.75. Funding for this Contract Amendment is
provided by the annual 2018 Capital Programs Expense Budgets.
B.
Contract Option Award for the Purchase of 44 Cutaway Buses
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to exercise the option of
contract 25FK006 with Master’s Transportation for the purchase of 44 Goshen cutaway
buses to be used for the Access-a-Ride and Call-n-Ride services at a price not to exceed
$3,100,654.
C.
Code of Ethics Approval
The Finance Administration & Audit Committee recommends that the Board of Directors
approve the attached RTD Code of Ethics.

XII.

Recommended Action
D.

Transit Oriented Development Evaluation Guidelines

It is recommended by the Planning, Capital Programs and FasTracks Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number
(the “Resolution”), the
“Transit Oriented Development Evaluation Guidelines” to provide policy direction to RTD
staff on evaluating transit oriented development (TOD) projects moving forward.

Motion:

Director Williams made the motion to approve
the Transit Oriented Development Evaluations
Guidelines.
Director Archuleta seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Menten asked how item six (6), TOD projects must
have jurisdiction support, would be gauged. She added that
she had heard from constituents who were upset about the
height of a building at a TOD project in Olde Town Arvada.
Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit Oriented Development,
stated that there were two aspects for jurisdictional support.
He explained that first there would be an adopted document
by the city council that states they are in support of the
project and that the city had provided additional support
towards the project such as zoning or funding.
Director Menten asked if there would be a time where citizens
could be included in the decision.
Mr. Sirois explained that citizens would need to voice their
comments or concerns through the city council development
adoption process.
Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 11 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Sisk,
Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams) and 2
opposed (Menten, Mihalik). Director Deadwyler
was absent. Director seat for District N was
vacant.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

ADOPTED [11 TO 2]
Kate Williams, Director, District A
Ernest Archuleta, Director, District C
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale,
Walker, Williams
Menten, Mihalik
Deadwyler

Chair Tisdale declared the motion PASSED.
E.

Recommended Changes to Special Event Services

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the following changes to Special Event services:
1. Discontinue RockiesRide bus service and authorize staff to develop alternative service
configurations to serve Longmont and Wagon Road/Thornton on Rockies games
weekends; and
2. Discontinue RTD RACE service to the Susan G. Komen Race for the Cure event.
Motion:

Director Solano made the motion to approve the
Recommended Changes to Special Event
Services.
Director Archuleta seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Hoy asked whether RTD would be supplementing the
Rockies Ride from the Wagon Road Park-n-Ride with additional
120X buses. He added that the ridership from that area
quoted in the report warranted the additional service.
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Operations, stated
that the average ridership numbers on Saturdays from Wagon
Road and Longmont were 103 and 63. He added that the
average ridership on Sundays were 118 and 100, respectively.
Mr. Abel stated that it was staff’s intent for people from
Longmont to use the LD on Saturday and for RTD to provide
additional bus support as needed. He said RTD would provide
a special freestanding service on Sundays. He explained that
from Wagon Road customers would use the 120X to get to

Union Station on Saturdays and RTD would provide a special
freestanding service on Sundays.
Director Hoy requested clarification on the word “intent” and
asked if that meant the agency would provide the additional
service.
Mr. Abel explained that RTD would provide the additional
service.
Director Broom asked how the public would be alerted to the
changes and the elimination of the routes.
Mr. Abel explained that RTD Communications Department
would publicize the changes and promote the utilization of
existing services and communicate that special services would
run on Sunday.
Director Broom asked if the Colorado Rockies organization
would communicate the changes to their ticket holders.
Mr. Abel stated that he was unable to speak for the Colorado
Rockies organization.
Director Lubow stated that Longmont constituents were not
happy with the change but understood the need to terminate
the service because it was not being utilized. She asked how
the agency would handle buses that operated at capacity.
Mr. Abel explained that RTD would back up the service during
high volume time. He added that RTD continually backs up
service during times of peak ridership.
Director Lubow how RTD would handle providing rides if a
game went past scheduled service times.
Mr. Abel explained that RTD would have a contingency plan
that would determine providing additional or extended service.
Director Hoy declared trusted that staff to notify and take care
of RTD passengers and that he would be voting yes.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 13 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams)
and 0 opposed Director Deadwyler was absent.
Director seat for District N was vacant.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
Paul Solano, Director, District K
Ernest Archuleta, Director, District C
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Sisk,
Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Deadwyler

Chair Tisdale declared the motion PASSED UNANIMOUSLY.
F.

Authorization to enter into a contract with DatamanUSA

It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract to DatamanUSA for ERP Work Order Contract (Contract
Number 17DH023) for an amount not to exceed $7,750,000 over 5 years. Work is
administered on an as-needed, work order basis. Funding for these Work Orders will be
included in the budgets of the projects on which the work is performed.
Motion:

Director Sisk made the motion to approve the
Authorization to enter into a contract with
DatamanUSA.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 12 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten,
Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams) and 1
opposed (Folska) Director Deadwyler was
absent. Director seat for District N was vacant.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

PASSED [12 TO 1]
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
Kate Williams, Director, District A
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Sisk, Solano,
Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Folska
Deadwyler

Chair Tisdale declared the motion Passed.

XIII.

Executive Session
There was no Executive Session.

XIV. Old Business
There was no old business.

XV.

New Business
Director Folska respectfully requested that all those that are ill stay home.

XVI. Adjourn
Chair Tisdale adjourned the meeting at 6:50 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________________________________
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager of the Board Office

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

