Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on April 13, 2010
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

April 13, 2010

Subject:

Summary of the Financial Administration Committee Meeting held
April 13, 2010 in Rooms R, T & D

Board
Members Present:

Directors
Absent:
Staff Present:

Chair Tayer, Vice-Chair James, Directors Bagley, Brohl, Busck, Christopher,
Cohen, Daly, Kemp, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Pulliam, and Tobiassen.

Director Martinez
Bruce Abel, Susan Cohen, John Shonsey, Bill Van Meter, Scott Reed, Trent
Ratcliff, Robert Merriman, Terry Howerter, Mike Gil, Marla Lien, Dave
Genova, Sherry Ellebracht, Teresa Sedmak, John Tarbert, Daria Serna,
Carolyn Conover, Lisa Trujillo and Paula Perdue.

*******************************************************************
Call to Order: Chair Tayer called the Financial Administration Committee to order at 6:50 p.m.
Chair Kemp thanked Maria Garcia-Berry for her work this evening and through this whole process.
He also announced that General Manager, Phil Washington, had to catch a red-eye flight to
Washington D.C. to give testimony in regards to outside of the box financing. RTD was one of
the few organizations selected to speak to the Congressional Committee. Dave Genova sat in for
Phil for his absence.
I.

Recommended Actions
In an effort to expedite this process, Chair Tayer requested that the four action items be
moved forward with one vote as a unit but still offered the chance for discussion.
Terry Howerter, CFO, gave a brief summary of each action item.
Director O’Boyle took the opportunity to compliment staff on a careful review of performance
measures looking ahead to 2011.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on April 13, 2010
Page 2 of 4

IT Contingency Work Order Contract Fourth and Final Year Option
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award Booz
Allen Hamilton (Booz Allen) the fourth and final-option year to a current contract for IT
Technical and Management Support Services (15DK004). This contract was originally
awarded in 2006 to Booz Allen through the competitive bid process. The contract allowed for
an initial-year plus four (4) one-year options to renew based on positive performance by the
vendor. Execution of the third-option year extended the period of performance but did into
increase the contract not-to-exceed limit of $1,000,000. The initial one-year contract was
not-to-exceed $250,000. With increased needs for Booz Allen Services, IT requested the
final-option year be exercised and the annual not-to-exceed was increased by $500,000 to a
contract amount of $1,500,000. The final-option year is to begin on September 15, 2010 and
remain in effect for one year until September 14, 2011 and increases the contract amount to
$1,500,000.00.
Resolution No. __, expressing the intent of the Board to be reimbursed for certain expenses
relating to two structured parking facilities on the District’s West Corridor light rail line prior to
the time the facilities are financed
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors adopt Resolution No. __, (the “Reimbursement Resolution”) expressing the intent
of the Board to be reimbursed for certain expenses relating to two structured parking facilities
on the District’s West Corridor light rail line prior to the time the facilities are financed.
Adoption of 2011 Performance Measures
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of Directors
adopt the 2011 Performance Measures for Goals 1-7.
Recommendation for Authorization of RTD-DUSPA TIFIA and RRIF Loan Agreements for
Denver Union Station
It is recommended by the Finance and Administration Committee that the Board of Directors
pass the attached resolution authorizing the General Manager to enter into loan agreements
with the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) and Railroad
Rehabilitation and Improvement Financing (RRIF) offices of the US Department of
Transportation and the Federal Railroad Administration respectively for the funding of Denver
Union Station (DUS). RTD will not be named as a borrower and will not have any direct
funding obligation to TIFIA or RRIF under either agreement.

Motion:

Director Christopher made a
motion to forward the four action
items to the April 13, 2010 Board
meeting agenda.

Second:

Director Cohen seconded
the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed
Unanimously.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on April 13, 2010
Page 3 of 4

II.

February 2010 Financial Status Report (Merriman) – Robert Merriman gave this report.
Robert Merriman presented this item to the board and asked if there were any questions.
Director O’Boyle commended the financial staff for the essay on page 28 for sales and use
tax receipts in reference to vendor early collection fee.
Director Christopher asked what the grant revenue incorporates. Terry responded the grant
revenue includes some of West Corridor projects and aura money. A big item is the
continuation of the 40 million dollar advance on West Corridor.
Chair Tayer really appreciates the effort in making this information understandable. Director
James and Tayer offered some suggestions on improvements which included the dashboard
on the first page.
Director O’Boyle commented that in order to compare apples to apples, the 3.3% vendor fee
needs to be deducted from sales and use tax data to get a true month to month comparison.

III.

Review of Assumption and Elements of 2011-2016 Transit Development Program and 2011
Budget
Terry Howerter and Robert Merriman presented this item to the board. The purpose of the
TDP is to provide a six year fiscally constrained plan. The plan provides input for the
DRCOG six year Transportation Improvement Program, RTD Annual Budget and the
FasTracks Financial Plan. The TDP includes only service and projects funded from the base
0.6% sales and use tax. FasTracks expense and projects included in the FasTracks financial
plan. Please refer to PowerPoint for specifics.
Chair Kemp commended staff on keeping a good and balanced budget, as he travels he
observes other transit agencies cutting service twenty, thirty and forty percent.
Terry informed the board that they continue to review three propositions to see how they
will affect RTD. Amendment 60 will not have a direct impact. Amendment 61 would have
a substantial impact on the way we do future debt and impacts on sales taxes. If adopted
we are looking at ten year payback periods, voters would approve any new debt issues.
One item that is big is that Amendment 61 would require that when you pay off debt from
previous debt issues you have to reduce your sales tax revenues for all service on that debt.
Proposition 101 affects sales taxes from motor vehicle sales, used or new and a large
impact on telecom services. The impact could be a reduction in sales taxes of about 30 to
35 million dollars a year.
Director Christopher asked if we could take action earlier rather than later, to address
estimated reduction of 9.4 million in revenue.
Director Tayer asked staff to address Director Christopher’s idea at the April 27th Study
Session.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on April 13, 2010
Page 4 of 4

Director Tayer asked the board to go through the vendor list, ask friends, and think about if
there other things we should be looking at that are opportunities for us to support the
funding for the transit services we want to see continue.
Director Tayer has asked staff to do a survey across the country for the best model out
there for some opportunity to provide discounted services to lower income individuals.
Director Tayer also asked staff to look at modifying the name TDP.
IV. Other Matters
No other matters were discussed.

V. Next Meeting Date – The next meeting of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee will
be May 11, 2010. Director James will chair this meeting.
VI. Adjourn to Operations and Customer Services Committee
Director Tayer declared the Financial Administration and Audit Committee meeting
adjourned at 7:40 p.m.

