Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, Ph.D., District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
District N
Larry Hoy, District J

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, March 13, 2018
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Barbara Deadwyler

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Deadwyler called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Remote
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present

Arrived
5:28 PM

Bob Broom
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District F
Committee Chair

Present
Present

5:29 PM
5:01 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Remote
Present

5:29 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:36 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Remote

Ken Mihalik
Chuck Sisk

Director, District G
Director, District O

Present
Absent

5:10 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:13 PM

Doug Tisdale

Director, District H

Present

5:18 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District D
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present

5:20 PM
5:15 PM

Directors Anderson, Folska, and Menten participated via phone. Director Sisk was absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Shirley Bennett, Nicole Carey, Jessie Carter, Carolyn
Conover, Lou Cripps, Heather Deckard, Kevin Diviness, Michael Ford,
Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Bob Grado, Laurie
Huff, Dave Jensen, Brian Matthews, John McKay, Heather McKillop,
Mike Meader, Allen Miller, Todd Nikkel, Tai-Shrae Parish, Scott Reed,
Jenifer Ross-Amato, Ruth Seleske, Zamy Silva, Bill Sirois, Greg
Smith, Henry Stopplecamp, Kirk Strand, Rebecca Tate, Mark Tieman,
Monika Treipl-Harnke, Bill Van Meter, Michael Washington, Luke
Westlund

Others Present:

Doug Brockwell, Peggy Catlin, Shelley Cook, Gary Forbes, William
Gross, Zachary Kiefer, Shintel Lewis, Scott McCarey, Cythia Menge,
Joel Nohle, Tom Peterson, Pedro Ramos, Pam Stiff, Matt Sabor,
David Sachs, Gary Van Dorn

Committee Chair Deadwyler discussed RTD’s safety procedures in case an emergency
occurred.

B. Recommended Actions

• May 2018 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the May 2018 Service Change package as
revised and summarized in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost
savings of approximately $153,000 and, further, to authorize the General
Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for
private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
The Recommended Action proposed falls in line with the following GM
Goals:
Core Goal #1 - Successful Delivery of Transit Services
Task Goal #1 - Fiscal Sustainability
Motion:

Director Solano made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the March 27, 2018
Board Meeting.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer, stated that staff
presented the May 2018 Service Changes to the Board
approximately two months ago. He added that since the initial
presentation staff had conducted public outreach meetings in

Boulder, Broomfield, Southeast Denver, and at the Blake
Administration Building between February 2, 2018 and March
1, 2018. Mr. Ford explained that staff had received input
during the public comment process that resulted in
modifications to the initial service recommendations
communicated to the Board. He added that the comments
and service changes were included in the packet.
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations,
introduced Jessie Carter to present the changes that had been
made in response to public comment since the last
presentation.
Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning and Scheduling,
explained the changes were centered on bus stop
consolidation and addressing overcrowding on routes. He
added that in response to public comments some of the
service changes were rescinded and that staff would continue
to analyze to ensure that the agency meets the needs of the
public. Mr. Carter stated that all service changes were listed in
the Board report and he would go into greater detail if there
were questions.
Director Hoy asked how the agency had addressed the letter
that the Board had received from the City and County
Manager of Broomfield.
Mr. Carter explained that one of the main reasons to
reorganize the service in Broomfield was due to congestion on
the current location of service. He added that the new
locations of stops alleviated traffic congestion and provided an
alternative bus stop to serve the requested location.
Director Hoy asked how far was the walk from the housing
community to the bus stop currently and what it would be
when the stop was moved.
Mr. Carter stated that the current walk was approximately
one-eighth of a mile and would increase to one-fourth of a
mile.
Chair Tisdale thanked staff for the changes that were
implemented to address complaints about service on the C and
D lines to the Denver Center of the Performing Arts (DCPA).
He explained that past service changes brought people to

DCPA for shows and events but return service was removed
and customers were left stranded.
Director Lubow asked if staff had spoken to the City of
Broomfield staff that wrote the letter. She said that she would
vote no to ensure communications stay open and staff
addresses Broomfield’s issues.
Mr. Carter stated that staff had been in contact with
Broomfield staff and would continue to work towards an
acceptable solution.
Director Williams thanked staff for their hard work in the right
sizing of the service schedule.
Mr. Carter stated that the area of 12th and Pennsylvania was
high density and the agency would continue to look at other
stops to accommodate customers.
Mr. Abel explained that RTD was consolidating or moving bus
stops and that often when a stop was removed a new stop
would be placed to update routes. He added that the agency
continued to add or shift stops to accommodate customers
and to improve on time performance.
Director Walker asked how long it would take the changes to
be synced in the transit applications that people use.
Mr. Carter stated that he would find that information and
forward it to the Board.
Director Folska thanked staff for a job well done and for
considering and accommodating people with disabilities.
Director Anderson stated that the only thing that would make
the service changes better would be the G Line opening, and
that she would vote yes.
Director Menten stated that she had no comments and would
vote yes.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:
REMOTE:

PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 1]
Paul Solano, Director, District K
Kate Williams, Committee Vice-Chair
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Menten,
Mihalik, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Judy Lubow
Chuck Sisk
Lorraine Anderson, Claudia Folska, Natalie Menten

Committee Chair Deadwyler declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• Service Availability Update 3 13 18
Mr. Abel highlighted that the agency continued to have an increase in the
amount of lost service due to personnel related reasons and an increase in
the amount of mandating. He added that the agency would continue to work
towards lessening mandating and dropped service.

• Contracted Fixed-Route Quarterly Report – 4th Quarter 2017
• Access-a-Ride /Cab 4th Quarter Update
Mr. Abel stated that the on time performance for Access-a-Ride/Cab had
improved from last year’s report. He explained that due to the rebid for the
paratransit contractor and negotiations for higher wages had significant
impact on the ability to hire and retain more operators, which resulted in the
improved performance.
Committee Chair Deadwyler stated that she appreciated the work that had
been done to improve service. She added that the changes were positive first
steps towards service improvements and thanked the staff and contractors in
the audience. Committee Chair Deadwyler specifically thanked the contracted
drivers that drive her.

• Special Services 4th Qtr 2017
• 2017 4th Quarter Drug & Alcohol Compliance Monitoring
• 2017 4th Quarter Customer Complaint Analysis
• Security Statistics & Fare Inspection Summary

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - April 10, 2018
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Deadwyler adjourned the meeting at 5:47 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

