Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held Tuesday, February 12,
2008
Page 1 of 3
Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

February 13, 2008

Subject:

Minutes of the Meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held
on Tuesday, February 12, 2008 at 6:15 p.m. in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board
Members Present:

Board
Members Absent:

Chair Neill Quinlan, Barbara Brohl, Noel Busck, Juanita Chacon, Bill
Christopher, Bruce Daly, Bill Elfenbein, Daryl Kinton, Chris Martinez,
Bill McMullen, Wally Pulliam, Neill Quinlan, Dave Ruchman, and
Barbara Yamrick.

Chair Kemp and John Tayer

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Carol Duecher, Mike Turner, Nadine Lee, Rolf Asphaug,
Scott Reed, Dave Genova, Dennis Cole, Kevin Diviness, Bill
VanMeter, Rick Clarke, Bill Sirois, Genevieve Hutchison, Jennifer
Heisler, Ashland Vaughn, Liz Telford, Susan Wood, Susan Altes,
Henry Stopplecamp, Daria Serna, Shonsey, Reed Everett-Lee, Paula
Perdue and Lisa Trujillo.

Others Present:

Tom Wootten, Alameda Station LLC, Al Colvsey, Alameda Station
LLC, John Binder; Kephart, Ken Schmidt, Alameda Station LLC,
Alison George, Tyler Lowe, HCL Engineering & Surveying, Lloyd
Herrera, Alameda Station LLC, Anthony L., JLB Parking, Don Ulrich,
CH2MHill, Barry Schulz, PBS&J, Kevin Flynn; Rocky Mountain New,
Jeff Leib; The Denver Post, Bob Kochevar, Robin Knieln; FRESC

Call to Order:

Director Quinlan called the meeting to order at 6:15 p.m.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on Tuesday, February 12,
2008
Page 2 of 3

I. Updates
 Review of Refined Preferred Alternative Alignments for East, Gold Line, North
Metro and Northwest Rail Corridors and Commuter Rail Facility and Process for
Determination of Bus Maintenance Facility
Bill VanMeter, Senior Manager of Systems Planning went through a power point
presentation. Please refer to presentation for specifics.
Cal Marsella indicated we have a long way to go. This is worth it because first we
would have relocated UP and they would have ended up with a brand new facility in
Fort Lupton.
We would have ended up with a footprint of a Commuter Rail Main Facility on a site
that we were still unclear how clean or not clean it is. In this case we are in control,
we end up with new facility and the benefits accrue back to RTD
The original goal was to complete East in 2014 and Gold in 2015. We are still in line
to make schedule if we can get the milestones that were discussed accomplished.


Smith/Peoria Station and Process for Identifying Alternatives
Mike Turner presented this item to the board. There is a neighborhood meeting
at Park Lake Elementary on February 27th.
The two things of most concern are the recommendation for at grade crossing at
Smith and Peoria and the ongoing discussion of the station being on West or
East side.



Quality of Life Report
Cal discussed this report with the board. This item is getting National attention.
The three goals are: 1) Establish a proactive plan that balances transit needs with
future growth, 2) Increase Transit Mode Share at Peak Times and 3) Provide
improved transportation choices and options to the citizens of the District.



Fencing Process
The presentation included information such as why we have fencing, RTD Design
Criteria, examples of fencing.
The proposed process is to:
-Develop design sufficient to know details of alignment environment to balance
known issues with safety/security requirements and cost limitations
-Meet with stakeholders on each corridor to review environmental, safety and
security parameters
-RTD will work with stakeholder to evaluate locations with decisions being made
on a case by case basis as early as possible in the environmental planning

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on Tuesday, February 12,
2008
Page 3 of 3
process.
There was a lot of debate and discussion on the West Corridor, Dave Ruchman
discussed the issues with the board.
Chris Martinez would like to establish some kind of cost consistency for all
corridors as to what type of fencing we are willing to put in.



General Counsel Update
Cal informed the board that there is another follow-up meeting with Burlington
northern on February 27th.
Cal has requested another meeting with Chief Executive Officer of Burlington
Northern. He will keep the board informed of the outcome.
Cal is going to Washington tomorrow to further discuss and answer questions on
the West Corridor schedule and full funding grant agreement. He will also discuss
the Gold Line and East Corridor and clear up any misinformation.

II. Other Matters:
No other matters were discussed.
III. Next Meeting Date
The next meeting is schedule for March 4th at 5:30 pm.
IV. Adjourn
Chair Quinlan declared the meeting adjourned at 7:30 pm.

