Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

December 21, 2008

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
December 16, 2008 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Thirteen (13) Board members were present at roll call. Directors Brohl and Tayer arrived after
roll call.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
Joseph Archuleta, Mechanic with 28 years of service, was present to receive his award. Chair
Kemp shared his experience working with Joe. Joe stated that RTD felt like part of his family
having put 3 kids and his wife through college and perhaps now him. It has been a nice trip
and RTD has treated him well.
SPECIAL AWARD
Jeremy Utter, Chief of Logistics, presented RTD with an award on behalf of the two Federal
Local Medical Response teams, Colorado Ski Mat and the National Medical Response Team.
They appreciate the work of the dispatch center and RTD in stepping up and responding to late
night calls for help.
RECOGNITION OF OUTGOING BOARD MEMBERS
Chair Kemp acknowledged the contributions of each of the departing Board members with a
special collage artwork designed to provide a memoir of their district and their term of office.
Cal Marsella presented each of the Board members with a plaque and provided some parting
remarks. The following retiring Board members were recognized:
 Director William Elfenbein—expressed his appreciation to the staff and stated RTD was
fortunate to have a great group of people who keep things running.
 Director Daryl Kinton—Chair Kemp stated Director Kinton is a true example of a public
servant who served his district well as an advocate for the customers in spite of all his
physical adversities and challenges.
 Director Dave Ruchman—Chair Kemp shared he has learned a lot from Director
Ruchman at a higher level and expressed his appreciation to him. Cal Marsella stated
Dave has been one of the highest attendance Board members at Committee and Board
meetings. He respected his public insight.
Director Ruchman quoted Woody Allen who said that “90—98% of life is just showing
up”. If you want to be a part of decision making, you must show up. It has been a
humbling and wonderful experience working with the Board. When the Board functions
on all its cylinders, it is a wonderful machine to behold.
The work and
accomplishments of RTD is a reflection of Cal’s leadership. There are a lot of staff that
goes unheralded but nevertheless played an integral role in making RTD the Number 1





IV.

transit agency. He received much more from this than he put in it. Thanks to all for
making this happen.
Director Neill Quinlan—Chair Kemp shared that Director Quinlan is not only a colleague
but a friend with a heart who along with his wife, volunteers in the community with the
Red Cross, the needy and the homeless. During Katrina, he served behind the scenes
helping victims of Katrina. Behind his public face is a man with a heart of gold who will
truly be missed from this Board.
Cal Marsella dittoed Chair Kemp’s remarks but stated it goes deeper for him and his
staff in getting decisions made and forging ahead on difficult decisions.
Director Quinlan stated what is important is the future and carrying this journey
forward. This will be a struggle in moving FasTracks ahead and delivering FasTracks as
promised. He wished RTD great success and luck in this adventure.
Director Barbara Yamrick—Chair Kemp presented Director Yamrick as a true advocate
for the transit dependent who gave her heart and soul to the RTD mission and was one
of the hardest working members of the Board. He then read the proclamation to
Director Yamrick.
Cal Marsella stated Director Yamrick was a treasure of life and it was an honor to work
with her. She dedicated her life to public transit and was not afraid to take an
unpopular position. She will be missed.
Director Yamrick shared she would miss all of the people especially the staff whom she
worked closely with and who made sure the transit needs were getting served. She
reflected on her experiences in traveling and getting to know other people and
properties and for this she is eternally thankful.
Director Martinez reflected on his working relationship with all the departing Board
members and what they contributed to the full Board.
Director Busck reflected on how the Board has changed from the 80’s and 90’s to a
quality Board of today with vision and leadership. They have built a good foundation
which is now incumbent on the current Board to make it happen.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Russell Greear, Denver, shared that in general 98% of the bus drivers are safe and courteous.
There are 2% who need to be checked on. He appreciates the Board especially Juanita
Chacon whom he extended his condolences for the loss of her father. He is now in District A
and will extend his help to Director James as much as possible including the manual on safety,
and ADA policies that he left as a gift. He expressed his appreciation to Directors Martinez,
Christopher and other Directors for listening to him.
Rick McNeal, Denver, shared that the majority of drivers were courteous and reflected a
positive spirit. He then shared a not so positive encounter he had with a driver who demanded
to see a pink pass and ordered him off the bus. Cal Marsella took an action item to follow up
on this issue.

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
There were no committee reports.

VI.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF October 21, 2008

MOTION:

Director McMullen moved for the adoption of the November 18,
2008 minutes.
Director Pulliam seconded the motion.

VOTE ON

MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 15 votes in favor and 0
against.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

VII.

VIII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT

Interview with Progressive Railroading Magazine
This was a follow-up interview and he will inform the Board when it is printed.

Presentation at APTA/FTA Performance Measurement Conference—
Cal Marsella presented at the APTA/FTA Performance Measurement Conference
and shared the measurements that RTD uses. This is becoming a bigger issue with
FTA and grant programs. The Management by Objectives (MBO) is becoming more
widely adopted by the agencies.

APTA Legislative Meeting-SWTA
The Southwest Transit Association reviewed the new funding formula that
proposed using density and would have resulted in a loss of approximately 2.1M for
Denver and other properties. The association elected Cal Marsella to introduce a
motion to have this criteria removed. This was well received and should pass the
APTA Executive Committee.

EOC Meeting-Transition to DUSPA—
Marla Lien and Terry Howerter currently represent RTD on the DUSPA committee.
They are working to transition the EOC to the DUSPA. The DUSPA has hired
owner representatives and have made a request of a 1.5M loan from RTD which
will be repaid. Cal Marsella will come back with more details and resolutions for the
Board’s approval.

Meeting with Congressman Perlmutter—
Cal Marsella met on 12/16 with Congressman Perlmutter to discuss FasTracks and
how he can help. Congressman Perlmutter is very supportive and wants all of
FasTracks built. He is a very strong advocate for the I-225 and Fitzsimmons as
well as the Northwest Parkway, Gold Line, East/West Corridor and would like to
help optimize funding opportunities for the full build-out of FasTracks.

Metro Mayors Task Force—
Chair Kemp reported on the progress being made by the Task Force and that they
expect to provide a position statement by the end of January/first of February.
They have reviewed the modeling assumptions used by RTD and feel the work is
good. Directors Kemp, Busck and Christopher continue to meet regularly and
participate fully with the Metro Mayors in various meetings. Director Busck added
that only 7 of the Mayors are from the original group that had approved FasTracks
and the new Mayors had questions which RTD has addressed fully and they have
confidence in a positive outcome. Mayor Ed Tauer in one such meeting stated that
he felt RTD has been forthright in providing information about FasTracks.
Director Martinez stated he was happy to hear this since the newspapers seem to
be presenting a different finger-pointing picture. We must all work together to find
solutions for the build-out of FasTracks.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
MOTION:

Director Pulliam moved that the Board of Directors adopt
the Unanimous Consent Agenda items A through K.
Director Yamrick seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 15 votes in
favor and 0 against.

Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

A.

RESOLUTION No.___, SERIES OF 2008 – ANNEXATION OF ENCLAVES

B.

FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors re-appoint two current members and appoint two new members to the
FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) for a three-year term.

C.

Eagle Project Request for Proposals (RFP) Stipend Agreements
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to negotiate and enter into a
stipend agreement with each of the three pre-qualified teams invited to respond
to the RFP (the Proposers) in the not to exceed amount of $1,750,000 each. It is
further recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer $5,250,000 from the FasTracks
Contingency Reserve to the PPP Preparation project to fund the stipend agreements.
This action will accelerate funding currently programmed for the Eagle Project in 2011.

D.

Extend Expiration Date and Increase Funding for Veolia “Group 16” Fixed Route
Contract
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to amend the Veolia “Group
16” fixed-route service contract (14-DH-004) to extend the term of the contract from
the current end date of August 2009 to a revised contract end date of January 2010
and to increase the contract amount by $5,419,000.00 to increase the amount
authorized from the current amount of $63,401,878.00 as approved by the Board of
Directors on November 14, 2006, to a revised contract amount of $68,820,878.00..

E.

2008 Year End Budget Transfer for Group 19 Fixed-Route Services
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize a budget transfer in the amount of $325,000 from the “Group
18” (contract 15-DH-004) fuel budget to the “Group 19” (contract 16-DH-007) fuel
budget. It is also recommended that the General Manager, or his designee, be
authorized to amend the existing contracts accordingly.

F.

U.S. Leveraged Lease – 1997-B
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the General Manager
be authorized to approve modification to operative documents related to the U.S.
Leveraged Lease dated December 12, 1997 (the 1997-B US Leveraged Lease) between
the Regional Transportation District (Lessee) and EntreCap Financial LLC (Lessor)
required as a result of downgrades in the credit ratings of AIG.
It is further recommended that the Financial/Administration Committee authorize the
General Manager to create a security interest for the Lessor not to exceed $10 million,
in RTD reserve accounts, as appropriate, to resolve claims which may arise should AIG,
the payment undertaker on the agreement, fail to make payments as required and
should existing collateral securities posted by AIG prove in sufficient to satisfy
payments required under the lease.
It is further recommended that RTD be authorized to pay the Lessor’s fees and
expenses related to the lease revisions in an amount not to exceed $400,000 and any
additional related RTD legal fees with the firm of Pepper Hamilton in an amount not to
exceed $100,000.

G.

FasTracks PC Support Services Contract
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
a 3 year contract with two 1 year options for consulting services (Systems Support) for
the 3 year contract in the amount of $244,689.50 with an effective date of December
29, 2008 to Technology Integration Group (TIG). The selected vendor was selected
through the competitive bid process. The contract is being brought to the Board
because this is a Personal Services Contract per RTD Resolution No. 27, Series of
1983.

H.

Consulting Services – Network Support
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
a 3 year contract for consulting services for Sr. Network Support in the amount of
$573,000 with an effective date of January 2, 2009. This vendor Synamon Systems,
a SBE firm, was selected through the competitive bid process. The contract is being
brought to the Board because this is a Personal Services Contract per RTD Resolution
No. 27, Series of 1983.

I.

Kiosk System Support Services Contract
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
a 3 year contract with 2 1 year options for Kiosk Systems Support for the 3 year
contract in the amount of $190,740.00 with an effective date of January 2, 2009 to
Counter Trade Products. The selected vendor was selected through the competitive bid
process. The contract (18DJ022) is being brought to the Board because this is a
Personal Services Contract per RTD Resolution No. 27, Series of 1983.

J.

2008 Year End Budget Transfer for access-a-Ride Services
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize budget transfers in amounts not to exceed $550,000 in total
from the MV access-a-Ride budget and contract (contract 17-DH-007) to the CUSA
access-a-Ride budget and contract (contract 17-DH-026) to fund the costs associated
with CUSA service and fuel expense. It is also recommended that the General
Manager, or his designee, be authorized to amend the existing contracts accordingly.

K.

Budget Transfer for additional Automatic Vehicle Locator/Mobile Data Computers for
access-a-Ride
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize a budget transfer in an amount not to exceed $450,000 from the
vehicle acquisition budget to the Route Match project budget and contract (contract 15DH-009) to fund the costs associated with the acquisition of additional automatic
vehicle locator (AVL)/mobile data computers (MDC’s) and redundant radio based
controllers (RBC’s) accommodate the increase in access-a-ride fleet size since the
original contract with Route Match was exhausted. It is also recommended that the
General Manager, or his designee, be authorized to amend the existing contract
accordingly.

IX.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
L.
FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee Proposal for Expanded Committee
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors increase the number of members of the CAC from eleven to seventeen and
direct the RTD Public Affairs Division and the FasTracks Public Involvement Consultants
to begin recruiting for additional interested citizens as using criteria outlined in the
Committee Structure approved by the Board.
MOTION:

Director Martinez moved that the Board of
Directors approve the FasTracks Citizens
Advisory
Committee
Proposal
for
Expanded Committee.
Director Busck seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with
15 votes in favor and 0 against.

Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
M.

Approval of Contract Amendment to Booz-Allen Hamilton for FasTracks LRV
Inspections
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the contract amendment to Booz
Allen Hamilton Contract 13-FR-019 by the amount of Eight Hundred Twelve Thousand,
Five Hundred and Forty Eight Dollars $812,548.00 for inspection and oversight of the
production for the fifty-five Light Rail Vehicles (LRVs) being built by Siemens
Transportation Systems starting in December of 2008.
MOTION:

Director Yamrick moved that the Board of
Directors approve the contract amendment
to Booz-Allen Hamilton for FasTracks LRV
Inspections.
Director Ruchman seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

N.

An electronic roll call vote was taken with
15 votes in favor and 0 against.

RESOLUTION No.___, SERIES OF 2008, Salaried Employee Pension Trust – Trustee
Appointments
MOTION:
Director Christopher moved that the Board
of Directors approve the resolution for the
Salaried Employee Pension Trust Fund
appointees.
Director Pulliam seconded the motion.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with
15 votes in favor and 0 against.

Director Brohl stated she would have big shoes to fill from Director Yamrick on this
Board.

O.

RESOLUTION No.___, SERIES OF 2008, Denver Union Station Project Authority Appointments
MOTION:
Director Chacon moved that the Board of
Directors approve the resolution for the
Denver Union Station Project Authority
appointments.
Director McMullen seconded the motion.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with
15 votes in favor and 0 against.

X.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS

XI.

NEW BUSINESS
Director Tayer presented an award from the Federal Highway Administration for Exemplary
Human Environment Initiative to the Regional Transportation District.

XII.

ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned at 6:35 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, December 16, 2008

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
Chris Martinez, First Vice Chair
Noel Busck, Second Vice Chair
William McMullen, Secretary
John Tayer, Treasurer
Barbara Brohl
Juanita Chacon
Bill Christopher
Bruce Daly
Bill Elfenbein
Daryl Kinton
Wally Pulliam
O’Neill Quinlan
Dave Ruchman
Barbara Yamrick

District I
District B
District K
District E
District O
District D
District C
District J
District N
District A
District H
District L
District G
District M
District F

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Rick Clarke
Ron Dodsworth
Phil Eberl
Sherry Ellebracht
David Genova
Terry Howerter
Marla Lien
Caitlin Magee
OTHERS PRESENT:
Kent Bagley
Jack O’Boyle
Bill James
Matt Cohen
Rosemary Paolillo
Victoria Martinez
Joseph Archuleta
Jeremy Utter
John Valerio
Tom Wambolt (CPRC)
Aareon Hudson
Mark Imhoff
Rich McNeal
Jeremy Utter
Russell Greear
Peter Lorenzen

Cal Marsella
Brian Matthews
Paula Perdue
Scott Reed
Daria Serna
Cal Shankster
John Shonsey
John Tarbert
Pauletta Tonilas

Lisa Trujillo
Bill Van Meter
Phil Washington
Susan Wood
Trent Ratcliff
Greg Davis
Cheryl Holmes

Ed Colby
Rick Hammond
Lori Kinton

