Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Larry Hoy, District J

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
October 16, 2018 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Scott Reed – Assistant General Manager of Communications – 27 years
Special Recognition – Bus Roadeo
RTD Fixed Route Operator Winner
1st Place – John Johnson (East Metro)
RTD Fixed Route Maintenance Team Winners
1st Place – Chris Barry, Noah Stwalley, Jackson Hughes (Boulder)
RTD Service and Cleaning Winner
1st Place – Mark Buyaliski (Platte)
Private Contractor Fixed Route Operator Winner
1st Place – Abniger Ek Chan (First Transit Denver)
Private Contractor Fixed Route Maintenance Team Winners
1st Place – Gerardo Cabrera, Curt Sarinopoulos, Bor Baatar (First Transit Longmont)
Paratransit Operator Winner
1st Place – Jamie Caron (MV Transportation)

2018 Community Transportation Association of America (CTAA) Roadeo
5th Place – Miguel Robles-Esparza (MV Transportation)
Special Recognition – Light Rail Rodeo
Light Rail Operator Winners
1st Place – Robert Dennis
2nd Place – Stephanie Klein
3rd Place – Jeff Sadler
Light Rail Maintenance Winners
1st Place – Mike Hubbard
2nd Place – George Sweeney
3rd Place – Randall Lovegrove
Special Recognition – Snow Plow Rodeo
Single-Axle Snow Plow Truck Winners
1st Place – Dave Johnson and John Prather
2nd Place – Ray Wendt and David Waite
3rd Place – Mystique McQueede and John Oldham
Tandem-Axle Snow Plow Truck Winners
1st Place – Leo Dowd and Jusef Robinson
2nd Place – Carlos Hernandez and Martha Guzman
3rd Place – Tom Beer and Rod Tuttle
Special Recognition – GFOA 2018 Distinguished Budget Presentation Award
Jannette Scarpino, Todd Nikkel, and Tom Smyth

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Executive Committee – Chaired by Chair Tisdale
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Chair Tisdale
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Deadwyler
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Mihalik
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Walker

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 18, 2018

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.
Recommendation for Contract Award to RockSol Consulting Group, Inc. for RFP
18FH013, On-Call Construction Materials Testing and Inspection Services
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to award a Work Order
contract to RockSol Consulting Group, Inc. in the not-to-exceed amount of $5,000,000 for
On-Call Construction Materials Testing and Inspection Services. This is a multi-year
contract for four years, with four one-year options to extend the period of performance.
Funding for the initial tasks is included in the 2018 Amended Budget. Funding for future
tasks will be included in the budgets for the projects where these services will be utilized.
This Recommended Action supports the General Manager’s 2018 goal - Task Goal #3 –
Asset Management/State of Good Repair.
B.

Authorization for Additional Property Acquisition for Eagle P3 Project

It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs and FasTracks Committee that the
Board of Directors pass the attached property acquisition resolution certifying certain
additional properties as necessary for constructed infrastructure on the Eagle P3
Commuter Rail Project and authorize staff to proceed with all requisite legal process under
state eminent domain law. Funding for this property acquisition is included in the 2018
Amended Budget for the Eagle project.
This Recommended Action supports the General Manager’s 2018 Goal – Task Goal #1 –
Successful Delivery of Transit Services
C.

Construction Award for RFP 18 DB-001 – Boulder Bus Wash Replacement

It is recommended by the Planning, Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to award a contract to
AutoAuto Wash LLC in the amount not-to-exceed of $841,111.48 for the Boulder Bus
Wash Replacement project. Funding for this contract is included in the 2018 Amended
Budget.
This Recommended Action supports the General Manager’s 2018 goals – Task Goal #3 –
Asset Management/State of Good Repair.

D.

Adoption of the Fiscal Policy

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approves and adopts the revised Fiscal Policy Statement for 2019.
General Manager’s Goals
Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management
Task Goal #1 – Fiscal Sustainability
E.

2018 Budget Transfer for Contracted Services- Access-a-Ride

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize a budget transfer from the purchased transportation service line items
of the Transdev-On-Demand budget to the service line item of the MV Transportation
budget to cover the variation in costs incurred as a result of the re-assignment of Accessa-Ride service to MV Transportation in 2018. The total dollar amount of the budget
transfer requested is $535,000.
General Manager’s 2018 goals:
 Core Goal #3 Strong Financial Management
 Task Goal #1 Fiscal Sustainability.

XII.

Recommended Action
F.

Federal Liaison Services

It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into an agreement for
Federal Liaison Services with Squire Patton Boggs LLP for a one-year option at a cost of
$276,000 (January 1 through December 31, 2019). This action represents the fifth and
final year of a five-year contract. Funding for this contract is included in the annual
budget.
Goals:
Core Goal #3: Strong Financial Management
Core Goal #5: Effective Communications & Community Outreach
Task Goal #3: Ensure Fiscal Sustainability
G.

Proposed Amendments to Executive Employment Agreement

It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee that the Board of Directors approve proposed amendments to the existing
Executive Employment Agreement, consistent with the draft amendments considered by
the Committee at its October 9, 2018 meeting.

H.

Adoption of the 2019-2024 Mid--Term Financial Plan

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors adopts the 2019-2024 Mid-term Financial Plan.
General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management
Task Goal #1 – Fiscal Sustainability
I.

Adoption of the 2019-2040 Long Range Financial Plan

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors adopts the 2018 Long Range Financial Plan.
This Recommended Action supports the General Manager’s Goals for 2018:
Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management
Task Goal #1 – Fiscal Sustainability
J.

Adoption of the 2019 Pension Plan Contributions

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors adopt a 2019 contribution of $5.1 million to RTD’s Salaried Employees’
Defined Benefit Pension Trust (the “DB Plan”), which pays a specified monthly benefit at
retirement. It is also recommended that the RTD Board of Directors adopt a 2019
contribution of 9% of each participant’s eligible compensation to the Salaried Employees’
Defined Contribution Plan (the “DC Plan”), which contributes a specified amount to the
plan for each year of employment.
General Manager’s Goals:
 Task Goal #2 – Workforce and Human Capital
K.

Adoption of the 2019 Benefit Plan Contributions

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approves the 2019 Plan Year Salaried Benefits plan and authorizes the General
Manager/CEO or his designee to enter into agreements with the insurance carriers.
General Manager’s Goals:
 Task Goal #2 – Workforce and Human Capital
L.

Authorization to increase the Contract Authority for Enghouse

It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to increase the contract authority for the Enghouse contract by $499,055
making the total contract value $1,510,340.

General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services
M.

Approval of Proposed RRP Claim Settlement and Associated Funds Transfer

It is recommended by the Finance Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager and his designees to negotiate and execute all
documents necessary to resolve Regional Rail Partners North Metro Project claims, as
outlined in the settlement memorandum prepared at the conclusion of the parties’
September 20, 2018 mediation; and to authorize use of the FasTracks Management
Reserve to fund the first disbursement of funds in the amount of $15 million.
General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #1: Successful Delivery of Transit Services
N.

January 2019 Service Changes

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the January 2019 Service Change package as revised and summarized
in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost savings of approximately $243,000 and,
further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments
as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
The Recommended Action proposed falls in line with the following GM Goals.
Core Goal #1 - Successful Delivery of Transit Services
Task Goal #1 - Fiscal Sustainability

XIII.

Old Business

XIV. New Business
XV.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

