2018-10-16 Board Meeting
DOUG TISDALE: The Tuesday, October 16, 2018 RTD Board meeting. The record will reflect
that we are convened here as of 5:32 PM Mountain Daylight Time. We do respectfully request
that everyone please silence your cell phones and other electronic devices. And please also note
for the sake of the record, and for the benefit of the public, that this meeting is being video and
audio recorded.
We're going to ask now that we have two gentlemen come forward. These are scouts from Troop
853, from Parker Colorado, which is located in District G. We have with us this evening Ian
Jones and Sampson Ricky, both of whom are Tenderfoot rank in the scouts. And gentlemen, if
you would come forward, please lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance. Ladies and gentlemen,
please rise.
IAN JONES: Please join us for the Pledge of Allegiance.
ALL: I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for
which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you,
gentlemen.
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, scouts, and thanks to scout master John Jones for
coordinating with us, and to the parents of these outstanding young gentlemen for taking the time
to lead us in the pledge. Ms. McManus, if you would please now call the roll.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Anderson.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Archuleta.
BONNIE ARCHULETA: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Deadwyler. Director Folska. Director Hoy.
LARRY HOY: Here.

BARBARA. MCMANUS: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Present.
BARBARA. MCMANUS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Here.
BARBARA. MCMANUS: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: I am here.
BARBARA. MCMANUS: Director Sisk.
CHUCK SISK: Good late afternoon and present.
BARBARA. MCMANUS: Director Solano.
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: Present.
BARBARA. MCMANUS: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Here.
BARBARA. MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm here. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA. MCMANUS: 13 present, two absent.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam. Ladies and gentleman, at RTD safety is our
core value, and so we have a brief safety briefing for you. If we have a medical emergency and
911 needs to be called, I will ask our RTD general counsel to make that telephone call. And any
medically trained individuals in the room are respectfully requested to assist.
If needed, an Automatic Emergency Defibrillator, an AED devices, is in a glass case located just
outside the room on the wall to the right. And in the event that we must evacuate the building for
fire or any other emergency, please calmly exit out the door in which you entered at the back of
the room there. Go up the stairs to the first floor, around the security desk, and exit through the
front door. Police and security officers will be there to direct you to a safe meet-up area, and
anyone needing special assistance in the event of an evacuation will be assisted by RTD staff as
necessary.

And just a brief reminder. Also recall we want everyone to download the RTD Transit Watch
app so that you can report suspicious or dangerous activity and communicate directly with the
transit security personnel. That's available via Google Play or the Apple App Store. Thank you
very much for your attention to our safety briefings.
We have this evening one retiree for the month of October. This is a retiree who needs no
introduction to this Board, and we will now call upon our CEO and General Manager Mr. David
Genova to create a special moment for us, to create a special memory for someone who has
given us so many.
DAVE GENOVA: Well, thank you Mr. Chair. I actually received a text that Mr. Reed was hung
up in traffic on an accident, so he's delayed getting to his own ceremony. So I don't see him, I
don't see him standing. I was wondering if we might be able to do the rodeo recognitions, and
then as Scott arrives-- if we could do that after the rodeo, with your consideration Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: We understand and appreciate that. Without objection we will defer that
award until the following of-- whether it be just these awards that we're about to present or even
the public comment, because we do want to take a special time for our honoree who is receiving
this recognition this evening.
So let us move on our agenda for now. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the distinct pleasure this
evening of recognizing the winners of the bus, light rail, and snowplow rodeos that were held in
August and September of this year. These employees and the contractors represent the agency's
most skilled operators and maintainers, and we are honored to be joined by some of these fine
individuals tonight.
First, I will ask our Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations Mr. Fred Worthen, and our
Senior Manager of Paratransit Services Mr. Paul Hamilton, to introduce our bus competition
winners. Mr. Worthen, please sir.
FRED WORTHEN: Good evening, honorable Board members. Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus
Operations. It is an honor to get to introduce a number of our participants who were winners
within their respective categories tonight.
The first person that I would like to recognize is Mr. John Johnson. John won the Fixed Route
Directly Operated Services Roadeo. John, please come forward. John has been with the RTD
next month 19 years. I think what's really impressive, though, is I had an opportunity to talk with
John during the competition. John has actually competed in the roadeo 12 or 13 different things,
and he's won five times if I'm not mistaken. And this is also 2 AM for John. John's one of our
late night drivers. But congratulations, John. Great job. And it was really great getting to watch
you compete this year.
[APPLAUSE]
FRED WORTHEN: I also had the pleasure of actually watching our Maintenance team winners
compete. Could I ask Chris Barry, Noah Stwalley and Jackson Hughes to come forward? While

they're coming forth, I jokingly call these gentlemen the young guns of the Maintenance teams.
We actually have something-- and there's actually a flyer at each one of your positions.
Two of our first-year graduates are actually from DTECH program. And for those of you who
don't know about our DTECH program, we have a partnership with Front Range Community
College. We have-- Jackson Hughes was actually a graduate last year. He was part of our second
class. But Noah Stwalley was actually a graduate of our first DTECH program. And Jackson has
actually been with the district for a year, Noah two years. Chris has been with us three years, and
he's been a mechanic, though, in the transit industry for nine years. We were fortunate enough to
grab him from First Transit, Denver.
But I will tell you, watching these guys was just amazing. They just-[SNAPS FINGERS]
It was like watching a machine when they competed. But congratulations, guys.
[APPLAUSE]
FRED WORTHEN: We also had our Service and Cleaning winner, Mark Buyalski. And I don't
believe Mark is here tonight-- is he? Mark actually took first place, though, among our Service
and Cleaning competitions. We also have a number of our private contractors who competed
with us. First, I'd like to recognize our Private Contractor Fixed Route winner, Ab Ek Chan. Ab,
would you come forward?
So while Ab is coming forward, I will tell you that Ab and his brother have won the private
contractors competition for last what? Two decades, three? 11 years. And we joke, because they
have an agreement that neither one can win more than two years in a row. So Ab was up at this
time. Congratulations though, Ab. Great job.
[APPLAUSE]
FRED WORTHEN: Our Fixed Route Maintenance team winners also were from First Transit,
Longmont. We had Gerardo Cabrera, Curt Sarinopoulos, and Bor Baatar. Do you want to bring
your team forward? Congratulations!
[APPLAUSE]
I will say that was is First Transit Longmont's A Team also. I had the pleasure of watching them
compete, too. They did a fantastic job.
We also have a couple of individuals that we'd like to represent from the Paratransit
Competition. First place this year from MV Transit is Jamie Caron.
[APPLAUSE]

We also have one other individual from MV Transportation. That is Miguel Robles-Esparza.
Miguel placed at this year's schurz Roadeo Competition. But overall, Miguel placed fifth at the
Community Transportation Association of America Rodale Roadeo-- the CTAA-- Competition.
Congratulations, Miguel!
[APPLAUSE]
And that is it from the Fixed Route side of the house. I will turn it over to our Light Rail, Mr.
Jensen.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Worthen. So then we have the RTD Light Rail
Rodeo. And these winners will be introduced by our Assistant General Manager for Rail
Operations, Mr. Dave Jensen. Mr. Jensen, take it away, sir.
DAVE JENSEN: Good evening. I am Dave Jensen, Assistant General Manager of Rail
Operations, and I'm also honored and thrilled to be here and to recognize our staff. The Light
Rail Rodeo was competitive and fun and everything that we were hoping that it would be, and
we are super proud of our entire staff, who work daily to provide the services. It's what we do as
an agency.
But this evening I'm going to give the awards for the Transportation Department-- the operators-I've asked Rocky Whalen, our Manager of Rail Service Delivery to assist me in the Recognition
and I'm going to go from third place to first place. So in third place, for the first time competing
ever, Mr. Jeff Sadler. Jeff?
[APPLAUSE]
Then in second place, again, competing for the first time ever, Stephanie Klein.
[APPLAUSE]
And then before I award the first place winner, I do want to mention that all of the Light Rail
Staff-- the three train operator-- I'm sorry, two train operators and three LRV mechanics-- will all
be competing in the International Rodeo next year in Toronto, Canada. So our first place winner- I would like to introduce Robert Dennis.
[APPLAUSE]
And the reason I wanted him to go last is because he might look familiar to you.
[LAUGHTER]
Robert is a 24-year employee. He has now competed in many rodeos. He has now won eight.
This is his eighth time winning the local rodeo. He's competed in the International Rodeo six
times and has won first place at the International Rodeo twice, along with second place last year.
So again, Robert Dennis-- he's our champion.

[APPLAUSE]
And so along with the operating staff, I also think it's important that the managers have a part in
their awards. So I asked Phil Eberl, the General Superintendent of Light Rail Maintenance to
come up, with his manager Tim Walker, to introduce the maintenance side of the house for their
competition.
PHIL EBERL: Thank you, Dave. What I'd like to do is-- what we do in LRV maintenance-Light Rail Vehicle maintenance-- is we compete individually, and then the three podium winners
will make up the international team. And they are headed to Toronto this year, so that's terrific.
And so what I want to start with is-- I want to start with third place also. And we're going to start
with a person-- Randall Lovegrove. He's been with RTD 10 years. He's an electrical mechanic at
the Elati facility, and he's the attended the International Rodeo over 11 times. And so you
probably recognize Randall. Randall?
[APPLAUSE]
So again, we've always had a really good team. And who's attended rodeos in the past with
Randall and got second place this year is George Sweeney. And he's been with RTD for 18
years. he's attended the International Rodeo 15 times, won first place three times, and first place
at the local nine times. So George, come on up.
[APPLAUSE]
And for those folks ever wanting to be in a rodeo, if any employees are here at the Board
meeting tonight, sometimes you see the same old winners all the time, and people kind of shy
away from joining the rodeo thinking they have no chance. But we have a person that hired on
with RTD five years ago, and he's attended the local rodeo a few times. And he actually attended
the International Rodeo last year, so he placed to be a part of our team last year at the
international. And this year first place for our local rodeo was Mike Hubbard, first time winning
the rodeo, and he really earned it this year. So it's always possible.
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: And now, thank you, Mr. Jensen, for those awards and for your copresenters. Next up, our Snow Plow Rodeo winners will be introduced by our Assistant General
Manager of Capital Programs, Mr. Henry Stopplecamp and our Facilities Senior Manager, Mr.
Robin McIntosh. Gentlemen, take it away.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: And I'm actually going to turn it over to Rob McIntosh to start with.
ROBIN MCINTOSH: Thank you very much. My name is Robin McIntosh, Senior Manager of
Facilities. And I'm going to accept all the awards on behalf of all of my drivers. I will list them
quickly, but to save time we told them they could-- no, we offered it, extended an offer to them,
and they were obviously still tired from all the snow we got on Sunday.

So-- but in the Single-Axle Snow Plow Rodeo, from third place up, we had Mystique McQuede
and John Oldham that finished in third, Ray Wendt and David Waite-- second place, and David
Johnson and John Prather who competed up in Loveland at the Annual Snow and Ice
Conference. And they did quite well. I believe they placed somewhere around 14th out of 46
teams.
In the Tandem Snow Plow Competition, we had Tom Beer-- that's with no S-- and Rod Tuttle in
third place, Carlos Hernandez and Martha Guzman in second place, and Leo Dowd and Jusef
Robinson that in first place. And they also competed up in Loveland at the Ice and Snow
Conference and did very well.
For the first time this year, we allowed the contestants to kind of cross-compete. So we allowed
the single and the tandem to both compete in the single and the tandem up at the Ice and Snow
Conference. And they did quite well. In fact, it was kind of interesting to see them compete
because they also do a diagnostic as well as a run through the course on each piece of equipment.
So it great competition, and on behalf of FM, we thank you for this contribution. I will distribute
it myself personally.
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Stopplecamp and McIntosh. And please do pass
on to each of the award winners our genuine and sincere congratulations for the great work that
they have done.
We have one final special recognition tonight-- oh, let's hold off on your comments, Mr. Genova,
until I have an opportunity to recognize another award winner. And at this time, I would like to
acknowledge our budget staff, which has once again-- let me repeat, once again-- been presented
with a distinguished budget presentation award by the Government Finance Officers Association.
This award is the highest form of recognition in governmental budgeting and represents a
significant achievement by our agency.
Let me tell you. Governmental financial officers-- they go around bragging about these things
because they know who got it and who didn't. And we did. So I'm going to ask now our CFO
Heather McKillop to introduce the award winning team to us. Ms. McKillop you are recognized.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you Mr. Chair. I'm going to ask Jeannette Scarpino and Tom
Smyth to come up. As they make their way up, there are three people primarily responsible for
this document-- Jannette, Todd Nikkel, and Tom Smyth. Todd couldn't join us this evening, but I
am going to be presenting it to Tom Smyth. I think this is the second year that we've presented it
to you.
Tom's been the workhorse behind putting the document together. As you mentioned, it's a very
prestigious award. It really is designed to assess how well this organization our budget serves to
address policy, financial plan, and operational guide, and really a communication device to our
internal and external audiences.

So I'm proud to present this to them. I know they work really hard on it. It's a beautiful
document. I wanted to bring a copy, but I've given all mine away. So it must be a very popular
document.
But each of you receive that each spring. And as we develop the 2019 budget, they'll be
producing it in the spring of early 2019. So with that, I'd like to-- do we have the certificate, here
it is-- present you the certificate, Tom.
TOM SMYTH: Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Let's go over here and-[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very, very much McKillop. It is an honor to have all of these
award winners. I was waiting for somebody at some point to say I'd like to thank the members of
the Academy.
[LAUGHTER]
At this point, I believe-- Mr. Genova, are you ready, sir, for our special recognition for our
retiree this evening?
DAVE GENOVA: I am, Mr. Chair. Thank you very much. And you think of all people-- Scott
Reed, would you please join me up here-- Scott should really know the definition of on time
performance.
[LAUGHTER]
Well, you knew-- Scott, you knew something was coming. All right. Anyway, Scott, come up
here and join me. You know, Scott and I go way back. Scott's been with the district 27 years. I've
been with the district almost 25.
And I can't tell you the countless conversations, phone calls, accident scenes, incident scenes,
we've been on together at all kinds of different times and all the different conversations we've
had about messaging. And of course, Scott never spun anything, right? It was always just
messaging.
So I know that many of you know, but my thoughts as I was thinking about Scott-- he has just
really tirelessly served the district. And I believe if you were to cut Scott that he would bleed the
RTD colors, followed secondly by Buffs black and gold. So he'd have-- he'd have a few things
coming out.
Scott is one of the most committed and dedicated individuals that I know. I can't tell you how
much he's done for the agency and to serve our community.

So Scott, I know that you were always here to promote and defend the district and serve our
community, which is hugely important. I know that's a big value of yours. And so we thank you
for that. Your loyalty, your commitment, are just unmatched.
And so I will miss. You the district will miss you. Thanks for your years of service to the
community and all the many, many contributions you've made to RTD. Would you like to say a
few words, Scott?
SCOTT REED: Sure.
[APPLAUSE]
SCOTT REED: Well, thank you. Me, being one to never pass up an opportunity for public
speaking here, this is probably about my 1001st Board meeting, believe it or not. That was
quoted in the Denver Post, accurately I might add. And I'm not sure which was worse-- you
know, coming to 1,000 Board meetings or the 30,000 estimated media responses and interviews
that I've given.
I do know that having to sit in these chairs-- we've had the same chairs since the day I started
here-- which is why my butt looks as bad as it does. So I'm still trying to get an attorney to take
that case, but haven't had any luck yet.
One of the things I suggested is that we switch the chairs with the Board-- have you sit in these
chairs and the audience sit in those chairs. And we'd measure these meetings in minutes and not
hours. That's for sure.
But down to business-- a 27-year career with an organization like RTD as high a profile, as much
stress, as much scrutiny, critique, whatever you want to call it, doesn't just happen. And I think
this was really evidenced to this morning. I got a very gracious call from Mayor Ron Rakowski
from Greenwood Village. And he called to apologize for not being able to come this evening to
honor me, and my initial reaction was, you know, who is this really? I thought it was one of my
prankster friends, but it was Mayor Rakowski.
And then he said I thank you for all of your accomplishments. And I had to stop him right there.
This is true. And I said, Ron, I haven't accomplished anything. We have accomplished an
amazing amount.
And that is absolutely true, that it is by the collaboration of everyone in this room, the
collaboration of the entities, the municipalities, the counties that we serve, and keeping in mind
that it's the 100 million passenger trips we make each day that count. It's not about us. I've never
made this about me, which is probably how I've survived for 27 years because I truly love what
we do.
I really felt that way day two. I start-- actually, the day before I started with RTD, my father
passed away unexpectedly. And I actually came to work the next day. I was a temporary
employee with no permanent benefits or no, really, career path, if you will.

And at that time, my boss then-- Peter Cipolla, the General Manager-- said, you know, what the
hell are you doing here? Go home. Take care of business. I came back about a week later, and
day two I knew this is what I wanted to do. I knew this was where I belonged and this was really
my career calling.
I have never regretted that. That has been something that has been so incredibly important to me
to be able to serve the district and the people that we all serve. To have been such a small part of
that, to have been any part of that, is remarkable to me.
If you looked clear back to when RTD was created in 1969 by the visionary General Assembly
to create a regional system. Think about 1969, I mean, there were nothing but really relatively
small cities compared to what it is now, and for them to have that vision to say we need a
regional transportation district, and how we have fulfilled that promise to date. Everything from,
when I started we were just beginning to build the first light rail line. That changed overnight
from ain't nobody going to ride that, it's a boondoggle, blah blah blah blah blah.
Well, guess what? The day we opened the argument changed to, hey, how soon can we get ours
in the rest of the district, and that has continued today. We have been trusted by the public with
FasTracks vote to increase their sales taxes to build out the rapid transit system. We've obviously
got some hiccups on that due to the Great Recession, the second largest economic downturn in
history. But I think we have done a remarkable job to navigate through public-private
partnerships and other things like that.
I think the biggest thing that we can look at every day is, are we leaving this metro region better
than when we started it, and the answer is a definitive hell yes, we are. That's something I'm
incredibly proud of, and I think all of us can and should be proud of that.
As I was, again, correctly quoted in the Denver Post, it said that there is no agency in the Denver
metro area that has had a more positive impact on the future of the metro area than RTD. That is
irrefutable. Point out one other entity, agency, whatever, that has done more to positively shape
the future and the present, economically, for mobility options, to just absolutely changing the
culture, if you will, of the various cities that we serve.
Go look at Denver Union Station, $3 billion worth of private development around there because
of our investment, our foresight in purchasing that, but many called it a white elephant at the
time, and transforming that into what it is today.
Cinderella City, what now the Englewood City Center, they had the vision there and we worked
with them to create that transit-oriented development that is, again, their foundation for their
future. You're seeing that not only there, but with bus investments, which we see up in
Broomfield with, I guess it's now the First Bank Center. It's been several different things. They
built that because of adjacency to the Flat Iron Flyer. It's not just rail. It's everything that we do.
I think the other part of it is exactly how we have gone about that. We have been collaborative.
We have taken our lumps, no question about it. One of the funnest things that I always got to do

was to greet the new employees. Every Monday morning we had the employee orientation. I
gave the welcome on behalf of senior staff.
One of the things I always liked to point out was, you're not going to get patted on the back every
day. You're not probably going to get patted on the back every week. It may be few and far
between. You're going to hear a lot of complaints. You're going to hear a lot of gripes, and you're
going to see us in the media getting criticized all the time, which is OK, because we know what
we do matters.
If it didn't matter, we wouldn't be getting criticized. When you're a moving target, people take a
shot at you. If you haven't been criticized, you're probably not accomplishing very much. You're
not trying. You're not risking. You're not doing something that really moves the metro area,
which we do.
That is something, I think, again, I am incredibly proud of. It's something that I think all of us in
this room should be and will continue to be very proud of as we complete everything that like the
remainder of the FasTracks programs.
I also want to give great credit to the Board of Directors over time, looking at how they have
fulfilled their role, and in terms of from a staff standpoint. If you look back at the General
Managers that I've served under, first one was Peter Cipolla. I refer to him as the fire starter. He
was the one who built the first light rail line, which got that fire started.
Then we had the late, great Cal Marcella, who was The Visionary, who came up with the
FasTracks program, who got the metro region to coalesce behind that vision and support that.
Then we had Phil Washington. I called him The Cartographer, because he actually mapped out
how we were going to get out of that great hole that the Great Recession created and brought us
through the P3 process and other things.
Now we have Dave Genova, whom I refer to as Mr. Process, which isn't quite as exciting as The
Cartographer or The Visionary, but it is equally important. He has the process in mind of
everything that we are dealing with. Take a look at what we are dealing with now, everything
from the Federal Railroad Administration, Federal Transit Administration, Colorado Public
Utilities Commission, Denver Transit Partners, Regional Rail Partners.
All of those things are based upon process, and how we follow that process is going to lead to
our success. So he is incredibly important to our future success and I have been very honored to
work with him and for him.
Finally, I want to talk about how important the Communications Department has been to me.
When I started with RTD I was it. I was the spokesperson with zero staff. We had the
Communications Department at that time, Communications Unit for some reason, the Marketing
Group, I should say, reporting to the Bus Operations Group, which makes zero sense. I was glad
to see that we changed that.

We have grown that group to add the Customer Care Unit and others to an incredibly effective
and professional group. I think it's very important that we remember how important it is that we
allow all of them to do their job.
I remember also a conversation with Cal Marsella where he was complaining about the Board of
Directors getting in the middle of Communications, and blah blah blah. I said, "Cal, everybody is
a communications expert. That's what human beings do. They communicate. Human beings
aren't by nature bridge engineer experts or anything like that, but they communicate."
People understand, to an extent, what it takes to communicate properly. It's what we do. But I
think the most important thing we can do is to give the Communications Department the
opportunity now to get the organizational structure in place that has been kind of hanging fire for
now over a year, and to get them the resources and to give them the space they need to complete
their job.
There is no team that is better than the RTD Communications Team, and I know that for a fact
because I've seen them all. What we do with the resources we have is remarkable, and we need to
continue to let them do that. I keep saying we. They.
Finally, I want to talk about how important it is that all of us continue to work, as I said,
collaboratively. We have gotten where we are by us forgetting our little petty differences, by us
putting aside our personal agendas, and by working together. That is what needs to continue to
happen for us to succeed ultimately in completing FasTracks and moving forward with the next
generation of rapid transit improvements that are needed to serve the community, and most
importantly, to keep in mind the 100 million passengers that we carry every year and how
important that is in all of their lives. We carry so many transit-dependent people, and that is
going to change as we all get older, those of us who you know achieve 60 and decided it's time to
get out of here.
With that, I truly thank you. This has been an absolute blessing to work for RTD, to have a
career here. There's probably about 1,000 people that I could thank. I was going to start
alphabetically, you know, Aaron Aardvark, and go through the whole list. But we'd be here till
tomorrow. I can't begin to name any because I will forget somebody. You know who you are and
you know how important you are to me.
But with that, again, I thank you. It's been amazing how fast this has gone by, and it has been a
fun ride, Thank you very much.
[APPLAUSE]
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
I forgot to recognize my girlfriend Sarah Jane, who is here with me.
[APPLAUSE]

The best thing that's ever happened to me, right there.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
DOUG TISDALE: Well, we thank you very much for those great words, Scott. A good
communicator to the very end and beyond.
Speaking of communications, this is our public participation period, which is open to anyone
who wants to speak. As is our custom, we do allow any of our elected officials who are present
to speak first so that they can get back to their own meetings and attend to their business.
Now, if you have signed up to speak, I will call your name in the order in which you signed up.
If you have not signed up and would like to speak, I will ask for additional speakers at the end of
the list, and we will take those additional speakers at that time.
Each speaker is allowed three minutes. Let me repeat that, three minutes, no more. You can't
borrow from someone else or have someone cede their time to you. You are reminded that
brevity is the very soul of wit.
We respectfully request that members of the audience refrain from any indications of support or
opposition to a speaker's comments, as such outbursts, well, they might reasonably have the
effect of chilling the free expression of thoughts by speakers.
Please also bear in mind that by appearing at the microphone you are consenting to being video
and audio recorded by RTD, as all of our meetings are recorded and made available on the RTD
website. So if you don't wish to be recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in
writing.
We ask you to please come to lectern when called, state your name and address. Please give us
your name and address. If you have any documentation or reference materials for the Board,
please feel free to give those materials to the Board's staff prior to speaking so that they may be
distributed.
I have before me a list. Appear to be about 17 names. As I said, if you have not signed up, we
will ask if there are any others who want to go on afterward. But the first name I have is Megan
Davis from the City of Louisville. Megan, if you would please-- Ms. Davis, if you would please
come forward, give us your name, address, and then you will have three minutes.
MEGAN DAVIS: Good evening, Chair Tisdale, members of the RTD Board. My name is Megan
Davis. I'm the Deputy City Manager for the City of Louisville. Address is 749 Main Street,
Louisville, Colorado 80027. I'm here tonight to speak to Item 2 on your agenda, and that is the
proposed January service changes.
The City of Louisville has submitted a letter. You may have already received it. I also have
copies. OK, you all have copies. Thank you.

Specifically, the City would like to express our support for the proposed 228 Route extension,
which is within Louisville, and the City, as I mentioned, has submitted the letter.
Just to give you a few highlights, increasing mobility options for people of all ages and abilities
and income levels, and providing local and regional transit options, are goals that have been
identified through the City's currently underway transportation master plan.
We've undertaken a public process. We're about 3/4 of the way through that public process, and,
not surprisingly, increased transit service and connections is among the top four transportation
priorities that we have seen emerge through that process.
The 228 Route is important on both the local and regional fronts. This provides critical
connections within our community to and from our recreation and senior center, the McCaslin
area retail and commercial center, which is a significant job center in Louisville, the McCaslin
area Park and Ride, which connects folks to the US Flat Iron Flyer BRT going into Boulder as
well as downtown Denver, to the US 36 Regional Bikeway, and then to the AB Airport Routes
directly to DIA.
The 228 then travels through Superior and on to the Flat Irons Crossing Mall and Interlochen
Technology Centers, both of which are regional job centers in our area, and then terminates at
the Broomfield station. The expansion of the 228 would provide connections to these areas for
more Louisville residents that live north of South Boulder Road where transit connections
currently don't exist.
This route will also travel through and stop in the Kestrel neighborhood. The Kestrel
neighborhood is a relatively new, 200-home affordable housing community that houses 341
residents. All residents are low income, 128 are seniors over the age of 55, 60 individuals have
disabilities, and 86 are children and youth under the age of 18. They're all EcoPass holders in the
Kestrel neighborhood, and so that enables them to ride RTD transit. Many of them are mobility
challenged and are transit dependent. Transit is currently not available to them.
The City of Louisville staff and RTD staff reviewed numerous route extensions in the area. Of
all the routes that we considered, this is the only route that meets the goals for expanded service
and RTD's operational requirements.
Is at the end of three? OK. All right, well, thank you for your time and thank you to RTD staff
for working with us on this extension.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. Davis, and we do have the letter and we
appreciate your bringing that to our attention and providing that this evening.
Our second speaker is Ms. Katie French. Ms. French, if you would please come forward and give
us your name and your address, and feel free to use a business address should you like. You have
up to three minutes.

KATIE FRENCH: Hi, my name is Katie French. I live at 2013 Wagon Way in Steel Wrench. I'm
here also for the 228. I'm sorry. I'm very emotional.
The first thing that you said was, "Safety is our core value." I am here as a mother and concerned
about the safety of all of our kids in our neighborhood. We are for the extension. We would love
for the bus to go through Kestrel.
We are questioning it to come through our neighborhood. This is a neighborhood that was not
built for a bus to come through, and now this has been proposed to have a bus come through.
The City of Louisville did say that they've looked at all the options. When we met with them
recently, there was one other option that they admitted that they did not look at, and it is on the
outskirts of our neighborhood, that will actually do what this route needs to do and come around
and still service Kestrel, but not go within the inside of our neighborhood.
Again, it's for the safety of the kids. It goes right beside a park. There's elderly. There's kids. It's
just the way that the neighborhood is.
None of the neighborhood knew that this was coming. We finally heard that there was a public
hearing. Some of us did go just to hear what this was about. When we look at the agenda, none
of those comments made it to this agenda tonight. All of our comments, there's been an outpour
of letters, documentation, petitions, everything. Nothing has made it to this agenda.
Again, safety is your core value, and we are very concerned about the safety of our kids. Thank
you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. French. We appreciate your comments and your
coming here tonight to share them.
Our third speaker is Ms. Deborah Williams. Ms. Williams, if you would please come forward
and give us your name and your address, and you will have up to three minutes.
DEBORAH WILLIAMS: Can we hand these out?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, and please, if you just hand them the counsel there at the end he can see
to their distribution. Thank you very much.
DEBORAH WILLIAMS: Hi there. My name is Deborah Williams, and I've been here quite a
few times over my 15 years of being involved in any kind of RTD issue. Before it was more of
an elected official, but now I'm here as a resident for a neighborhood.
I am the President of Lanterns Lifestyle HOA. That is in Steel Ranch. My name is Deborah
Williams, again, and I'm at 1137 Summit View Drive in Louisville, Colorado.
I appreciate RTD and the Board and what you guys all do. It's an incredibly thankless job to be
on this Board, and I get it. You probably hear complaints all the time. I've been there on the other

side of the dais in other fashions, and I completely understand. I hope that you will hear me and
listen to a few of the things that I want to achieve here.
I wanted to enter some documents into the official record for all of you. Thank you for that. I
have three points to make, and I have three questions to ask of RTD.
The three points is, first of all is safety. We have people walking in our neighborhood
everywhere, all night, all day. There's elderly people walking. There's kids playing, regular
cyclists, dog walkers. We have block parties. We have front porches that we have happy hour on
regularly.
That is exactly what the City of Louisville asked builders to design for Steel Ranch in order to
facilitate a tight knit, friendly neighborhood. A bus routing every half hour would be very
disruptive, loud, and would be a safety hazard to all the people who live here.
We're not asking for service. We didn't ask for a route change. We didn't ask to live on a bus
route. We chose to live in a very quiet neighborhood street, suburbia if you would want to call it
that. This isn't an inner city neighborhood. This is a small town, and we pride ourselves on a
small town character for Louisville.
There are three bus lines within walking distance, and I've used all three. There's the 225, the
228, and the Dash. We bike, we walk, we drive, and a lot of us work from home. Sorry. And
there's a lot of elderly people that live in the neighborhood.
Now that I've given you a good idea of what this neighborhood is about, I have three questions to
ask, and this is important. What is the average ridership per hour for the 228? Does the 228
actually serve Kestrel residents who you are trying to serve? Is there any research on that? When
the light is installed at 42 and Hecla, will this route be changed going into Kestrel only, because
that's what we're asking as a neighborhood. We can walk to Kestrel very easily. You want to
service Kestrel, and I understand that, and that's important, and you should be able to do that, but
not through the neighborhood that we all decided to buy where there wasn't a bus route.
Thank you so much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Ms. Williams. We appreciate your comments and your coming
here to share them this evening.
Our next speaker is Angel Bond. Ms. Bond, if you would please come forward, name and
address, and you will have up to three minutes.
ANGEL BOND: My name's Angel Bond, and the address is 1890 Calyx Avenue, Louisville,
80027.
I'm the Mobility For All Program Manager for Boulder County. I work with transportation
options for vulnerable populations throughout Boulder County. I'm speaking here today to
support the extension of the 228.

I do want to say that I'm speaking on behalf of many vulnerable populations who cannot come to
these meetings. It is a luxury to be able to come to public meetings in the evening. A lot of
seniors and people with disabilities don't feel comfortable traveling at night. A lot of low-income
families are busy putting food on the table and doing homework, and just basically surviving. I
would like to take some of their comments that they've expressed to us and show you support for
the extension.
Mobility is a basic human need. Currently we have 341 residents at Kestrel, and they're
vulnerable populations. This would provide an affordable, equitable, and accessible connection
to economic opportunity, to education, to health care, and to recreation. All of the residents have
access to an Eco Pass so this would support your ridership goals because people would be more
likely to use the 228 if it were stopped in front of where they live.
Then also, Kestrel community is a multi-generational community. This affordable option will
help people age in place after they have to retire from driving. It will help people with disabilities
be able to be an integral part of their community and have access to transportation that they
wouldn't normally have. And it will help put low-income families on the path to self-sufficiency.
You saw in your packet that Boulder County Transportation did submit a letter of support for the
extension. But I do want to say that I received last-minute comment from a single mom of a 13year-old who was expressing support for this.
The mom does have a disability and she is a resident of Kestrel. They do have a car, but it's not a
reliable car. She also expressed safety concerns, but from a different angle. I'll just read part of
her comment that she sent.
"The main issue is that I don't feel safe having my 13-year-old stand around on South Boulder
Road waiting for the bus after dark. He wants to join the Louisville Rec Center, and we have
lived here at Kestrel for 11 months, but we haven't been able to due to transportation challenges.
"This transportation change would help because there's more lighting at the Kestrel stop where it
would be, and I would feel comfortable as a mom letting him wait for the bus to go to the Rec
Center. This extension would help us get back into the habit of riding the bus, and then also get
into exercising and have a healthy lifestyle."
Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate your comments as well, Ms. Bond.
Let me turn then to Annie Bershear. Ms. Bershear, if you would please give us your name and
your address, and you will have up to three minutes to speak. Ms. Bershear.
ANNIE BERSHEAR: Thank you. Hello. My name is Annie Bershear, and I am also here on
behalf of the Kestrel community. Address, 1890 Calyx Avenue in Louisville.

As I mentioned, I'm here in support of the proposed extension of the 228 route to travel down
West Hecla Drive. I'm here on behalf of Kestrel residents who couldn't make it tonight.
This extension would benefit the residents of the Kestrel affordable housing community, as well
as the broader neighborhood. As was mentioned before, Kestrel is a diverse, multi-generational
community of 200 homes serving seniors, families, and people with disabilities. The community
relies substantially on public transportation for access to employment, shopping, and health care.
We support mobility for all Kestrel residents through an EcoPass, which provides the
opportunity to ride transit at no cost to the residents.
We recently requested feedback from Kestrel residents about the proposed route extension. 89%
of the feedback collected was in support of the extension, with residents citing the benefits of
increased mobility, limiting the need for individual vehicles, and increasing affordability of
necessary transportation. Those who expressed concerns about the route expansion shared
concerns about increased traffic to the community.
I'd like to share some excerpts from some of the resident feedback we collected.
From one resident who is a wheelchair user.
"Many of us are physically unable to access transportation resources on our own and currently
have to rely on the time and date availability of special transit services such as VIA and Accessa-Ride, which, while wonderful options, have limits to the days they are available and must be
scheduled.
"Many of us also face financial challenges and cannot afford to own cars, and therefore rely on
public transportation to get to work or just to go grocery shopping.
"Public transportation is not just something that makes our lives easier. It's simply necessary for
us to have a normal quality of life. Please consider expanding the 228 route and any and all other
possible ways you can support the disabled, aged, and economically challenged communities in
becoming more involved members of the community and having more access to community
resources."
I have just one more.
"The new bus line will help me greatly. I'm a 61-year-old legally blind new resident of Colorado.
Due to certain physical restrictions, I'm unable to walk very far, and due to my visual limitations
I'm no longer able to read street signs and directions.
"Although I know of and use VIA bus service, it's difficult to arrange transportation. I would use
the new bus lines to explore my new home, take advantage of the Recreation Center, which
would better mine as well as my 87-year-old mother's health and allow us to become less home
bound."

Please help us make the necessary steps to enhance transit for these people living in the Kestrel
community. Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. Bershear. We appreciate your coming forward
and sharing your thoughts with us this evening.
Next we have Selena Joyce. Ms. Joyce, if you'd come forward you will have three minutes.
Please give us name and address and take up to three minutes.
SELENA JOYCE: My name is Selena Joyce. I live at 1136 Summit View Drive, and I am
speaking against the express-- I might not talk-- sorry, I'm quiet.
I am concerned about the safety for our neighborhood in expanding this bus route. My children
have to cross Hecla to get-- sorry, to get to the park, to get to the bus stop, to get their friends. A
bus driving up and down that road every 30 minutes creates significant more traffic, and I really
worry about the safety.
There's a ton of kids that live in our neighborhood. We fill up an entire school bus in two bus
stops, and that's just elementary.
I just hope that you guys will listen to our concerns, because we really are worried about the
safety of our families, and try and find some other solution that can still service Kestrel, but keep
our families safe. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. Joyce. We appreciate your coming forward and
sharing your thoughts.
Our next speaker is Jamie Lewis, which appears to be on a different topic too. Thank you, Mr.
Lewis, for changing topic for just a moment. That's fine. We love it all. But Mr. Lewis, if you'd
please remember to give us your name and address, and you'll have up to three minutes. Go
ahead, sir.
JAMIE LEWIS: Good evening. My name is Jamie Lewis. I live at 1135 Broadway, Denver
80203.
Tonight I'm representing the Colorado Cross Disability Coalition. Along with 17 other
organizations, we are requesting that RTD initiate a thorough review and analysis of paratransit
service, better known as Access-a-Ride. This service is 10% of RTD's budget and needs careful
review to ensure it's providing appropriate service and is performing in a financially responsible
manner.
The use of the Working Group, similar to the Pass Program Working Group, demonstrates that
RTD can gather consensus from the community by inviting organizations, users of service, and
professionals from a variety of disciplines to help tackle issues that RTD faces.

For a majority of users, Access-a-Ride the only form of transportation available to them. This
includes helping them retain employment, get access to health care, and opportunities to join in
community activities.
Each ride RTD provides is currently costing $62 per trip. This cost is growing, and our concern
is that without an injection of new ideas and approaches that this expense will grow out of
control.
Your short-term issue is Access-a-Ride's fare adjustment for 2019. We are Kerr's that you have
asked staff to fill the shortfall and to return the current fare to $4.70.
Again, we look forward to working with you and RTD staff to provide a sustainable paratransit
service. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Lewis. I will note, too, that the Board did receive
a copy of the letter from the Coalition as well.
Our next speaker is Mr. Jason King. Mr. King, if you'd come forward, please and give us your
name and address for the sake of the record, and you will have up to three minutes, sir.
JASON KING: Thank you. My name is Jason King. I live at 1864 Gallagher Lane in Louisville.
I am going to comment on the proposed 228 route extension and my comments are in opposition
to the route extension.
I am one of 60 residents affected by this proposal, and I also signed on to a letter that was sent to
Director Sisk last week I'm not sure if that made that into your Board Meeting packet or not, but
hopefully all Board Members have at least taken a look at it or discussed it with Mr. Sisk.
My comments will be more on the procedural concerns over the staff's review of this proposal,
and despite what Ms. Davis has indicated, there really hasn't been much public process and
public involvement and engagement in this proposal.
I just want to quickly read how the route has been proposed in everything that's been published
today by RTD. This is from the pamphlet that you can grab on any bus or-- I actually grabbed
this on the way into the meeting.
228. It is proposed to extend service to Hecla and 96-3 into Boulder County Kestrel housing
complex to provide service to approximately 200 residents. Now what this doesn't say is after
leaving Kestrel this will run about a quarter mile down a very densely populated residential area
and approximately 30 homes will be impacted by this traffic here.
I'm not sure why that information has never been provided or published, but my understanding of
the process is that one of the key components is the public engagement. Most residents that are
affected by this only became aware of this proposal two weeks ago at the notice of public
meeting.

In addition to that, we're really in the dark here. We don't know what's been considered. We don't
know anything of the numerous alternatives that Ms. Davis has referenced. We have one of the
residents, Brian French has a standing CORA request with RTD. It's about 10 days now and we
haven't seen any documents. Hopefully, RTD will comply with the law there, that documents are
required three days after the request unless there's extenuating circumstances.
Just to be clear, I'm not opposed to providing service to Kestrel. What I'm opposed to is a process
that doesn't seem to involve the public, and a process that doesn't explain what was considered,
and what were the criteria. Hopefully the documents that are produced in the CORA request will
give some more insight.
I respectfully request that the Board at least delay its decision until the public can be brought up
to speed and sufficiently involved. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. King. We appreciate your coming forward this evening.
Let me turn to speaker number nine, Mr. Brian French. Mr. French, if you'd come forward
please. Give us your name, your address, and you will have up to three minutes, sir.
BRIAN FRENCH: Thank you. My name is Brian French. I live at 2013 Wagon Way in
Louisville, Colorado. I'm also here to speak in regards to the 228 route extension.
I want to make sure that it's clear, as designed, I oppose this route extension. However, I am not
opposed to the concept of the 228 bus route extending into Northwest Louisville, serving the
Kestrel residents.
There are many concerns, obviously, that you've heard thus far, many of them safety driven. I
appreciate your introduction this evening about safety being a core value. I implore you guys to
consider that as you look at this route extension. There are lots of children playing at the park.
This route passes directly by a park that's frequented by many children, many pedestrians, many
cyclists.
There are, as Jason suggested, homes that front the street where the route is proposed to go, with
very shallow setbacks, think 15 feet from the front porch to the curb. As I was out collecting over
50 household signatures in this petition that I sent to you guys this morning, I knocked on the
door and one of the residents that answered opened the door and a dog ran out right underneath
his legs and right into the street.
Now, I'm sitting there on the his front porch while he's chasing his dog, thinking this didn't really
just happen. I mean, this is exactly the reason why a bus doesn't belong in this neighborhood.
The bus belongs in a more arterial street that does not have the same density and same residential
feel.
Certainly, as Jason also mentioned, I think ultimately it's the process that we feel like we've been
left out of. We did learn just about this two weeks ago. We went to the public input meeting, and

at the public input meeting it was described to us that the public input session had actually been
closed. None of the information that was supplied or provided was printed in your public packet.
But let me make it clear, we're not here simply to object. We've actually tried to provide input on
solutions. We want to work together with you guys. We want to try and find a solution that is
amenable not only to the residents of Kestrel, and the entire community, but also that addresses
the concerns that we have as it relates to safety and many of the other things that you might hear
tonight.
Ultimately, I'm asking you guys to please postpone your decision on this. At least give us four
months. Right? You guys make decisions every four months for service changes. We would
appreciate an opportunity to work together with you guys. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate your coming forward, Mr. French.
Excuse me.
Our next speaker is Mr. Charles Harris. Mr. Harris if you'd please come forward. Give us your
name, address, and you will have up to three minutes, sir. Feel free to the extent that ideas
already expressed cover what you had hoped to communicate to us, simply to give an atta boy to
the other speakers.
CHARLES HARRIS: Thank you, Mr. Chair, members of the Board. I'm Charles Harris. I live at
1113 Summit View Drive. I have three comments to make. One, I'm completely supportive of
providing bus service to those who most need it, who otherwise wouldn't enjoy transportation
opportunities.
Secondly, I really ask the Board to reconsider using Summit View Drive. Our street is an
emerging neighborhood where parties are held. People exchange comments in the streets. We are
one block long. If you run a bus through our neighborhood you'd have to eliminate parking,
which would mean isolating people who live there for reasons that won't work if there is no
ability to park on the street.
Third, I'd like to invite the Board to please open the process to collaborate with us and find ways
to support the community that needs service, without interfering with the development of
neighborhoods in Louisville. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate your succinct and brief statement of
your concerns for our consideration.
Next we turn to Ms. Cindy Whang. Ms. Whang, if you would come forward please. Give us your
name, address, and you will have up to three minutes. You may, of course, use less.
CINDY WHANG: Thank you for this opportunity. My name is Cindy Whang, and I live at 1106
Summit View Drive. I had no intention on getting up here to speak. I was going to give my time
to someone else. However, since that's not allowed, I pretty much want to reiterate major points
that have been made so far.

Safety first and foremost. We are a community, and there are so many kids who just enjoy that
park were that bus, 228, will go up and down. It's just-- I can't even imagine what possibly could
happen.
These kids are carefree. Remember our days growing up? You run across the street to catch up
with a friend without really fully being aware of what is going around. That is a major concern.
However, as Brian has mentioned, we should be able to have this opportunity to work with you,
find an alternative route to service the Kestrel community, because that seems to be the focal
point to expand Route 228.
There are other options, which I'm not sure if it was even considered. You can enter to service
that community on West Hecla. I heard there was a proposed streetlight that was going to be
there going back onto 95th, which would service them perfectly without disrupting, coming
north on West Hecla, and certainly not down Summit View Drive, which is too narrow for a bus
route, and as was mentioned, it's only a block long.
It has been disappointing that we haven't been given an opportunity to fairly, first of all, digest
what's going to happen, and to get together to voice our opposition with the proposed route. As
Brian mentioned, please do not hastily confirm this Route 228 expansion without listening to
many more viewpoints that should be offered up, should be heard, and should be listened to.
Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Ms. Whang. We appreciate your comments as well.
Our next speaker is Tanya Accurso. Ms. Accurso, if you'd come forward please and give us your
name and your address, and you will have up to three minutes, and you can, of course, simply
say you wish to reiterate other comments previously made.
TANYA AcCURSO: Yes, my name is Tanya Accurso. I live at 1119 Summit View Drive in
Louisville. I would just like to reiterate the opposition to the proposed route.
I'm a physical therapist and I strongly advocate for the disabled and positive mobility issues, and
I think there needs to be an extension accessing service to Kestrel Drive and to that
neighborhood. But I think that it's been clear, stated over and over that using Hecla by the park
and Summit View Drive is inappropriate. I would like to collaborate and I'm supporting further
negotiation on that regard. OK?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate your thoughts, Ms. Accurso.
Mr. Frank Accurso, you are recognized and welcome to come forward, give your name and
address. I'm assuming you're not going to disagree with Tanya Acurso. Just a guess. But is Mr.
Frank Accurso here?
TANYA ACCURSO: He stepped out, I think.

DOUG TISDALE: All right, so we'll pass over that. Thank you.
Then Andrew Johanos, and I apologize if I have mispronounced that. Please feel free to correct
us. Give us your address, and you'll have up to three minutes.
ANDREW JOHANOS: Yes. Hello. My name is Andrew Johanos and I appreciate the moment to
speak here. I will keep my comments brief. I live at 1118 Summit View Drive, Louisville,
Colorado 80027.
Two comments, one personal, one professional. On a personal nature, I want to clarify that we
can be in support of the extension but be against the exact details of it I was very happy when I
learned that Kestrel was being developed. I think it's an ideal community, much in need in
Boulder County to have affordable housing, housing for those with disability and the elderly. I
do understand the need to service that with 228, but it can be done only servicing Kestrel and not
impacting our community.
From a professional standpoint, I'm a practicing emergency physician. I trained at Denver
General back in the days when it was called Denver General. I have over 25 years of experience,
and unfortunately a lot of that is with very serious emergencies, including auto-pedestrian
accidents. I can tell you that the majority of those accidents occur in small, quiet neighborhoods
with unpredictable volume of traffic, rather than on major thoroughfares where you expect
traffic, you expect large vehicles coming through.
In small neighborhoods where they are not expected, children, and parents of children, are less
likely to be able to protect those children from darting out, and being hit by a car, or in this case
a bus. So I would please ask and request that you reconsider the route. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Johanos, or Dr. Johanos, I suppose.
Let me turn to speaker number 15. Is it Elda Karcut? Again, I apologize if I have not pronounced
your name correctly. Please feel free to correct us. If you would please come forward, Ms.
Karcut, and give us your name, your address, and you will have up to three minutes.
ELDA KARCUT: I'm Elda Karcut, 1160 Summit View Drive. As has been stated by so many of
our residents, I agree with all of them. But I hope that you hear our comments not as not in my
neighborhood, because all of the residents, as you've also heard, we're very supportive of Kestrel
and the transportation situation there.
But they have thought about a lot of other things that impact our neighborhood with the narrow,
narrow streets that are in them, and parking on either side. Very short street that goes onto 95,
which would be an unbelievable traffic problem. I just hope that you don't think we're just not
saying not in my neighborhood.
But we've thought of other alternatives, and also the process has not been complete, we don't
believe, and we don't have all of the information that we should. We hope that you take those
things into consideration for us. Thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. Karcut. We appreciate your coming and sharing
your views with us this evening.
Next speaker I have on my list is Mr. Edmund Karcut. I'm going to assume it's the same address,
and I'm going to assume that your comments will be very similar to Mrs. Karcut's, but please
come forward, give us your name, address, and feel free to say, "I agree with my wife."
[LAUGHTER]
SPEAKER 18: Don't do it!
[LAUGHTER]
EDMUND KARCUT: I plead the Fifth Amendment.
[LAUGHTER]
My name is Ed Karcut, 1160 Summit View Drive. There's two words that are operative here.
One is safety, and one is process. You have the process, and it concerns a safety issue.
We looked long and hard before we found 1160, and it will be the last house I buy. I appreciate
the concerns, but we have an eclectic neighborhood. We have kids on the street walking to
school. We have dog walkers. We have baseball. We have skateboards. A bus would bring terror
and turmoil. My opinion.
I appreciate the need for safety. I appreciate the need for the process. We will work with anyone
to solve this problem. We came from Greenwood Village. We were there for 43 years.
Unfortunately, or fortunately, I didn't have a bus on the street we lived on, and I would rather not
have a bus on the street we presently live on.
It's a difficult task. We are available at any time of the day or night to come and talk, negotiate,
understand, cooperate, and it's a tricky field, a minefield that you're going to walk through. We
will be very happy to support any and all recommendations that you have. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Karcut. We appreciate your presentation of your
opinions as well.
Our last speaker that I have listed, concerning Access-a-Ride, Ms. Charlotte Morgan. Ms.
Morgan, if you would please come forward. Give us your name and your address and you will
have up to three minutes to speak to us.
Thank you, Fred.
CHARLOTTE MORGAN: Hello there. Thank you all for your time. I appreciate being here. I
want to start [AUDIO OUT]. Thanks for Access-a-Ride. I want to praise the service. Without the
service I would not be actively involved with my life. I've had a mobility impairment since birth,

and it's become more challenging as I've gotten older, going from crutches to a sit-down mode,
using a scooter.
I say this because the scooter is not easily transferable, like when I'm going with girlfriends, it's
just not easy to get into a car. But, you know, Access-a-Ride keeps me moving. I don't drive
because I've got a spatial depth perception problem. Like I tell everybody, I don't drive, but I'm
driven.
I want to address the possible increase of Access-a-Ride fares. This would really limit my usage
of Access-a-Ride, a a lot of people with disabilities as well. 51% of people with disabilities are
low income or limited income. Myself, I'm a professional. I don't prefer to call myself
unemployed, because I know that I will find the right job. I just haven't found it yet as a
counselor and an educator for 35 years. But I'm in transition.
But it's really, really hard on disability income to have any increases in the fare. The other
percentage of people with disabilities but are working are frequently not making what they
should be making. So there's a lot to overcome. I really do appreciate that you guys are getting a
year to think about it. You're kind of postponing it, from what I understand. So that's a year of
reprieve.
But I would also recommend that you might find somewhere in the budget where you could get
more revenue without putting frequent users of Access-a-Ride at risk, as far as not being able to
afford the service.
I know that there's yellow cabs available. But there's been times when I haven't had Access-aRide, and vans are few and far between. I mean, again, Denver is progressing, but it's not like
D.C. where they're all over, with a hatchback strapping down.
Thanks again for doing all you do. I really appreciate it. But I just want you to reconsider the
fares being increased. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Ms. Morgan. We appreciate your sharing your thoughts with us
this evening.
Are there any other speakers who have not signed up, who would like to come forward to speak
on any matter at this time? See none.
We then turn to Committee reports. The Committee reports and minutes were included in the
Board packet. Are there any questions as to any of the Committee reports? If not, then those
reports will stand as submitted and become a part of the permanent record. Those are set forth in
detail in the agenda, so we will not enumerate them separately here.
We turn then to General Manager Oversight and Performance Management (GMOC) update.
The Chair of the, what we call GMOC Committee, Mr. Jeff Walker, Chair Walker, if you would,
please, at this time, sir, please share with us any comments relative to the GMOC and its process.

JEFF WALKER: Thank you. There are three quick things. I'll go through. The first is we have a
recommended action out of that Committee that will be discussed later.
The survey for the second half performance of the CEO will be released on November 18th. That
will be due November 28th. We also have a meeting scheduled for November 13th. I'm not sure
that we'll need to meet then, but we'll notify the Board and Committee Members if that meeting
is canceled. That's all I have.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Chair Walker. We appreciate that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Excuse me, Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, ma'am.
BARBARA MCMANUS: It's Barbara.
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry. Oh, there you are.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Walker, the survey will be going out October 18th.
JEFF WALKER: OK. I'm sorry.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Not November.
JEFF WALKER: Wrong month.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I want the Directors to expect it this week and not next month.
JEFF WALKER: I'm sorry. Yeah, wrong month. I apologize for that. Thank you. Thanks for the
correction.
DOUG TISDALE: We do that a lot, and that's absolutely fine. So it's, you meant to say October
18 and we understand that, in fact, it is October 18 that the survey will be circulated to the
Directors.
Our next item on the agenda is the approval of the Board Meeting minutes of September 18,
2018. May I please have a motion to approve the minutes? I have a motion from Director
Archuleta. I have a second from Director Lubow. Is there any discussion on that motion?
Hearing none, that was a motion by Director Archuleta, a second by Director Lubow. Please, if
the movant and seconder would please proceed to vote?
By a vote of 13 in favor and none opposed, that motion is passed unanimously. The minutes are
approved.

I turn then to the Chair's report. I will give you just some highlights of what's been going on. I
emphasize that these are highlights. We do not attempt or intend to littanize everything that each
Director does from one Board meeting to the next. There's simply too much. Your Directors are
exceptionally engaged people who are doing lots of things. We highlight some of them for the
sake of the record and for the attention of the public.
As noted at our Board meeting last month, Directors Anderson, Hoy, Williams, and Walker,
along with several members of the RTD staff, attended the APTA annual meeting in Nashville,
Tennessee, which was held from September 23rd through the 26th.
Then on September 28th, Directors Anderson, Broom, Catlin, Folska, Lubow, Williams, and I
participated in the 2018 Colorado Transportation Summit in Denver.
Director Catlin and I were very fortunate to be able to participate, and she represented the Board
in terms of accepting awards at the Transportation and Construction Girl Luncheon this past
Tuesday, which was a truly inspirational event.
On Wednesday, October 10th, a number of Directors attended the 21st Birthday Bash for
Commuting Solutions, which is a group of Metro area Mayors and Commissioners on the
Northwest Corridor and the US 36 Corridor. That included Chair Sisk, Chair Anderson, Director
Lubow, Director Catlin, and Director-Apparent Lynn Geisinger who was there, and me.
Then Director Folska and members of our Civil Rights staff attended the 20th Annual Power
Gala at History Colorado Center. It was last Saturday.
Looking forward, Rail-Volution will be taking place next week, and Directors Catlin and Walker
will be in attendance, along with our Borough Office Executive Manager Ms. Barbara McManus.
Directors Hoy and Solano will attend a legislative reception at the Omni Interlochen Hotel in
Broomfield on October 25th.
The Asian Chamber of Commerce will hold its annual Dinner and Gala on November 2nd, and I
will be in attendance.
Lastly, on Friday, November 9, Director Hoy and Ms. McManus will participate in the Veteran's
Day Luncheon, which will be held at the District Shop's facility.
With that I'd like to recognize our General Manager and ask General Manager Genova if you
would please share with us now, sir, your report.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. A few items to highlight out of the report that's in the
packet.
First, just to cover the presentation that we did in front of the Transportation Legislative Review
Committee on October 1st. This is at least annual. Sometimes we do this a couple of times a year

where we go in front of that Committee of the State Legislature and provide them with an RTD
update.
Of course, this last presentation we were able to talk quite a bit about our fare changes that the
Board adopted in September, and then also just provide them with an overall update on
FasTracks projects and some other statistics around the organization.
We had several city visits this month to Chambers. About 140 and 150 different people, one
from Indianapolis, and then also, in a different visit, from Jacksonville, Florida. This is no
surprise. We get about four to five to six visits a year from various cities around the country.
They usually come in and they're very interested in talking to us about our Transit program, our
FasTracks program, the success around Denver Union Station and some of the other projects and
programs we have going on. You might recall that last month a group from Louisville, Kentucky,
was here.
The great thing about it is all these groups have been buying day passes ahead of time, and when
they come in they've been riding the University of Colorado A Line and connecting into
downtown. As we did with Louisville, Kentucky, the Chair and I went out and met the
Jacksonville contingency at the airport and rode in with them and talked about specifically TOD,
Transit-Oriented Development along the line, because that was a particular interest of theirs.
Also presented to the Metro Mayors Caucus earlier this month, and again, very similar to the
information we presented to the Transportation Legislative Review Committee. We try to at least
once a year get in front of the Metro Mayors and give them an RTD update. Of course, we're
happy to do that as they request.
Earlier in the month we also had our quarterly Federal Transit Administration and Federal
Railroad Administration Coordination Meeting. This is a quarterly meeting that we have. It's an
important meeting because it gives us an opportunity to provide updates. The Federal Transit
Administration is largely interested in the large grant-supported projects like our Eagle project
and the Southeast Rail Extension project, because they do have a good deal of oversight on those
projects since they're grant funded.
Then also with our Commuter Rail program, it's good to have the joint meeting with the Federal
Railroad Administration officials present as well.
This afternoon we had a very good workshop with the Mobility Choice Blueprint in the Mobility
Choice Board of Directors meeting. This workshop today was, I think, in the last informational
update that we provided to you that the update's getting ready to take its draft and final form
towards the end of this year. Today was an opportunity to go through a lot of different items that
the teams have come up with through their public process and through their technical process on
ideas, recommendations, and tactics, and pilots and things, that will go into the blueprint.
I thought today was a very-- it was all afternoon. I think it was a very effective session. We'll be
coming back to the Board shortly and give you an update on the kinds of things that are making

it into the Blueprint. But it's, as you can imagine, it's everything from data sharing, to
autonomous vehicle piloting, to electrification of fleets, and other kinds of priority projects.
We'll be back for, I think, one, maybe two updates before the report will be finalized. Today we
had great participation amongst of the Mobility Choice Board, and of course, the three agencies,
RTD, CDOT, DRCOG, and then private sector involvement.
I also want to provide you just a brief update on the University of Colorado A Line, the B Line,
and the G Line. In Friday's report to you, I mentioned that we have about five of the crossings on
the G Line are measuring within the approved buffer time. So that's good progress there. DTP,
Denver Transit Partners continues to make system optimization timing on the remainder of the
grade crossings, so then we can go through the verification process similar to what we did on the
University of Colorado A line with the Public Utilities Commission and with the Federal
Railroad Administration.
Good news today is that the FRA, Federal Railroad Administration, approved our software-well, they approved our software mitigation to install that on the full fleet. The Board may recall
this was an issue that we discovered during the testing on the G Line. We've been through
various testing of that software mitigation. Today the FRA gave approval to load it to the full
fleet so we could get some additional data on runs on the University of Colorado A Line and the
B Line. So that's good progress. Moving ahead, we still have a number of regulatory approvals
that we need to get towards opening of the G Line.
Mr. Chair, that concludes my report. I'm happy to take any questions.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Are there those on the Board who would like to at this
time ask questions of General Manager Genova. I will point out for the sake of those in the room
who are not on the Board that General Manager Genova gives a Friday memo every week to the
Board that keeps the Board fully informed as to a number of things that have already been
addressed here this evening. So sometimes there are questions for General Manager. But we have
rather comprehensive reporting that we receive from the General Manager in addition to these
briefings at the Board meeting. Just for the sake of the record and everyone's information, we
have that benefit on a regular basis.
That having been said, are there any specific questions at this time from any Director for General
Manager? Seeing none, I will turn to the Unanimous Consent Agenda.
BOB BROOM: Approval.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: We have a motion to approve the Unanimous Consent Agenda by Director
Broom and a second by Chair Anderson. Is there any item that any Director would like to
remove from the Unanimous Consent Agenda Item prior to discussion and vote? Seeing none. Is
there any discussion on the motion to approve the Unanimous Consent Agenda? Seeing none. If

you would please now vote with Director Broom and Chair Andersen as the movant and
seconder.
As to the Unanimous Consent Agenda with the five items enumerated thereon, we have 13 who
have voted in favor, none who have opposed, and therefore all five items on the Unanimous
Consent Agenda have now been unanimously ratified, and final action is therefore taken.
We turn then to recommended actions on this agenda. That's Agenda Item Number 12. The first
item under Recommended Actions is the Federal Liaison Services specifically.
It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into an agreement for Federal Liaison
Services with Squire, Patton, Boggs, LLP, for a one-year option at a cost of $276,000 for the
period January 1 through December 31, 2019. This action represents the fifth and final year of a
five-year contract. Funding for the contract is included in the annual budget that supports three
goals, Core Goal Three, strong fiscal management. Core Goal Five, effective communications
and community. Outreach Task Goal Number Three, ensure fiscal sustainability. May have a
motion?
CHUCK SISK: Moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I'm going to give Chair Sisk that motion, and I heard a second over here
from, I'll give it to Director Solano for this one. So that's Sisk and Solano.
CHUCK SISK: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: As our movant and seconder. Is there any discussion on the motion? Hearing
none, we have a motion to approve the item. Chair Sisk is the movant, and the Chair of our
Government Relations Committee, Director Solano is the second. If you would please proceed to
vote. By a vote of 12 in favor and one opposed, the opposed vote being Director Menten, that
item passes.
Then you will look at the next item on the agenda is Item G. It is listed as Motion to Move into
Executive Session. I will state for the sake of the record and for explanation to the public, this is
what we would call a precatory and precautionary matter. That is, we placed upon the agenda the
opportunity for an executive session to discuss the next item on the agenda should any member
of the Board, or should the General Manager, feel that they would prefer to discuss any of these
matters in an executive session.
We will note that we have already had a discussion in open session during the course of the
Committee work on this matter, that we have already published for the whole world to see, some
many days ago now, the draft proposed amendments to the Executive Manager's agreement. So I
will ask at this time if there is any Director, or for that matter the General Manager, who would
like for the Board to move into Executive Session at this time. He paused. Hearing none, we will
then move to Agenda Item Number H, which is the reciprocal. That's the motion to move out of
Executive Session, and of course, since we never went in that item is irrelevant.

We then turn to Agenda Item Number I. That's proposed amendments to the Executive
Employment Agreement. I will recite that It is recommended by the General Manager, Oversight
and Performance Management Committee that the Board of Directors approve proposed
amendments to the existing Executive Employment Agreement consistent with the draft
amendments considered by the Committee at its October 9, 2018 meeting.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: So moved, motion.
DOUG TISDALE: I heard Director Solano on that? No, wait. I'm sorry. I heard Director
Archuleta on that. Thank you. And a second from Director Anderson, from Chair Anderson. I
have Archuleta and Anderson. For the sake of the public I point out that you have to forgive your
Chair because sometimes my hearing being somewhat impaired, I can't quite catch exactly where
the moves and seconds are coming from.
All right, that having been said with Director Archuleta as the movant, Chair Anderson as the
second, is there any discussion on Agenda Item Number I? I have one speaker in the queue, and I
will recognize Vice Chair Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, thank you. I have spoken about this matter before, so I will be very
brief. I would like to make a motion to make an amendment to this contract, which at this time is
stated at-- the agreement itself for those who may not be aware is a five-year contract remaining
at the $295,000 for the year 2019 with an automatic 1.5% raise each year. I have spoken in the
past about how I feel this is too high and compared it to the Colorado Department of
Transportation's Executive Director, which covers transportation for the entire state of Colorado,
versus slightly more than half of the state with the Regional Transportation District. I would like
to make a motion that this salary should be comparable to the Colorado Department of
Transportation. During our discussions in the past, I told you the salary, but I will refresh your
memory as I'm sure you don't have it on top of your brain, but that would be $172,000 annually
with a one-year contract. That would be approximately $123,556 reduction annual over the
$295,000 proposed in this contract. My motion is one year at $172,000. The other terms may
remain within this, except for what I have made a motion for.
DOUG TISDALE: Fine. We have a motion to amend that Vice Chair Menten has proposed at a
$172,000 salary with a one-year contract term. Is there a second to the motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: There is a second to the motion by Director Williams. So we have a motion
to amend that has been seconded. Motion by Director Menten, second by Director Williams. The
discussion now, ladies and gentlemen, is on the motion to amend. So if we will turn-- and did
you have further that you wish to speak to your motion?
NATALIE MENTEN: If I may speak a little bit briefly.
DOUG TISDALE: Please.

NATALIE MENTEN: Let me state for the public record what this means, that the current
proposal of $295,000 a year is roughly $24,583 a month in salary. The next highest RTD salary,
which I also think is high, is at $21,180. We look at other comparable salaries within the State of
Colorado.
I told you that the Executive Director of Colorado Department of Transportation is at $171,444.
The Controller of the State of Colorado makes $126,540. Continuing on for just one moment if
you'll bear with me, the Governor of the State of Colorado makes $90,000 a year. I think we
could go on and on. Let's go to the president. I think he's still at roughly $400,000 a year.
$400,000.
For the comparables I gave with the State of Colorado, there is an employee contribution to their
pension. Here at RTD it is entirely funded by the taxpayers. So that would be the end. I will
leave that at that. I think this would be the most responsible plan for the taxpayers. This simply is
about-- well, I'll just leave it at that. I think it's the best deal for the taxpayers, as for the motion
I've given.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Menten. The discussion is on the motion to
amend. I recognize Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. When this-- well, back in September 11th, Director Tisdale, Chair
Tisdale and I were given parameters with which to negotiate potential agreements or
amendments to the contract. This offer, this proposal, is within those parameters. So we stayed
within those parameters that we were given. I think that the contract, the offer,
the proposal, he recommended action fits within those parameters, and even the compensation
that Director Menten just mentioned is outside of the parameters. RTD, this Board, adopted a
compensation philosophy back in 2010. When we negotiate we try to stick to that compensation.
That is put our Chief Executive Officer in the mid-range of comparable agencies as best as they
can be compared. This is in the middle. This is within the range and it fits within that
compensation philosophy. That's why it was brought to the Board, because it is within the
parameters and it fits the compensation philosophy that was passed by the Board.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Walker. Director Catlin, the discussion is on
the motion to amend.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. When I first came on Board, I too had to swallow a
little bit at the high salaries. I have a little bit of knowledge about the Department of
Transportation, and I do know that the restrictions on salary for that Executive Director are
different than what the market is showing for executive compensation for comparable transit
agencies across the country.
As the option on the table was explained to me, it results in a savings over what we would have
were we to not take any action at all and let the existing contract commence, or proceed. I just
wanted to make those comments with regard to the Amended Employment Agreement. Thank
you.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Catlin. We appreciate your participation on
that. Chair Anderson, you are recognized.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. RTD is one of the largest transit agencies
in the whole United States. The Colorado General Assembly actually asked RTD, I think maybe
nine to 10 years ago, to look at the compensation of our General Manager and make sure that
they were comparable to other General Managers of transit agencies throughout the United
States. RTD did do that, and that was how the General Manager Oversight Committee was
established, to look at those compensations and see where we stacked up.
If I could borrow a phrase from my 24 years on Arvada City Council, we didn't ever want to be
the top payer of a City Manager in the state, but we also did not want to be the training ground
for General Managers throughout the state and the country. I see that as a caution that says you
really should compensate your General Manager within reasonable terms that other transit
agencies of the same size pay theirs.
I know for a fact through my experience with the American Public Transportation Association
that we do not pay our Executive excessively in comparison to other transit associations of this
size. I will be voting against this motion because I believe that the General Manager Oversight
Committee has done the work that was prescribed to them by the State Legislature and our own
Board of Directors, and it's time to move on. So I will be voting against this.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Chair Anderson. Director Lubow, you are recognized.
The discussion is on the motion to amend.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I remember that Director Catlin talked about the
turmoil that she had felt about the fare's discussion and vote, and I've been feeling that turmoil
about this. It has nothing to do with the person involved. It has to do with money, and it has to do
with what's fair and appropriate for not only our General Manager, but also for the taxpayers.
I feel that this money that is put down in the amendment is too low, and so I won't be supporting
this. But I understand the desire to not have such a large amount of money for any of our staff. I
understand that. Because I know that my particular constituents are not happy with it. We have to
deal with all of that. Everything on this job is a juggling matter, juggling different needs.
I want to say that I think that the contract as negotiated is not something that I'm comfortable
supporting. I know that we had asked that there be maybe a third person involved with that
negotiation, but that didn't go through, and that's life. That's life. But I think that it's too high, and
it's too long. We can't vote on any of the increases throughout the five years.
It's not acceptable to me. But also this amendment I feel is too low and would be destructive, so
I'm not voting for that. But thank you all. This is not an easy issue. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lubow. Director Solano, you are recognized.
The discussion is on the motion to amend.

PAUL SOLANO: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I have one question. In light of the FRA issues and
the Colorado Public Utilities Commission issues, has our Moody's rating, credit rating gone
down? Can anybody answer that to me?
DOUG TISDALE: I will suggest that the discussion may not be germane. However, in so far as I
am aware there is a news report circulating that the Moody's rating on the bonds that DTP has,
has in fact been circulating, indicating a downgrade of those bonds.
PAUL SOLANO: OK, thank you. I'll support this amendment. I think due to the taxpayers' rights
and interests, I hear it all the time from my constituents, I am constantly asked why we're so topheavy with executive pay and administrative pay. My answer to taxpayers is these wages need to
be cut. These salaries need to be cut.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Solano. Director Williams, you're
recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I want us to look at the fact that we are talking
about giving one man more than a million and a half dollars over a five-year period, but we have
people in wheelchairs here tonight asking us to look at what their fares are. I don't know how we
can have those two discussions at the same time.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Williams. Director Catlin, let me ask if there
is anyone who has not yet spoken who would like to speak before I recognize Director Catlin.
Director Hoy, Chair Hoy, you are recognized, then we'll return to you, Director Catlin.
LARRY HOY: Thank you, Chair. We've been through a General Manager change. We did that
three years ago. That was an extensive process. We hired Dave. During that time, I think it's
important for people to understand that that cost us hundreds of thousands of dollars to even do
that with national searches, bringing people in, months and months of discussions, public
discussions. Downtown hired a room at the convention center.
I bring that out or point that out because there were even candidates that we were soliciting
through our agency that said, you can't afford me. You can't afford me. Well, that was three years
ago, and I'm going to tell you that those candidates probably make more money today.
So to even consider that we should-- oh, and by the way, the salaries we're proposing tonight are
probably below competitive. Most transit agencies are paying, most transit agencies of this size,
I'll clarify that, are paying more for their General Manager than we are. The original item before
us was actually going to pay our present General Manager less than we would have if we do
nothing. So this is in fact a salary reduction, one that I think the agency can live with.
I'm a little confused that we would bring forth a proposal that pays our General Manager less
money than he's being paid today, that alternatives are all going to cost us more money. In
closing, I might add that there is at least one state employee that makes $3.25 million a year, and
he coaches football. I'll just close with that. Thank you very much.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Chair Hoy. I'm going to recognize Director Walker
before coming back because I think-- oh, wait, no, you both have already spoken. Hopefully we
will close out the discussion on the motion to amend. The discussion is on the motion to amend
as made by Director Menten. Director Catlin, you're recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I wanted to thank Director Lubow for her comments
with respect to the motion. I completely agree with that. I am uncomfortable with the high
salaries just in general, but I think that the proposal to-- the motion to amend this proposal is too
low as well.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. As was mentioned earlier, RTD is the third largest regional transit
district and geographic area in the country. We provide about, what's the number, 100,000 trips a
day. That's a huge responsibility, directly responsible. All of our bus operators, and our train
operators, and the mechanics, all the people that we saw up here at the beginning of the meeting
are directly responsible for the safety of all those people, and I'm one of them because I've been
riding the system for about 17 years now.
The proposal has a significant cost savings over the existing contract. This current salary-- I'm
sorry, the salary I identified, first year salary at least, I identified in the proposal freezes at 2018
salary. There would be a 1.5% increase in 2020. That's below the cost of living adjustment. This
is something that Mr. Genova recognized also and supports.
I think that cut over what could be made and what we would probably have to pay anybody else
shows his commitment to this agency. I think the length of the contract gives us some stability,
some certainty, as much as can be provided in any contract, through the next collective
bargaining agreement. I think it shows confidence in his ability to navigate the agency through
the disputes that we've been having, one of which we'll discuss tonight and one that's still
forthcoming, that we're still working our way through.
As I said before, this is still within the parameters of what we were charged to do. Two Board
members, or two Committee members, or the Chair of the Board and the Chair of the
Committee, are identified in the contract as to discuss the performance review. Out of the
performance review came these changes that were desired by almost every Board member that I
talked to.
In order to accomplish goals of affecting the term and affecting the compensation, these
amendments came forth. I think the process was pretty clear. This is our eighth discussion of this
in some form, either at the Board level or at the Committee level, and that doesn't even count the
personal phone calls that were made.
I think that this has been well vetted. I won't be supporting the amendment, although I guess I
can appreciate the spirit in which it was made. But I think the process and the product have been
severely, fairly vetted, and so that's why I'll be supporting the main motion. Thanks. I'm done.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Any other speaker wish to speak to the motion to
amend? The Chair will note, as an individual Director, that I believe the motion is, although I
respect it, not well taken in the circumstances.
We are ready for a vote on the motion to amend. We had Director Menten as the movant,
Director Williams as the second. If you would please proceed and cast your votes on the motion
to amend. This is the motion to amend, as stated by Director Menten and repeated by the Chair.
Motion is not carried. There are three votes in favor. There are 10 votes opposed. Directors
Anderson, Tisdale, Archuleta, Mihalik Walker, Broom, Hoy, Sisk, Catlin, and Lubow voted no
on the motion.
The discussion is now on the main motion. The discussion on the main motion relates to the
contract amendments as submitted. The Chair will note for sake of the record, I believe this is
actually the 10th discussion on this process, as noted in the Board report. The motion is to freeze
the salary for 2019 and the 2018 rate, to eliminate the $10,000 annual bonus, and to afford
essentially half of the cost of living in terms of an annual increase.
Chair Sisk, you are recognized.
CHUCK SISK: Good evening, Chair Tisdale. Thank you very much. I didn't speak on the other
motion for the clear reason that I think it's important that we recognize that the motion that we
have here is to retain Dave Genova's services, and it is personal. It is personal.
Three years ago when we negotiated with Dave, it was important to see that he-- that we looked
at other transit agencies, we looked at comparable areas where we could improve ourselves. I
would say that it was far from perfect. Throw the arrows at me for that three years ago. But the
fact is that what's been taken out that I think is very important is what I thought was always
contentious in terms of the deferred whatever it was that really caused a great deal of difficulty
as recently as last November.
I really command Chair Tisdale, Chair Walker for this, and I also commend General Manager
Genova. I think this is a fair negotiation, notwithstanding the fact that there are some portions
there that I perhaps wouldn't have chosen if I were there, but that's part of negotiations.
This is something where I feel that from RTD point of view it's fair. Hopefully from General
Manager Genova's it's fair. We have to keep this agency going, and trust me, going out on a
national search is not something that I would ask my successive Board of Directors to have to
undertake.
Dave Genova's done a very, very good job, and I think it's important that we work with him, he
works with us, to allow this agency to continue to go forward. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Chair Sisk. We appreciate your comments. Director
Williams, you're recognized.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I'd like everyone to look at the fact that there
must be something going on that we have to have discussion 10 times. I, myself, report to a
Board of Directors. If my Board of Directors had to discuss over and over and over again
whether to retain me, there would be an issue. Because if this was a walk in the park then we
wouldn't be here talking about this right now. We'd all be saying, yay, Dave. It's not personal. I
think Dave is a great guy. I don't think he's done a bad job. But there are issues or the Board of
Directors would have just moved it forward and that would be the end of that.
I think it's incumbent on Dave now to discover, because my understanding is that we're going to
vote on this and that it's going to pass. That's my take on it. So I think that Dave would want to
know what the issues are. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Williams. I appreciate that. The Chair will
just editorially note that we've discussed it 10 times because we were requested to make sure that
this was not simply railroaded through, but that we gave at least what I originally called three
bites of the apple. I ended up making sure it was 10 bites of the apple.
KATE WILLIAMS: Tire kicking. Tire kinking was the word I heard.
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry, is that Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I understand from the proposal that this is a net reduction in cost
over what would happen if we just let the existing contract play out. But I also understood from
some discussions we had that there's a little bit more flexibility, and that we're not locked in to
some of the provisions that were in the previous contract. Is that correct?
DOUG TISDALE: I can allow Director Walker to respond to your question. I can also say that,
yes, there were various changes relating to, for example, the length of time for notice should
there be an involuntary termination by the Board and the Board's choice to opt out. I'll let
Director Walker supplement that should he choose.
JEFF WALKER: If you could be-- if I may address, if you could be specific about which
provisions that would help.
PEGGY CATLIN: That was one of them.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: I just think that this one affords a little bit more flexibility and that we're not
locked into such things as the-- I can't remember the term, but the automatic discretionary pay.
I guess I'm just saying that I like this negotiated process, even though it doesn't satisfy
everybody. In fact, I'm sure that Dave gave up a lot in his negotiation for it as well. I think that
there were a lot of compromises that were reached, but I also think that it provides the Board
with some cost savings and some flexibility that didn't exist previously.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for your observations. We appreciate that, Director
Catlin. Director Archuleta, you are recognized, sir.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: Thank you, Chair. Let me clear my throat here. I've got a lot to say
now.
[LAUGHTER]
I look at Dave, you know, I said, well, you say it's not personal. We've been around him a long
time. It's personal. It's personal. Dave's been working here 25 years. He's worked his way from
the bottom up. He sacrificed. He did all the things he was supposed to do. He jumped through all
the hoops. Washington drops out. He had to come and clean up all this mess. He's still cleaning it
up. He's still cleaning it up. I mean, I don't understand why we don't want to give him 10% even
more. Why not? I just don't understand what everybody is talking about. Oh, the taxes, the this,
that. But he's worked for it. It's not like he came in from off the street and said, give me
$300,000. Hey, he worked for it. He worked his way, and that's all I got to say.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Archuleta. Director Walker, maybe you will
have the final word on this.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I just wanted to address some things that I think Director Catlin was
getting at without getting into a back and forth. Yes, some of the changes that were made are the
discretionary performance payment has been eliminated. That's a discussion that's not going to
be had, the time and effort that goes into that. The automatic increase that was in the previous, or
I guess the existing contract of $10,000 has disappeared. That's been replaced by a 1.5% increase
starting in 2020. So there's no increase from this year to next year under this recommended
action. Also the termination without clause under the proposed-- the recommended action has
been reduced to 12 months total, 12 months and 10 days from a total of 14 months in the existing
contract. There are a lot of costs savings in there and a lot of discussions that don't need to be had
anymore, and some cost and time savings to the Board and to the public. That's it. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Walker. Is there any further discussion on the
motion? Director Lubow, you are recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I do want to say that I very much appreciate the
compromises that have been made, and I understand that the increases that were negotiated are
very modest, and I appreciate that. I'm just concerned, as some of the other Board members are,
of the large salaries. I think that in a time when we ask our constituents to have to pay more,
more than some of them can pay, and get some reduction in services, I just find the large salaries
difficult. But I understand the compromises and I appreciate them. I also want to say that it has
been very rewarding to watch our present General Manager grow into the job, and grow in selfconfidence, and competence, and stature, and it's just been very nice to see. So thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for those laudatory words. We appreciate that. Director Broom,
you are recognized.

BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I just want to go on record that I support this contract. I think
Dave's doing an excellent job. I've been in other situations, I've served on another Board, Metro
Wastewater, that had 50 Board members. So instead of having 15 bosses like Dave has, the
General Manager out there had 50 bosses. The conversation whenever the contracts came up
sounded just exactly like this. I'm a former City Manager and I've heard this conversation myself
umpteen times.
I think if there's a problem you need to talk to him. I've never had a problem addressing issues
with him, and I would certainly invite anybody on this Board, if they have an issue with him,
rather than complain and grumble, go see him. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Broom. Is there any other Director who
wishes to speak on this? I will simply state for the record that it was a very rewarding negotiation
that you authorized Chair Walker and me to engage in, and we appreciate that. We think it's an
excellent work product for RTD. I have to tell you, I am stunned at the fact that we were able to
come to an agreement like this with a talented individual like our General Manager, and I think
we are very lucky. My own view. That having been said, Director Archuleta was the movant on
the motion to approve the proposed amendments to the Executive Employment Agreement and
Chair Anderson was the second. If the movant and the second would please vote.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ROLF ASPHAUG: This was Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel. I just want to remind, as with any
other vote, an affirmative vote of eight votes is required for Board action.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, thank you. Because there are those who might say there are only 13
Directors here, so therefore seven is sufficient. No. It takes eight votes pursuant to our charter.
That having been said, please vote at this time.
By a vote of nine in favor and four opposed, the four opposed are Directors Menten, Williams,
Lubow, and Solano, the proposed amendments to the Executive Employment Agreement have
passed. That is approved, and we will move on and not have to worry about that issue for some
time now.
Let us turn to Agenda Item J. We have, I advise you now, Agenda Item J from this agenda this
month, that being the amendment to the 2018 Amended Budget. That item will be brought forth
at our November Board meeting, which is still currently set for Tuesday, November 27. That
would be the Tuesday following Thanksgiving. So we are not going to discuss amendment-- I'm
sorry, Item J, the amendment to the 2018 Amended Budget.
We then turn to the adoption of the 2019-2024 Mid-term Financial Plan. That's Item K on the
agenda. It is recommended by the Financial Administration Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors adopts 2019-2024 Mid-term Financial Plan satisfying General Manager's

Core Goal Number Three, strong financial management and Task Goal Number One, fiscal
sustainability. May I have a motion?
ERNEST ARCHULETA: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Archuleta. I have a second from Chair
Anderson. Now discussion on the motion. Director Lubow, you are recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I just have a question on one of the Capital Budget
items. Page 122, there was a Systems Plan, a Systems Operational Plan costing about $3.5
million over two years. I just actually-- could somebody just tell me what that is?
DOUG TISDALE: And you are referring-[LAUGHTER]
Sure. Oh, you mean now?
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, now. Oh, well, that's a different question. Page, again, 122.
JUDY LUBOW: Of the Board package.
DOUG TISDALE: Of the Board packet. It's out of left field to throw out Ms. McKillop, but she
has responded to more difficult things. But perhaps General Manager Genova will now respond
to the question concerning page 122 of the packet as framed by Director Lubow.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. This is in reference to our Comprehensive Operational
Analysis and System Optimization. It's directly tied to the 2019 Board-adopted strategic goal of
future transportation needs and methods. What this will do is we will basically be looking at
essentially everything the agency does in terms of the services that we deliver, looking at our rail
network, the bus network, looking at all of our schedules, all of our frequencies, our routing. It
will look at other means of transportation that we might want to look at.
It's a very involved process. There'll be a very high degree of public and community engagement
throughout this process. We've actually applied for some grant money for this project. We're
hopeful that we might receive some grant funding for the project as well. But that's a brief
description if that satisfies your question.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. May I continue just asking. So it's not software or particular-- it's a
process.
DAVE GENOVA: Mr. Chair, correct. It's not software. It's a product. It's a process to look at our
entire system to see what kinds of efficiencies we can build. Should we be doing something
differently? It'll even take a look at is our district boundary the right boundary? Or should it be

something else more like the DRCOG boundary. It'll be a very comprehensive look, and it will
really set the stage for a lot of our future activities and our future vision.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you very much. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Any further questions? You're good with that?
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Director Menten, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: I just want to make sure, Director Lubow, you had said, or somebody had
said page 122, and I want to make sure we are speaking of 121. Right?
JUDY LUBOW: Perhaps. I don't have it here.
NATALIE MENTEN: Just for our record, 121 would be this Systems Optimization at-- why is it
moving now, just under $3 million. Is that right? That's the one?
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. All right, I was just making sure since some people were trying to
reference that and weren't quite spotting it, so I wanted to make sure.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thanks.
NATALIE MENTEN: That's it. Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for that clarification, because I see it now, and yes, it is
listed on page 121 at a price tag of $2.9 million, I believe, for that particular item as indicated.
Thank you. So that the record is clear.
Any further discussion on the adoption of the 2019-2024 Mid-term Financial Plan? If not, we
have a motion by Director Archuleta, a second by Chair Anderson. If they would please vote,
and if the rest of you following that would cast your vote.
By a vote of 11 in favor and two opposed, the motion passes. The two opposed votes are Director
Menten and Director Mihalik. And so the 2019-2024 Mid-term Financial Plan is adopted.
We then turn to the next item on our agenda, which is the adoption of the 2019-2040 Long
Range Financial Plan. It is recommended by the Financial Administration Audit Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors adopts 2018 Long Range Financial Plan. This recommended action
supports the General Manager goals for 2018, Core Goal Three, strong financial management.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: So motioned.

DOUG TISDALE: Task Goals Number One,
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: Fiscal sustainability. I heard a motion from Director Archuleta and a second
from Chair Anderson. We are now on the motion to adopt the 2019-2040 Long Range Financial
Plan. Are there any Directors who wish to speak to that motion?
The chair does not see any speakers in the queue as to that motion. We will proceed to a vote on
the motion. Director Archuleta is the movant. Director Anderson is the second. Please proceed to
vote on the adoption of the 2019-2040 Long Range Financial Plan.
NATALIE MENTEN: Waiting for Director Solano.
PAUL SOLANO: Oh.
[LAUGHTER]
DOUG TISDALE: We have to find another way of making that less-NATALIE MENTEN: Obvious.
DOUG TISDALE: We could just say, there is one who still hasn't. By a vote of 11 in favor and
two opposed, the recommended action is adopted. That's the 2019-2040 Long Range Financial
Plan. Director, I should say Vice Chair Menten and Director Mihalik have voted no on that, and
it passes by a vote of 11 to 2.
We then turn to the adoption of the 2019 Pension Plan Contributions. It is recommended by the
Financial Administration Audit Committee that the Board of Directors adopt a 2019 contribution
of $5.1 million to RTD Salaried Employees Defined Benefit Pension Trust, known as the DB
plan, which pays a specified monthly benefit at retirement. It is also recommended the RTD
Board of Directors adopt a 2019 contribution of 9% of each participant's eligible participant
compensation to the salaried employees deferred, I'm sorry, Defined Contribution Plan, which is
known as the DC Plan, which contributes a specified amount the plan for each year of
employment, satisfying the General Manager's Task Goal Number Two, workforce and human
capital.
BOB BROOM: So moved.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: Moved for a vote.
DOUG TISDALE: I'm taking a motion from Director Broom on that one and a second from
Director Archuleta relative to the adoption of the 2019 Pension Plan Contributions. Is there
discussion on the motion as made by Director Broom and seconded by Director Archuleta.

Hearing no discussion, we may proceed to a vote. Director Broom, if you would vote first.
Director Archuleta, if you would vote. And then the balance of you please vote yes or no, or
abstain, relative to the adoption of the 2019 plan. By a vote of 10 in favor and 3 opposed the
2019 Pension Plan Contributions as stated are adopted. The no votes are Vice Chairman,
Director Mihalik, and Director Solano.
We turn then to the adoption of the 2019 Benefit Plan Contributions. It is recommended by the
Financial Administration Audit Committee that the Board of Directors approves the 2019 Plan
Year Salaried Benefits Plan and authorizes the General Manager, CEO, or his designee to enter
into agreements with the insurance carriers in satisfaction of General Manager's Task Goal
Number Two,
ERNST ARCHULETA: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: Workforce and human capital. On that one I heard Director Archuleta make a
motion, and a second from Director Mihalik. I have Archuleta and Mihalik as the movant and
second on that. Is there any discussion by any Director relative to the adoption of the 2019
Benefit Plan Contributions?
Seeing no one in the queue, Director Archuleta, if you would please vote. Director Mihalik, if
you would then please vote. Then if the rest of you would please cast your vote now. By a vote
of 12 in favor with one abstention, the abstention being Director Solano, the 2019 Benefit Plan
Contributions are adopted.
We then turn to Agenda Item O. This is authorization to increase the contract authority for
Enghouse. It is recommended by the Financial Administration Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors authorizes the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary
to increase contract authority for Enghouse contract by $499,055, making the total contract value
$1,510,340. Can I get a higher bid? General Manager's goals, this would be Core Goal Number
One, successful delivery of transit services.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Archuleta. Do I have a second?
NATALIE MENTEN: [INAUDIBLE]
[LAUGHTER]
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, it is L on that. Yeah, that's right. Sorry. OK. Yes, item agenda. OK, so I
have Director Archuleta and Director Sisk is the second. Thank you. Is there any discussion on
that? No.
I will note for the sake of the record, as has been clarified by the Vice Chair that my prior
reference to Agenda O related to an original listing of the motions and things have become
renumbered for various reasons and purposes. For the sake of the record, now we are dealing

with what on this record is reflected as Agenda Item 12 L. That's the authorization to increase the
contract authority for Enghouse.
With Archuleta and Sisk as movant and second, now again any discussion on that motion?
Seeing none, if Director Archuleta would please cast your ballot. Director Sisk, Chair Sisk,
please cast yours, and the balance of you please vote on this recommended action. By a vote of
13 in favor and none opposed, the authorization to increase contract authority for Enghouse is
unanimously approved.
We then turn to agenda item M as in Mary in the re-numbered. This is the approval of the
proposed RRP claim settlement and associated funds transfer. It is recommended by the Finance
Administration Audit Committee that the Board of Directors authorizes General Manager and his
designees to negotiate and execute all the documents necessary to resolve the Regional Rail
Partners North Metro Project claims as outlined in the settlement memorandum prepared at the
conclusion of the parties September 20, 2018, mediation, and to authorize use of the FasTracks
Management Reserve to fund the first disbursement of funds in the amount of $15 million,
satisfying General Manager's Core Goal Number One, successful delivery of transit services.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Archuleta, I have a second from Director
Lubow. So we have Archuleta as the movant and Director Lubow as the second. Is there
discussion on the motion to approve the RRP claim settlement as proposed and the associated
funds transfer? Seeing no discussion, if we're ready to vote, Director Archuleta if you would
please vote. Dr. Lubow if you would please vote, and if the rest of you would please cast your
ballots.
By a vote of 13 in favor and no opposed, we have approved the proposed RRP claim settlement
and associated funds transfer as resolved during the course of mediation and presented to us.
We then turn to-ERNEST ARCHULETA: N.
DOUG TISDALE: N as in Nancy. This is the January 2019 service changes. I'm sorry. Already
queuing up and we didn't even have a hearing. It is recommended that by the Operations and
Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors approve the January 2019 Service
Change Package as revised and summarized in Attachment A, resulting in an annualized cost
savings of approximately $243,000, and further, to authorize the General Manager or his
designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is
impacted by these changes. Recommended action proposed falls in line with the following GM
goals, specifically Core Goal Number One successful, delivery of transit services, and Task Goal
Number One, fiscal sustainability. May I have a motion? Don't all speak at once.
JEFF WALKER: I second.

DOUG TISDALE: Director Broom moves and Director Walker seconds. In the queue we already
have a boat load of speakers waiting. Vice Chair Menten, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I have the map up of this area and was looking at it quite a bit
while there were speakers in the audience. I have a couple of questions that will be very much in
tune with that neighborhood. I don't know that, frankly, we may have all the answers. I don't
know if Jesse may want to come up. Jesse, are you back there? OK. It's hard to see with the light.
Sorry.
JESSE CARTER: I was shrinking down as well.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Let me start with this. It looks to me like parts of this neighborhood-I'm on a Google map, and some of you are not even on this map, because it looks like it was
freshly built. I can see the bulldozers there. I'm not going to ask for a response. I got a couple
nods. That'll work.
My question is, in this neighborhood that may have been, some of it built obviously pretty
recently, and some time ago, and I don't know what time, was this part of the master plan, the
neighborhood plan, to have a bus run through?
JESSE CARTER: I'm going to actually turn to this-- I'm going to turn to the City of Louisville to
beg that question.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Is that appropriate?
DOUG TISDALE: It remains an unusual procedure. But that having been said, our goal is to do
what is right and good to the greatest extent feasible. If Vice Chair will cede to staff, to cede to
city staff, I think we can deal with it.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Please.
MEGAN DAVIS: Yes, Megan Davis, City of Louisville. I'll do my best to respond to your
questions. I can't speak to the master planning process for, I believe, the Lanterns development
came after Kestrel. But throughout the process for the development of Kestrel, transit services
were always a part of that conversation, and having a connection extended, that conversation was
being had with RTD at that time. However I can't speak to the master plan piece for that
neighborhood in particular.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, and when I'm looking at this map I see this-- I see the
impressions in the grass. If you had a map you could see it. But it looks like-- was this
community center also recently built?
MEGAN DAVIS: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: Has it been built?

MEGAN DAVIS: At the top of Hecla Drive for Kestrel. Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Then my last question, and I'll just follow with one comment. What
is the speed limit on Hecla Drive?
MEGAN DAVIS: That I don't know.
JESSE CARTER: We don't have that off hand. We'll have to provide that offline.
NATALIE MENTEN: The reason I ask-- oh, no wait.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Wait a minute. Point of order.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. OK. I'm sorry.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, I agree. I don't want the public chiming in. I'd rather hold on this
item if we were possibly have to go to-- but I don't want to go into a back and forth. I'll set up a
really bad precedent. Then we get in a lot of trouble.
MEGAN DAVIS: Yeah, I believe it's 25, but we can confirm with you.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
MEGAN DAVIS: It is a collector street, and that's the speed limit on many of our collector
streets.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, and just, I'm sorry, looking, zooming in on the map, but it looks
like there's side street, there's parking inlets. I don't know the proper word. There's the bulb outs
where you go from the neighborhood over to the park. Those are closer. You can cross them
faster. Beyond that it curves in, and that is where there's parking. Right? So it's not a real tight
street.
MEGAN DAVIS: Right.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, thank you. These are things that I saw in the map as I was just
trying to figure it out because this is not my neighborhood and I'm not going to drive up there to
look at it. So thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much Vice Chair Menten. We appreciate that. Director
Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I'm really supportive of the City of
Louisville and RTD and Kestrel trying to get good transit to the Kestrel facility. It seems to me
that everybody wants that. But there's this big problem with the neighborhood. I'm just
wondering if-- it may be naive, but can't people sit down and talk about it. I mean, I know it's
kind of outside of the original plan. But if people care this much and are just willing to talk, can't

we arrange that? Is there some possibility? Can somebody-- I don't mean to throw you a bomb,
but it just seems like a logical question.
DOUG TISDALE: If I may, I really-- in a Board meeting we really don't get into dialogue with
staff.
JUDY LUBOW: With our staff.
DOUG TISDALE: That said, because we've had a committee meeting to discuss all this. That
said, if Mr. Ford or Mr. Genova is prepared to assay an answer, I won't certainly stop you. So I
give the opportunity. I just want to let folks know that's not typically how we proceed.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
MICHAEL FORD: Obviously, we can always talk and have discussions. That's what we find
ourselves trying to do.
JUDY LUBOW: But can we wait on the decision, or can we have the decision and change it,
dependent on things being able to move forward with a frank discussion.
DOUG TISDALE: Let me recognize General Manager Genova.
DAVE GENOVA: Well, of course, any time we make any service adjustments, they're always
subject to change. If the Board was to approve this, we could certainly have more extended
dialogue with the city and residents and see if there are any other alternatives. I don't know. I
haven't really had a detailed conversation with our service planning team about if they have
looked at other alternatives and what that might look like. But certainly if the Board was to
approve this tonight, we could discuss it again at another time with the Board.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. With the understanding that it would be looked into in a deeper manner.
DAVE GENOVA: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. All right, thank you very much. Sorry to throw that at you
gentlemen.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lubow. Anything further?
JUDY LUBOW: That's all. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. I will take Director Lubow's suggestion one
step further and make a motion to remove this particular route change and leave everything else
intact.

PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, there is a motion to remove, and am I correct in calling this the
Route 228 extension, to remove that extension proposal from the service changes, but that being
the only change. We still would have to vote on the main motion to adopt the service changes.
By voting on the amendment one way or the other does not adopt the service changes. The
motion is to amend by removing the 228 extension. That's a motion to amend by Mihalik, and
the second was Director Catlin. Is there discussion on the motion? The movant may speak to his
motion.
LORRAINE ANDERSON I have that discussion.
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry. Point of order, yes.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: I'd like to speak to that.
JUDY LUBOW: Me too.
DOUG TISDALE: And you may. I'm just pointing out right now we're going to have-- the
discussion is on the motion to amend. If you got in the queue to speak on the main motion, feel
free to pull yourself out. We'll come back to the main motion. The discussion is on the motion to
amend. The chair recognizes the movant.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes. Thank you. With all things, like with all service changes, we can always
revisit this. I think there's just some unknowns. There's some alternatives that have been
presented that have turning it at protected intersections. I think there were some impressive
amount of work done. At least I counted 48 signatures in the document that was presented in
opposition of this. I think there's just a little bit more research that could be done before we
decide on this. That's all.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Director Catlin, you wish to speak to the
motion to amend.
PEGGY CATLIN: I do, and actually Director Mihalik beat me to the punch because I was going
to do exactly the same thing, hoping that based on some of the alternatives that were presented
by the group that we could maybe look at some of those alternatives and come up with a solution
that everybody finds to be amenable.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Director Broom, the discussion is on the
motion to amend.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I'd just like to remind us that we have a process that we've
gone through. Everybody was noticed on this. If you now have side conversations and make a
change to the routing, you're moving it from one person's backyard into somebody else's
backyard, but they're not on notice and they're going to come trooping in here saying what's
going on here? We were under the impression it was going to go down this street, and now

you've changed it on us. I think this is a slippery slope to start down. If it turns out that there are
problems in the neighborhood with safety, then obviously at a next rendition if there's a better
route, it could be moved to the better route. Otherwise, you're just going to put off providing
service to this one community that really needs the service. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Chair Anderson, you're recognized.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I had the same concerns. My concern is
this. This is for January. If we pull this out here and we go through a process, they will not get
bus service until next May. So I'm going to vote against this. I think there's a process that our
staff uses all the time to resolve these kinds of issues with neighborhoods. Making these
decisions at the Board level based on incomplete information, I'm going to vote against. I'm
going to rely on our good staff to go to the neighborhoods and work with them and make sure
that everything is OK. But I don't want to take this out of the January service changes, because
then it will disappear. There won't be bus drivers. There won't be-- there's a whole process for
this. The neighborhood want process. The Board wants process. So I say we pass this and ask the
staff to go back to the neighborhood and go through the process. I won't be voting no on the
amendment.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Chair Anderson. Chair Sisk, you're recognized.
CHUCK SISK: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. As all of you know, this goes through a neighborhood
with which I'm very familiar. I understand the passions that were on display. You say it happens
often in Louisville, and understandably.
I would just say this, that we have been provided with a letter from the Louisville Mayor and
City Council as well as the City Manager requesting the extension of 228. They are aware of
what's happening here. What we're really saying to them is, you don't know your city. We know
your city better. I mean, they're aware of these comments. The mayor and Council made these.
Now, I'm not saying that-- I think we need to look at further concerns. But what has happened is
that the left-hand turn that needs to go on is a protected turn. And what I don't-- I know that
what's happening too is Hecla was built to be a arterial. It's not a residential street.
Now, I understand that there are tremendous inconveniences in terms of the fact that having the
potential of the bus going back and forth. But interestingly enough, I just looked at my email,
and someone from Steel Ranch just sent me an email that said, "Director Sisk, did you know that
in fact there's studies showing that a bus going by your front yard, it actually increases value?
And also, can we have a stop in Steel Ranch?"
I mean, there are these things. I'm really concerned about-- we talk about process. I mean, our
staff went through this and actually had the meetings. Certainly the meetings were advertised.
There was one in Lafayette. There was one in Boulder that I attended. I've got to say that I really
do trust our staff. I trust the fact that the City of Louisville has asked that this route be extended.

Again, what about the people in Kestrel? They're going to have to wait till May. Does that
matter? Are we saying to the 341 residents that their opinions don't count. Because I think that's
really what we're doing. We're listening to a group of very passionate, well-spoken people that
really mean well, and I trust their judgment.
But I think this is where I'm afraid that what we're doing is we're listening to the sounds of
people that came in here tonight instead of looking at the facts. And I really-- I'm not going to
support the motion at all. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Chairman. Director Williams, you're recognized.
DIRECTOR WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. I want to agree with everything that's been said so
far. I have done some work with some people in Boulder around this development. Those people
in Kestrel who predominantly are not able to be here now to speak, because they are transit
dependent, and they are disabled, and they are seniors, and they are low income.
So they're not here to be able to speak on their own behalf predominantly. I think that most of the
time, Jesse in particular, hey Jesse, does a great job at what he does about making routing
possible. I'm inclined to agree with Director Sisk and Director Anderson and Director Broom
that we should let it go through, that we should make some adjustment if necessary or if possible
for the people who did come here to speak against having a bus go past.
I'd like to point out that I raised my child in an inner city environment where the bus went by our
house every day, and it was as far as from me to Director Solano from our front door. I took time
to educate my child not to ever run in the street. The fact that people use their street a lot in a
small town environment is great, but maybe they need to teach their kids not to run in the street.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Williams. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. I definitely understand the concerns of the residents who may have
moved in there not expecting to see a bus in a more neo urban environment with not all of the
amenities, like a bus, just some of them, and then here this is. But I also understand that we all
live in a growing region and that these things happen.
These amenities do, or these services do show up. I am inclined-- well, I won't be supporting the
motion to amend because the city has requested this. It's part of a requirement of our collective
bargaining agreement, and I think we need to hold up our end of the bargain.
Also, I've seen our staff do miracles with making changes or adjustments to planned service
changes to accommodate the wishes of certain segments of a neighborhood, whether it's a
physical impact, or a sensorial impact, or a sensory impact. I would trust the process that we
went through. I'd trust staff to do what I've seen them do dozens of times over the years I've been
here.
I will not be supporting the motion to amend. I will be supporting the recommended action, and I
would expect that they will do their magic. Thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Walker. Vice Chair Menten, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I'm looking at the map again, and this is going southbound on
Hecla Drive. And then what I got with the Boulder County Green White Sheet, that it dead ends
there, and that's where we're going to have the restroom facility, probably at the Senior Center. Is
that what the agreement would be to comply with the CBA?
JESSIE CARTER: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: Is there a bus running up and down what's called here Courtesy Road but
is also the 42.
JESSIE CARTER: 228?
NATALIE MENTEN: 42, sorry.
JESSIE CARTER: I'm sorry. No, currently up and down Courtesy Road there is not.
NATALIE MENTEN: So it veers in. I was just trying to look. I thought that this bus is coming,
OK not currently, but you will be saying it's going to extend down 42.
JESSIE CARTER: Right.
NATALIE MENTEN: Ducks into this neighborhood.
JESSIE CARTER: Right.
NATALIE MENTEN: And then it stops and it's going to have some kind of turn around, and
then it goes somewhere else, whether north or elsewhere.
JESSIE CARTER: It goes back down Courtesy Road.
NATALIE MENTEN: And if we put this off a month?
JESSIE CARTER: You can't. That's one thing that Director Anderson had a nail on the head. At
this point we are at the part where we're supposed to actually be looking at run cutting, which is
where we actually set work up. If you delay this tonight, that means we would have to go back to
the public to look at an alternative, and that could not happen until the May service change.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Yeah, if this Google map had these buildings actually on it, it
would be a lot easier for me to visualize. But these are so new that that makes it difficult. If we
don't have to go through this neighborhood and we just continue down 42, it looks to me like the
Senior Center has an in and an out. Why couldn't we stop on Courtesy Drive then?
JESSIE CARTER: You could stop on Courtesy Drive, but I think the major consideration
shouldn't be forgotten, is that there are a large number of people in devices that are going to have

to cross Courtesy where we've had an issue before. That's probably the biggest rub. I wish we
could look at this in greater detail, because if you go onto Google Maps and you pull the little
gold guy down onto the street and you take a look at what's there, you can kind of see some of
the difficulties in providing accessible stops in the area for the community.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Vice Chair. Director Hoy, Chair Hoy, you are recognized.
LARRY HOY: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. This is certainly complicated and troubling. But I'm
going to tell you that we have, I guess, apparently by testimony, 341 people that are kind of
looking forward to their bus. They have EcoPasses. We've been talking about those for a year.
So now we have 341 new EcoPass users out there. I heard testimony here that people don't like
the bus. I get that. I mean, I don't know, I guess we did hear somebody say, I think it was
Director Sisk, that it might increase values, and please stop it. That's probably because of the
walkability factor. I was thinking about that.
If I had a bus in front of my house, I might enjoy being able to get out there and get on it and get
going. I understand the real dilemma, but I think that I would have to vote against this
amendment because I think it's overwhelming that we have 341 people that probably don't have
the privilege that everybody else has, and they really need service.
I wouldn't discourage further discussion. But I wouldn't want our actions tonight to make those
341 people have to wait until May. That would be my big dilemma. So I'm going to have to vote
against the amendment. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Chair Hoy. The discussion is on the motion to amend.
It is Director Mihalik's motion. You've asked to be recognized, and you are, sir.
KEN MIHALIK: I'm going to, regrettably, withdraw the motion to amend, based on the run
board efforts, and what's required there. But I do want to strongly suggest that the alternatives
that have been presented are fully vetted, because I do see ones that do have protective turns, and
that there may be a better way to accommodate a better solution.
DOUG TISDALE: Regrettably, Director, you are not in a position to withdraw your motion.
That having been said, if the movant and the second seek to withdraw and if there is no objection
from the body, then the motion to amend may be withdrawn. Does the second consent to the
withdrawal?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, and thank you, Director Mihalik, because I've been persuaded.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Is there any objection from the body? That having
been accomplished, there is no motion to amend pending. We proceed to discussion on the main
motion. Is there further discussion on the main motion?

CHUCK SISK: Call to question.
DOUG TISDALE: Call to question has been asked. Is there objection to the calling of the
question? There is objection to the calling the question. We'll take a vote on calling the question.
All those in favor, it's a procedural motion, all those in favor, please indicate by raising your
hand. All those opposed, please indicate by raising your hand. The ayes have it. The question has
been called.
The vote now is on the item as originally presented, which is the January 2019 service changes.
This is without amendment. This is as submitted. It is also, however, with the benefit of the
discussion here tonight and the assurance of General Manager, and our Chief Operating Officer
and our Scheduling Officer, that these issues will be looked at. Respectfully, unless you have a
point of order we're about to proceed to a vote.
[LAUGHTER]
The point of order has been taken. We will now proceed to a vote on the motion to amend the
service changes. Director Broom was our movant. Director Walker was the second. Will the rest
of you please vote. Director Broom and Walker have voted. Now if the rest of you would please
vote.
By a vote of 10 in favor and two opposed, and the record will reflect that the two opposed are
Directors Lubow and Solano, the recommended action for the January 2019 service changes has
passed, together with all the comments and the input provided relative to staff looking at various
alternatives to be addressed and report back to this Board at some appropriate time.
That is all of the recommended actions that we have before us this evening. Is there any old
business that any Director should choose to bring before us. A brave woman. Director Lubow,
please.
Director Walker, you are recognized.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I just want to make sure that we were clear, that the clarification was
taken, that the survey for the end of year evaluation will be October 18th, due October 28th.
When you fill out that survey, if you fill it out on the same device, you will not be taken back. If
you start to fill it out on one device and have to end for some reason, if you start it on that same
device, you will not have to start over again. If you start on a second device, you will be taken
back to the beginning and have to complete the entire survey again. Remember that, and I look
forward to having 100% participation again. That's all I have. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Walker. We appreciate the reminder. Vice
Chair has reminded me that you will recall Directors that you did receive from the Board office,
specifically from our Executive Manager, a copy of the calendar for next year. There are some of
you who will not have to deal with that, and we regret that. Then again, there are others who will
have to deal with that. So please do look at that. Among other things, the Board Only Retreat and
the Board SLT Retreat dates are already set forth. So please take time to look at that.

Is there any new business that any Director has to come before the Board? Chair Sisk, you are
recognized.
CHUCK SISK: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. When will we know as to the meeting in November?
Because I understand we we're tethered on between the 20th and 27th.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. It was the Chair's request that we have an inquiry. We
believe that the upheaval that would be caused by changing the date is not worth it. We will stay
with Tuesday, November 27. That does mean that the chair will be absent. I believe that Vice
Chair Menten will be present, and Vice Chair will have the opportunity then to lead this group
for the Board meeting at that time. So we will hold the Tuesday, November 27 date now.
CHUCK SISK: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Then I had Chair Anderson.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I just wanted to announce under a new
business that there's a new place in Arvada to do your business at the train station. There was a
ribbon cutting today on the public restroom. I'm sure you can find it on YouTube. Have a great
day. It's been interesting.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you so much, Chair Anderson. We all know that somehow on God's
green earth, before you leave this Board, we're going to be with you at the full opening of that
station.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: I certainly hope so, because there will be a place to do your business
if you come to my city.
DOUG TISDALE: Is there any further new business to come before this Board? Seeing no
further business to come before the Board at this time, Chair will entertain a motion to adjourn
the Board meeting. It's moved and seconded. Any discussion? None. All those in favor vote by
saying aye. Aye. Are there any opposed? There are none. That passed unanimously. The Board
stands adjourned at 8:37 PM on Tuesday, October 16. Thank you all.

