2021-06-10
GM Oversight & Performance Management
Committee
VINCE BUZEK: June 10, 2021. I heard that. I'm going to call to order the June 10, 2021 meeting of the
General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee, meeting remotely. I will call the
roll. Vice Chair Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Lewis. Director Catlin. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Chair Rivera-Malpiede. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: It looks like we've got five members of the Committee. So we do have a quorum. John, if
you notice anybody else come in, give me a heads up, would you? So my understanding is we've got the
TransPro team here.
My understanding is we're going to go over a high level review of sorts of the outcome of the strategic
planning session that occurred on June 5 I think. My apologies for not attending. I had an unavoidable
conflict. And when the date was proposed, I knew I couldn't make it. So there you go.
So I know there are a number of questions, comments that people want to make. I talked to nine different
directors after the session to get some input and feedback. And I know there's going to be some
comments and questions.
But Mark, if you want to guys want to do your presentation first, and maybe we'll hold the questions and
comments until the end. Any member of the Committee have any questions or comments before we
start? I see Director Catlin has arrived. Thank you.
Any other directors-- no, that's it. Good. OK, so Mark, if you want to go ahead with the presentation, we'll
defer you now.

MARK AESCH: Super. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And for the committee's benefit, we probably have 15
or 20 minutes' worth of content. So we'll put that in front of you all and then happy to either just step back
and let the directors dialogue or happy to respond to questions or feedback that the committee may have.
Amanda, if you might want to share slides, we can then begin to take the committee into one of the
topics, which you have engaged us for, and that is beginning to prepare your General Manager and
CEO's performance review process.
So want to share with you a little bit in regards to theory and then begin to jump into the actual structure
for the committee's consideration. So three topics that we wanted to put in front of you this evening. The
first is thinking about the General Manager's CEO performance review process and the structure that that
would take.
The second is beginning to share with you a preview of what that tool might look like that we use with
different organizations nationally. And then the third would be the next steps in this process, obviously the
most significant being this committee's input and feedback in regards to the best way to be able to
advance.
So what we're recommending, for the committee's consideration, is a performance review process that
would commence the 1st of July and would run for 18 months through the end of the calendar year of
2022. And then we would begin to get our recommendation would be to get you on an annual process
tied to your year that would begin on January 1 of 2023.
We're simply recommending an 18-month process to get ourselves tied to the year as we go forward. So
this first year would be 18 months. You can see here that there are three elements that would go into the
evaluation process for the General Manager and the CEO.
The first would be objective in nature. It would be based upon success outcomes and delivery of key
performance indicators. Those would be fact-based answers, where the General Manager and CEO
would prescribe to produce a certain level of objective results.
The Board and CEO would align around those results. And there'll be a fact-based answer. It either was
achieved or was not. And all parties will give their feedback in regards to that. But there clearly is an
answer as to whether it was delivered in a manner consistent with what was described at the beginning of
the process.
The second piece of feedback would be subjective in nature. It would be the spirit by which the general
manager and the CEO used those results. So that would be-- 50% of the performance review would be
subjective tied to a set of values of the organization.

And the third would be the CEO and general manager providing reflective feedback on her performance
and the Board providing reflective feedback to the CEO on her performance. So that would be more of a
dialogue, more of a conversation. And I'll share with you some examples in a minute.
Back to the split of 50-50. We're suggesting, as we think about building the structure of this performance
review process for this first period, to split it equally, 50-50. There are some organizations that we work
with that may put 60% to one side or 60% to another side based upon where they stand.
Not uncommon for an organization that is significantly in trouble to think about 65% being performancebased objectively and 35% tied to the values. We're recommending to get the structure stood up to split
those 50-50 at this point but would welcome the committee's consideration and reflection around that
topic.
Next slide. So here-- as we think about these three spaces-- objective, subjective, and then feedback-here are some examples. So an objective outcomes-based results would be to increase the overall net
promoter score. That's quantifiable. There's an answer to that. It either happened or it didn't.
There's a way to, in a fact-based fashion, produce a result which all parties can say, that is the answer.
And then we can provide feedback in regards to the result. The middle column is subjective in nature. It's
possible that you would have a value around transparency and data.
And so that could be a value of the organization. The CEO would provide her perspective as to how she
embraces that value. And the Board would subjectively provide their feedback in regards to the CEO's
culture and the way that she engages in delivering that particular value.
And you can see here that's the spirit of engagement by which the CEO executes to be able to deliver
those results. And then finally, the third column are much more general feedback and open-ended
questions. I'm going to share with you some examples in a second.
But it's really questions that you're inviting your General Manager and your CEO to reflect on for the
course of the coming year, things that hopefully all parties come to with good faith with an effort to help
the CEO deliver even greater value to the community and to the organization.
So objective on the left-hand side, subjective in the middle, and then reflective in regards to the right-hand
side for all parties to think through how they can improve performance. So the first step in this process is
the General Manager's-CEO's self-evaluation.
So the way this typically works in clients with which we engage is the left-hand column is that objective
outcomes-based result. Most boards, just as you would in regards to having an independent financial
audit, turn to a third party to verify the delivery of those outcomes. The Board doesn't want to rely simply
upon management's presentation of those outcomes.

You really want a third party to be able to say, the net promoter score is x, or the financials are y, or the
employee net promoter score is z. You want to be able to have confidence in the veracity of those
outcomes. The middle column, the CEO provides her thoughts on values adherence.
Examples of where she may have been living those values and examples of where she would like to do
better or she thinks about going forward. It is subjective in nature. And so the CEO starts with sharing her
thoughts as to how she worked during the course of the year to embrace those particular values or wants
to subscribe to do better.
And then finally, the third column, the general feedback and open-ended questions, the General Manager
reflects on those questions and gives the Board a sense as to where her thinking is in regards to those
particular topics. So the process begins with that third party verification of results and then the CEO going
through that self-evaluative process, which is then shared with the Board.
The next step is where the Board takes over. And so the Board will receive the objective fact-based
results but then is invited to provide feedback in regards to those results. So the results are the results.
There's not a debate over the facts. The net promoter score is x. The financials are y.
But the Board is able to provide feedback. And I'll share some examples of some questions where the
Board provides feedback to the CEO in regards to those results. The middle column, subjective in nature,
this is where the Board weighs, in a collective fashion, in regards to the spirit by which the CEO was
engaging in producing those results.
I think I've used with this Board the example of Enron previously, where they were producing the objective
results, but they were lying. And so the spirit by which they do that is so critically important. And it's why
we recommend that a third party actually verify those outcomes on the left-hand side.
And then finally, in step two, the Board shares its collective feedback on those reflective questions that I
was speaking of at the outset, questions for the CEO to think on in regards to how they may enhance
their performance and provide greater value to community customers and employees.
The next step is the formal evaluation process. This is where all of the various Board responses-- the
feedback to the objective results, the feedback to the subjective values, and then the responses in
regards to the feedback for the CEO's consideration-- is aggregated into a comprehensive report.
Typically, there will be themes that emerge amongst the way the Board will respond. And that is
aggregated into a common voice, which is then presented by the Board Chair to the General Manager
and CEO. So the Board's thinking is aggregated into one voice and then presented by the Board Chair to
the General Manager and CEO for a dialogue that takes place in regards to the themes that come back
from the Board in each of those three columns that I was describing.

Finally, the last step is the criticality of actually establishing the outcomes for the next year. It's a cyclical
process. And so typically, as we complete the performance review for the past year, we are setting the
outcomes for the future year. We want to agree, as the, quote unquote, "season begins," what the
outcomes are that the Board is looking for so that your CEO can think about a business plan, think about
the budget that will be necessary to fund that work plan, think about what are the KPIs need to be
adjusted and reprioritized in a different way to produce the outcomes upon which the CEO will be
evaluated.
The outcomes that we're recommending, at this point-- and I would, again, suggest that we think more
about the structure than the details-- is a structure around four outcomes, which this committee has seen
previously-- one of community value, one of customer excellence, one of employee ownership, and one
of financial success.
I'm not going to repeat the right-hand side. You've seen it before. And the Board had a debate in regards
to the Customer Excellence column in regards to, essentially, a volume ridership discussion and a value,
a quality discussion in regards to experience.
Our recommendation for the CEO's performance review is that we really think about that from a quality
perspective because that's most under the CEO's control, the ability to enhance the quality of the
experience. Clearly this past year, ridership plummeted.
That would not be due to the CEO's experience by any stretch. It's she does have amongst her control to
build the structure to be able to drive the quality of experience, whether there's a pandemic or not. So
these would be the objective outcomes that we would think about for the CEO's performance review
starting in July through December of next year.
Three components to this-- so as we think about the objective component in regards to quality, it could be
to improve the net promoter score by a certain percentage, which is what we're suggesting. The outputs-and this is where I want to spend a second so that the Board can think on this in regards to the discussion
that took place on Saturday of quality and volume.
While we're recommending that the outcome by which the CEO would be evaluated is quality, the net
promoter score, we certainly are going to be measuring, in regards to the metrics, the outputs of that
process-- ridership. Volume, of course, matters. And so that would be one of the key KPIs, which the
management team and the CEO would be reporting on on a quarterly basis to the Board because it
certainly matters.
Other examples of those metrics would be on time performance, or operating cost per hour, or customers
per hour in regards to productivity. There are a number of KPIs that are critical to producing the outcome.
The CEO is simply being measured by the outcome of a higher quality experience.

And then finally, there's a number of inputs, inputs which actually drive the outputs. It's having a quality
preventive maintenance program. It might be the purchase of greenhouse gas-friendly vehicles. It could
be professional development training for operators to improve their on-time performance.
There's a number of inputs which drive the outputs to produce the ultimate outcome by which the CEO
would be evaluated, which is customer satisfaction. Long way of suggesting, of course volume matters.
And it would show up here in the KPI structure. Let me take this thought just a little bit deeper and give
you a sense of what a performance scorecard would look like to produce those outcomes.
So you can see here in this example, there's probably 30 different KPIs. I'm not going to focus you on the
details of it. We'll show that to you as we go forward. The point being, ridership will show up here. There
will be a goal that is associated with that.
And it's prioritized. So you can see, as we kind of double click into the customer excellence category of
the performance dashboard, ridership will absolutely live there. The goal will be to increase it a certain
level. There is a definition of that particular KPI.
And you can see in the right-hand column there's an information source. There's a piece of where the
data would come from to be able to populate that particular component. So I want to be clear on this
whole point. While we're suggesting that quality is the outcome which your CEO has most control,
ridership is very much going to show up in the performance scorecard and will be one of the key factors
that is reported to the Board and prioritized, as you can see here, in this performance dashboard.
That's the objective side of the house. The subjective side of the house is in regards to the spirit of
engagement. And I'll do this quickly because many of the Board members have seen this. The
organization is suggesting that there would be six values that would show up in regards to the CEO's and
her management team and all employees' performance and spirit by which they operate as employees of
the organization-- passion, respect, diversity, trustworthiness, collaboration, and ownership.
Some of the Board members may know that you provided us with some feedback in regards to this. And
you'll note that the word customers shows up in several of these values based upon the feedback that
you provided on Saturday to your CEO and certainly to us as the team supporting your CEO. So these
are the subjective values, which we're suggesting would be part of the CEO's performance review.
The reflective questions, the questions by which the CEO would evaluate herself in providing thinking to
the Board as she goes through a self-reflective process. And then the questions by which the Board
would provide feedback to the CEO through this reflective process.
Again, I'm not going to read them to you. But you can get a sense. The greatest strengths that the
General Manager brings. The three areas which the CEO might develop their skills to bring greater value.
Questions that you might invite the CEO to reflect on for the course of the coming year.

What are the things that you would invite her to think on a little bit? Are there additional behaviors that
she might introduce that would enhance her effectiveness to bring value? And how might she adjust her
approach in regards to the community, customers, and workforce? What are adjustments that you might
urge her to think on?
These are those reflective questions which you would be providing for your CEO to reflect on in regards
to the coming year. So let me take you into the structure of this. This would be a digital wizard. So it
would begin, step one, as I suggested, would be the third party providing the actual objective facts in
regards to the production of the outcomes.
The CEO would go through the self-reflective process, and then the Board would engage. The middle
column, you can see here, is a screenshot of this digital example, where there would be an objective
answer in regards to the outcomes. And then the Board would be invited, as would the CEO, to provide
some feedback in regards to those objective results.
The facts are the facts. But there still would be the opportunity for feedback there. The column to the
right, you can see the screenshot is in regards to providing feedback in regards to each of the subjective
values the way the Board sees the CEO executing against the outcomes by which they are evaluating
her.
And then the third category of the evaluation, and the screenshot you can see here, is the more openended and reflective questions that I was sharing with you previously. So three components to this-objective, subjective, and feedback.
And that essentially would all be done, again, in a digital environment for the Board to be able to
aggregate into one common report, which the Chair would then present and have a dialogue with the
CEO, as I was suggesting. So the next step in this process is today, inviting the GMOC to provide
feedback to us that we might reflect on as we advance forward.
Over the next several weeks would be to finalize both the content and the structure. And you'll recall I
urged us at the outset to really think this first year about getting the structure set up. And then we begin,
as we go forward, to enhance on the content.
The end of this month, for the full Board to consider the GMOC's recommendations and for the Board to
adopt the outcomes and process for the CEO's evaluation. And then by the end of the month, for the
Chair to formally share with the General Manager and the CEO the criteria by which she will be evaluated
over the course of the next 18 months.
Mr. Chairman, I promised 15 to 20. I think I hit the upper end of that. But I think I still succeeded at 20.
And I will stop and be happy to let the Board have conversation amongst itself or happy to respond to
questions and provide feedback at your pleasure.

VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks a lot, Mark. I appreciate the presentation. I also know that Director Lewis
is with us. Director Guissinger is with us. I don't know if Director Rosenthal is here. Paul, are you here? I
don't see you, OK.
In any event, OK, so I see some-- so I want to open this up for questions and comments not just limited to
this presentation. But if anybody has any thoughts they want to bring forward with regard to the June 5th
strategic planning session, I'd like you to do that as well too.
And I see Director Lewis is first up. Go ahead, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a few clarifying questions, if that's all right with you,
Mark. On packet page four-- well, it might not be four. But it's titled Achieving a Balance-- Objective
Versus Subjective. General feedback and open-ended questions-- in that last column, were you
referencing-- I guess I didn't understand the who in this.
The Board would provide feedback? The community would provide feedback or the CEO? In this general
feedback and open-ended questions?
MARK AESCH: Yeah, great question. Thanks for the opportunity to clarify. So Amanda, could you take us
to the Outcomes slide, if you would? I just need it for 30 seconds to kind of set the stage for this. And then
I'll respond specifically to the question.
Beautiful. Thank you so much. So Director, thanks for the question. So in regards to the first column of
which I was speaking, that objective fact-based outcomes process, you can see here that some of that is
tied specifically to community value. That we would be one of the outcomes.
There will be an objective fact in regards to how the community sees value from the leadership of your
CEO. The customer has a voice through the net promoter score. So the customer's voice will be brought
to bear. And then finally, the employee net promoter score, the workforce's voice will be brought to the
table in regards to that objective column.
Amanda, you can take us full screen now. So to answer your question specifically, the second column,
the subjective values-based response comes specifically from the Board based upon your being able to
understand, from the objective results, the community's voice, the customer's voice, and the employee's
voice.
You as a Director will be informed by those facts as you think about providing, as a Board member and a
Director, that subjective column and then the third column, the feedback column, for the CEO to reflect
on. It was a great question. Did I hopefully answer it as well as well as you formed the question?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, no, you did a great job. Thank you so much. That helps. And I just have one
more question. Packet page 11, which it may not be because I am so sorry. It says, performance

evaluation tool review. And I was just curious as to, for example, it says here, safety-- the CEO has made
the safety of our passengers, our employees, and the general public are top priority.
You give her some-- if you agree or disagree with that or somewhere in between. And there would be an
opportunity to provide an actual comment. So if you disagreed or if you agreed, I can expound on why I
might have given that metric to provide her with that that metric.
MARK AESCH: Absolutely. So for each of the three columns, even the fact-based side, which is objective
in nature-- so let me just give an example. So let's assume that the committee and the Board ultimately
align around an outcome of customer experience, the net promoter score.
And the answer is the answer, right? So there'll be a fact-based answer to that. The Board will still be
invited to provide your thoughts and feedback in regards to customer experience. You will absolutely be
invited to provide feedback. The same in regards to the values side.
So you will score, if you will, in regards to each of those values that we presented to you. And then you'll
provide your thinking behind that. You'll be able to provide your thoughts beyond simply filling out the little
bubble. And then the last column, which is the reflective questions comment, those are all simply you
providing your thoughts.
There are no little bubbles to populate or anything of the sort. It's actually your words providing reflective
feedback to the CEO.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, and then final question-- the Board in step two, the Board evaluation of the CEO,
in that third column, it says, general feedback and open-ended questions. That is the Board would be
sharing feedback of the reflective questions that the General Manager has first reflected on. Is that
correct?
MARK AESCH: The way I would describe that is we want to make sure that the Board is informed by how
the CEO sees that. You may see it from a completely different perspective. And I will share with you,
Director Lewis, there are some-- and I see this quite frequently.
There are a number of CEOs that when they do their self-evaluation, they might grade themselves a little
more harshly than some Board members will.
SHONTEL LEWIS: True.
VINCE BUZEK: And there are some CEOs that grade themselves a little more modestly than they might.
And there are directors who may weigh in in a different way than the CEO may see themselves. But the
key there is you're simply informed by the way the CEO sees this.

You are free to provide your thoughts, which may be positively or negatively divergent from the way the
CEO sees themselves.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, this is-- I promise, Mark, this is my final question. So the CEO would first give her
reflections? Have you seen in your experience where because we're first reviewing the reflections of the
CEO that maybe are what we would have said or is different than what we've said because we've already
read the CEO's reflection. Does that make sense?
MARK AESCH: Yeah, I think I'm following your question. And the answer is maybe. So I think sometimes,
because the CEO does live in the organization and works there 250 hours a month. That's her profession.
That's what she does.
She is going to maybe provide, in her self-reflective process, perhaps some things that you as a Director
hadn't thought of when you were thinking of that particular value. And you may see it in a different light
once you've read her self-reflective comments. There are other directors who have really thought this
through and have reflected on the topic and appreciate the way the CEO views that particular issue.
But they view it through a different lens. And that's why it's so critical that we have an objective portion,
which is fact based, and the subjective portion, which is people providing their thinking and their views.
There really isn't a, quote, "wrong answer" in the subjective portion. It's how people perceive it to be.
And so some directors may see it differently based upon the CEO self-evaluation and some may not. It
really depends on how typically how seriously the CEO takes the self-evaluation process.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure. Well, I appreciate this format. As far on what you all have been able to design, I
have a great appreciation for it. And I am less nervous-- I maybe have less concerns with the subjective
and objective pieces of that because I think it really provides some balance in our approach. And so thank
you so much for this work.
I may have more questions as the conversation continues, but that's all I have for now.
VINCE BUZEK: All right, thank you Director Lewis. Director Dishell, you're next.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you so much, Director Buzek and Mark. And I apologize. I am in transit. Can
you guys hear me? Yes?
VINCE BUZEK: We hear you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Sort of?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.

BOBBY DISHELL: Can you hear me? OK, great. I appreciate the subjective-objective split. I think I would
be inclined, especially as we are in a crisis mode, to lean more towards that 65-35. While it is our first
year, we have a serious need.
And I think having a subjective-objective throughout the agency is important. I don't know that the net
promoter score or the objective pieces are truly directly aligned with our ability to evaluate someone on
the subjective piece. And there might really be just too much latitude.
I think if we were to say, oh, well, it's the director's responsibility to make sure that customers,
stakeholders, and colleagues, who are mentioned throughout our values, are well fit. Or we think that the
CEO is meeting their goal. But I think sort of a protection of the CEO and of the Board would be to find a
way, whether to do some sort of 360 review.
That's how we fill out a similar review so that we have data from our represented employees, from our
unrepresented employees, from customers, from stakeholders on how they think the CEO is adhering to
values as well. Just because the current objective metrics I, don't know if they really meet those same
needs.
MARK AESCH: I think it's a good point that you raise. I think, as we go further into the process, it is
certainly easily designable to bring those voices to the table and to the discussion of the KPIs that might
live within the dashboard to produce the outcomes, which the CEO would be evaluated on.
I think the topics that you're raising in regards to the organizational values are exactly the kind of thing we
could think about more deeply as to whether some of those should be KPIs in the performance scorecard.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks, Mark. And the other piece I would raise is especially with a subjective
component, while I am typically advocating for us as a Board to do fewer things, I would advocate for us
to possibly do that subjective feedback quarterly just because people are subjective as hard as we try.
And memory works in a certain way.
And if there's a big event that happens before we fill out that review, that will inevitably unduly skew
possibly 17 months of work for one month of crisis. And Mark, how is that sort of played out in other
places?
MARK AESCH: It's a good question that you raise. And it's why we push so hard to have a Board
evaluate their CEO with objective-based facts so that the CEO is not subjugated if-- let me think of the
word-- is not relegated-- probably the better word-- to the latest newspaper article or the latest audit that
some agency might choose to do.
And so everybody views it through the latest headline. And so I think the concern you raise is an
appropriate one, which is why that outcomes-based component, which is fact based, is so critical. I think
we could think on a more informal way for the Board to provide feedback on the subjective side of the
conversation to your CEO.

I do think you would want to not make that binding in nature. It would simply be more informal. And I think
we could think about the structure to deliver that. I will say to the question, which I think it's what you
ultimately asked, we've not seen that done before. So this is typically an annual process.
We're simply recommending 18 months because of your new CEO starting and to get us onto the
calendar year as we go forward. But it is typically annual. And we've not seen it done quarterly. That
being said, I think we could reasonably figure out an informal way to create sort of snapshot feedback to
your CEO on the values.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I think [INAUDIBLE] informal would be great, even for our own sake, right?
Sometimes I engage in reflective processes, and I'm shocked at what I wrote 2 quarters ago, last month,
2 months ago. So I would definitely advocate, even if it is informal, for us to have some sort of way to
more regularly reflect on this 50% and on each person being 6 and 12%, 6.7%. That's a lot to be that
subjective without other benchmarks and milestones.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Dishell. Does that conclude your comments?
BOBBY DISHELL: It does. Thank you so—
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, and thank you. And I agree with what you said. I hope you bring these back up on
the 26th as well. Thanks. Because we do three things that are critically important-- We set the strategic
goals of the agency. We hire a General Manager. And we evaluate a General Manager.
Those are our three biggest tasks as directors. So it's what we're doing here. And it's really important that
we get it right. So anyway, Chair of Rivera-Malpiede, you're next.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Mark, you had mentioned something about a third
party. Can you talk a little bit about that? What is that? And who is that? And how does it fit in?
MARK AESCH: Yeah, it's a good question. And for a number of our clients that we work with on the
strategic planning and the CEO performance review process-- large organizations, mid-sized
organizations, and the like-- we will do that on the Board's behalf. Function is that third party.
And the way I would describe it, Madam Chair, is that it's not unlike your financial auditor, who goes
through the books of that the CFO reports to you on a monthly and a quarterly basis. It's an objective third
party, on behalf of the Board, that verifies are the outcomes that the CEO is being evaluated on being
achieved? Is there a truth behind them?
And so we've seen it done by accounting firms in some cases. As I said, we've done it, in other cases. But
it's, I think particularly when you're tying compensation to this as well as the CEO's performance, I think
as several of the voices have suggested already, making certain that there is an objective third party be
on the voice of management, ensuring that those results have been produced is critically important.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So you see it as an outside entity.
MARK AESCH: Yes, ma'am.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you.
MARK AESCH: I should say, that's best practice. We certainly see clients that self-report. You can do
that. As one who serves on several boards myself, I always insist on having a third party verify the CEO
and the presidents for the boards that I sit on.
VINCE BUZEK: Madam Chair, does that conclude your questions and comments for now?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It does, Mr. Chair. Thank you so much.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, thank you. Director Cook, you're next.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. OK, I got to rehearse what I said there. So I first wanted to quickly piggyback on
something that Chair Rivera-Malpiede had said. And just to ask, are you the third party that you
referenced? Because you had mentioned in a breakout session that you have been separately engaged
to develop part of the index.
So is the third party you're talking about here TransPro?
MARK AESCH: No, there's been no conversation around any of that.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, good. Let's see. A couple quick questions. On the aggregating-- this had come out
previously-- different GM. Is the aggregated review approved by the GMOC? That's the first question. The
review that the Chair provides to the GM, is that approved in its final form or presentation to the GM?
MARK AESCH: I don't know that I've ever been asked that question. So I guess I would defer to how the
Board wants to design the process. But typically, there is an aggregated report of the Board's themes and
responses that is aggregated into one voice that is provided to the Board and the CEO-- I'm sorry-- and
the Chair presents to the CEO.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, so to the extent, we haven't decided that yet. I'll just say that it would be my
preference that the GMOC do approve that. And then kind of along the same lines, are all of the individual
subjective reviews, if not the objective parts, reflected as well as that aggregated one in how you're laying
this out?
Does the GM get to see the individual comments and/or reviews from all the Board members
participating?

MARK AESCH: We would not advise that. It is typically the aggregated report of the Board, which goes to
the Chair to present to the CEO.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, would just reinforce the need in my view for the GMOC to approve what is
reflected to the General Manager. No hit against our current chair at all, or any chair, that just thinking
that better thinking with many hands in that mix.
OK, the next thing is I agree with Director Dishell's point. And I think previously Director Sloan had
brought up the idea of a kind of mid-term review, a 6-month review. And for the reasons that Director
Dishell cited, I think that's a good idea.
Not only do you want to avoid that availability heuristic, where whatever happened most recently kind of
looms large, but to go the other direction, too, to make sure that if things are going awry that there's
regular touching base with the GM to avoid that, hopefully, so that she gets a more timely-- maybe it
could be every 6 months if every quarter is too little.
But I just wanted to add support for that piece. On the ridership-- so you had mentioned that can be
prioritized. And how are the targets that relate to that set? Are they suggested? Are they suggested by
the Board, by the GM?
Who comes up with this specific weighting and targeting on that? You had indicated a little bit about that,
but I wanted to ask more.
MARK AESCH: Sure. So I think I had suggested to the Board on Saturday that by definition, all authority
on all topics sits with the Board. And so if the Board wants to impose prioritization and if the Board wants
to impose goals and if the Board wants to impose the structure, all of that authority lives with the Board.
In a high functioning organization, that is typically led by the management team. And the goals are set by
the management team and recommended to the Board. The outcomes are prioritized by the management
team and recommended to the Board.
The KPIs are recommended by the management team to the Board for consideration. And then there's a
dialogue that takes place. And that is how you land on the outcomes of the organization and the KPIs by
which you will measure whether or not the management team is positioning the organization to produce
those outcomes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thanks. And then just one last on that ridership. If you recall, the dots reflected a
prioritization of that, not just within the customer excellence category but overall. When we went ahead
and had the colored dots, that one was top most.
To the extent it is one of several metrics, even if it's prioritized, a worry I have is that the way that's
perceived is that it's not supporting regional goals, community goals. And I'd like us to be an agency. I

mean, I guess if I could add a value, it would be that we'd be an agency that supports regional and
community goals.
And the ridership metric and goal, or whatever its technical problems, at least reflected that because
we've got the Accountability Committee. And we've got the legislature and the media, all who focus on
this, on ridership, and the great hit we've taken, and wanting us to work toward recovering to the extent
we can, the people we've lost, at least.
So I think I am kind of ruing the fact that we do not have it as prominently placed as a success outcome.
But if we can't do that, at least making sure that we report it, that we focus on a target that is in keeping
with what the region wants us to do and what we should be doing to accomplish things like climate goals
and so forth.
So anyway, those are all of my questions and comments. Thank you Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Cook. Director Bouquet, I think you're up next.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much. I did notice CEO/GM Johnson raised her hand. I don't know if
she would want to respond directly prior to me speaking.
DEBRA JOHNSON: No, I just-- Mr. Chair, I just want to ensure that I have a conversation recognizing that
I'm a vital point, a part of this discussion, and I just wanted to ensure that I'd have an opportunity to speak
after all the directors spoke. So thank you very kindly.
VINCE BUZEK: Absolutely. We'll put you in the queue there. Director Bouquet, go ahead.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Thank you. So just a couple of questions, Mark. And the first one is-- it's
going to be a lot based off of slide 11. Our organizational scorecard, is this the finalized organizational
scorecard or just an example?
MARK AESCH: Yeah, simply an example. So we're building that with management as we speak. But it is
important to note that the scorecard can't be finalized until we've aligned up on the outcomes that we
want to produce, right? We measure what will allow us to be successful.
So we have to establish what success looks like to be able to know what should we measure and how
should we prioritize it.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, so it is still a living document, OK. Yeah, so that was just going to be kind of my
question regarding-- so I'm looking at the Information System column regarding community survey versus
performance data. Just out of curiosity, and this might be-- well, was it your team, Mark, that was
developing the metrics? Or is this from senior leadership?

MARK AESCH: I would say yes. So we work with them in a collaborative way to establish that. And I
think, again, to the point if we land on what the community values in an objective, statistically valid way,
then that will drive the KPIs that we would ultimately structure.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, so if you wouldn't mind me asking, just kind of based on what we're seeing
originally-- I know it is a working document. Because I just kind of have an answer regarding why maybe
survey information, either customer survey, community survey, employee survey.
I see that is a lot of the lists of the information system compared to performance data because I just kind
of have an answer regarding maybe why survey was-- I see this in a lot of the columns. And I only see a
couple of them regarding performance data.
Just for the record, if you just kind of explain why there's a lot of survey data. And is that just based on the
methodology that we're going to go with where we're going to be doing a lot of surveying. We're going to
be collecting a lot of information. And there just might not be that much performance data.
Or was it that we are kind of shifting more. We want to know from the survey data compared to that of
performance data, if that kind of makes sense. I can clarify that, too.
MARK AESCH: No, I totally understand your question. And it's a good question. So in regards to thinking
about ourselves as a service-based business-- we are in the business of delivering a service. We provide
transportation to people. That's what we do.
What we work to establish and what the management team is proposing to the Board for consideration is
that the outcome, which we care about, is more satisfied customers. That's what we care about. Now to
the point of some of the directors' questions, we'd also like to have more of them.
But we do want to make sure that we serve great coffee so that more people will come to our coffee shop.
And so the outcome we're recommending is better coffee. That comes from three factors. The first, the
only person who can decide if they're satisfied or not is the customer.
They are the voice that needs to be brought to bear in a statistically valid, objective way. So not in an
episodic way based upon the four or five people that might call or write a letter or do what they do. So
what you will ultimately see, Director, to your question is in the customer space specifically-- but the
example will be the same for others-- is the customer gets to pick and prioritize the five, or six, seven
elements of their experience that will cause them to be more satisfied.
And then we will compare the agency's actual operating performance against the way the customer
prioritizes those compared to the customer's impression of those very same metrics. So for example-and I'll stop after this-- let's assume that your customer prioritizes on-time performance as the most
important element to drive their satisfaction level.

You will see a KPI, which suggests actual on-time performance and the customer's impression of on-time
performance because both drive the net promoter score, which is the ultimate outcome by which your
CEO would be evaluated.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, perfect. And just as kind of a follow-up question behind that, would we as a
Board kind of see what the analytics or the process is to developing these surveys? So I mean, it's
brought up a lot of points I've heard. It's like, we survey our customers but not necessarily our potential
customers or not necessarily people who rode RTD and decided not to come back.
And they might not have had a chance to ever be surveyed. And then just the last point off that. You
mentioned-- basically, if when we get complaints, are those complaints kind of factored into the overall
surveys as well? When you said kind of episodic, that's what I kind of interpreted that as, hey, if we're
doing really well with the surveys-- and this might be a little bit lost in the weeds.
And we might be going a little ahead of ourselves. Just under clarification, we will have a breakdown of all
the surveys and how that's processed, OK.
MARK AESCH: It is. I would just invite you as a Board to really think about, how do you manage, as a
Board, against the outcomes which you want to see produced and empower your CEO and her
management team to design the execution of that.
And so it becomes problematic, having watched this, when a Board wants to get involved-- well, you
didn't phrase question seven the right way. And if you had done it this way, it would have been-- and so
really thinking about how does the Board ensure that the CEO is producing the outcomes which you care
about-- hence to the point that I was asked earlier with the Director.
That's where that third party, regardless of who you engage to do it, is so critical to make sure that the
facts truly are the facts.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Sure. All right, appreciate it. And then final question, I swear. And then this-- what
we've laid out as our four main outcomes and how we've ranked our four main outcomes. Just to clarify,
this is to December 31, 2022. And then after that, is it-- OK. It's a whole new process.
MARK AESCH: Well, a whole new process in that—
JULIEN BOUQUET: Or-- excuse me. A potentially new outcomes.
MARK AESCH: Totally, yes, absolutely. So once you have defined-- we're recommending 18 months
because we're trying to build the structure with structure [INAUDIBLE] in place. You have a new CEO. So
our recommendation for your consideration is this first cycle would be 18 months, where we build the
structure to be performance driven rather than to respond to latest and loudest.

So to get this structure stood up so that the CEO has absolute clarity by which the outcomes by which
she'll be evaluated. And then we would get ourselves, meaning the Board, under a 12-month process
going forward. And absolutely, I expect you'll establish new outcomes at that point because we're going to
have tons more data to inform us as to what those outcomes should be.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Just kind of need that for the record. Thank you, Mark.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Bouquet, for those questions and comments. Director Catlin, you're
up next.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. A couple of things that I wanted to comment on. One, Mark, you
were talking about just getting the structure in place. This is quite a departure from what we've seen in the
past. So I think-- I speak for myself. But it's going to take some getting used to. And I think we need some
time to kind of think through some of this stuff and distill it. And so I really do appreciate the fact that we
are starting now. And then we will have good data as we see through the next 18 months.
The other comment-- I mean, it's a little tough because we haven't seen this of structure before. And I do
appreciate that we are putting some real definite.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Catlin, you're kind of difficulty to hear.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can't—
VINCE BUZEK: You're cutting in and out, Peggy.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm sorry. I just had IT work on my tablet. Is this a little better?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: A little, a little.
PEGGY CATLIN: Huh, well, I spent 3 hours on this today in hopes that I would have some improvement.
If you can hear me now, I'm trying to get as close as I can to the device. Can you hear me?
VINCE BUZEK: You kind of cut in and out. We can hear you occasionally.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, rather than getting so close to this device that I'm eating it, I'm going to do my best
here. But I really appreciate the structure and moving toward a more performance-based approach. And I
agree with Director Dishell that we may want to weight a little more heavily the objective against the
subjective.
But the other thing I wanted to mention with regard to interim feedback or interim results, we as a GMOC
have an opportunity to provide that on a monthly basis. And I think that we should take the opportunity to

have that ongoing dialogue with our GM/CEO on a monthly basis as we meet as the GMOC. That's all I
have.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Catlin. Appreciate it. Let's see. I'm going to go to Director Guissinger.
She hasn't spoken yet. Director Guissinger, go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thanks, Mark. This was a really helpful addition to what
we did Saturday to sort of see where it goes.
I'm wondering about the surveys and a couple of questions. If this sort of standard parameters of the
survey, or descriptors of the surveys, that in terms of numbers of people and margin of error and how you
control those things, I assume you're measuring two different groups when you go back out to measure
the second time.
So if you could describe those to me. I guess that's the first question.
MARK AESCH: Sure. So we specifically happen to measure customer satisfaction for a number of
agencies nationally. There are other folks who do it as well. The process that we use-- I could go into
great detail. I'm not going to make a customer satisfaction presentation.
But essentially, statistically valid to a factor of within 5%. We approach the customer rather than the
customer approaching us. So it's critical that we avoid the episodic, where people that are more likely to
be promoters or more likely to be detractors. We're approaching the customer. We approach real
customers.
So we're actually talking to people that are on board, have walked into our coffee shop, if you will, and
have purchased a cup of our coffee. So we talk to real folks to ensure that we do it in a statistically valid
way based upon route, based upon day parts, based upon weekend use, et cetera, et cetera.
I'm trying to think of what else that you asked me. So all of that is put into bear. It's certainly conceivable
based upon a customer base that we might talk to the same person a second, or third, or a fourth time.
But the odds of that would be pretty remote.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, thanks. And then with respect to the community value, you're also doing a
general community survey. Nonriders or investors is a term that I think was used that I like. And I think I
expressed to you this a little bit of this in the small group that I have some concern in such a big district
that you're going to talk to people who really don't know, maybe don't care, or maybe even are being
swayed by the latest press reports.
Do you just have to accept that and hope that-- I guess, just what are your thoughts on that?
MARK AESCH: So I think your concern is an appropriate one. But it will give us a statistically valid sense
of not simply to people that you as directors and represent might hear from, but the voice of people whom

you don't hear from. And to your point of investors, the folks that are contributing and the things that are
important to them, they may not be in touch with you as a Board member.
But these are the factors that are important to them and the way that they think about it. I would point out,
and I think I said this on Saturday to the Board, but I'll repeat. We would not recommend to this Board, or
any other, or your management team that you make policy decisions based upon one piece of data.
So we're going to establish what the community values in a statistically valid way. We're going to
establish what your customer values in a statistically valid way. But that's going to give us one snapshot
in time. And we should want to have at least two and perhaps even three pieces of insight to be able to
see, clearly, this is where people's heads are.
Clearly, this is what people prioritize. You don't hear the same thing three times and not need to be hit
with a hammer that that's what the truth is. So we will take the first piece of data and consider it to be
insightful. Once we have a second and then a third, that clearly is telling us something.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, thank you. We lose our Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think so.
LYNN GUISSINGER: He was coming in and out. He was texting me the other night that he was coming in
and out. So—
JULIEN BOUQUET: Marjorie, your time to shine.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You're muted.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You're muted, Marjorie. Still muted.
MARJORIE SLOAN: OK, I had lost control of my screen, too. There's something in the atmosphere today.
And I was not keeping up with the pace of the hands up. So Chair Rivera-Malpiede, I will call on you next.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Vice Chair. So I want to address this directly to Second
Vice Chair Cook about the process. And Shelley, as you know, when we first got on the Board and we did
the evaluation of the General Manager, as I recall it, the entire Board did the evaluation.
And then it was the GMOC who got the information. And then I believe the Chair met with the General
Manager. And then the General Manager was able to respond and come back to the GMOC for a final
evaluation. And I'd like to ask Ms. McManus if that's correct or if I'm forgetting something.
But I'm thinking that's exactly what would happen this time as well.
BARBARA MCMANUS: That's correct.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, I just want to make sure that people understand that this is a
collaborative and communicative process. It's not just one person talking to one person. It is the collective
of the entire 15-member Board of Directors. All right, thank you.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you, Chair. Is the person who called in with the last two digits of 68 our
Chair?
VINCE BUZEK: It is, Madam Vice Chair. And you're doing a wonderful job. I can't see anything. I can't
see anything. So if you want to continue, I'll just want to make some comments and have some questions
whenever my turn can come. Thanks.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Great. And there are a few hands up. Director Lewis, if you don't mind, I am going to
call on Director Cook. So I believe she has a response about that last issue. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Madam Vice Chair. And yes, that I recall was similar. That was what I think
did happen. The extent that what's reflected in that one-on-one meeting is subjective. I just thought it
would add a little bit of a-- I don't know-- more robust presentation that would reflect what the GMOC had
said, yes, that's exactly what needs to be reflected.
It would pull in sort of the collective view of the important points. And it would, in my view, be fair to the
Chair as well. So if I recall, we had concerns about that particular piece. But I would let other people
weigh in on it as well. OK, that's all. Thank you so much for that second bite.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you. And Director Lewis, you're on.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I actually had a process question. So I will let Director Buzek go. And it might be able
to get straightened. And then we can come back to me if it doesn't get answered.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Sounds good, but first we'll check with Chair Rivera-Malpiede. Did you have your
hand up again?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, I forgot to take it down. I'm sorry, Madam Vice Chair. Taking it-- hold
on. There it goes. Sorry.
MARJORIE SLOAN: OK. Chair Buzek, you're on.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Vice Chair. And I'm also trying to connect to Zoom while I'm doing this.
So if I come in, I'll go to the Zoom. But anyway, I live in a transit desert and also an internet desert,
apparently. So my apologies for dropping off like that.

So I had a question. And my general understanding-- and I apologize for having had to have missed the
planning session. And I thank Mark for having his staff reach out to me to offer to speak to me about it.
I've just been super busy this week and haven't had that opportunity.
But my understanding is that the evaluation criteria are kind of threefold. We've got the objective, the
subjective, and then the self-evaluation and Board feedback. Is that right, Mark, in a general sense?
MARK AESCH: Yes, sir. Spot on.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. And what I see is that the success outcomes, the objective side, is heavily based in
surveys of either community customers, employees. Is that accurate?
MARK AESCH: What I would say to that is in regards to the answer that I gave to Director Bouquet is that
what we advise for a service organization like yourselves is that each of those various elements, whether
it's the workforce, the community, or the customer, they're empowered to select which elements of their
experience they prioritize.
How does the community think about RTD? How does the customer think about RTD? What does the
workforce think in regards to recommending RTD? And then we compare the stakeholders' impression
with the agencies' actual performance.
So do surveys matter? Absolutely. Because as a service business, what these various stakeholders
believe is critical. At the same time, that is balanced with the agency's actual performance against those
elements, which are prioritized by those stakeholders.
MARJORIE SLOAN: All right, I believe that was a very satisfactory response to Director Buzek's question
because he's muted. Now is CEO/GM Johnson's opportunity to make the comment she wishes. And after
that, I hope we can get back with Chair Buzek and can bring this all home. So Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Vice Chair Sloan. I appreciate the opportunity to speak. And I
want to thank each and every one of you for being so engaged in this discussion. There's a couple of
elements that I want to ensure that I share, recognizing I've been sitting here.
And it's like I've been a fly on the wall listening to all of this. Some gentle reminders as we go forward as
we look to garner a true partnership in reference to steering the ship in the right direction. Recognizing
there are a couple of things that I want to bring forward as we work in a congenial way to come together
with how I will be evaluated as your General Manager and CEO.
And I think it's incumbent upon all of us to recognize that we need to agree upon what the process is
relative to you all sharing that with me. Recognizing your questions by Director Cook and Madam Chair-qualified what was done previously. That is yet to be shared with me.

So I'd be remiss in not stating that if we're going to have the rules of engagement, I have to ensure that I
come suited and ready to play. And I'm in a basketball uniform and not a football uniform. So that's
imperative. So I wanted to put that forward as you guys deliberate and we come to some understanding
about how that will transpire.
Because as I have done in the course of my career, when I provide earnest and honest feedback with my
employees so I can motivate and encourage them to do their ultimate best, there is an understanding
about managing those expectations. There was another comment I believe Director Cook made as
related to values.
And one thing's for certain. We talk about values. Those are the ideals and beliefs that we hold to be true.
And that's the spirit in which one does their job to the best of his or her ability or how we lead ourselves
as being representatives of the organization.
So when we talk about values, I want to just ensure that we recognize that that's the spirit in which that
we, as employees for all intents and purposes, are doing things for the betterment of the organization and
the communities that we're serving. And also I do want to acknowledge that I know that this is a new
process for this Board.
And I change is hard. And as you've heard me say before, you literally and figuratively can't spell the word
"challenge" without the word "change." Because I know before and I've heard from some of you there was
a SurveyMonkey that was used. And there are all these different tools.
Recognizing when I came into this space and we were negotiating with-- when I was negotiating with the
GMOC, I specifically ensured that this was placed in my contract because I have seen some things go
awry relative to people not understanding where it is.
So I just wanted to put that all out there as we come to some understanding about what our path forward
is because this is very important to me as I take on leading this organization. And one thing's for certain.
I've had conversation with some of you all.
There is a lot of things that aren't apparent to you all as directors that I have uncovered as I have been
trying to navigate this terrain. And earlier, I equated with being in a quarry, because every time I turn it
over a rock, there is another rock. And there's another rock and another rock.
And those are the elements I believe that Mark asked-- was speaking to recognizing when you do reflect
upon things, I most definitely will have another perspective because I'm doing things from the vantage
point of ensuring that this is the optimal organization that ultimately can and mitigating different factors,
which may not even coming your way because of that.

So open to a myriad of different ways but want to ensure that is being done in a fair and equitable fashion
as we go forward. And I think we need to make decisions relative to where we are going to be. I don't
disagree with what's been posed, that there should be some feedback that I receive.
And thank you very much Director Catlin for pointing that out because that should be on an ongoing basis
because if we were to get to a certain point in time in December 22 and I had no understanding of where I
stood with you all in reference to my performance, than all of us has fallen down on the job.
So just wanted to put those thoughts out there as we had all this dialogue about whether or not there are
activity-based outcomes, whether or not ridership is paramount. Trust and believe in my space that the
transit professional in these 29 years-- of course, that is a vital metric.
But quite naturally also, that's what's been espoused here in this organization. And when you look around
globally, we will clearly see if ridership was the only metric, the one utilized in 2020 that we all abysmally
failed across the globe. And we are failing right in 2021.
So there was a myriad of different efforts that we have to put forward. And as I share, I'll be very
transparent. Director Guissinger and I had a discussion. And I said, we need to be focused on a ridership
growth action plan. That's what's paramount. It's about partnerships as we look at engaging with different
entities.
All of these things come into play. So those are just the comments that I just wanted to share with you all.
So thank you very much for the opportunity to speak. I appreciate it. And I look forward to us coming to a
collaborative-- working collaboratively to come up with an approach that we all feel is in the best interest
of the greater community that we serve.
So thank you very much for the opportunity to voice my thoughts.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you CEO Johnson. And I see our Chair is back in his chair. But before I turn it
over, I have to look at your quarry analogy, CEO Johnson. Anyone who's ever gardened in the Denver
area would just say, welcome to the Rocky Mountains, because whenever you put a shovel in the dirt,
that's what you get is one right after another.
So you're with our reality. And we really appreciate having you here. Director Buzek, it's now your control
again.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Thanks, thanks. And I wasn't done. For some reason, the system muted my
phone. I'm surprised you didn't hear me screaming at my phone, I'm not done. I'm not done. Anyway.
SHELLEY COOK: [LAUGHS]
VINCE BUZEK: So let me go back to where I was. I was touching on this survey thing, Mark. So I
understand that there's a component of surveying that happens as part of the objective criteria. And my

question really is that that's just for us to use as a tool, I presume, and is not an element of Ms. Johnson's
evaluation.
She's not being evaluated by the community. I hope not. I'm sure she hopes not, too. So I mean, am I
right or wrong on that?
MARK AESCH: So I want to maybe confront this head on because I've heard from several directors about
all we're going to do is survey people, and that's going to be the answer of the organization. And I would
disabuse that as a hypothesis that any Director might have.
And I'll go back to the point that I made in regards to customers, which the agency simply driving all of
your vehicles on time does not necessarily result in more satisfied customers. Being on time 100% of the
time is not the objective. Having more customers that are happy using the service and value it is the
objective.
And so the only way the agency knows how to prioritize which elements of our service matter is to bring
that voice of the customer to bear, not the four or five customers who might call you as directors, not the
three customers who might get quoted in a newspaper article, but a statistically valid sample of what most
customers actually value as the key elements of service.
And then we balance how the agency truly does the value we truly deliver against the customer's
impression of that. So to your question specifically, we're suggesting that the outcome of customer
excellence is an improved net promoter score. The customer says, on a scale of 1 to 10, they think RTD
is great.
And they would recommend that their friends and family take it. So yes, that is an objective, fact-based
outcome of customer excellence that will be based upon customer opinion of customers' impression of
how well the agency does at delivering operational excellence on the things that they prioritize.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, so I'm either not understanding the answer, or I didn't ask a good question. 50%
objective, 50% subjective, and then we have the self-evaluation stuff. So we do the survey work-statistically valid, whatever you say.
The results of that survey, from baseline to wherever it goes from there, is 50% of Ms. Johnson's
evaluation. Good or bad, right? Am I getting that right?
MARK AESCH: So there are four factors that would go into her objective evaluation. One's related to
community. One is where we've got related to financial management. One is in regards to the workforce.
And one is in regards to customers.

There will be objective, fact-based results for each of those four factors, which would be 50% of the
CEO's performance review. In the Values column, which is subjective, there are six values of the
organization-- passion and diversity. I can't repeat them off the top of my head, but you saw the slide.
There are six of those factors that are in play. And then there are a series, I think five or six questions,
that are reflective in nature. Those should not formally go into her, quote, "evaluation" but would be a key
part of how she thinks about her performance for going forward.
VINCE BUZEK: So the short answer to the question I asked is yes. So I think I get it. I'm worried for Ms.
Johnson that 50% of her evaluation score can be based on survey results from all four factors, whatever
they are, because as Director Dishell pointed out, there could be something happens that she could be on
this rocket ship trajectory to doing great things.
And then some dramatic event occurs. And RTD is, you know, the worst thing in the world in people's
minds. And here's your evaluation, Ms. Johnson. They hate RTD. I don't know. Ms. Johnson, are you are
you OK with that kind of a possibility?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I think there is a myriad of things that we have to take into consideration going
forward because I do agree. We are a service-based organization. And that's why when I made my
comments that I did that everything is not garnered toward ridership.
It's what we're doing holistically. And basically, there needs to be an aspect of the community to discern
what we're doing collectively. So then we can change our approaches to ensure that we are delivering
customer excellence. Now in reference to how we divvy that up, I am open to having discussions because
right now, I'll be honest.
As I was saying before using my quarry analogy that there are a lot of things that I have discovered within
this organization. And it's whether it's good, bad, or indifferent. And this is not intended to disparage
anybody that came before me because I know there will be successors.
The point of the matter is, if there is a lot to do to fix-- and I am one person. So as we do this collectively,
we need to be engaged in such a way where it is holistic and if anything, looking at what I said I would do
when I came into this organization.
So whether or not we're engaging, we're communicating, I can put forward my best effort. But there is a
way in which we can balance that going forward because I do believe being a person in the people
business that I have to hear from the customers to have an understanding of what their experiences are.
That gets back to being empathetic and understanding pain points.
So there is an ultimate role in all of that. But on the flip side of it, as Mark was saying, there is other
elements as well. So that's where I stand on all of this.

VINCE BUZEK: OK, I get that. Thanks for your input. And I appreciate that. But I guess, maybe it's me,
the change thing. I mean, maybe it's the change thing. But you know, you talk about statistically valid
surveys. And ehh, ask Hillary Clinton about that.
I mean, I just don't know. I guess we'll see how that happens moving forward and how that works. But—
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Director Buzek, if I may. So what is your recommendation?
VINCE BUZEK: Well my recommendation would be that a smaller percentage of your score be attributed
to outcomes measured by the general population. So the general-- this happens all the time. We, as
directors, know so much more about what's going on in RTD than the general population.
And it's easy for someone on the outside to say, oh, you should do this, this, and this. And not knowing
that we've looked at this and this a million different times in a million different ways. So they're not as
informed as directors are.
Sometimes they react to items or matters that are not necessarily relevant to what's going on. So there's
jut so many variables I think that-- it concerns me. So I would prefer some kind of a lower percentage of
your evaluation being attributed to that metric.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So if I could ask, Mark, perhaps you can go back to the slide with the objective
evaluation criteria. So we can just walk that through, so we garner an understanding from everybody
that's assembled. I think that would be helpful.
MARK AESCH: I appreciate that Madam CEO because I wanted to go to that slide as well. So let me tick
down them because I do want to be clear in regards to the survey question. So let's start with the
understanding that we are in the service business.
And so the reality is, when it comes to customer experience, the opinion of whether or not we are working
on the right things to enhance the customer experience is the only metric to determine customer
satisfaction. So in regards to customer excellence, the outcome is 100%, Mr. Chair, to your point, is 100%
driven by the customers' opinion.
People that have walked into our coffee shop and purchased our coffee, do they like it? So that is
absolutely the case. In regards to the financial outcome, there is no opinion associated with that. There is
no survey. There is no subjectivity to it. There'll be an answer, and it will be done by math.
And there's no survey of anyone. It simply is a fact. The third would be in regards to the workforce. Would
our workforce recommend RTD as a place to work to their friends or a family member? Is that a survey?
Absolutely.

It's a survey of the people that work here. And are we creating a culture which they find valuable. So the
CEO is suggesting that she's committed to creating a performance-based culture around these six values.
And would the people who work within the four walls of RTD recommend this as a place to their friends
and family members?
And then finally the fourth-- is the community, the people who pay the bills. And they will be empowered
to prioritize what they find most valuable about their investment in RTD. And do they believe that they are
getting value back based upon those factors that they have said is important to them?
It will be incumbent upon the CEO to create a communications strategy and a work program strategy so
that community members are able to see both sides of that and see enhanced value. So I want to—
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I can ask, if Amanda could put that slide on the screen where we have the criteria
because I know some people are visual in that regard. So maybe that would help. I'm offering that up. I
don't know, Director Buzek. I just want to get some kind of understanding—
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, I've got it right in front of me. And Mark, to your point, under the financial success,
only 50% of it is a technically measurable outcome. The other 50% is, does the community believe it sees
value in RTD spending. I would imagine that's got to be from a survey result.
MARK AESCH: It is. And to your point, we are continuing to have conversation if we've landed on the
right outcome there. So you may see some adjustment there. But to your point, well made. If we stay with
where we are, that is absolutely 50% of that element would be based upon the impression the community
has.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, I guess that concludes my comments for now. I have Director Lewis with a hand
raise. Go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just want to make sure that we are moving the conversation
forward. So a few things come up for me as we're talking about objectivity and subjectivities. A lot of
what's really been swirling with RTD has been pretty subjective.
And I think we've really swayed in terms of what we do for the general public, for our stakeholders in ways
that responds to this subjectivity, whether if it's honest or not, whether if it's perceived or a fact. And so I
have a deep appreciation for the objectivity, personally.
And I guess I'm curious in terms of getting consensus because I would hate for us to move forward. And
our CEO isn't in agreement with us as we move forward. Or the Board isn't in agreement with our CEO as
we move forward. Are we close to reaching consensus?

Are we interested? Or is that going to be a part of the conversation as we move forward? I see there are
two ways-- the action steps, which are outlined within our packet, but also in our general agreement with
how our CEO would like for us to evaluate her-- or how we are evaluating our CEO.
And if she's in agreement with that evaluation process and method. And it sounds like there might be a
disconnect here. And so I just wanted to just put that on the table and have a discussion about it, so we
can move forward.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Lewis. And I'm not sure if today is that-- we've got one more session
on the 26th. And my guess is that's where we flesh out the remainder of these types of issues, have those
discussions, and come to a final product. Does that sound about right?
SHONTEL LEWIS: As long as we stick to the action steps. That's why I asked.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, point of clarity as well. And perhaps I think a conversation does need to ensue,
relative to what it states in my employment contract, relative to agreements that have been made. So I
want to put that out there as well because basically, we have this date.
It's something that we agree to. And so you'll know I'm not one to be hamstrung by dates. But we need to
ensure that we're having a conversation around that. So that's not lost, especially when we talk about
having discussions with me.
And of course, we can have those on an ongoing basis. But managing expectations amongst us all
because one thing's for certain. And I mean this in all sincerity. I still have an organization to run. And so
when we look at activities, I need to manage my team.
So that's something I'm still going to be doing. But of course, we need to rally around what those
outcomes are because I as the General Manager/CEO cannot not be in alignment with you all. So this
timeline as we've sat here, basically, I think, is incumbent upon all of us to agree what the path forward is
because yes, the 20-- we're going to have a joint retreat with those that comprise the leadership team.
And those are the individuals that report directly with me and have auspices over certain functional units.
That's great still, but if we do not have alignment around what our North Star is and the Board as a policy
body isn't in sync, then we're at a disadvantage in order for me to do my job in the manner in which I was
hired to do my job as specified in that job description, that Krauthamer put forward that made me go after
and pursue this opportunity.
So thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure. And I appreciate you saying that. And that's essentially what I was trying to get
to. What I've heard is-- You know, in this objective, subjective, and then the evaluation for you that there
is some agreement that it should be 50%.

There is some agreement that it should be more. And so getting consensus in that regard, there was a
question about process from Director Cook. And so just being solidified in that regard in how we move
forward, there was an inquiry from Director Dishell about how often in terms of the cadence of the selfevaluation and the Board evaluation in which we would be doing that in between now and December 20,
2022.
And so I just wanted to make sure that we were very clear on those things as we were moving forward.
VINCE BUZEK: Understood. Thanks for those comments. So what's the consensus of this group? What
needs to come out of this meeting today as we move forward? Do we need decisions on the timeline, for
one? Do we need decisions on the interim evaluation process? Looking for some input.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Chair, I think we need to move forward with the plan to do the June 26th
meeting to see what comes out of that before we make any kind of change here. I mean, we're in the
middle of a process that I think we really owe it to ourselves to go in and look at and then decipher from
there how we move forward.
VINCE BUZEK: Right. And that's kind of what I was thinking. But when I saw that timeline on one of those
slides, I thought there was a GMOC recommendation that occurred before the 26th. And I don't know how
that happens.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So let me qualify that. Giving you all something to react to, recognizing that this is a
new process. I don't believe anybody assembled here has gone through appraisal development process
such as this. I've done it in different organizations.
And so what I'm doing here-- we need to ensure working in conjunction with TransPro, recognizing that
there needs to be some guidance here because without that, here we have what's in the employment
contract, saying that there will be agreement upon specific criteria that the Board will make in consultation
with me on June 30.
So if there was nothing here, then how do we get to that end goal? So with that as a backdrop, this could
potentially be a special GMOC meeting. But as I said before with my comments that I imparted upon with
all of you is that I don't even know what the rules of engagement are.
So I would ask you all as my Board of Directors to ensure that you're giving me information that is helpful
in reference to understanding how I will end up in relationship to getting feedback in order to do the best
job that I possibly can. And right now, I'd be remiss to say that I'm at a quandary because I am sitting here
in a state of ambiguity, not recognizing what our path forward is when we have a mutually agreed upon
contract that says we're going to do certain things.

And it seems as if we're really not aligned. And things are really blurred. And needless to say that I'm
extremely frustrated at this juncture, not recognizing what direction we're going. So I would ask somebody
to impart upon me, what would be the most cohesive strategy going forward?
Or at least I would ask of you to provide me with a timeline that may be more advantageous for all of you
because I don't want to push the envelope. But I just would ask that my expectations be managed
because that's what I try to do in my leadership capacity with people that I work with. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Understood. And I share your frustration in that I have no idea what's going on either. I
really don't. [LAUGHS]
My understanding was, as I just said, is that we had a two-part process, the June 5th and the June 26th
process, out of which would come the final product of goal setting and evaluation. I understand there's
this June 30 contract deadline.
We changed that once. I'm guessing we can probably change that again if we needed to, but I don't want
to kick things down the road too far. But I certainly don't want to rush things to the point that we come up
with a product we're not happy with. And based on the content of these conversations and comments, I
think we need to wait for the June 26th retreat and the outcomes of that to see where we're at and where
we're going.
I'm happy to take some more comments on this.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I just have a clarifying question, just looking at the timeline here, Director Buzek. It
says GMOC recommends to the full Board on June 24. And you're proposing that instead that be the
26th? Please clarify. I'm not sure I understand.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, and I didn't make that timeline, so not me. I would think it would have to be after
the 26th, when the process is done. The process being the Board determining goal setting and evaluation
and so forth. Maybe I'm wrong. Maybe I got this wrong, but—
SHONTEL LEWIS: No, I just wanted to clarify.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, no, that's very good.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And Mr. Chairman, I might just point out that this is a whole new process for
this Board of Directors, with the new General Manager and bringing in a strategist kind of component
rather than what we have done in the past.
And so I would ask Mark to clarify the timeline on that because I think it's imperative for us to take a look
at that and then to look at our General Counsel to see if we need to extend it, how does that work? So

that at least we know where we're going with this because I was under the impression, as you were, Mr.
Chairman, that the next meeting would be on the 26th.
And then we would go from there and develop all of these components. So Mark, can you shed some
light on that timeline again, please?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I can just say, I am the one that put that timeline in. So I just want to
qualify as opposed to putting our consultant on the spot, recognizing that we had the 30th. And we did do
one amendment. I have been here for 7 months.
So that was me in consultation with Mark. So I don't want to put him on the spot for that. I own that, right?
And so if anything, another clarifying point is that we are having a retreat collectively as everybody was
sort of rattling around the flagpole as it relates to past history with what's called the senior leadership
team meeting with the Board.
For all intents and purposes, at that retreat, I have to be honest. I don't see the senior leadership team
opining on how my performance evaluation will be structured. So those are two separate elements.
Hence, that's why we were having this conversation with the GMOC relative to the different components.
Does that make sense? I hope I'm clarifying that. And I'll yield the floor to Mr. Aesch. But let me be clear
in reference to the outcomes, that's one thing with the leadership team because they lead the functional
unit that basically contribute to the inputs that lead us to the outputs that get us to the outcomes.
However, as it relates to the performance evaluation of me, as the General Manager and CEO, that is
incumbent upon you and I to agree upon collectively. So I do not envision that discussion, ensuing with
members that are subordinate to me relative to how I will be evaluated. Thank you.
And Mr. Aesch, I will yield the floor to you. But I just wanted to own those steps since I am the one that
directed you to put them in accordingly. Thank you.
MARK AESCH: So Madam Chair, I appreciate the question. And while you asked me a process question,
I'm going to give you a content answer. And so the content answer that I would give for your
consideration and for the committee's consideration is that you hired a new CEO 7 months ago.
And 201 continued to espouse the wisdom and the choice that you made of which I would agree that you
should be pleased with the selection that you made. Your CEO has made a recommendation to this
committee and to this Board the outcomes which she wants to produce for this organization.
You have provided her now at least three, and in some cases four, elements of feedback, which she has
taken into consideration and has presented you with what she thinks the outcomes by which she should
be evaluated 18 months from now would be.

And so in my view, Madam Chair, the process, we can happily work to determine the process to achieve
this. But the content question is, is the Board going to empower the CEO to establish a set of outcomes
which she's committed to producing? Or will there be continued conversation around this?
So I think that's the question in front of the committee.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. That really helps a lot.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, madam. Gee, I'm going to go to some of the other comments. Director Lewis, did
you have any more to add? Your hand's still up.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'll let others speak. And then I will chime in about where-VINCE BUZEK: OK, great. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, so just kind of a comment and maybe like a clarification question afterwards.
So once again, everyone shares on this Board-- I think I can speak for everyone on this Board-- that we
want our CEO and our GM to be successful. And based on the timeline that she has established, I think
that's the timeline we should stick with if that's truly believe what our GM and CEO believes would give
her the ultimate success rate.
I do understand the idea of, we don't want to rush anything. At the same time, I do have a lot of fear. And
this is what I brought up last GMOC meeting was, what if we don't come to a clear consensus? And that's
what I'm worried about is, we're not coming to a clear consensus, if we keep kicking the can down the
road.
I'm not sure if we're going to be giving enough time for GM and CEO to have that success. That would
just be my one comment. And just to clarify, and I don't know if this is your answer, Chairman or someone
else's, but from my understanding, please clarify.
We as a GMOC say, hey, what we've discussed today, we are good with. And then on the 26th, we
present to the rest of the Board. And then we agree upon, as an entire Board, that yes, this is the success
outcomes. This is how we want to measure our GM and CEO. Is that correct?
VINCE BUZEK: From my understanding of that timeline is we make a recommendation to the Board on
the 24th, so not after the 26th.
JULIEN BOUQUET: But from my understanding, the recommendation would be the 24th. And then it
would be a discussion on the 26th. Is that accurate?
VINCE BUZEK: I would imagine, yeah.

JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, so that's what I would just be-- my recommendation at this point is, we don't
want to kick the can down the line. I think we should stick with the current timeline that we've established.
These are goals.
That's why I asked till December 22, 2022. This isn't the entire timeline of RTD. This isn't the entire future
of RTD. And we ultimately want to make sure that our CEO and our GM is successful. And if this is what's
been established, that's what I would just kind of carry forth.
So I am in favor of us going forth with the recommendations that we've come with today. I know there's
probably some disagreement. And then present that to the Board. And then on the 26th, ultimately have a
discussion. Sorry. This might be just me thinking out loud.
But that's my comments. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: That's great. Thanks I appreciate it. Director Cook, you're next.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. And first a quick question and then a suggestion. So once you had sort of
worked through what each of the four outcomes is reflected by, I guess I had thought, based on the
presentation, that some of these prioritized strategies and metrics would be part of the pieces that are
pulled in for us to evaluate.
And if that's not true, at least in the customer area, could it perhaps be true as a way to limit somewhat, to
mute or attenuate, the large role of surveys? So that's a question. And if we're going to be meeting on the
24th to firm this up so we have a recommendation going into the second retreat, then that might be one
thing we could do is, could we look at something that has some elements beyond just the survey or at
least limiting somewhat the survey component of our evaluation and pulling in some of these limited
numbers of prioritized strategies and metrics?
So that's a thought.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Cook. Yeah, I don't know that we can come out of this meeting with a
lot, right? We can probably agree upon the objective evaluation criteria. But we don't have the-- all we
have are examples of the categories of items that we would be opining on in the subjective side of things.
And so maybe that's something that's going to be coming to us in final detail because I think we need to
have before we can have a final recommendation. So Director Lewis, did you have a comment?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Did you want to respond to that, General Manager, before I comment?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Oh, I would say, yes, for all intents and purposes, as I shared before-- so thank you,
Director Lewis, and thank you, Director Buzek, for the opportunity to opine on this. I think if anything, yes,
here we have the appraisal. And we can agree conceptually to what it will consist of.

And as we talk about the outcomes, that's something we could have conversations around. But for all
intents and purposes, to Director Cook's point, there are some activities that are there. And we can have
a discussion, if it's your recommendation, what I would ask-- if you all put something together, then I can
react to because I have put together something for you all to react to.
It's something that you have comments on. But in the absence of having anything to react to, we're just
going round and round. So keeping in mind, if you want to evaluate me on activities, I'm not inclined to be
evaluated on activities because basically, that's nothing but activities.
What are we actually trying to get? So I would ask all of you to consider putting something together from
your perspective that you think I as the General Manager and CEO should be evaluated upon if what we
have presented at this juncture is not palatable for you. I can respect that.
But I would ask you, out of respect for me, please give me something that you think would be much more
substantial or much more in line with what you would like to see. And then we can have discussions
because right now, there is-- I'm at a loss at what I else I can do without having viable feedback or having
some clear cut definitions relative to what it is that I should be doing to satisfy your interests here. So
thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, so I apologize because I'm working at a disadvantage because the strategic planning
session was scheduled on a date that I couldn't attend, even though I'm the Chair of the GMOC. So I
guess I'm really at a disadvantage in that regard.
Nonetheless, I've seen what came out of there. And all I'm saying is that we've got these objective
evaluation criteria. If people are OK with that, that's great. But other slides showed these kind of blurry
images of evaluation forms. And I don't want to recommend a blurry image.
I mean, I think we need more detail on what that really is. That's all I'm saying there. I think we have
someone else to comment. Chair Rivera-Malpiede, do you want to make a comment?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, thank you, Mr. Chair. You know what? I will just say this. At the
workshop on Saturday, as I went through all four different groups, there was a recommended outcome.
And we were asked if we wanted to change it at each one.
And here's what my recollection and my experience was, was that we didn't know how to do that. We kept
going to activities. And the differentiation between governance and management is stuck in my head
about what exactly is our role as the Board of Directors.
It's to govern on the big groups. And the activities are management components that we all, of course,
would be involved with at some level because we're all community leaders, right? But we hire the staff.
We hire the General Manager to do the big thinking. And that's what we base this on in terms of goals
and objectives for the good of the entire region, the entire agency.

So I guess for me, what I would like to say is I really support what Director Bouquet said. This is our new
General Manager. This is a new time for RTD. She is bringing in a whole new perspective on how we
move forward as this agency.
And I want to support her in this so that we can move forward and then develop. Does this work? Does
this not work? But boy, we've got to give her the ability to be successful in her own right as a leader in this
transit agency. That's why we hired her.
And quite frankly, I have to say, over the last 7 months, she has knocked it out of the park. And I think we
owe it to her to be supportive. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
MARK AESCH: Mr. Chair, if I could provide a clarification at your pleasure.
VINCE BUZEK: You bet. Go ahead.
MARK AESCH: Amanda, could you bring up our slides, please? Because I want to sort of tackle this topic
for the committee's benefit of vagueness. So there are three components by which the CEO's evaluation
would be based.
The first is the outcomes. So Amanda, if you could take us to that slide that speak to the four outcomes.
And to the point that a number of committee members are raising about having a, quote, "good day or a
bad day," the CEO is signing up, willing to take the risk that opposed to an episodic complaint-based
model.
She's signing up for saying, I should be able deliver customer value based on customers' opinions. I'm up
for the risk. I'm willing to work on the right things. So she would be evaluated on the clarity of this slide.
There's no ambiguity to what this slide looks like.
Amanda, could you take us to the Values slide, the Subjective slide? There are six values of the
organization. These are the six-- passion, respect, diversity, trustworthiness, collaboration, ownership.
There's no vagueness to this. It is absolutely clear the criteria, which the Board would express its opinion
in providing feedback. Is she delivering against this?
Amanda, could you take us to the slide of feedback with the questions that are in place there? The third
section of her evaluation would be these five questions. There's no vagueness or ambiguity. It's these five
questions, which the Board would provide feedback.
So I just want to be clear with the committee that the CEO is recommending for your consideration these
three slides, which have absolute clarity to them, and it's her recommendation that this is what she is
evaluated on. Mr. Chairman.

VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Could you bring up the Performance Evaluation Tool Preview slide?
MARK AESCH: And I do want to be clear that it's simply a screenshot of an example. So we would need
to build this for you based on—
VINCE BUZEK: Right. That's the vagueness piece right there, OK, to me. The other stuff-- clear. I get it.
And if that's all we need now, and we can develop these as we go. But I guess I kind of like to have a
package, you know.
MARK AESCH: Well—
VINCE BUZEK: So do we need to have something come out of-- do we need a clear decision today? Or
are we having a special GMOC on the 24th? What's the plan with that—
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may, I was recommending based upon this conversation and
discussion that we would have a special GMOC meeting, recognizing this is the first time that we've had
this discussion relative to the tool in and of itself, the digital wizard that Mark had just referenced as a
screenshot.
So that information that he put there for you all to react to would be populated relative to the values that
we had here in reference to the passion, the trustworthiness, diversity, the collaboration, the ownership.
So that would be populated.
So that can be done by TransPro, so you all can make an informed decision and have that prior to the
meeting on June 24. So we would come to a place where then you can decide if you wanted to take an
affirmative action or take something to the contrary.
Or provide more feedback relative to the direction in which we would go collectively as the Board and with
me as the General Manager/CEO. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: That makes sense. I appreciate that clarification. Thanks. Director Guissinger.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You're muted. Oh, there you go.
LYNN GUISSINGER: My phone started ringing right as I was going to speak. Sorry. I shared some of the
concern about the specific performance metrics if the suggestion is that will come back to us separately. I
think that that helps moving forward.
This is a little tangential, but I think Mark said that you were still working on the financial definition of what
the review is. And I would encourage that. I think it seemed like a lot of people-- and I was included that
you spend less than you make. That's a given in some ways.

But it raises issues around service and things like that. And we have the fiscal policies that were raised.
So I'm not going to get into the details of it except to say that I do think that could use some refinement. I
am going to have to sign off. I'm not on the GMOC anyhow.
So I'm not a vote here. I think if we're voting on those big metrics-- not the metrics. The big, objective and
subjective, that we're getting close. And I think your right, Vince, that in terms of the performance metrics,
it sounds like those can come later. But thank you. And I need to go.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Guissinger. Director Lewis, your hand's still up. You want to make some
final comments?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, I never got a chance to make a comment. I wanted—
VINCE BUZEK: Oh, sorry.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's OK. It's all good. I allowed somebody to respond. I was just going to agree with
Director Bouquet, that I was OK with this moving forward with the recommendation as is presented by
General Manager. And I'm reflecting back on our evaluations of the past General Managers.
And I think one of the critiques I personally had was that a lot of the things that were being presented
were activities. And so I will have to have a deep appreciation in this moment that that was a critique and
a frustration of mine, that we are remedying this while also understanding that this is a new process. And
change is quite difficult and also necessary.
And so those are my words. And I'm done. And my hand's down.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. I appreciate it. And yeah, this is 180-degree change for us. So General Manager
Johnson, please, these questions and comments, I think, are geared toward fleshing out all the detail and
not in any way a critique or criticism of you. It's just we're trying to get through this process.
So 24 of June, 3:00 PM, I want everyone to go into their participant section-- Director Bouquet, did you
have another comment?
JULIEN BOUQUET: I was going to let you finish your thought and then comment afterwards, if that's OK.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, sure thing. As soon as you're done, I want everybody that cannot make that
meeting, raise their hand. But go ahead, Mr. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Oh, so I think what I am kind of gathering from my viewpoint was there's a little bit of
a frustration just-- I know there are Board members that just were a little frustrated with this whole
process. And I think just from my analysis, to kind of going back to a comment I said a little bit back.

We're getting to the point where we're running out of time to just start all over and say, hey, we have to
redo this process. I would just say for the Board members that might be frustrated with how this all laid
out, this might be something that we have a future conversation after December 31, 2022 or before we go
through this entire process of evaluation again.
That's just kind of my viewpoint of it is that we are getting to a point where we're kind of running a little bit
out of time to reach the objectives of December 31, 2022. And maybe that's something we have a
discussion later on down the road so that we don't have as much frustration. That's all I would have to
say. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Chair Rivera-Malpiede, your hand is up.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm wondering, do we have the entire GMOC
committee online currently?
VINCE BUZEK: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: How many?
VINCE BUZEK: We're missing Director Rosenthal. But Director Bouquet is an alternate, so I guess
technically we have seven members of the GMOC. So I would like to respectfully ask if this committee,
members of the GMOC, are in favor of moving forward with the recommendations that the General
Manager has put forward for her objective, so we know where we're going.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm willing to nod my head is that-- I guess it's probably not an official vote but
definitely a head nod.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, so Madam, are we talking about the four objective evaluation criteria?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That would be correct. And I guess I would ask our General Counsel if that's
the correct way to do this or not to make sure that I'm doing this correctly.
VINCE BUZEK: Can we entertain a motion, Melanie, in that regard?
MELANIE SNYDER: No, we're not taking formal action today, but I think that you should-- I do think it
would be productive for you to get some consensus about where you are aligned today. So both as to the
timeline and then which pieces of what's been presented today you have some alignment around.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, so what I'm hearing is Chair Rivera-Malpiede would like to see if there's consensus
on approving the objective evaluation criteria as set forth in the slide deck for this meeting. And to that
end, why don't we go in and raise your virtual hand if you're OK with that? And if—

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, my virtual hand.
VINCE BUZEK: Virtual.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Virtual, real, I'm just—
VINCE BUZEK: [LAUGHS]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Wait. 1, 2, 3, 4-- wait. It keeps moving. 1, 2—
VINCE BUZEK: 2, 3, 4—
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --5, 6. I see—
PEGGY CATLIN: I just-- Chair, I have my hand raised to speak prior to your—
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, I'm sorry.
PEGGY CATLIN: --virtual hand. But it's OK because I am in support of it. I just wanted to comment.
Thank you Chair Rivera-Malpiede for your pushing us forward. But I just wanted to say with regards to
GM/CEO Johnson that I really respect that we had something to react to.
And we-- you can't hear me?
VINCE BUZEK: No, you're cutting-- why don't you stop your video? That takes up a lot of bandwidth.
Maybe that'll help the audio.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, it'll also help. OK, can you hear me now?
VINCE BUZEK: Yup.
PEGGY CATLIN: Good suggestion. And it's easier on the eyes if I stop my video. But I just want to say I
really appreciated GM/CEO Johnson and just for providing us with a place to start and something to react
to. And I acknowledge her frustration that we haven't come to alignment yet on this.
But I really appreciate that we're going forward. I agree with Chair Rivera-Malpiede that we were tending
to drop into activities on June 5 rather than the overall goals. And I am encouraged that we are embarking
on a process that we have not done in the past.
And it is a departure. But I think we're moving in the right direction. So I, for one, am supportive of just
moving ahead with what has been suggested by Chair Rivera-Malpiede and wanted to thank you all for all
your hard work in developing this starting point.

And we have opportunities, as Director Bouquet suggested, to make course corrections later on. But let's
get started. And let's get moving on this process so that we can keep our CEO and General Manager,
and that she doesn't leave out of frustration because of this Board's inaction. Quite frankly, I would worry
about that.
We just need to give her and empower her to succeed. So I'll get off my soapbox now. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Catlin. Hang on. Director Lewis, did you have something more?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Well, since you've called on me, but my hand was up because I was agreeing. But I
did wonder what the process might be for us to-- what those course corrections that Director Bouquet
brought up, where we might be able to insert those as we were preparing for the next process.
But we might just be way too many months early for that. But I just wanted to put it in the conversation.
VINCE BUZEK: I appreciate that. Yeah, it might be a little early, but we need to keep that at the top of our
mind. But for now, let's try to get through where we're at now, today. Ms. Johnson, did you have some
comments?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I just have a request of you, Mr. Chair, and the committee as a whole,
recognizing that we do have these GMOC committees. And I do understand the charter for said
Committee. But I would like to put forward that as we develop these agendas, if I have an opportunity to
add input, because this would enable us to have a more informed discussion as we go forward.
And that's what I would offer up. And I say this because recognizing that I did not know until late last week
that this committee meeting was taking place. And TransPro had to quickly pivot to make this happen.
So I am putting forward that request of the committee to ensure that I have an opportunity because we
could help create and make this a lot more productive if I had an understanding of what your expectations
were as we went forward. Thank you for your consideration of that request.
VINCE BUZEK: I appreciate that. And definitely you'll be a big part of this. OK, so back to one of the
things that I wanted before-- raise your hand if you cannot make the meeting on the 24th, special GMOC
meeting June 24, 3:00 PM. No hands raised, OK. Let's do that.
And I think we've got consensus moving forward out of this meeting that we are all on Board with the four
objective evaluation criteria. When we meet on the 24th, we'll probably talk a little more about that but talk
in more depth about those performance score sheets or whatever you want to call them.
So does that sound right, anybody?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Yes, Mr. Chair.

VINCE BUZEK: Anybody doesn't agree? Don't say so, so OK. Are there any other matters that we need
to discuss today at this meeting?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: What is the meaning of life? [LAUGHS]
VINCE BUZEK: Not going to find it here.
[LAUGHTER]
DEBRA JOHNSON: I had to unmute myself so you can hear my laughter. That was good.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, thanks, everybody, for this good discussion. Thanks, Mark and Debra, Directors,
everybody. It was a good discussion. And I really appreciate it. It's a change, and change is tough, you
know.
What's the graph? They used to always tell you that when you're on a trajectory of happiness or
whatever. And then there's change. It drops off. But then it comes back up and it's higher than where you- whatever. So we'll get there.
Anyway, having no other matters come before the Board, our next meeting is not July 1. It is June 24 at
3:00 PM. And we'll see your smiling faces there. Thanks so much. Have a great weekend.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You too. Thank you.

