2021 – 03 – 09
Board of Directors - Special Board Meeting
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Good evening. I will now call to order the Tuesday, March 9 RTD
Special Board Meeting to order. We are convened as of 5:30 PM Mountain Daylight Time. And I would
respectfully ask everyone to remain muted, unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. And please note that under the current circumstances, the official
meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and
welfare. For the immediate future, the official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom and
will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings
will be posted as soon as practicable in the Board's website. You can visit rtd-denver.com, and a livestream
of this meeting will also be available via RTD's YouTube page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceedings, I would ask for you to please raise your hand and wait for me to call on you before
proceeding to speak. Speaking out of turn will only add confusion to the record and to the proceedings. If
any of tonight's attendees would like to engage with the Board during public participation portion of the
agenda, I'll ask you to raise your virtual hand as well, and you will be called on at the appropriate time. For
anyone participating by phone, you can indicate that you would like to speak by pressing star 9. To toggle
your mute setting on the phone, press star 6.
Now I would just like to make a civility statement. Colleagues, being elected as a member of this body
imposes an ethical obligation for each of us to enhance and maintain the public confidence in this agency.
As a Board of Directors, it is our collective duty to our constituents, stakeholders, and staff to conduct our
business in an atmosphere of mutual respect, cooperation, civility, trust, and collegiality. These are the
values we can all agree upon. As such, I encourage each of us to review the operating guidelines adopted
by this board and to act in accordance with those principles, which are available on the Board of Directors
page on the RTD website. Thank you. Ms McManus, if we could do the roll call, please?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson.
DIRECTOR DAVIDSON: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell
Here.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal.
DIRECTOR ROSENTHAL: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan.
DIRECTOR SLOAN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale. You're muted.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA MALPIEDE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you for being present and accounted for. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. At RTD, safety is our core value, and I'd like to begin this meeting
with a short safety briefing. We must all continue to follow established health guidelines to keep ourselves
safe and our loved ones safe. Continue to practice physical distancing. Six feet is the minimum.
Wear a mask at all times in public spaces, even if you've been partially or fully vaccinated. Get tested if
you're experiencing symptoms or if you have been in contact with someone with the virus. Public health
officials are encouraging individuals eligible to receive the vaccine to do so, regardless of the manufacture
of the vaccine available to you. All three currently available vaccines have proven to dramatically reduce
the most severe risk of the virus.
We're now at our public participation portion for the month of March. And since the regularly-scheduled
Board meeting for the month will not be held, if you would wish to speak and have not already done so,
please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone. Staff will then view you when it's your
turn to speak. If you are dialed in, press star 6 to toggle your mute settings.
As is our custom, we allow any of our elected officials present to speak first. Please bear in mind that by
participating in this process, you are being recorded. So if you do not wish to be recorded, then your
comments will have to be submitted in writing, and you will not have the opportunity to speak this evening.
If any speaker has documentation or reference materials for the Board, please email those materials to the
Board Office at the following email address, board.office@rtd-denver.com. I will say that again,
board.office@rtd-denver.com.
During this time, the Board will not offer comments or responses, and directors or staff make contact
speakers following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow-up. Speaker should
begin their remarks by stating their name, and each speaker will have three minutes to speak. And
speakers, must refrain from profane or obscene speech, direct your comments to the Board as a whole,
and refrain from personal attacks. Let me check and see. Mr. McKay, you can help me. I am not seeing
anyone with a hand raised. Are you?

JOHN MCKAY: I see one hand from someone with a name, I guess, of Bicycle Colorado/Denver Streets.
And that person is unmuted, if you'd like to go ahead and speak.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please. Please state your name.
MOLLY MACKINLEY: Sure. Good evening. My name's Molly Mackinley. I serve as the Vice Chair of the
Denver Streets Partnership, a coalition of community organizations advocating for people-friendly streets
in Denver. And I'm here to express our support for the provisions in House Bill 1186. The Denver Streets
Partnership is particularly excited to see the elimination of the fare box recovery ratio, as that will give RTD
the flexibility to lower fares and even offer free service to increase ridership.
Right now, as you know, RTD has some of the highest fares in the country. And having the ability to readjust
the fare structure would go a long way [AUDIO OUT] residents who rely on RTD service the most.
Additionally, we strongly support the recommendations which will make it easier for RTD to encourage more
equitable transit-oriented development and charge for parking. Land use and transportation are so
inextricably linked in this provision as a critical step toward ensuring our land use decisions support the kind
of ridership we'd like to see for RTD.
We would, however, like to express some concern about allowing RTD to contract over 58% of service to
private businesses, nonprofit organizations, and local governments. We're really glad to see nonprofits and
local governments included here, but we are concerned about a situation where RTD could become too
heavily dependent on ride hailing companies like Uber and Lyft. So if this change is made, we just caution
RTD against relying too heavily on these companies, as a reliance would take away from high-capacity
transit [AUDIO OUT] that could serve far more people. But we do overall support the provisions in House
Bill 1186. Thank you so much for holding the space for public participation this evening.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Mr. McKay, I see no one else. Do you?
JOHN MCKAY: I concur.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. With that, there were no participants in the queue. I will close the public
participation period at this time. This evening, we had two recommended actions on our agenda. The first
one was the RTD Board's position on Health Bill District 21, House Bill 21-1186. Reflecting the
Accountability Committee's legislative recommendations, we are pulling that this evening. And I would like
to ask our General Manager if she'd like to make some remarks.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and to all those that are virtually assembled, I'm
Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO. Thank you so much for the opportunity to speak pertaining to
the aforementioned item. Recognizing that this is a critical bill, and we were bringing it forward to have the
Board of Directors take a position on it, I, along with a member of my team, Michael Ford, Chief Operations
Officer, we are working in tandem with the Amalgamated Transit Union to work on some nomenclature as
relates to one of the provisions set forward, which is the contracting aspect.
Recognizing that it's in both of our best interests, this shouldn't be alarming. We're just working out the
language that will work in the best interests for RTD as well as the union in reference to our service delivery
options. So with that as a backdrop, it's our intention to work in tandem to modify said language. We will
share that with the drafters and bring back to this Board the bill once it is amended for your discussion on
said item, which we anticipate to be in and around March 23. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. [AUDIO OUT]. Do we need a motion to postpone?
MELANIE J. SNYDER: Yes, Madam Chair, I think that would be good for the record.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. So I would-- oh, I'm sorry. Who said something? OK, Director Williams?

KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger. Is there any objection to postponing this motion?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I don't have an objection, but it's my understanding that we probably should put a
specific date in how long we're going to postpone that for, and not just-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Indefinitely.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It'll happen, yeah.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think our general manager said March 23, correct?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may, I did. But I would just say it's contingent upon when we can get
the bill back and have it modified. So recognizing that the bill is supposed to be read March 30, I'm assuming
it would be prior to March 30.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: General Counsel, what would be your suggestion on how we word that
motion?
SPEAKER: Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. I think, why don't we say that the motion is to postpone this
matter until, I think, let's just pick a date certain, so no later than, perhaps, April 15 or April-- let's see.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, if it's read on March 30, it seems to me it should be like March 29.
SPEAKER: I think that makes sense. I just want to give the Board some flexibility in the event that things
change. We can't always predict the timing of things with the legislature. So if the Board's comfortable, the
last Friday in April is the 30th. It might make sense to just postpone until the end of April, to no later than
the end of April.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right.
MELANIE J. SNYDER: So April 30.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it. So we have a movement in a second to postpone.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, sir.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Director Tisdale here. I had my hand raised. I just wanted to be able to ask a
question before voting on the motion. And the question is-- and I assume it goes without saying, but I'd like
it to be on the record-- but of course, General Manager and COO are conferring with Brandeberry and
McKenna in the course of reviewing these changes. Thank you. That's my question, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: General Manager.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So as it relates to what's happening, we will be apprising our lobbyists. But I'm working
directly with the union, as it's not a policy matter. We're dealing with nomenclature. And so quite naturally,
it's my intent to apprise the drafters, the sponsors of the bill as well. So that's my qualifier, in reference to
what our path forward is, recognizing that, of course, we would apprise our lobbyists. But it's something
that staff is working on directly with the union. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Does that answer your question, Director Tisdale.?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, Madam Chair, it does. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Any other questions or comments? OK, so the motion would move
forward to postpone to no later than April 30. The movement was Director Williams. Director First Vice Chair
Guissinger, is there any opposition? Hearing none, it passes unanimously. Thank you.
Our next recommended action is the amendment to the RTD code of ethics on the Board of Directors
financial disclosures. So what I'd like to do is ask our General Counsel if she could just do an update.

MELANIE J. SNYDER: Yes, Thank you, Madam Chair. So some background on this amendment, or the
proposed amendment to the code of ethics, as it states in your Board Packet, the RTD Board of Directors
adopted a code of ethics in February of 2018, and that's applicable to all RTD employees. The code
generally prohibits RTD from entering into contracts with RTD employees or with a person or entity in which
the employee has an interest. And this is consistent with the state statutory standards of conduct governing
government employees, government officials and employees.
Your Board Packet page 21 lists some of the examples of when an employee is considered to have such
an interest, for example, if it's a transaction involving an employee's immediate family member. The limited
exceptions to this general prohibition are listed in the code on your Board Packet, page 22 of your packet.
So for example, where an interest might be so remote, for example, if there is an unpaid volunteer of a
nonprofit association, that's one example of an exception we have.
The code includes an annual disclosure requirement for RTD directors and employees who are responsible
for procurements or those that are engaged in the award or administration of contracts. This disclosure
form is submitted annually to the General Counsel for review and is maintained as a confidential record in
each individual employee's personnel file. So these disclosures are then used to create a list of persons or
entities with whom RTD may be restricted from doing business.
All proposed transactions are then compared against the list to see if there are any relationships that could
potentially cause a conflict of interest, in which case the General Counsel and the Senior Manager of
Materials Management confer and consult. The executive committee had some conversations and is
recommending that the code be amended. The language for the proposed amendment to the code is on
Board Packet page 23.
The Amendment provides that the annual disclosure forms for each elected or appointed RTD Director be
treated and designated as a public record open for inspection by any person, for example, in response to
an open records request. This will authorize RTD to automatically disclose and release that information
without requesting the director's individual prior consent. And with that, I'm happy to answer questions.
Madam Chair?
MELANIE J. SNYDER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: I'd move approval that we adopt an amendment to the RTD code of ethics to provide
that the annual disclosure form for each elected or appointed Director shall be a public record and shall be
open for inspection by any person.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have a first and a second by Secretary Buzek. Any comments or questions,
ladies and gentlemen? Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. So my question is, I think, I believe General Counsel
Snyder said that in order to obtain the disclosure, that there has to be a core request for, what would be the
mechanism to do that? Or perhaps she spoke so quickly that I thought I heard her say that, or that's one of
the options in order to obtain it. Or would it be through the Secretary of State, it would be on the tracer
system, or where would that be located?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: General Counsel?
MELANIE J. SNYDER: Thank you, Madam Chair. Yes, Director Rosenthal. So to be clear, these annual
disclosure requirements are part of RTD's code of ethics, and they're completely separate from, for
example, the financial disclosures or the information that actually was provided as part of the Fair Campaign

Practices Act. So that information related to gifts of elected officials, for example, that is filed by each
individual director and filed with the Secretary of State. RTD doesn't maintain any of those records. So if a
person wanted to see those filings, they're actually available to the public online at the Secretary of State's
website.
For our disclosures, the normal process would be yes, any member of the public could submit a request for
that information. But that's not the only option that you could consider. If you wanted to make them more
generally available, that would be an option as well.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: If I can follow up, Madam Chair, just real quick.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: So basically, they would just be like an email to you, Ms. Snyder, or a phone call or a
form that they fill out, we would like to obtain this. But it wouldn't have to be a core request, is that right?
MELANIE J. SNYDER: No. So we do ask that the public submit through our online portal, but it's their QA
platform. So they just submit requests, and then we will produce records within the three-day core
requirements. I guess I was suggesting if there was some other alternative the Board wanted to look at, for
example, just posting this information on the website. No one has suggested that, but that would be an
alternative, if that's something that the Board wanted to do.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. The form that's included in the packet is just that half-page
form that discloses that you have no conflict of interest. It doesn't necessarily open the door for much more
in-depth investigation of personal financial records, does it?
MELANIE J. SNYDER: That's [AUDIO OUT]. Oh, pardon me.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, sorry.
MELANIE J. SNYDER: Thank you, Madam Chair. Correct. So RTD's form only requires right now for each
director to disclose whether they have an interest and to provide information about what that interest is. It's
not a financial disclosure form, for example, that some statewide elected officials are statutorily required to
file, so no including additional information, like interest in property and sources of income. That's not the
level of detail in RTD's form.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just wanted to make sure that it was clear for the record.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have a few questions for General Counsel. What would it
take from the border-- maybe from the agency, I'm not sure-- to bring us closer, as elected officials, to what
other elected officials might disclose?
MELANIE J. SNYDER: So Madam Chair, if I may?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
MELANIE J. SNYDER: So Director Lewis, I think you're probably talking about, there's a specific state
statute that does apply to covered state officers. And it lists very specific information that those statewide
officers are supposed to disclose. It wouldn't require a statutory change. If the Board decided that they
wanted to disclose and make it a part of the code of ethics and the policy and procedures to do that and to
disclose more information than required by state law, we could certainly do that.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. And the second question I have for you is probably a procedural
one. What would it take, what would be necessary for us as a board to be able to offer what we do disclose
currently via our web page, as opposed to having someone submit a core request?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I don't understand the question. Could you say it again?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Did you understand the question, General Manager, or Counsel?
MELANIE J. SNYDER: Madam Chair, if I may?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
MELANIE J. SNYDER: So I think the question Director Lewis, I heard you ask it, is something similar to
what was being asked earlier by Director Rosenthal which is, are there other options to make this
information available more affirmatively by the Board, rather than having folks have to submit a core
request. Is that-SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. Essentially, more specifically, what would be the process to do so? So if we were
just to agree as a Board, which I'm not saying we do, that we'd like to have those disclosures put on our
website for folks to be able to access at any point and not have to submit a core request, what would that
process be?
MELANIE J. SNYDER: I think you could have the conversation in this forum and decide that that's
something that you all wanted to do.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thank you so much. I appreciate it.
MELANIE J. SNYDER: You're welcome.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Are there all your questions, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Those are all my questions, unless we want to have a conversation about this
proactively, posting those things. Otherwise, I'm done.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I don't see anybody else's hand up. Any discussion on that item of making it
more attainable through mechanisms like our website? Any comment from any Board Director?
JULIEN BOUQUET: For the record, I would be in favor of it. Sorry, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: We, I think without a lot of work, could put a link after each one of our descriptions on
the Board page that says, click here and see this document. I don't think that would be a lot of work. Just
as a suggestion.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Sorry, I spoke out of turn. That was my mad. I would be in favor of it, Madam Chair.
Sorry, I'm learning all the Robert's Rules. But I think that Director Williams' suggestion of having that as on
our website, having it, hey, if you want to collect more information to learn more from this Director, I think
that would be probably one of the easiest suggestions, very obtainable. And I think that would be beneficial.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: I believe Director Dishell was before me.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I thought I saw you first. But go ahead, Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. I would like to echo my support for listing these publicly. But
I would be remiss if we did not ask General Manager and CEO Johnson, or anyone whom she designates,
what the expected staff time and cost would be to this, just to make sure that we are respecting our staff's

time. While disclosure is incredibly important and something I support, I just want to make sure we're taking
our entire agency into account in doing this.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: General Manager?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, thank you very much, Madam Chair. Director Dishell, I could not quantify the
time in which would take staff at this juncture. That would be something I'd have to follow up on. So if that's
something in which you're interested in knowing, we would be more than happy to assess what that is and
apprise the Board accordingly. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: That's all. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm in support of doing what Director Williams suggested. I'm
just wondering if procedurally, we have a motion in front of us, we're doing discussion, would this particular
action require an amendment to that motion? And I guess that would be subject for General Counsel
Snyder.
MELANIE J. SNYDER: Yes. And Madam Chair, if I may, I think when it comes down to sort of the
administrative aspects of managing this amendment, I think those are conversations that you can have
either here or take it up at an Executive Committee. I don't think we need to amend this formal motion. The
substantive motion is to amend the code of ethics. I don't think you need to put the level of detail that we're
talking about in the actual code itself.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. Excellent. I appreciate that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I was just going to thank Director Williams for her suggestion and say that I support it.
But I really appreciate Director Dishell's question to staff about staff time and cost.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Any other questions or comments from Board members?
OK. I am seeing none. So procedurally, what we need to do is vote on the amendment put forward by
Second Vice Chair Cook and seconded by Director-- who was it-- Guissinger, I believe.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Buzek. It was Buzek.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, sorry. Secretary Buzek. So very sorry. OK. Is there any opposition to the
Amendment? OK, hearing none, it passes unanimously.
Now as a point of procedure-- and General Counsel, you can help me-- since this is the forum that you say
that the Board can have a discussion of deciding whether or not to put this as a link to our website, I guess
there's two things I'd like to get answers from. Should we wait until we can get an amount of time and what
it would cost for the staff to be able to make those changes to our website before we move that piece
forward? Or how would you suggest we do this, General Manager?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Madam Chair, for the question. So I support what General Counsel Snyder
has said in reference to the motion you have before you. We can ascertain staff time and apprise
accordingly as we move forward, recognizing that this is information that will be disclosed. So we know
we're going to proceed in that direction. As it relates to staff time or the mechanism in which we need to
discern, we can apprise accordingly. But I don't believe that will be a hindrance in ensuring that this comes
to fruition. Thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I guess my second question would be to the Board, if you are in favor of doing
this on our website and just having the link that they can click and have access to our financial disclosure.
Could I just have a show of hands maybe?
TROY WHITMORE: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yeah, I think the motion should stand and we should move on. This is step one in
moving to a better disclosure as delineated by four or five of my colleagues. I have no problem with that.
But I don't think this was on the agenda as a discussion item.
And to Director Dishell's point, let's find out what more information we need from staff and regarding the
cost and give us a little more time to look at other avenues as well to make this disclosure. There may be
others. So I think we should move on.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Duly noted. OK. We are done with-PAUL ROSENTHAL: Just real quick too. I'm sorry, Madam Chair, but I think also important is to keep in
mind if we do put it on the website and we have an expansive, let's just say, disclosure form, how much
personal information is on there. I'd like to really know kind of what the form looks like as well, as to once
we know more what the form looks like, what information is on there. We just need more flexibility as to
where it's going to be put, at this point.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair, I would recommend along those lines, if we could-- I'm sorry, I don't have
a hand-- that we look at what local governments do, which is somewhere in between. I think that might be
more appropriate, in some ways, for where we are. So just would add that was a suggestion too for further
research.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you so very much, everybody.
I am going to move on to Other Matters. And let me start by saying that there are two items I would like to
address in Other Matters, and then I will yield the floor to others.
Number one, first, we have received questions regarding the agency's overall policy towards enforcing the
wearing of face coverings pursuant to state and federal requirements. And I would just like to ask our
General Manager and CEO, Debra Johnson, to respond to those concerns.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Appreciate the opportunity to address.
Recognizing we are in the midst of the pandemic, and I do recognize as well that President Biden instituted
a federal mask mandate, and preceding that, we here in Colorado, and specifically within our service area,
had already had safety protocols in place to which we have asked our customers to adhere. That still is
what we're doing going forward.
Recognizing that what we're doing when somebody is not complying, we are enforcing it from the vantage
point of educating and informing those members of the public about the need to wear a face covering. More
specifically, we as an agency have been disseminating face coverings while we have supplies. Additionally,
we have worked with our communications team and have notifications out that state that we are adhering
to the federal mandate as we go forward.
I do recall at a meeting we had in January whereby we had conversations that ensued about this as well,
recognizing we want to ensure that our riding public as well as our front line employees are being protected.
As we all know, this is a precarious position relative to ensuring that people are being compliant. So as I
stated, we are operating from the vantage point, from a compliance standpoint, about educating and

informing the public about the need to adhere to the federal mandate as well as the other public health
orders that are prevalent within our immediate service area. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. OK. And then the second is I'd like to ask the Board members to
take out your pencils, because I'm going to give you a lot of information.
We are going to be having a number of trainings, workshops, and other meetings that are either currently
scheduled or they're anticipated in the coming weeks and the months. I know how busy everybody is, so I
just wanted to say them to you so that you could hear them.
The first is study sessions. We have two study sessions coming up. The first one is scheduled for 5:30 for
the first two Tuesdays in April. So just know that, I think it's the 6th and the 9th, I can't remember. If you
look at the first Tuesdays, two Tuesdays in April, we're going to have a study session at 5:30. On April 6,
the staff are going to present plans for the agency's road to recovery. And on April 13, we will continue to
discuss the Northwest Rail. So those will be two really important study sessions.
Additionally, we will be having JEDI training. And we are anticipating one session, on average, every quarter
for both this year and next year.
Staff is also working with Directors to put on a Electrification workshop, and representatives from the energy
and electrification agencies will be invited to speak. And this will take place later in the year. Each Director
will need to participate in a WorkDay training. That's our new system for our HR department. And it will
allow you to complete the required annual cybersecurity training on your own. So that's the next training is
cybersecurity. Staff is targeting Tuesday, March 30 for the two training sessions. One will be at 4:00 PM
and one will be at 5:30 PM.
The first Finance workshop was held this afternoon, and there are four more scheduled out through the
year.
The Board and the senior leadership team are going to need to engage in strategic planning sessions
between now and the end of summer. And the currently formed ad hoc committees will soon begin their
work, and there will always be the possibilities that new committees will need to be added.
The Accountability Committee and its subcommittees will continue to meet into the spring. And though the
release of the federal census data has been delayed, at some point in the coming months the Board will
need to address all of its existence.
In addition to all those meetings, our regularly scheduled Board and committee meetings and their own day
jobs, the Directors also have time obligations to existing external committees and appointments, such as
the DRCOG Regional Transportation Committee and the Regional Parkway Authority boards. Those are
just two of many that we sit on.
Suffice to say, there's a lot coming our way. And I would request that you please be conscientious of the
fact that our Board's current and upcoming time commitments, not to mention the demands on our staff.
I'm really worried about their workload because we are packing so much in such a short period of time. So
when you're thinking of requesting additional events to our already full calendar, just think about that. I
would really, really appreciate it.
With that, is there any other matters to discuss? Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I would actually like to discuss both of the things that you brought up in Other Matters.
The first being the universal mask wearing and the enforcement. And then I'd like to make some comments
about the study session, particularly the Finance Committee that we just recently had.

Regarding the universal mask wearing-- and maybe this is a conversation that's better for-- a conversation
to be had with my colleagues and less about with the staff-- because I've had numerous conversations with
General Manager Johnson about enforcement regarding mask. And I've received a number of inquiries
from constituents within my district, but also constituents within from other districts for which I do not
represent.
And there has just been some concern about how we might enforce, what enforcement might look like. And
some folks have felt, at least the conversations that I've had, that we aren't doing enough to enforce. While
I understand, folks are on edge, I understand we don't want to give our operators another task for them to
have to be responsible for, I do think as an agency, or maybe as a Board, that we should think about what
talking points or what positions that we have when folks are reaching out to us regarding universal mask
wearing and specifically the enforcement of such.
Because I don't know if we've collectively decided what it is that we are to say in terms of a response to our
constituents who are concerned when they board one of our services that other patrons or customers may
not have masks on their faces. And the instruction that our operators, our frontline staff have received is to
ask the customer to put their mask on. And if they do not, to contact-- oh, my gosh, I'm sorry, I totally forgot- they're supposed to-- Dispatch, to contact Dispatch.
For some folks, that's sufficient. And then for other folks who utilize our services, namely the folks who've
reached out to me, it's insufficient. And so I personally, as a Board member, have had to grapple with what
message I am providing to constituents as an individual Director. But I've also wondered as a Board what
is our, what's our message? Where do we stand? Are we most interested in ensuring that our frontline staff
are supported and taken care of? Are we most interested in ensuring that all patrons or all customers wear
a mask?
And so I'd love for us to have a discussion, because it continues to come up. And I had hoped that we could
have this discussion in Executive Session-- during the Executive Committee meeting. And unfortunately,
that was canceled. So here we are. And y'all are being presented with this on the spot. But it is, it's
something that comes up. And I would love to hear what you all are maybe discussing with your constituents
and how we might be able to move this conversation forward. Because I don't know if I've landed on
anything that I would feel comfortable saying in terms of representation for the agency.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you. Director Broom.
KATE WILLIAMS: Bob-- we are, Bob, we are not hearing you. You must be muted. If you press star 6 on
your keyboard-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: [AUDIO OUT]
KATE WILLIAMS: --unmute yourself.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, I'm not seeing him on here now.
All right. Let me go to-- anyone else have any other comments? Director Dishell. You're muted, sir.
BOBBY DISHELL: There we go. I would say at this point, I'm probably in the the system three to four days
a week to and from downtown from the District. And in my experience, simply asking affirmatively people
who are not wearing them, ask to wear their mask, has been successful. That doesn't necessarily mean it's
a official Board position, but just wanted to share, in my own experience, there are certainly people who get
on the bus, they put their mask on, they sit down, they take their mask off or it slips below. But most people,
if they are kindly asked to wear their mask over their nose-- with one exception, in my experience-- have
put that on.

So it could be really embracing a culture of health and asking everyone to look out for one another and to
support one another and to support people, when you see them standing up for what's right and you see
them standing up for health. And really, this is a community issue, in the same way that if someone in the
office isn't wearing their mask, you work together to address that as a community to make sure they're
wearing it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Rosenthal, did I see your hand?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I didn't put it up. But I do have a thought. And I appreciate what Director Dishell just
said, that all it takes is just a little ask. And you know, I guess could we also have some of our ambassadors
occasionally get on-- and obviously, we have hundreds of buses, so you can't have ambassadors get on
every single bus. And I know it's not been the practice up to now to have ambassadors on our buses. But
if we could just as a pilot project, maybe on some of the busiest routes, to have ambassadors just get on
and have some extra masks and have some hand sanitizer and say, hey, does anybody need a mask,
anybody need a hand sanitizer?
So just sort of, that might be just something where we could pilot that on a smaller basis, just see, would
that help. And that's also something we could also tell constituents, like, hey, let's take an extra step to just
see how that works and would that help alleviate the matter.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Thank you. Director Broom, did you want to speak, sir?
BOB BROOM: Yes, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You have the floor.
BOB BROOM: I just had a question about, I made a request for a briefing on how well RTD is prepared to
deal with power grid going down, like it did in Texas a few weeks ago. Could Miss Johnson speak to that?
Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. So thank you very much, Director Broom. It's our intent to bring that back during
the Capital Programs and FasTracks Committee on April 6. Thank you very kindly.
BOB BROOM: Thank you. That's all I had. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis, do I see your hand up again?
SHONTEL LEWIS: If there are other folks in line, I would love to hear from other Directors.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Any other directors? I am not seeing any. Oh, Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you, Director Lewis, for the question. It's a
good one.
And you know, I do hear from constituents and have also heard from operators in the District. I'm curious,
to Miss Johnson, the CEO and General Manager Johnson, do we-- when I do hear from constituents, I
would say it's anecdotal. And in my own experience, I mean, some lines, some routes seem OK in terms
of compliance, and then some, there seem to be more anecdotal evidence. But do we have a good
understanding of order of magnitude in terms of across the entire District, lack of compliance, how many
incidents? Do we have some place that we're collecting this information? Do we have a sense of the
problem?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Davidson. That is a very good question. I remember
us touching upon that previously in a Board discussion.
So no, we don't have an understanding of the order of magnitude. Relative to us tracking any incidents that
are happening on the system, they are generally coded in such a way, so if you had a altercation, it wouldn't

necessarily say it germinated from that of non-mask wearing or what have you. So no, we don't have any
mechanisms in place whereby we're tracking that.
If I am mistaken, I would ask a member of my leadership team to clarify that for me, if I've misspoken. Mr.
Ford?
MICHAEL FORD: Yes, this is Michael Ford, COO. We generally get information through our dispatch. Our
operators will call in, and they should be tracking at least the incident or pushing a button to advise them,
or if security is called to the scene. So I believe that information is being tracked. I will definitely double
back on that. But that information should be in our system. And we will continue to provide any other
information that's necessary. But I believe that is being tracked as we speak.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Mr. Ford-ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Oh, I'm so sorry. I was just going to say, Mr. Ford, that's coming in through dispatch.
But I was talking about capturing it on our system, like a CRM or something of that magnitude.
MICHAEL FORD: I will get back to you on that. There may be a system that that is being put into. But I will
need to check with some of my staff just to verify that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: All right. Thank you. And excuse me, Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: [INTERPOSING VOICES] excuse me. I just wanted to say thank you. And if there is
some follow-up information, that would really help in terms of understanding where and what the problem
is, which may help with Director Lewis's point of designing particular solutions or positions. Because my
suspicion from the anecdotal is that it is different in different areas. But I would love to have a better sense
of that. So thank you very much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you.
MICHAEL FORD: Absolutely.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Dishell, did you have another question? You're muted.
BOBBY DISHELL: If I talk again during this meeting, I'm going to get right. I noticed that on the bus now,
or at least sometime during the pandemic, we started adding, please use rear door boarding and watch the
ramp as needed, or something like that. What is the cost and how easy is it to add, as we go by stops, a
similar item after someone gets on where it reads out, as required by federal law, please wear your mask,
or something-- over your nose-- or something to that effect? Is that an easy, inexpensive option? And do
those work, generally speaking? That sort of robo announcement.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Dishell. We'd have to program the automatic
enunciators. And so basically, they'd have to be recorded and pushed out through software to all of the
buses. So that would take some time to do, recognizing that there are certain requirements which have to
be broadcast over the enunciator, i.e. transfer stops in compliance with the ADA, as well as safety
messages. So it's based upon the rotation as we go forward, recognizing how many messages we already
have basically captured in the system.
So we'd have to delve into that to discern how frequently that would be played. Because it may not be
automatic, contingent upon what I just shared relative to the other requirements on that limited scope that
we have to push out.
BOBBY DISHELL: Got it. That makes sense. I just wanted to throw it out as an option. So thank you so
much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lewis, you were next.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you, Director Dishell and Davidson for your
comments. I do appreciate it.
I would say anecdotally, and, of course, I don't have this data, but at least what I've heard from operators
and from our patrons is the 15, the 51, and the 31, as routes that we might want to maybe take a closer
look or to see if what the data might be telling us. I just receive it often enough that I feel as though what
the data, to Director Davidson's point, we might be able to come up with how we might move forward, and
in a way that really values and centers our front line staff and our operators but also our customers as well.
And I imagine there's a way to do both. And right now I don't know if I have a good answer for that. But I
think a discussion as colleagues, as Board members, is worthy. Because it has come up quite a bit.
And I've also looked at other agencies. And some agencies are no mask, no ride. And I'm not in any way
suggesting that. But I think it just might be worth our evaluation in comparison of other agencies, if we see
the data and we see that this is happening often, or if we are noticing things that it'd be incumbent upon us
to do something about it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Second Vice Chair Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: I thank you, Madam Chair. I agree with some of the comments, many of them, and would
second the idea of gauging, getting a better gauge on this. My experience-- again, this is anecdotal-- but it
seems to be worsening considerably recently. Maybe that's because we're relaxing our code level and so
forth throughout the state. But this isn't the time to do it, and our frontline employees haven't yet received
or gotten into the phase that's prioritized. So I think it's still pretty important.
And the second thing is that if there is a way to do an ambassador program, as Paul Rosenthal suggested,
I think that's a good idea as well. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Assistant General Manager Tonilas.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thanks very much, Madam Chair. I just wanted to piggyback on to some of the
information shared about are we capturing information by route, or where we see this might be a problem.
Through the Customer Care Division and our new Salesforce customer relationship management that
launched the first phase, we may be able to pull what we're hearing from our customers and categorize
that.
At the April 6 Communications and Government Relations Committee meeting, we actually are going to
start briefing the Board on some of the common themes that we're hearing from our customers, just across
the board, not just about mask wearing or what have you. But we can try to pull what we have and see if
we're seeing some recurring problems on certain routes or what have you, and include that in that report.
Thank you very much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I'm not seeing anyone else's hand up. Is there anyone else? Oh,
First Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Just briefly, if Director Cook's comment is right that it's getting worse, that
is a concern. And it may well be. Because I do see people kind of opening up, and some of the states are
going that way. So I like the idea of trying to capture some information and see what we can do to head
that off. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Great. Thank you. OK. Anyone else? OK. Seeing none-KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis has her hand up still.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director-- Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Williams. I appreciate that.

I had a second comment about the second Other Matters that you had proposed, regarding the study
sessions and the calendar. It's just a general opportunity for us to consider. I know we had the Finance
workshop, or study session, this afternoon that started at 2:30. And many of us work full-time, and some of
us don't have the flexibility that maybe other Directors have to be able to attend on some of these things
that happen at 2:00 in the afternoon, 2:30, or even 11:00 in the afternoon.
And so I would ask that the Board just consider on a general basis the opportunity for maybe us to have
some more of those meetings beginning at 5:30 in the evening. Really just an opportunity, I mean, I think,
what I've heard from Board members is that we truly value diverse perspectives, diverse experiences,
diversity on our Board. And I think one of the hindrances to getting that diversity is the time in which we
might have our meetings.
And so just a consideration for the Board that we might think about having something at 5:30 as opposed
to 2:30 in the afternoon. While I do appreciate that we can go back and watch these videos, there's nothing
like getting a presentation and being able to answer those questions in real time. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I was just going to say that all Zoom meetings are recordable. And if-- I understand that
I have a full-time job myself. And if I can't make a meeting, then it's on me to go and watch it when I can
look at it. But I understand Director Lewis' point, that it's not the same when you can't participate live.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Any other matters to come before the Board?
OK. I'm going to call it. 6:27 PM. We are adjourned. Do I have a motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: Second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All in-- or anybody opposed?
KATE WILLIAMS: Can we take a five-minute break before we go to the next meeting?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It is 6:27. And I'm going to say if we could take, oh, like come back at 6:35.
And that will be the next meeting, which is Operations and Customer Service.
Thank you, everybody.

