2021-09-14
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Part 1
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. The Operations and Customer Service Committee will now come to
order. We are convened as of 5:30 PM Mountain Daylight Time. Directors and members of staff, please
mute yourself until you are required to speak, or requested, or recognized, or any of those R words.
Thank you, everybody, for joining us this evening. Under the current circumstances, the official meetings
of the RTD Board of Directors continue to be held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and
welfare. For the immediate future, the official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom and
will be audio and video recorded.
Those meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as
possible on the Board's website. You can visit rtd-denver.com and scroll to the bottom of the page for the
link to the Board of Directors. Directors and staff, if you would like to be acknowledged during tonight's
proceedings, please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call on you before proceeding to speak.
Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to indicate they would like to
speak by pressing star 9. To toggle your mute setting on the phone, press star 6. I would ask that the
Board staff assist me in recognizing potential speakers should I not call on somebody.
We are not taking public commentary during this meeting. Members of the public interested in
communicating to the Board members are encouraged to do so prior to this committee meeting and/or
during the monthly Board meeting. For those dates, refer to the Board's meeting portal which is located at
rtd.iqm2.com.
At RTD, safety is one of our core values. And we'll begin this meeting with a short safety briefing. While
recent public health orders have relaxed requirements for the use of face coverings in certain settings, the
Transit Security Administration has extended the federal mask requirement for public transportation until
January of 2022. The federal mask requirement states that individuals must wear a face covering while
waiting for and while riding public transportation, including airports and aircraft, train stations and trains,
bus stops and buses.
RTD requires that employees and customers continue to wear face coverings. And RTD is taking a
cautious approach to returning to pre-pandemic operating practices to ensure the safety of those same
customers and employees. Transit has proven to be an extremely safe way to travel. And there have
been no clusters of positive cases linked to transit in the Denver Metro area.

Please consider getting vaccinated if you have not done so already. Wear your face covering on transit.
And practice physical distancing. We hope to end this pandemic sooner rather than later. Thank you. Ms.
McManus, would you now call the roll?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, Thank you. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here, sorry.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal?

PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I know that Chair Williams is there. And Chair Angie Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 15 present and accounted for. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Ms. McManus. We have no recommended actions on the agenda this
evening. But we do have three discussion items and attendant presentations. Our first discussion item is
Board committee restructure. And our General Manager CEO Johnson will give a presentation on an
update for that. I'd like to remind everybody to state their names and titles for the record each time they
begin to speak. Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the Board. I'm Debra Johnson,
General Manager and CEO. And it's a pleasure for me to join you this evening to discuss the Board
committee restructure. My intent here is to give a broad brush overview and then yield the floor to the
Directors who have worked diligently on this, being Directors Cook and Directors Tisdale. Before I delve
in, I would like to acknowledge the work that has been put forward by John McKay of the Executive
Office, as well as Michael Davies in the Executive Office-- or Government Relations, I should say, and the
work of the Board staff in conjunction with the activities we're going to outline briefly.
So just by way of background, recognizing the Directors Cook and Tisdale began in the latter part of 2020
working in earnest to shore up the committee restructure and do some investigative work. And produced
a white paper, and even taking it beyond by reaching out to Directors that were elected at the time, not
part of the body, to garner input on what might be optimal for a Board structure. That information, coupled
with the adopting the strategic plan has set us on a trajectory in which to engage in dialogue.

You all had provided fodder as it related to some optimal scenarios relative to having a different
committee structure, which are outlined within the Board report that's before you this evening. And
specifically recognizing that we want to garner an understanding of our path forward. There is an
attachment to the Board report this evening that gives sample survey questions. I want to qualify for all of
you that these are merely sample survey questions. And based upon the dialogue that ensues this
evening, these questions can be amended to reflect the desire of the Board relative to garnering a more
collective understanding about the path forward.
Most importantly, the items that we would like to discuss with you have to do with the preference for the
day and times of standing committee meetings. What would be the preferred number of Directors per
committee? What might be the number of standing committees. And then as we talk about the
methodology utilized in reference to appointing Chairs and Vice Chairs of committees relative to the
composition. So, at this juncture, I would like to yield the floor to Director Cook and Directors Tisdale to
lead thoughtful discussion as it relates to this item before you. Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: I guess we can have-- by seniority, we'll have Director Tisdale go first and Director
Cook go next. Director Tisdale, would you like to speak to us?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I would have deferred alphabetically or to Director
Cook, in any event, as an Executive Committee member, and also just as a point of gentlemanliness. But
I will be happy to proceed on the basis of seniority.
What you have before you is what we believe is a bold effort by RTD to align itself with the best practices
of other agencies in this country relative to committee structure and committee governance. We believe
that we have collected a great deal of information, much of which you have seen before. We did not want
to burden you again this evening with all of the various documents that we had curated and distributed in
the past regarding this.
They are available, of course, should you have the desire to review any of that again. In this effort, we
are, we believe, not only engaging in best practices as we have learned from APTA and their on-site
teams with us and through best practices as again collected and made available to APTA members by
APTA. But we've also been responsive to concerns and issues that have been raised by the State Auditor
and by the Accountability Committee concerning the governance of this RTD Board.
It is still something that requires input from all of the Directors and buy-in from the Directors. We believe
that it is, in fact, a well thought out and very workable plan. But it is one that can only truly work if we
secure that buy-in from each of you. So we're here tonight to have that discussion. And we're here tonight
to craft a path forward for how this might be done.
We had talked initially about the prospect of making this an interim solution with an automatic sunset. We
determined that that probably was not in the best interests of RTD. That we should make the change and

commit to it. We always have the opportunity to fine tune, to do midcourse corrections as we go along.
But we think that we should commit ourselves now to this process.
So I look forward to a dialogue. I will have some personal direct comments when the Chair goes around
the horn with everyone else. But that's, if you will, my opening statement relative to what we bring to you
this evening. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you Director Tisdale. Director Cook, thank you for your patience. Would you like
to add to this?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, and I think that turned out to be a good thing, going in that order, thank you. So
we'd focus on a couple of things. One, the staff report identifies what we hope to achieve by working
through this restructuring. We're talking about smaller committee composition, decreasing the number of
committees, enhancing the committees effectiveness, and optimizing meeting times.
And the impetus for this was actually the 2010 audit and touched upon this in the governance section. But
the more immediate impetus was a seminar that Director Tisdale and Director Walker attended. And that
some of us, based on their recommendation, then viewed afterwards. And it was an APTA seminar. It
was hosted by Doug Eadie who's a consultant, and David Stackrow, who, at the time of publication of
their book, was the Chair of the Board of Directors for APTA.
It was about building a solid Board-CEO partnership. And a key piece of it is Board engagement and
ownership on what the agency does, forming a true partnership. So I'll just read one paragraph on that. It
says, "the traditional passive, reactive model of governing-- characterized by the CEO and the Executive
team members, sending finished documents to the Board, which then thumbs through them," he adds
parenthetically, "what we think of as the thumbing through approach to policy making is now the
exception to the rule in public, nonprofit governance. For three very compelling reasons.
"First, the passive, reactive approach lacks the kind of intensive Board-CEO executive team interaction,
the back and forth questioning and in-depth discussion that leads to well-informed decisions and decision
making. Second, the traditional model fails to capitalize on Board members as an asset, their diverse
experience, expertise in pertinent fields, such as financial management, strategic planning, and
marketing, their varied perspectives and their connections to key stakeholders. And third, the passive,
reactive approach turns Board members into an audience with little, if any, ownership or commitment to
the decisions they make."
So I just think that's a really good laying of the groundwork for what we're doing and the kinds of
engagement they're talking about, that partnership, I think, is made possible in significant part by going to
smaller committees and some of these other changes, depending upon how we flesh them out. So with
that, thank you very much for that chance to add to introductory remarks.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Cook. And I neglected to thank General Manager Johnson earlier
before I dove right into this. So thank you all for the work that you have done to bring us to this point. I will
begin by going around the room alphabetically. But I'd like to point out my understanding is that following
this discussion, the item will come before the Board later on this month. So let's start at the beginning with
Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Madam Chair. I had a couple of questions. So could I just get a little bit
of the briefing of the timeline of when would we potentially get the actual survey? And then it looks like
there would be a final recommended action in October. Could I just get on get a breakdown of the
timeline of potentially when Directors would get the survey, when this recommended action would come
forth, and then is this a pilot program? How long would it be going forward with it? When would this
ultimately last? Those are my questions for now.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm going to ask General Manager Johnson to speak to that. And then if she needs
help from Director Cook or Tisdale, she can refer to them. And I think for the first go around, we'll allow a
question and answer right off the bat. So Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes thank you very much, Madam Chair and Director Bouquet to the questions in
which you raise. The intent of this evening is to garner input from the dialogue that we are embarking
upon currently. With that being said, this will be very analogous to the approach we took with the
Accountability Committee. I will be taking copious notes, as well as a member of my team.
The intent here is to leverage a survey that will be disseminated to all of you. My intention is to have that
survey disseminated tomorrow. There will be instructions relative to when there should be a timeline in
reference to you submitting that information back to us. That information will be compiled. So there's full
transparency and relationship to what the consensus is relative to the composition of the committees, the
preference of the date and times, and things of the like. That information will help inform the
recommended action that's brought to you all for consideration as the full body to change the restructuring
process of the current composition of said committees as relates to our governance.
Moreso recognizing the intent of the conversation that we have this evening, there is the probability that
we can bring this back later this month, as opposed to October, recognizing it's our intent to launch this
restructuring of the committee process commencing in January. So we can optimize the effectiveness of
the governance as outlined by Director Cook relative to the 2010 state audit as well as the Accountability
Committee's of input relative to the governance of said Board here. This evening. I hope that answers
your questions.
JULIEN BOUQUET: It does. Can I add a comment, Madam Chair?
KATE WILLIAMS: Absolutely, Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: So, I guess, two comments. First off, I am in favor of Board restructuring. I think

when I ran my campaign, I believed when I saw how the Board structured its committees, I believe there
is a more efficient way to do so. So I am in favor of moving forward with kind of figuring out what is the
best method. I just want to throw that for the record.
The other comment/question I would kind of put in is consideration of voting preferences. I know that was
way back when we originally joined the Board, where it would potentially only be a vote for those who are
part of the committee to have voting-- to have a voting right, would it be attendees to potentially have a
voting right, when I mean attendees, I mean other Directors who are not part of the committee, who just
happen to join in. I think that would be another question, kind of consideration. And that's all I have.
Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you Director Bouquet. I believe that Director Broom is next. Bob, do you have
any questions or comments?
BOB BROOM: No, not at this time. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. I want to start out first by thanking Directors Tisdale and Cook for
their hard work on this has been I think almost, correct me if I'm wrong, but almost a year in the making.
And you all have put in a lot of time-- two years? What took so long? No, it's been a long time coming.
And I really appreciate the hard work and all of the resources that you uses to come up with this.
I think it's a great idea. And the committee structure that you recommend in the discussion item, I think,
makes perfect sense. The way that they're broken out, the way that operations and safety go together,
the way that finance and planning go together. I think that's critically important because those. There are
so many overlaps with those. And it makes sense for them to go together. So I think you did a great job.
I don't-- I think you mentioned early on that your preference is to not have this be a pilot of any kind. And I
agree with that. We need to just make this change and work with it. And see if we can make it work. If not,
we can always go back, tweak things, and change things if necessary.
But I think a sunset that you just put in there, willy nilly kind of thing, doesn't make a lot of sense. So I'm in
favor of that as well. I know there have been some discussions about when we meet. And that'll all come
out in the survey. But one of the things in the survey that I saw that I think is really important, and I know
Director Lewis has been pretty vocal about this of late, is public comment at the standing committees.
And I have to agree that by the time things come to a Board meeting, matters have come out of our
committees with decisions fairly close to being made. And things are on consent agendas that don't get
discussed. So I think having some public comment at those committee meetings is pretty important and
makes a lot of sense. And if we're going to say we're going to be transparent, then let's be transparent all

around. So other than that, I guess I will answer my survey questions and see how that all goes. But
thanks again for your work on this.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Buzek. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I would echo my appreciation to both Directors Cook and
Tisdale for all their hard work and then even reaching out to fellow Directors to get their thoughts early on
was really beneficial. And I think some of the dialogue that took place was really helpful for me. And I
know we had talked about our committees were kind of stovepiped along the organizational lines of the
departments. And this really kind of crosscuts across functional areas in a fairly meaningful way. So I
really appreciate how you've developed the concept of these three primary committees along with the
Executive Committee and the Audit Committee.
So I'm impressed. If we move forward on this, then it's going to be a heavy lift for the Board staff to come
up with revised bylaws, as well as committee charters. And I know that if we want to hit the ground
running at the first of the year, that that's going to require all of us to pay pretty close attention and to
support them in any way we can. So I am in support of this effort. And I will also fill out my survey. But I'm
impressed with the work. And I just think it makes sense in our strategic direction for the agency. Thank
you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Cook, in alphabetical order, you go again.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. My cat just has impeccable timing. So one thing, I wanted to suggest a
change to the survey options offered. The text of the staff report talks about between five and seven
members. And just in working through some of what it would take to map out members into individual
committees at serving on two committees, say, and only five is more difficult, or only seven is more
difficult than if you have some leeway.
And so I thought for people to have that choice, between five and seven, leaving a little leeway for how
the system or the process that we decide upon to determine who's on the-- what the membership is would
be really helpful. And along those same lines, I would say to folks who are commenting, if you think there
are options that ought to be included in the survey, but that aren't currently, please feel free as we go
around the horn here to voice those. Because Director-- or GM CEO Johnson made an emphasis on the
fact that this is a sample survey. And so if you have ideas for questions or options on questions that need
to be added, then do that. So with that, I'll move along. Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Cook. Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I'll echo the sentiments. Thanks to the two Directors
who worked hard on this. And yeah, thanks for bringing this all to us here. I had a couple of comments, I
think, before I jump in. And then I have two questions. I'll just-- Director Cook, I think that's a great point, I
would agree. I think it would be nice not to necessarily limit to the exact number on the committee. I think

there would be various times when some issues will be of more significance to the agency in one year or
another, as set by the strategic plan.
Also I think we'll have different Directors over the years with different areas of expertise. So being able to
allocate folks based on their expertise, as well as priorities at the agency, I think makes sense. I just-- I
wanted to make a comment. I actually have had a chance to think about this a little bit. And thank you to
the Directors for reaching out to us to help us understand this a little better.
But the finance and planning, I really appreciate that the planning has come together and that we're
breaking out Audit. I think we're all very clear on the need for Audit to be a smaller committee that
adheres to standards. I think in our situation, our long-term planning and expansionary efforts are
inexorably linked to our financial situation. So I appreciate very much that those two things are together.
So that's something I've been thinking about and looking at other boards. And it is a little different than
some of the boards in our cohort. But as I've thought about that, I just would simply say I compliment you
for putting those together. It makes a lot of sense for RTD.
I did have a question or two here. So one thing that I did notice, this is part comment, part question.
We've talked a lot about the importance of customer excellence and delivering value to customers, as
well as employee ownership, two biggies. And those terms aren't in our committees, which again, I think
what is intended there is because we have a performance committee, and that before we're setting our
strategic plan, those are within the auspices of the performance committee. It's just, I guess, a brief
question, is that the correct understanding of the intent?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Madam Chair, to Director Davidson, you're absolutely right when we talk
about performance. Because all we do is for the benefit of the customer, because without them there's no
need for us. So that's the mindset as it relates to all of this collectively.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Thank you CEO and General Manager. Madam Chair, if I may, just two
other questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Absolutely.
ERIK DAVIDSON: So a related question, that was the one that jumped out to me as is that a whole Board
thing? And so I know we have things in committee. But one of the things that I may not have a-- I don't
really have a formed thought around this. I think I'd be curious to hear the thinking of the architects of this.
When I think about performance of the agency and how we measure that, our regular dialoguing on it,
before we even have-- we're making decisions before they come to recommended action, that feels to me
like a whole Board discussion, given that it's a strategic plan.
And then also given that our current strategic plan, we're talking about some very core things to the
agency. So given that I don't really have a formed opinion on this, I was curious to hear, whether from
Director Cook, Direct Tisdale, CEO and General Manager Johnson, or anybody else who might be able to

lend a voice to this as to whether there was thinking that we may have whole-- not necessarily advocating
for committees as a whole, by the way, I'm all for trimming down and getting this a little bit leaner. But that
was the one that jumped out to me as this might be a whole Board thing. And I imagine that there were
some of those discussions. So question, perhaps rhetorical, to think about. But the Director Cook, I'll hand
off.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Director Cook, I assume you want to answer that.
SHELLEY COOK: That's fine. I will tell you that at-- the Eadie-Stackrow book contemplates the strategic
planning function as being a Board function, a Board as a whole function with the senior leadership team
coordinated together by one of the committees. In our case, it might be the Performance Management
Committee, or it might be the Executive Committee in tandem with the senior leadership and our CEO. So
they did explicitly state that as the Board, the Board as a whole needing to be really engaged. But that the
process for that needed to be thoughtfully laid out.
So I think a lot of what GM CEO Debra Johnson has just completed with us pulled in some of that. But
that is a good point. That is a piece that really doesn't go through a committee. It really needs to be more
of a full Board function. And the second piece that he identifies is what he calls a change portfolio. These
are the issues, the looming challenges that go beyond the immediacy of any of the committees, even the
planning committee that are challenges that the agency needs to direct special attention to. So those two
things I think he saw as more full Board things.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you Director Cook. You can put your hand down. Director Davidson, does that
complete your process at the moment?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, I appreciate just hearing the background on that. Just something I'll be thinking
about what the surveys. I'm not sure if there's a way to form a question out of it. But that was the one
thing that was sticking with me as a whole Board function is in that committee. And I would want to make
sure we have everybody's voice and everybody's involvement with setting strategic plan. And also
measuring, I think, is one of the more-- looking at our metrics is going to be one of the key things that the
Board can do to manage the agency.
So just the final question I had was related to the Executive Committee. And it was when we're talking
about the numbers. And there's a question in the survey about what the right numbers are. Are we
thinking about changing the numbers or structure of the Executive Committee and the titles? And perhaps
I missed that in some of the dialogue. But I just want to make sure, as we-- it may make sense to also
break that out as a separate survey question that if, for example, we're saying fewer than a certain
number, and that actually goes under what the current Executive Committee is, I just want to understand
what we're dialoguing there. So a comment to maybe add that in the survey and then a question of are
we looking at changing that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Ms. Johnson, please.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Madam Chair. That discussion did ensue with our
working group and recognizing that we wanted to have everybody have a voice. There are a couple of
different options as we look at other governing bodies and more specifically within the transit realm. With
an Executive Committee, there could be just officers, there could be additional members that are added.
So that is for you all's discussion. And we will incorporate a question to garner a better understanding
what the intent of this policy body is.
And then more specifically, if I could go back to the previous question you had, Director Davidson, about
the full Board function as it relates to strategic planning and the point the Director Cook had raised, when
you keep in mind when we brought forward discussions for the strategic plan, that was collective of the
entire body. And then when we brought forward the strategic plan for consideration, that did not go
through committee. It went through a special Board meeting.
So keeping that in mind as we look at what we're doing collectively using the strategic plan as the
blueprint for the future, I think it's incumbent upon all of us to keep that in mind collectively as we talk
about these different committees and what could happen in the various committees. Because everything
we do here, basically, is centered upon us delivering transit service. But we need to ensure that we have
customers and relationship to delivering that. We need finances.
So there's intersectionality with all of this as we go forward. So I just wanted to ensure that I could convey
that point for y'all's consideration as well. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Davidson, you good?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Appreciate it.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, Director Dishell, I think the floor is yours.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you Directors Cook and Tisdale as well for your
really important work on this and the other comments that have been made. Try to keep it brief, I promise.
But there's a lot to unpack here. So I'll start sort of walking through the document, what's on here, maybe
I'll start with sort of general flavor for the comments.
The flavor for the comments comes from one being someone who is on the younger side, being someone
who works full time plus someone who chooses to use transit, and someone who tries to center equity in
what we do. I work about 50 hours a month on this Board. And I am confident that I am on the low end of
what everyone else contributes. And from an equity standpoint, from an efficiency standpoint, that's a
problem.
We're a corporate Board of Directors. We may be elected by the people, for me, we are gatekeeping in
our current structure. So I'm really supportive of sort of opening the box and say, OK, let's see what's

possible. And I actually remember being on a candidate info call. I can't recall who it was, but a current
Director actually discouraged people from running unless they had a certain amount of time to devote to
the job. And devoting and prioritizing the job is, of course, important.
But to be able to meaningfully contribute to the Board in the way that we're currently structured, I think
we're overbuilt. And I think we could be a lot more efficient. I don't love the idea of the Executive
Committee just being government affairs, unless that's truly what it is. In which case, we should call it the
Government Affairs Committee.
I also sort of hold a belief and this is not anything about anyone who is Chair, has been Chair, I just
happen to believe that we should decentralize power when we have the opportunity to do so. And so I
would really favor sort of looking at our Executive Committee, and what it means, and what each role
does. And also I think it would be great for frankly culture and morale of the Board just to rotate it.
You're off. And then you're a Chair of a committee, and then you're on Executive Committee. You're off,
which many boards do. You rotate leadership positions. And you crosstrain functionally. And the reason
for that is, and we're already starting to see it this year, certain people, and again, it's politics, it is what it
is. But people try to form coalitions to get elected, form slates and it creates, in my mind, an unnecessary
division when we're all here-- while we may disagree on the way in which we accomplish our goals, we'll
here for the same reason I don't think any of us volunteered-- well, we are compensated.
I don't think any of us spend the time that we do at the compensation rate that we do because it pays our
bills. And I think the idea of having people run and having the Chair withhold the amount of power that the
Chair does rubs against that. And so I would be pretty heavily in favor of looking at Executive Committee,
deciding what it is that they really do, does it need to exist, and really just looking at a rotating structure.
You just rotate through.
And obviously, if you want to opt out of one, sure opt out. But let's not make it an extra part of our days to
try to figure out who is going to be Chair. And what does that mean? What committee am I going to get
put on if this person's Chair versus if that person's Chair. I just think it could create a lot more equitable
and more beneficial and more efficient structure.
The rest of the committee structure, I think it's great. It seems to make a lot of sense. I would note that it
would be great to see sort of-- it's been talked about a lot that equity, and diversity, and inclusion should
be a part of what we do. It should be a part of it inherent in each of our committees. And that's missing
right.
And I think for as a part of this project, this process, the devil is going to be in the details. What are the
bylaws? What does each committee actually do? And I think it's important for us to take a step back and
interrogate what is our role as a Board. And I know that we have vast disagreement amongst those of us
sitting here. What does it mean to be a Board? What is an appropriate role for us and what is an
inappropriate role, sort of crossing into a management space.

As far as the days and times committees will meet, I am pretty firm that 5:30 is, especially when we start
meeting back in-person, if you are someone who gets off at 5:00 and works in the northern part of district
I, or the southern part of Director Tisdale's district, or way out in Director Broom's district, or if you're in a
district that's not in the Central hub, and even if you are, it can take half an hour to get from the suburbs of
Denver, or even Denver proper to downtown at 5:00 PM.
Just can't. And so 5:30, I think, it would be on the early side. And I know that creates challenges for staff
and for others. But it opens more opportunities for people who may not have as flexible schedules to be
able to participate, be a part. I would love to see what does it mean for an ex-officio role to exist on these
committees. I think it could be a really interesting use of the Citizens Advisory Committee to place some
of them as ex-officio members of our committees.
I think it'd be interesting to see what it means to have someone from union, organized labor, as well as
management be ex-officio on committees. I think they bring a really value-- I think both groups bring a
really valuable perspective. That could be really beneficial and might better leverage what they do and
how they do it. As to Audit, it's great to see that broken out separately.
And I think we're generally heading in the right direction. I think the rest of my statements cover the rest of
sort of what's on the survey. Yes, a big yes on public comment being there. And happy to discuss more.
But that's sort of where I am generally on this. And I think there's a real opportunity for us to take a step
back and think I've talked about this in one on ones I've had with people. We almost need another retreat
to decide what it is that we do as a Board.
We went through a ton of strategic planning. And now it's sort that time in a turnaround state to take a
step back and say, OK, what do we do? And how are we going to do it? And I know giving up a Saturday
spend time with all of you is not what everyone wants to do. But I think it could be really beneficial and
sort of speed up the timeline forgetting some of these things done. With that, I will yield.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Dishell. I didn't hear that you needed anything answered at the
moment. Thank you. So I'm going to move on. I believe that Director Guissinger would be next.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair. And I'll echo the thanks for Director Cook and Director Tisdale. I
know it's been a lot of work over a long time. And also appreciate the staff's support in joining that
committee to put it together. From the beginning, when we first started talking about the small
committees, I've been a big supporter.
And my support is all about the hope and conviction that these would make us more effective as a Board,
more effective as committees, and more effective as a Board. And would give us the opportunity to have
people who are interested in a particular area delve into the issues more deeply, get better discussions,
those sorts of things. I think that the background portion of this discussion memo sets out some of the

goals very well, which are to encourage full and fruitful debate by decentralizing decision making,
leverage members' relevant experience, and promote meeting efficiencies.
I think those are all real important goals. And I have written down something similar to what Director
Dishell said, which is this would be a really good time for us to consider what our role is. What are policy
decisions that we look at? What are decisions that we don't look at? In that regard, I'm OK with the
proposal for the types of committees. But I don't have a sense of what exactly is coming to these
committees. And to me, that's a critical piece to get the Board working together on what the scope of work
would be.
If the Finance and Planning Committee, if we're putting those two together, is it financial planning? Is it
overall planning? What are the things that are coming to that committee? I think it's probably OK to put
Government Relations into the Executive Committee, as long as it's intentional, as long as there's scope
that defines what exactly that committee is doing.
Because we clearly need some people working towards the outside. And many of us do, I think, as
elected officials. But I think I would like to see, before we pass anything, more of a fleshed out scope of
work that the Board can discuss and go over. I agree with, just on a couple of the survey things, Director
Cook's point that maybe we don't need to define whether each committee is five or seven.
Maybe if the statement in the bylaws, which I assume is what we're headed towards, says five to seven,
then as the Board changes, and people's interests change, and capacities, we could do it. I think it would
be good to allow the members of the committee to choose their Chair and Vice Chair. But I guess we'll all
look at our surveys and answer those.
And I guess overall, as part of this, I think it would be good to help define a specific role for the Executive
Committee, or the specific roles. And this gets back to sort of defining the scope of work. So that we know
what is coming to these committees. But I think that that would be helpful for the Executive Committee to
be more effective. That's all I have for now. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have a few questions. And then I'll provide some
comments. My first question about the survey. Is it an example or a sample? Or is it a draft?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Madam Chair? So I think it's nomenclature. It is a sample. Those are
sample questions, just to give you an idea of the nature of the question that would be posed. We're taking
copious notes. Those questions would change at the conclusion of this discussion. And I am happy to
relay to all what we have heard. And there will be an opportunity for an open ended aspect if, in fact,
there's other elements that weren't asked on said survey that people could offer up other ideas relative to
areas that weren't touched upon.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it. OK, thank you so much. I appreciate it. And then I had a similar question to
Director Davidson about the Executive Committee. Historically, those-- the Executive Committee is
comprised of folks who have been elected into those seats. And I was curious if the Executive Committee
would operate in the same way. Or if it would operate in a different way in terms of how folks are
assigned to the Executive Committee? Do you just say, hey, I'd like to be the Secretary, and now I'm the
Secretary, or are we anticipating that we will hold a vote or do something differently? So I'm a bit
confused about that specific committee. So maybe Director Cook or Tisdale, you all might chime in in
your thinking and planning around that?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, I can discuss that and turn it over to Director Tisdale and see if the staff also-we haven't discussed any change to how the Executive Committee is elected, truthfully. It doesn't mean
that there couldn't be, or that there aren't other models. Eadie-Stackrow contemplates a sort of Board
Governance Committee that is composed of the Board Chair and the Chairs of the standing committees.
But in terms of your question, we didn't talk about any changes to the Board elections of the officers.
Correct me if I'm wrong, Director Tisdale, or anybody else.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Relative to the Executive Committee, and I was going to speak more about
that in my own comments as well, because this is more of a personal view than something we went
through, the notion was, that we discussed, to increase the function of the Executive Committee which, in
general, per the bylaws, is really confined to the setting of the agenda for the Board meeting and not
much else.
Other items do come up and the Executive Committee weighs in on those. But the assigned task of the
Executive Committee, per the bylaws currently, is to set the Board agenda. The thought that I have had
and that I shared with our working group was that if we give the Executive Committee an expanded brief
and we say to them, we want you to take over the function of Government Relations, that it would be
good, in my view, to have the Executive Committee consist of the five elected officers, but to add two
other Directors to it. So that that other function has some vibrancy and some more buy-in with the totality
of the Board as things work through the committee and then come to the full Board for final approval.
So as I say, if we're expanding the brief of the Executive Committee and saying, in addition to setting the
agenda and perhaps addressing the emergency matters that might arise, also adding the sense of
Government Relations, that that committee could easily and appropriately be expanded to a seven
member committee, allowing a broader buy-in by Board members concerning those additional functions.
So that's my reaction to that. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Lewis?

SHONTEL LEWIS: Just one follow up there, Director Tisdale, if I might. With those-- the additional two
members, and I'm glad you said that, because it was the suggestion that I was going to have, and I don't
have to make it. Are those also elected as you would have the other members of the Executive
committee?
DOUG TISDALE: That's something again-- I'm sorry, Madam Chair. Thank you. That's something that I
was also going to address in my own comments relative to the overall selection. I think that it is
appropriate for the Executive Committee to consist of the five elected Board officers, who do have some
specific functions that are separate and apart from being involved with the committee.
So in addition to having those five Board officers a part of the Executive Committee, that we would then
have a separate selection process, and I do like the idea of having the Board essentially weigh in on
who's on what committees, whether that's by the Chair nominating people to serve and then that
nomination being subject to Board ratification, or whether it's just a bubbling up process of having a
committee election through the Board for each of the committees, either way might be functional. But I
think that that's an important part of creating trust as to this change. And I'll address that more later on.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. And if I might ask our CEO to opine, because she and I have had these
discussions, and she might be able to provide some more information for the rest of the Board as well.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may? Thank you very much, Director Lewis. And I think the points
raised by Director Cook and Director Tisdale are very important ones as we look at an Executive
Committee recognizing that here, relative to the bylaws, it talks about setting meeting agendas and things
of the like. In my experience, looking at other transit agencies, and this being the seventh in which I've
worked, oftentimes, with that Executive Committee functioning as a Policy and Governance Committee
relative to ensuring the various issues are coming forward, when we're talking about adhering to different
aspects of regulatory compliance, when you all have ideas to put forward relative to setting policy.
I'll give you an example while we were talking about. There are certain elements we can do within the
confines of an SBE/DBE program coming through the Executive Committee, Governance Policy
Committee. You could put forward a project labor agreement where we have set aside for local
businesses and things like that, where you're providing meaningful input relative to changing the
governing aspect and effectuating policy for the betterment of the constituencies in which you serve. So
there is a myriad of different elements that can come before that committee collectively as we look to see
what it is.
And then more specifically, as well, as Director Tisdale talked about, not just the five officers, but having
the two additional members, that's something we talked about in the work group of which I have seen and
support that in a general sense. But I leave that to you all to offer your input as we go through this
collection of feedback via the survey instrument that we will utilize. I hope that added some additional
input, Director Lewis.

SHONTEL LEWIS: It's very helpful. I do appreciate you taking the time to address that, as well, to you,
Director Tisdale as well. I would on this sample, the times are 4:30 and 5:30. And I'm curious if that would
also pertain to-- or be the same for, excuse me, the Executive Committee specifically. As we sometimes
have meetings that happen at noon, sometimes we have meetings that happen at 3 o'clock, and so would
each one of these committees take place on the second Tuesday and Wednesday of the month at 5:30?
Or are we talking about some inconsistency in time?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may? The important factor here was to create as we go forward to
manage everyone's expectations. So people could set their calendars. So the vast majority of the public
would have an understanding. But we need that input from all of you. That's why it talked about two days.
The more consistency we can provide as an organization and you as a governing body, I think, gives
credence to the public involvement aspect of which you have outlined as well.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, thank you so much. That's really helpful. I would-- I am quite firm on the 5:30
time. As someone who works full time, and many of you do, and not having the flexibility that many folks
do in my responsibilities. I would appreciate us starting at 5:30, not for my schedule, but for the folks who
utilize our services and who would have the opportunity to tune in to our meetings. And so I hope we can
keep that consistent.
In addition to that, I just wanted to make a-- I don't know if it's a correction, or maybe state this more-state this differently. But in the discussion with Director Cook and Director Dishell-- or Director Cook and
Director Tisdale, excuse me, it says decrease the number of committees. And I wanted to say that it
wasn't necessarily just decreasing the number of committees, because that could be interpreted as us not
wanting to do a lot of work, and instead of being more efficient in our committees and how we do our
work.
I just wanted to say that, because at least when I had my conversation with Director Tisdale, I was very
clear that it wasn't about the number of committees. But it was more about being efficient in those
committees and getting things done. Thank you, Director Buzek for your comment about public
comments, because that is really important to me. And that is something that I was quite excited to see
come to be discussed as a part of this proposal.
Because as you know, by the time folks are coming to chat with us, we've already made our initial votes.
And very rarely do we change them. And I'd love to hear from the public before making decisions, as they
might be bring something forward that might sway us to think differently about a topic. I, as you all know,
was not really a fan of the smaller committees. It might be because I'm a nerd, and I want to know all the
things.
I have since had the opportunity to see where the benefits may be. One being the opportunity to
decentralize the power for that Chair's position. And I would not feel comfortable with us moving forward

with the smaller committees if we were to keep the Chair position as it is currently. Because I believe the
Chair has way too much power and it doesn't-- and I would just be concerned about that moving forward.
Another concern that I have is around our Executive Committee setting our-- I mean, I'll call it our political
agenda with Governance and Public Affairs. As we've seen that show up with members of our Board. And
so I would be concerned that that could potentially be the direction in which our Executive Committee
functions in setting the agenda for the entire Board and responding to politics in a way that are maybe not
reflective of the perspectives and opinions of the entire Board. And so that's just something to keep an
eye out for.
I would ask, with the public comment, that we don't ask people to pre-register. That we just allow them the
opportunity to hop on the phone or on Zoom, get in the queue, speak their 30-- three minutes, excuse me,
and that be that. I would also ask for public comment to be, well, generally, for our meetings to have
accessibility in terms of translation for our documents and interpretation for folks to be able to participate.
At the very least, that could be true for Spanish, the Spanish language, at the very least and we can
maybe chip at other languages as we move forward.
And so that would be a request that I have, as well as speech to text, so folks can read what we all are
saying as they're watching these videos. And I would encourage us to keep in place Zoom meetings, or
access to Zoom or to phone if we are to return for the members to engage, because I think it does
eliminate some barriers for many of the folks that we represent. And then finally, I have this question, and
it might be a discussion for the Board and something for you all to ponder on.
Because one of the committees is not the Civil Rights Committee. And while I'm not advocating to be the
Chair of the Civil Rights Committee because I do believe that it's a position that tokenizes individuals,
specifically myself as a woman of color, and I've said that many of you before. I am curious as to how
equity, inclusion, diversity, and belonging is going to be interwoven into the fabric of each one of these
committees. That is a curiosity that I have. And so I'm curious as to how you, Director Tisdale or Cook,
were maybe talking about that as you all were designing this. And I'd love to hear from you all.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Tisdale, do you want to speak to that? Or Director Cook, either one. I see
Director Tisdale looks ready to speak.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, Director Tisdale is always ready to speak. Relative to the Civil Rights
Committee and specifically the concerns about JEDI, Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion. My
statement during one of our committee meetings was to the effect that I believe that JEDI is not
something that should be ghettoized or segregated, if you will, into a specific committee.
But rather that it should serve as a lens for each and every committee. That is part of what we do. And it
insinuates itself, appropriately, into all of these discussions. So my own personal view of this is that the
charters that we draft should include a reference to the fact that JEDI is a lens through which everything
that we do passes.

And I would hope that we ultimately get to the point where we no longer even need to articulate that, but
rather that it becomes part of the fabric of our very existence. And that rather than saying, oh, and we
have to do this, it simply is endemic to the entire process. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Cook, do you want to respond to Director Lewis?
SHELLEY COOK: I really relied on the thinking of others, and in particular, our staff. And I would turn it
over to Ms. Johnson, because she is the person who knows this through and through. How is equity-how is that infused in what we do as an agency? So please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So yes, Madam Chair, if I may, and thank you, Director Lewis, for that very important
question. In the interest of full disclosure, we have talked about this. And I've talked with it about-- to
many of you. So recognizing, as Director Lewis said, to put a label on something and check the box that
we have diversity, and inclusion, and for me, even more so, belonging, people need to feel as if they have
a voice and that their voice is being heard.
So there's a lot of work that needs to be done in a relationship, from my vantage point, as the leader of
the organization as we talk about the strategic planning initiative and having the value of diversity, which
basically encompasses diversity of not only people and their ethnic makeup, but thoughts. And we have
to be willing to accept those thoughts, because you don't have to be disagreeable when you disagree. So
with that as a backdrop, I personally believe, as we look at this through various lenses, that it's
incorporated in all that we do.
Because first and foremost, we would not be able to deliver transit services if we weren't adhering to the
Civil Rights Act. Or we can do much more than just saying that we are being compliant with Title VI. We
can do much more than saying that we're being compliant with ADA. So when we talk about collectively
about what this body can do, it's looking at those examples that I just provided previously in my
comments where we talked about the intention of the Executive Committee.
Where you can set aside policies, as a governing body, that would be beneficial to the overarching
business of the Regional Transportation District that would make a difference to ensure that there is
equity in all that we do. And that we're not talking about equality, but equity in the sense of being fairness
not being the same in reference to whatever we're disseminating in certain parts of the region. So I think
anything collectively is taking that stance. Because I, as the leader in which you hired to lead this
organization, will ensure that there is that element that is weaved throughout the organization. So that's
what I would offer up.
And I don't necessarily think there needs to be a specific committee. I know Director Lewis understands
that, as well as Chair Rivera-Malpiede, as we talked about this collectively. But it's being intentional in
reference to what we're doing. And I think that is the operative message as you think about these
committees and making decisions for the betterment of the constituencies in which you serve. So thank
you for the opportunity to provide some insight into that.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. I really appreciate it. And that's really what I wanted to get to is
that it's the intentionality around that. And I will-- Director Tisdale, I will say I was quite shocked to hear
you use the word "ghettoized," and I trust you meant segmented. However, I think it's important to
recognize that words matter. And the topic of what we're talking about, it might have been interpreted
differently from our listeners. And so just to be careful about the words that we are using in different
spaces in the topics that we are discussing.
With that, I have no further comments or questions. And I hope you all heard my firm yes, I will take this,
no, I will not take those, and more specifically, the importance of us coupling restructuring that Chair
position with the smaller committees. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you Director Lewis. I'm sure that we heard you. I think Director Rosenthal is
next.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And again, Thank you to Directors Cook and Tisdale for
your good job, and of course, GM Johnson and your team as well for your work. So being a new member,
I don't really have the benefit of the long-term experience that some of the other members do. I guess I've
been on for now going on nine months.
And so it's kind of, from that perspective, of course, having also been in the legislature, and having been
and currently on several boards, so sort of bringing those perspectives, I guess, to my thought process
and to my comments as well. So I guess, as I look at this restructuring proposal, I do like the concepts of
smaller committees, I mean, sorry, fewer committees.
I like what Director Guissinger said, potentially have between five and seven, have a range. So that we
can increase, decrease, depending on the needs or people who want to serve on one committee or the
other. I guess I'm not as keen on-- and I'm going to use the word "gutting" the powers of the Chair of the
Board. I want to make sure that we have a strong enough Chair to really interact and create that working
relationship with our General Manager and then helping provide sort of a strong leadership role within the
Board.
But my sense, as I look at it, a Chairperson as a first among equals. I mean, we're all equal, regardless of
your title. We're all elected by the people. And the Chairperson of the Board is that first person to sort of
take on that leadership role. So I think it's OK to devolve some of the powers to the various Chairs of the
committees. I think choosing those Chairs and Vice Chairs can be through a Democratic process,
nominating, seconding. I think that's fine.
My concept for members of those committees is people who say they would like to be on them. And then
maybe the Chairs and Vice Chairs would put together their slate of who they'd like to be on those
committees. And then the Executive Committee would really hash it out and make sure that these are
good teams. So that way, it's a little bit more of a set way to do it. That's not as chaotic.

And I am a little concerned that we would create a structure that is a little too chaotic and create too much
friction between members who are vying to be on this and vying to be on that. I don't want to see that. I
think this Board, one thing that I've been on public a lot talking to people, if I can be so bold to say that I
think this Board actually works quite well together. I think we all pretty much get along quite well.
We don't have some of the elements of prior boards of frictions between members in public and such. So
I think I'd like to keep that sense of us functioning well. And so I guess I want to make sure that we have a
good structure that is not too chaotic.
I do like the Executive Committee to be the current officers. And I do like the idea of adding two. And that
could be chosen, they could be rotated. I think it was Director Dishell who was talking about some
rotations. I do like that concept, too. Or it could just be people who want to be on it could be rotated. So
say there are five members who want to be on that Executive Committee. And then they could rotate
every three months, every six months. They could stagger the terms, so both are not up at the same time.
So I think there's some good structure that we could develop in that as well.
I think those are-- yeah, those are all my notes at this time. And I really appreciate this discussion by all
the Board members. And this is very thoughtful. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. I think that Director Sloan has been waiting to speak.
MARJORIE SLOAN: I am. And I've been wrestling with my mute button. But I think I won. I would like to
say that until I got the packet and started reading about the committee structure, I didn't realize how
important our decision is about how we structure the committees. But when we got the packet, I did start
digging in.
And I'm nowhere near Director Cook or Director Tisdale in investigating the issues. But I did spend some
time digging into what other transit agencies are doing. As everybody said, there are so many reasons
why smaller communities would be more efficient and better for governance of the RTD Board. But I think
we also need to recognize that by its very nature, an immersion in one or two communities means letting
go of an in-depth in the beginning knowledge of other Board issues.
So that means we're going to change the working relationship between Board members and with staff.
We'll need to trust in each other and trust in the process. But I think it's worth doing and worth getting
right. As far as structure goes, like so many of the folks have talked today, I really commend the work.
But I've taken a hard look at the Executive Committee and the Performance Committee, which are the
ones that others have mentioned. And I would suggest dividing up their roles differently from what
Director Tisdale has called the stalking horse of this proposal and other Board structures. One thing that
seems in common is that the Executive committees were often the overseers of GM/CEO performance.
And that makes sense to me, because I see the Executive Committee as assisting the entire Board in the
task of overall governance. And it's that key relationship between the General Manager and the Board

that makes this relationship work. And since we've done the strategic plan, and it's so closely tied to the
GM/CEO's performance, I would suggest that the compliance with the strategic plan would also be given
to the Executive Committee.
And I don't know-- we all have different ideas about this. And I don't know how it goes. But that was what I
came up with. And of course, that ends up giving the Executive Committee an extraordinary workload and
pretty much taking away everything that the performance committee had. So I would suggest taking away
the public relations task of the Executive Committee and do like many other boards do and have an
external Relations Committee that is assigned public relations communications, community engagement,
and legislative strategies.
There are many other boards have done it. One calls it, Cleveland, in fact, calls it the External and
Stakeholder Relations and Advocacy Committee. I think that's an important part of the Board's role. And I
think that committee could be a standalone group. And I realize all of this brings up so many issues that
we're not going to be able to predict.
I agree that we should go forward with the small committees, the in-depth committees. But I also believe
we should commit to each committee conducting a review in, at least, in the third quarter of 2022, and
perhaps ongoing, because issues and Board members are always going to change. That said, I
commend all this work. And I look forward to working under a new structure. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Sloan. I see, I'm going to interrupt for just a moment before I go
back to Director Tisdale. I see that Director Broom has his hand up. Director Broom, you did not speak on
the first round. Do you wish to speak now?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair, just a couple of observations. I personally like to have a strong
Chairman of the Board, and not somebody that's just simply calling balls and strikes. I expect them to
actually pick the Chairs of each of these smaller committees. And on the smaller committee size, maybe
this is for the bylaws, but we need to have an even number of people on the committee so that you don't
end up with tie votes to mess around with.
And the other thing is that while other Board members are welcome to attend these meetings, if you're not
on the committee, you can't vote on stuff that's going on within the committee. And you can be recognized
by the Chair or not recognized by the Chair. Because I've seen situations where, this happened on city
council, where people would call in a couple of their council people friends on a particular item to outvote
the people on the subcommittee. And of course, that distorts the whole process, because the time to
make a final vote is when it goes to the full Board for action. Those are my comments. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Broom. Director Tisdale, alphabetically, you're up again.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I appreciate the opportunity. And I appreciate the
vibrant discussion. I have a couple of points that I wanted to make myself. And then I wanted to respond

to some of the comments that have been made by Directors. Regarding the Executive Committee itself,
the notion that I believe we are putting forth, and I think it is fair to say, yes, this is a stalking horse.
This is an opportunity for us to look at this and determine whether or not this general structure seems to
work. We believe that it does, based upon our extensive research over the course of almost two years in
looking at this, not quite. And I think increasing the Executive Committee by two to make it a seven
member committee would serve a lot of very valuable purposes that we have already articulated and I
won't repeat here.
The comment made by Director Sloan relative to having an External Relations Committee, that really is
the intent behind the stalking horse when we talk about the Executive Committee and Government
Relations. Really, perhaps, it would be, in my own estimation, a fairer description to say that it would take
on the task of external relations. And that includes communications, public relations, government
relations, other external relations.
I think it's the body that is, perhaps, best suited to do that. And I think it's important to have those two
additional members in order to create that trust factor. And I'll say more about that in a moment.
The important thing about Director Buzek's comment that I want to reiterate is the transparency that
comes about by allowing public comment at the committee meetings. The Board meetings themselves,
and I don't think we're talking about eliminating public comment at Board meetings, although the Board, in
its wisdom, might choose to do that. But I think that there is so much benefit that comes from public
comment during the course of the committee meetings.
And there is so much goodwill that we establish by creating that additional transparency, that it's an
element of addition to the committee meetings that almost speaks for itself. And I think it's an excellent
idea. The issue of trust has been raised several times. And that's the reason that I personally advocate for
a selection process that is slightly different.
The reason that this Board, and we talked about this in our white paper that we presented a year ago on
this subject, the reason that the Board went from the prior structure of having smaller committees and
going to committees of the whole was a lack of trust. And there was a sense that, well, we can fix that.
We'll just make them committees of the whole. Everybody gets to participate. And there isn't that sense
that someone has been frozen out.
A way to address that now that was not considered then, that I think would have helped the process back
then is to say the selection process for the committee members is one that is more democratic. Now,
whether that's done by virtue of a slate being proposed by the Chair and then the Board acting or by a
pure democratic process of Board members receiving nominations and then being selected to those
committees, I leave that to the Board as a whole to determine.

But something that creates this opportunity for selection to be broader based is critical in establishing that
trust. Regarding the voting Rights of attendees at meetings, rather than the members, as Director
Bouquet raised, I think for the reason that Director Broom mentioned, is problematic. I don't think that
serves a good purpose for us here going forward.
Remember, the decision by the committee does not create a fait accompli. It is not a final determination.
The matter still comes before the Board. If the committee comes in with a recommendation of four
members in support of something and three members opposed, all that tells you is that four members like
it. It doesn't tell you that the Board likes it. So I think that purpose is served of giving every member of the
Board a voice in the process by having committee members vote and then having the Board discuss the
matter and make a final decision.
To address again the question of Director Bouquet, no, it's not intended as a pilot project. It is intended as
a change to the bylaws that shows that we're committed to it. But I will say again, and several other
Directors have mentioned this, that we always have the right to do midcourse corrections, tweaks,
modifications, whatever verbiage you choose to use. And I apologize if I use any words that might
inadvertently and unintentionally cause distress to anyone.
But whatever language you wish to use, I submit that we can look at this again. And it's probably a
valuable tool to say, after nine months, we want some review from each of the committees as to how
they're functioning and whether they see the need for modifications to the charter, but not for a jettisoning
of the entire process.
Relative to the question raised by Director Davidson on strategic planning, yes, to repeat again, strategic
planning is a Board function. The use of the word planning in addressing one of the committees relates to
what we typically talk about as planning, service planning and capital projects. That's what the planning is
about. The planning is not about subsuming the strategic plan into the purview of this committee and
having it provide that oversight. Strategic planning is a Board function.
Recall, that's the reason that we have annual retreats. Our current bylaws require that we have annual
retreats. And that is for planning purposes, strategic planning purposes. Then relative to the committees
selecting their own Chair and Vice Chair, as Director Guissinger raised, that's a function that could be
done.
Once again, if we have a democratic process for the selection of the members of the committee in the first
instance, however they might be nominated, nominated by the Chair, nominated by the Executive
Committee, or nominated from the floor, three different models that might work, the committee members
might select their own Chair or Vice Chair. And that could be a perfectly workable solution.
I've addressed the Executive Committee a couple of times before. To go back to a comment by Director
Lewis, I think you stated well. We're not talking about minimizing the number of committees for the sake
of minimization. We're talking about increasing efficiency by decreasing the number of committees. A

comment was made also regarding speech to text. I have to tell you, I spent several hours today in the
Wall Street Journal Future of Everything seminar. And it was wonderful to be able to read the comments
that everyone made on the screen while they were talking, because sometimes my ears don't function as
well as I would like. And I have to admit that's something that would be nice.
I already mentioned JEDI as a lens. And have addressed the issue of trust, which I think is critical in this
process by saying let's have the selection process of the committee and the committee Chair and Vice
Chair in a different way. So as to establish and keep vibrant that trust amongst each of us. Thank you
very much, Madam Chair, for letting me go on at length.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Lewis, I see your hand. But I'm going to finish
letting everybody have a first bite. And then I will come back to you, straight away. Thank you for your
patience with that. Director Whitmore, I believe you are next.
TROY WHITMORE: Is it tomorrow yet? Let me tell you, this has been an interesting conversation to take
part in. I'll try and be brief. A little bit of concern about the somewhat significant change in the Executive
Committee role. I've not been on the Executive Committee. It's difficult for me to make the day meeting.
And I guess I have been struck that the Executive Committee hasn't had a lot of duties beyond agenda
planning and a few things of that nature. But however, under this new structure, obviously significantly
more activities and certainly, I would think, more time consuming, especially weighing in during the
legislative session, communications from perhaps the oversight of our General Manager and other duties
of that nature. So I'm going to have to chew on that quite a bit longer and certainly will give my input
during the survey portion of the meeting.
I don't know that I have a strong feeling on the way the Executive Committee is selected. I guess I tend to
lean on the traditional methods. I do favor adding two more members to the committee. I think you bring
some more expertise and perhaps non-officers into that fold, it's probably a good thing. And make sure
that we have a diversity of thought and diversity of districts represented on the Executive Committee.
I do think the setting of the meeting times ahead is very vitally important. So we can kind of find where our
niche may be, if so selected. With that, I think my questions have been asked. And wonderful questions, I
appreciate comments from everybody, very thought provoking. And a lot of things have been answered.
With that thought in mind, thank you to our two members of the Board that worked diligently for 24
months on this matter, Directors Cook and Tisdale, and obviously to Ms. Johnson, Mr. McKay, and others
on staff, appreciate the hard work and certainly understand there's much more work to come in this
regard. But I look forward to the survey and seeing how things shake out for future conversations and
decision making on this process. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Chair Rivera-Malpiede?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. First of all, I really want to Thank the Board for
their just really, really valuable conversation. Because I find it very exciting. And as you know, we've been
in the process of doing some really serious systemic changes to this agency, the 16th largest transit
agency in the country.
Geographically, it's huge. And the number of people that we are setting policy for is over 3 million people.
And I try to remember that. As the Board Chair, and have been for the last two years, I agree with a lot of
what everybody is saying. I can tell you, sitting from this Chair, appointing committee Chairs and Vice
Chairs is no small task. And I have always thought that that should be shared with the Executive
Committee and then ratified by the Board.
I think that it is all of our responsibilities to determine who should sit in those seats. So in addition to the
committees, there are 13 other outside committees that you have to appoint for. That you have to keep in
mind who has the availability to participate. And so I will just say this as an elected official, when I ran for
the RTD Board of Directors, I did it understanding completely that I would have to commit time to it.
And that I would have to make arrangements with my boss to be able to do it, because the reality is we
are working with a big agency that needs to get a lot of work done. It can't be centered around us. We
have to center around the people. So that's the first thing I would say.
The second thing I would say is I think this is an exciting time for us as a Board of Directors to determine
what we want our role to be as we move forward and how we want to implement it democratically. And
also really incorporating all of those really important issues, and actually for a lot of us, it's oh, the whole
thing around justice, equity, diversity, and inclusion should be permeated through everything we do and
say, not just a standalone committee.
And so I think that this conversation is clearly on the right track as far as I'm concerned. In terms of the
committees, I agree with the three committees that have come up plus the ad hoc committee for the
Audit. And I really think that this is our opportunity to mold this the way that we feel it needs to move
forward. So that our General Manager is also very successful. Because remember that we are the policy,
she is the management. And we have to work together for the good of the people.
And I think that that's really, really something I think about on a regular basis, since I have the privilege to
work with our General Manager. I know how much time it takes to volunteer to be in some of these
leadership positions. And it is something that I take very, very seriously. And so I would just say that this
is a great Board. This is a talented Board. And this is a Board that has been really ready to take the helm,
and try new things, and to think out of the box. And so I feel very honored to have that sitting in this Chair
for the last two years. And I'm really looking forward to next year and the new Chair to see what they do.
So thank you, Madam Chair.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. We can thank each other Madam Chair, Madam Chair.
Director Buzek, I see your hand. I will recognize you after Director Lewis. And I will recognize her after I
recognize myself as a member of the Board. I just have a couple quick things.
There's pros and cons to being the last alphabetically. You do get to hear everybody, but sometimes it's a
long time to wait to have your two cents worth thrown in there. So I have an interesting comment that I'm
going to say it now. And then I'm going to say all my comments will come back to it. I had not been
familiar previously with the term "stalking horse" that has been used repeatedly through this meeting. And
the definition that I see is a false pretext concealing the real intention.
So I'm very, very interested to hear that that has been part of this discussion and maybe we can come
back to that when I'm finished. I also happen to agree with Director Guissinger that I think the first thing
we need to do is have a description of each of the committees before we can look at how many people,
and who, are appointed to those committees. So I think we have the stalking horse before the other
horse, however that works.
And then I think that I'm OK with public comment all the time, except I feel very strongly that the RTD
Board meeting is not an open platform for people to just come and speak about anything they want to
speak about. I think that public comment should be restricted to the subject matter in front of the
committee at a committee meeting. And as long as that is adhered to, I'm fine. We're not a bully pulpit for
people just to come and talk. They can go down to channel 9 if they want to do that.
But I think if we establish some rules, then the idea of having more public involvement always is good for
our health. So that's all I have to say. I see Director Dishell after Director Buzek, after Director Lewis. And
since we have now completed the alphabetical round. Anybody who wants to speak, raise their hand. And
I'm going to start with Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just had a quick clarity question for Director Tisdale.
Director Tisdale, you said that I understand that non-committee members can't vote. But can noncommittee members, as you all have been discussing it thus far, bring agenda items to those
committees?
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, sir.
DOUG TISDALE: We always-- well, I shouldn't say we always, we currently have a process whereby a
matter may be brought before the Board at the initiation of three Directors. And the process for that is to
go through a committee and then to come to the full Board. So there is no contemplation in our
discussions that we would take away that process of having three Directors initiate a matter.

We do not currently have a process where a single Director may say, I want to put this action item on the
agenda. The rule of three has been designed, much like the rule of [INAUDIBLE] in the Supreme Court, if
you can't find four people who agree we should talk about this, we're not going to talk about it. So with us,
it's the rule of three. Where we say if you can't find two other people who agree we should talk about this,
then we're really not inclined to talk about it. But that's a separate bylaw. And that's not addressed in the
discussion that we've had.
And yes, I think there's a more modern definition of stalking horse, by the way. And I'll stay with the term,
unless it causes offense. In which case, I'll withdraw immediately. But in this proposal, there is nothing in
there that would change the rule of three. For a matter to come before the Board.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Tisdale, I appreciate that. And just for the-- from my own
understanding, it's my understanding that the rule of three does apply unless you are the Chair. In which
case you can bring matters before the Board as the Chair. So just to clarify that I also wanted to
comment, I appreciate you bringing trust as a part of this conversation. And while the Board hasn't done
any work to mitigate, or to mend, or to fix the trust, it is important that we have that in order to move
forward in having smaller committees.
And I'd like to respond to Director Rosenthal's comment about chaos. I think it's important to understand
that decentralizing power doesn't lead to chaos. Just like someone holding power doesn't lead to order. In
that power is not leadership as well. And so I think that's important to note as we've seen in these
positions. And as Chair Rivera-Malpiede has stated, that it's something that she's wanted to do as a Chair
to co-govern and to make that selection. And I think that I appreciate her putting that on the table.
I do understand that many folks, when they run for office, that they anticipate that they're going to be busy
with RTD stuff. But if we are truly going to have diversity in thought, diversity in experience, diversity in
age diversity in-- I mean, the whole gamut of things, we do have to think about when we are having and
holding our meetings.
| those things are happening at 11 o'clock and mid-morning, that is going to bring about a certain
demographic of folks who have the flexibility within their schedules or maybe don't have schedules to be
able to attend an 11 o'clock meeting versus an evening meeting at 5:30. And so while I appreciate that
there are some folks who have that flexibility, I would say generally I don't know if that flexibility is had by
the folks that we represent. That's the first piece.
And I also am weary of asking people to take personal time to come attend one of our meetings or
vacation time to come attend one of our meetings. That just doesn't seem like we are putting people first
and valuing folks. And so I just want to-- I hope that we are thinking in that way. And then I wanted to add
we've talked about JEDI, justice, equity, diversity, and inclusion. But I want us to bring into the discussion
the belonging as a Black, queer woman on this Board, the belonging is really important.

And we talk about people bringing different perspectives to the Board and having disagreements without
being disagreeable. I would be curious as we are developing these committees, how are we intentionally
creating belonging within the Board for folks who do have different experiences, who do stand on
principles, and may not move forward as collectively on specific agenda items and still having mutual
respect, and trust, and showing that respect and trust to individuals with different experiences, with
different perspectives and being respectful as you move forward and progress.
And so it's not just about justice, equity, diversity, and inclusion. But it's also about belonging. How are we
making people feel like they belong not only on this Board, but that their voices belong to be heard by
each of us as their elected representatives. That their voices belong and deserve to be heard in the
decisions that we are making. And that we aren't creating barriers intentionally or unintentionally that
really yields the same kind of answers and the same kinds of results.
So those are my only comments. And I wanted to say, Director Tisdale, you did miss-- you got the text the
speech to text. But you missed the interpretation and translation, the Spanish. I'm sure you heard it. I just
wanted to make sure you wrote it down.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Buzek, I think it's your time.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair, just a couple of quick comments. On reflection, I really think that
some of the comments made by Director Sloan were quite interesting as it pertains to the makeup of the
Executive Committee or the makeup of the responsibilities of the Executive Committee. And it may make
sense to kind of flip-flop the GMOC type activities with the government relation type activities, move that
out of the Executive Committee and move the GMOC type activities back into the Executive committee. I
think that-- I think either way makes sense. But I like that idea. I think it makes a little more sense to me,
at least.
Second thing I want to weigh in on is the expansion of the Executive Committee. I'm against that. Your
numbers-- and were it not for the expansion of responsibilities, I would be proposing that we limit, we
reduce the number of the Executive Committee to three. Because that's really all you need. But with the
responsibilities being added, five seems right.
And leadership, this is perceived as the leadership group of the Board. And that should mean something.
When it's almost half the Board, it kind of loses some of its meaning. So that's all I say. If we're going to
do a survey, let's put reduce to three as one of the options. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Buzek. I believe that Director Dishell is next in line.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. A couple thoughts, couple of questions. I have questions
this time, not just a thought. On a thoughts piece, I think it's important to acknowledge that maybe we just
don't call it the Executive. Maybe we call it something else. And does that power structure need to exist

and that traditional power hierarchy is a part of white dominant culture and runs contrary to collective
decision-making.
That's OK. But we need to understand that and what that means for people who are not part of white
dominant culture, who are not part of that background, and what that means for letting people in or not,
and whether we actually say, I want collective decision making, but also I want a strong leadership and
strong executive side. Those are in opposition. And so I just think we need to be really intentional with
what we say, and not just say things for the sake of saying that I'm looking good on the record.
On the notion of trust, I happen to think that this is maybe more of a management thing or a Board
management thing. But as we go to smaller committees, I know on the GMOC, we have buddies. And I'm
curious if any thought has been given to a buddy structure, or in lieu of that, some sort of, I guess,
unofficial document that is not as barebones as our minutes, which I understand are corporate minutes
and are drafted in a way for liability purposes, and are really just person X voted, person Y voted, person
X was the movement, person Y was the movement, in a three hour transcript.
There needs to be an in-between that isn't listening to it on 1 and 1/2 speed, because that doesn't work
very well either. Has any thought being given to that component of it? How do we maintain trust in
communication?
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm not sure who wants to answer that question. General Manager Johnson, you've
been fairly quiet, do you want to take that one?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, in actuality, I would defer to the Board members, because I believe this
discussion is pursuant to trust amongst all of you. So I think I'd be stepping out of my lane, with all due
respect.
KATE WILLIAMS: Not a problem for me. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, I think that's an interesting question and something that had come up, too, in a
conversation on the phone. If we're going to allow and encourage public comment at committee meetings,
where not all Board members will have attended, then it would be really helpful to make sure a transcript
that includes those comments goes to the Board when it sees what happened at the committee level and
when it comes to the Board meeting. So I agree with that. I think that's something worth talking about. I
did have some other comments. But I'll wait until you-- I'll wait my turn in queue as well.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Another question, have we given any thought to the notion of a first read and second
read in front of the Board? So an action would come through committee, go for first read in front of the
Board and second read. I recognize that we would lose some of that efficiency. But from my perspective,
we, in many ways, create the same problem, which is the Board only really sees it once.

And you're sort put in a-- well, I'm not going to not approve this service change, because then it means
there's no service change. I'm not going to not approve the budget, because we don't have a budget. It
sort of puts you in a nuclear option position. Have we thought about a first read, second read, whether in
committee, out of committee, just to allow for greater deliberation and change to be made before
something comes all the way out?
KATE WILLIAMS: Again, I'm wondering who wants to answer that? Director Tisdale, Director Cook,
anybody else on the Board that would like to speak to that?
SHELLEY COOK: I could-- it didn't come up. The experience I've had, and maybe others can chime in
who've been on city councils, where you have a first and second reading. Is the first reading is always just
to pass through. It's not meaningful in terms of gaining an added review. There will be the rare time, once
every year or two, where some members may vote not to hear it at public hearing, for example.
But generally, it's an important step. It's required for noticing provisions. But in terms of discussion and
the caliber of discussion, it didn't really add anything in my experience. I don't know what anybody else
thinks there. Just lengthens the time it takes to act on stuff.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Cook. Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, helpful. And then I have two more questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Have at it.
BOBBY DISHELL: Related. The first is have we thought about terms? And when we start, so right now
we start on the calendar year. And it's a 12 month termish, there's sort of like four days, I think, four or six
days, whatever the case may be. But thinking about does it make sense to do a 12 month term, or an 18
month term, or a staggered term where you elect a Chair and a Chair elect? And the Chair elect starts to
shadow in the last three months or six months of the Chair's position.
I know that's a structure that some boards use. Larger nonprofits often use that sort of Board, Board elect,
Board emeritus type position, and just wanted to raise that if we're given any thought to that and people's
experiences of whether that can be beneficial or not. Something to be thought about.
KATE WILLIAMS: Great input. And did you have one more after that
BOBBY DISHELL: No, that's just how we thought about, the reasoning behind we do, why we do 12
months and why we do it in January versus June.
KATE WILLIAMS: You good for the moment?

BOBBY DISHELL: Sounds like-- it looks like we have did not consider it. So yes, I'm good for the
moment.
KATE WILLIAMS: I think as part of the discussion, we are raising these issues, and not necessarily
answering all of them. Forgive me if I'm in error. But it's part of the discussion. Thank you both so much,
Director Dishell, for that input. Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. Just two comments and then a question for our General
Manager and CEO. So first one comment, just some food for thought. Really appreciate Director Sloan,
Director Buzek, some good thoughts about Executive Committee, whether government relations ties into
that or not. Just some food for thought.
There are some executive committees in the transit world that do include that, given that we are a policy
body, given how significant the relationship needs to be in terms of our legislative priorities and
capabilities. I'll just point to one for example, Sound Transit in Seattle, their Executive Committee has a
larger purview than maybe what we've got summarized here, but does engage on the legislative side as
well. And just also food for thought, in that I could envision us-- and Director Dishell, love the idea of
getting together as a Board for a strategic, how do we want this Board to operate going forward.
Because I could see us having discussions like bolstering staffing capability on the Board side of things
and building out capability, particularly where we have to engage in legislative priorities. It could make
sense for that to be in the purview of executive. So just some thought. Second comment, I just wanted to
clarify, Director Tisdale, thanks for mentioning, the planning made me realize I need to clarify my
comment.
I am completely aligned with the project and program management, service planning those types of plans
falling in the purview of Finance. Makes complete sense to me with where this agency is. This leads to my
question. My reason for bringing up the performance in the strategic planning, so thank you for all of the
comments and answers that very clear strategic planning will remain a function of the entire Board within
a special Board meeting, very clear, very helpful.
I still am kind of hesitating and pausing on this performance committee, given that I think that there's the
opportunity, when I look at all these different committees, the way that us as a Board can most easily
manage and keep track of the organization is looking to the CEO and General Manager as how we're
doing against the success outcomes that we've laid out. So I imagine that I know recommended actions,
any action that we take will come out of committee and come to the Board.
But I would envision that quite a bit of substantive discussion will actually take place within that
performance committee. And that's something that I've seen certainly in the private sector, but also in the
public, where that would be an entire Board discussion. One of our Board meetings may include the topic
of reviewing our success outcomes, reviewing how we're tracking against strategic plan.

Again, I'm not necessarily one way or the other on this. And that's why my question to CEO and General
Manager Johnson would be, given that you have been to a multitude of transit agencies, some that look
more like us as a peer, and some that certainly don't, I'm curious what your perspective is as to whether it
does, in fact, make sense to have a committee as we have outlined here that's dedicated to measuring
you, measuring performance. Or if that does, in fact, belong in a broader topic for an entire Board of
Directors meeting. So if you wouldn't mind just commenting on that, it would be helpful for me to hear
your experience and opinion.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very much, Director Davidson. So when you talk about peers, let's just
look at the other two boards directly elected by a constituency. So when you look at the San Francisco
Bay Area Rapid Transit District, they have a Public Affairs and Access and Legislation Committee. It's
been in existence, I worked back there in the early '90s, recognizes the Powell committee.
| also basically have the opportunity to put forward ballot initiatives and tax themselves as they pay for the
seismic retrofit of the Transbay tube. So when we talk about the aspects around public affairs access and
legislation, that incorporated a myriad of different things. So we can't simply just look at other agencies
and say what optimally is it that we should do, but basically ask the question of the Board itself. What is it
that you all would like to do in your capacity as being policymakers.
Because on the flip side, AC Transit, the other Board being the Alameda, Contra Costa Transit District,
also in the Bay Area that's elected directly by a constituency, they don't have that same committee per se.
But they do have something along the lines of customer service excellence and so forth. But they're also
in an area in which there are in excess of 25 transit agencies in the immediate area in which they provide
service. So when we talk about different aspects on policy, the paratransit provider works collectively. It's
a consortium.
And so there's a myriad of different things. And as we talk about Sound Transit, as well, that's a different
model collectively, because they basically, for all intents and purposes, outsource most of their service
delivery. So we have to ensure that we're digging deep and not just looking as if it's apples to apples. We
have to ensure that we understand that there's apples to fish in certain elements. So one thing for certain
as we engage in this dialogue is discerning what it is this body collectively hopes to achieve.
Because as it talks about-- as we talk about performance overarchingly, as we talk about how are we
measuring ourselves in relationship to what we are delivering when we're talking about revenue service
per hour, we're talking about on-time performance, and recognizing I am leading the organization and the
lines of having discussion. It's being very transparent and forthright in relationship to making those types
of data readily available through performance scorecards and having open and transparent discussions.
So in the sense of this garnering a lot of dialogue, I think it's opportune that we are having discussions
around this. Because basically, that was the nature of putting forth the recommendation that the Directors
worked on in conjunction with me and my team, to get an understanding of what it is that we're hoping to

achieve, what are you all collectively hoping to bring forward that will effectuate the betterment of the
district in reference to what we are.
And when I say what we are, in the sense that we are a transit provider, are we trying to set policy as we
look at transportation equity issues as a whole. So I think all of that comes into play. And to the point that
was raised about us structuring these committees previously as related to department alignment, that was
something interesting to me. Because basically I, as the leader of the organization, have the opportunity
to restructure the organization.
So I can perform my job, because I can't do that by myself. So I know this has been my answer is sort of
circular in that. But I've seen it in both ways, to answer your question. It's contingent upon the transit
agencies, having worked for-- this is the second Board directly elected by a constituency. I've worked for
special districts. I've worked for gubernatorial appointees. I've worked for agencies that were created by
Congress and a congressional compact. So it just depends on what we're really trying to solve for. So I
don't know if that helps you or not.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thanks for the additional context in the comment. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You good? That's it? Don't forget to take your hand down. Thank you. Director
Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair. I think that that was a really good introduction to my thought. I
think a lot of really fundamental good questions that are coming up tonight. And some of them relate to
how we work together. And I think Director Lewis's question urging about belonging and recognizing that
and the issues around trust as we move, as we talk about whether the Chair's appointing these things or
whether we're voting, I think those are all real important issues.
And I also think in terms of just effectiveness, we're getting some great ideas. I don't know which is better
to have the Executive Committee working more as an outward looking committee, government relations
sort of committee or as the GMOC performance. But I think that's worth looking into. And I guess the trick,
coming from a discussion with all of us at 15 is how we move this forward.
So I guess I'm urging the committee, the staff, and Board committee that's been working on this to get our
answers on a survey and then bring it back so that we can-- whether it's a retreat or just another
opportunity to discuss some of these issues. And make some decisions about how we make this Board
ours and work best for us. I hope we can move this conversation forward another time. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Director Cook?

SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thank you. So I wanted to-- there have been so many comments and a lot of
discussion has centered on the Executive Committee, the roles of the committees, how that's fleshed out.
I wanted to suggest an intermediate step. I'm not sure if it comes before or after the survey. Just doesn't
seem like that's the kind of thing that can be refined via a multiple choice question. And so we can define
whether or not the Board supports a five, or a seven member, or a three member Executive Committee.
We can determine what they favor in terms of selecting the Chair and Vice Chair. But having some more
discussion or a review of some proposed wording for what is the scope for all the committees, I think that
would be really helpful. It just seems like there isn't yet an agreement about what the committee confines
are for these different areas, and in particular, the Executive Committee. Perhaps as well the GMOC,
maybe even some of the other two. So just wanted to suggest that as a sort of wrap-up of what I've been
hearing from people. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Cook. Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And listening to this discussion almost makes me think,
gosh, I so enjoy and like hearing from all 14 other of you. And that some of that would be lost if we did go
to a smaller committee system. And so I think, hopefully, members also understand that. There would be
a loss to something that we have now. And so perhaps we should also consider not changing at all. And
I'm not saying that that's something I support or want, but we should also keep that in mind that maybe
there are certain parts of what we're doing now that actually pretty good.
So also what I've been hearing is a little bit about the-- actually quite a bit about the Executive Committee.
But that also begs the question about the officers themselves. And so when I'm in public, which as I say, I
meet a lot of people, and they're like, oh, you're the Treasurer. And like, oh, you have access to all the
money. And like, well, no not really.
So my thought is do we really need all the officers and including the Treasurer position? And so maybe,
and there's been a lot of discussion about just a Chair and Vice Chair. And maybe those should be the
only elected positions? And I know that would also require a change to the bylaws. So because really,
and I'll just say about this position of Treasurer itself, it really has no real purpose other than being on the
Executive Committee. And with all due respect, I do get to sign checks and things like that. That isn't a
necessary and important position-- role.
However, I think the Chair and the Vice Chair could probably handle most of those times I have gone in
upon occasion to sign those. So I'm just thinking if I could throw that out to the members as well. Maybe
we-- and that would go to Director Buzek's point, which is if we just need three people on the Executive
Committee, that would be the Chair, the Vice Chair, and maybe one rotating member who would come on
who wants to be in the Executive Committee. And we rotate that person on every two or three months.
So I think if we're going to be really looking to make a lot of changes, then we should also look at those
roles as well. And speaking of making a lot of changes, I think to sort of-- and I hear what Director Lewis

was sort of providing some feedback. And I appreciate that. And I guess my perspective is that the more
changes you make, that we all make to this Board and to our governance structure, the more opportunity
evolves to make it a clunky arrangement that we've all been talking about, actually.
Well, this is not going to be an interim measure. This is going to be a permanent measure. And if this is
permanent, then we're going to start to see the clunks the more changes we make. And so that's what I
was really trying to allude to is that those clunkiness could create a chaotic environment that I think would
detract from the work of the Board, to where we focus more on the clunkiness and not on the policy and
the measures we're trying to pass. So I believe those are some of the things I'd like to discuss. Thank
you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. I'd like to-- I don't see any more. Oh, Director Lewis,
I'm going to come back to you in just a minute. There is one thing that I have not heard anybody
mentioned yet and I want us to consider in terms of our fiscal responsibility. Is that we need to look at
what kind of staffing would be required to make the kind of changes that we are looking at in terms of
minutes taken to put out to the rest of the people who weren't there.
And we are fiscally constrained already in my understanding. And this sounds to me like this discussion
might involve more work from Mr. McKay, and Ms. McManus, and the people who support this group as
they work. So I just wanted to have us keep that in our minds. And so I see Director Lewis and Director
Davidson. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I've wondered this question since I've gotten-- had the chance to serve on this Board.
When topics like this come about, I've always wondered where are the opportunity for us to work together
collectively as a Board and to not just have these topics as an agenda item and we all recognize this is
going to be a long meeting. And we have other things that we want to get to, but could we have an
additional session where we are working through these things together? We're having conversations,
we're putting things on the table, taking them off the table, really proofing some of these things and
having authentic dialogue.
I don't know if it's a study session or something that's less around the Robert's Rules and more around us
being able to openly dialogue, ideate, brainstorm, and put a plan together. Because I'm concerned-- I
would love to-- it's I guess it's not more-- it's not necessarily a concern. But my expectation is that you will
take this feedback, and then we'll get in September or October this on our agenda for a decision. And
then we'd have to make a decision. But I'd love to see like different iterations of this, where we're truly
working together and establishing what this is and what this isn't as a Board. And we've not done that.
And I wonder if there's opportunity for us to do something like that.
KATE WILLIAMS: I don't know if that's a question. Or you're just putting it out as part of the concepts that
we're collecting here. Are you looking for an answer, right now?

SHONTEL LEWIS: I mean, it could be a question for a Director Cook and Tisdale, because they're
leading this process. But it also could be a question for the Chair in how we move forward. But I'd love to
see us actually work on this together and not have Directors Cook and Tisdale take these back and bring
it back to us and hope that they get it right. But we can get it right together, essentially.
KATE WILLIAMS: Well I'll take that as a suggestion. Director Cook, you want to speak to that?
SHELLEY COOK: Well, I did just talk about an intermediate step. So in some ways, I agree to having a
chance to discuss the items that aren't just quickly winnowed down by a survey. So yeah, thanks.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And I think I appreciate that. And I think we could start with what question are we
trying to answer or what problem are we trying to solve when we all get together. And I think that will help
us be more clear of the direction that we are going in and what it is that we hope to produce collectively.
So that's it. I know y'all are ready to go.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. Don't forget to put your hand down. Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thanks I'll keep it short, since I've had a couple of bites of the apple as we like to say.
But first of all, Director Lewis, love it. Let's make it happen. And for what it's worth to Director Tisdale and
the Director Cook, if there's anything that can be done to help facilitate that, please let me know. I think it
would be really, really helpful.
I actually come back to something Director Sloan said. I really appreciate how much you drilled into
making this change requires a lot of trust. And we have to be very thoughtful about that. And I'm actually
feeling really good with all the dialogue that we had here. And I just would say thank you to everybody for
putting that out there and agree that if we had a dedicated session, we could really think through that.
And also while I'm at the thank yous, I mean I know we kind of throw them out there. But thank you very
much to Director Cook and Director Tisdale for all that you did on this, which predates many of us being
here myself included, Ms. Johnson and then Mr. McKay for preparing the write up. I appreciate there's a
lot of balls to catch here with 15 voices.
And the reason I originally raised my hand is Director Williams, you brought up a great point, which is is
this creating more work? And I think my perception is, and maybe this is just a comment, my perception
is, and I'll maybe put this out as my hope and the aim for staff and for the Directors that are finalizing
some of this, I think that in the interim, it probably will be.
But the goal should be to streamline and actually cut back overall. I suspect that it's probably a lot of work
that we have meetings that happen at a lot of different times, moving schedules. We have all of us on
each committee meetings. We have multiple committees, there's been a lot that's in motion. And I suspect
that that is a lot of work. So Director Williams, all I can say is I'm really glad you brought that up. And I
would hope that one of the outcomes of this is actually we put together something that's equally effective,

if not more effective, and actually more efficient, and actually cuts down a lot of costs and staff time. So
certainly that would be my aim and my hope. So thank you. Appreciate it.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Davidson, your mouth to God's ear, as they say. Chair RiveraMalpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I agree, Director Davidson, you just hit the
nail on the head. I think that the process that we're going through is exactly the way that we've been
dealing with really difficult subject matters. And having Mr. McKay and our staff writing copious notes with
Ms. Johnson. And they'll stay up till midnight, and go through everything, and put together a pretty robust
piece for us to look at. And I think that's the first step that we're doing currently.
I cannot agree more that the work that Second Vice Chair Cook and Director Tisdale has done with the
General Manager and our staff has been stellar. And has prepared us for this preliminary discussion. It's
not an easy discussion. And boy, it's going to take all of us to jump in and work through this. But I would
just say to us, let's see what the committee comes back with after this discussion. And I would ask them
to come back with suggested next steps with a timeline of what they think the next step should be to get
out to the Board immediately.
For sure, the survey is going to have to get out immediately. But really, what is the timeline that we're
looking at to implement this? And as a Board of Directors, my hope is that we can implement a new
system starting in January. So that we're starting with a clean slate with a new strategic plan, with goals
and objectives. And we can move forward so that-- in unison with our General Manager, so that she also
has exactly what she needs to get done for the good of the whole agency. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Can we do that again? Thank you, Madam Chair. OK, I see
that our General Manager and CEO has raised her hand.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Madam Chair. And in an effort to manage expectations,
and now I'm going to step out of my lane, while we talked about the survey in light oft the discussion, I
would like to defer to Directors Cook and Tisdale, because I think would be beneficial for us to reconvene
and have a discussion around what we heard this evening, recognizing that there is a lot of questions and
comments as relates to what the committees would consist of and the comments that have been raised
about all working collectively.
I just want to ensure that there is an understanding that I really believe personally that we need to
reconvene, have a discussion collectively with the work group before we put out the survey at this
juncture. So that's just my opinion. I will yield the floor to Directors Tisdale and Cook, because I think it's
optimal. And then also recognizing that it's also Michael Davies who's been working with us as well. I'm
not one to support staff, because there's been a lot of work. And Ms. McManus and the individuals in her
office, along with John and I. So I just wanted to share that for everybody's edification. So Thank you so
much, Madam Chair.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. And Thank you for the credence that you're giving to those who
have worked on this. I'm going to ask Director Dishell to speak. And then if Director Cook and Tisdale
want to give us some concluding remarks afterwards or soon, I would allow that. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: It's a point of personal privilege to wait until Director Tisdale do their concluding
remarks.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, well, OK.
BOBBY DISHELL: Just a point wheenver we wrap this discussion to take a quick five minute recess. I can
see my eyes are glazed. I can see other people's eyes are glazed. And I know that as a Board, we have a
responsibility to be at our best. And I've seen everyone on Zoom for a long time. And I know I could see
that we might not be, and we might all benefit from a quick stretch and water.
KATE WILLIAMS: I think a comfort break is a great idea. I'm going to ask Director Tisdale first in order of
seniority, again, to any closing comments just on this discussion. I'll go to Director Cook. And then we will
all take a break for a moment.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Very briefly, first of all, I wanted to understood
that any comments that I made were not intended in any way, shape, or form to be judgmental as to any
comments made by other Directors, but rather, hopefully, to provide further information as requested and
to provide context within which this discussion has been taking place over lo these many months.
So it's not in any way intended to circumvent conversation or to pass judgment on any such comments,
but merely to provide context and hopefully be responsive to questions that had been raised. And in
response to the comment made by General Manager CEO Johnson relative to having the committee get
together to digest this and perhaps tweak, modify, change the draft survey proposed, I would certainly be
available for that. And would think that it would make a lot of sense. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: And I've already said, made some comments about steps forward. Would like to
second what Director Davidson said about ideally-- and Chair Rivera-Malpiede about ideally, and this will
result in less work overall. So that speaks to those efficiencies for our staff. But more meaningful
engagement as well. So that's the aim, thank you much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you all. OK, here's the squeeze for the moment. I see no hands. I'm going to call
this discussion concluded for the time being. We will be having further discussion items. The next one up,
I'm letting Mr. Lou Cripps know he's up next. But this committee will stand adjourned for five minutes at
7:47. I'd like to see you all back here at 7:52.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair.

