Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, Ph.D., District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
District N
Larry Hoy, District J

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
February 15, 2018 at 12:00 PM
I.

II.

Call to Order
At 12:00 p.m., Chair Tisdale called the meeting to order, which was held at 1560
Broadway, Ste. 650, in The Ride Conference room.
Committee members in attendance:

Chair Tisdale, 1st Vice Chair Menten,
2nd Vice-Chair Deadwyler, Secretary
Folska, Ph.D. (via phone), Treasurer
Lubow

Other Board members present:

Director Walker

Others present:

Dave Genova, General Manager,
Heather McKillop, Chief Financial
Officer and Assistant General
Manager of Finance and
Administration, Barbara McManus,
Executive Manager of the Board
Office, and John McKay, Board Office
Administrator

February Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Tisdale reviewed the February Board Meeting agenda. He asked whether any
groups had expressed interest in participating in leading the Board in the Pledge of
Allegiance at the February 27th, 2018, Board Meeting.
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager of the Board Office, said that there were
some prospects.

John McKay, Board Office Administrator, said both Girl Scout and Boy Scout
groups had indicated interest.
Chair Tisdale asked whether any retirees were expected for the meeting.
Ms. McManus said that only one was confirmed at that time.
Chair Tisdale stated, regarding the update from the General Manager Oversight and
Performance Management Committee (GM Oversight), that Director Walker would
possibly discuss proposed meeting dates. He noted the three items on the
unanimous consent agenda and stated that the amended code of ethics would be
included in the Board packet. He asked whether any Executive Committee members
had any concerns about the items on the unanimous consent agenda or the
recommended actions, and the members responded that they did not have further
comments. He said he did not anticipate the need for an executive session or the
discussion of old business.
Motion:

Chair Tisdale made the motion to
approve moving the February 27th,
2018 Board agenda to the full
Board.
Director
motion.

Lubow

seconded

the

Vote on
the Motion:

III.

The motion passed with 5 in favor
and 0 opposed.

Other Matters
Chair Tisdale spoke about the Colorado Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) hearing
that took place that day in the same building. He said that the CPUC had authorized
Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Garvey to proceed with a hearing, and he noted
that the ALJ’s reporting was an investigatory function. He stated that the ALJ’s
role was to compile information and ask questions posed by the Commissioners,
after which he would report back to the CPUC regarding his findings so that they
could then issue a final action regarding their previous decision to deny the waiver
of the requirement to post crossing guards along the commuter rail lines. He noted
that the hearing was unopposed, meaning that no other parties had presented

evidence or arguments in opposition to RTD’s position. He said that three of RTD’s
four expert witnesses had already testified and that the fourth was about to take
the stand. He said the process was going well. He commented that General
Manager Genova had done a fantastic job of presenting testimony. He said it was
likely that the hearing would not carry over to the following day.
Director Lubow asked whether the judge would make his own findings.
Chair Tisdale said the judge would make his own proposed findings, which would
be formally adopted by the CPUC. He said he had encountered similar
circumstances on the State Board of Registered Psychotherapists, where the State
Board would refer matters to the ALJ, who then made findings and conclusions
upon which the State Board had the right to appeal and decide upon that appeal.
Ms. McKillop asked whether the Commissioners were in attendance.
Chair Tisdale said that Commissioner Koncilja was there and spoke briefly but
stated he had not seen the other two.
Director Deadwyler proposed that the Board present certificates of appreciation to
Finn and Sully McKay for being the inaugural participants to lead the Pledge of
Allegiance at the January 30, 2018, Board Meeting. She said she would like to
personally give them restaurant gift certificates as tokens of her appreciation.
Director Menten said that taxpayer money should not be used.
Director Deadwyler confirmed that she intended to purchase the gift certificates
personally.
Chair Tisdale said that the Board Members might choose to volunteer to provide
such tokens of appreciation for future participants.
Director Deadwyler said that the entire group could be given a gift certificate if the
Board chose to do so.
Director Lubow said she was concerned about providing a monetary reward for
participants because groups might feel they did something wrong if they did not
receive something.
Chair Tisdale said that the gifts would be private, not sanctioned by the Board, and
that the gifts could be separately delivered to the recipients.

Director Folska, Ph.D., said that she would not want to make the gifts publicly
known and agreed with Director Lubow that the Board would be setting an
expectation. She agreed that it would be nice to provide a certificate of
appreciation to participants.
Chair Tisdale suggested that Ms. McManus could provide a sample certificate and,
with the committee’s consent, he would approve the final form.
Director Deadwyler asked if the certificate could include the signatures of the
members of the Executive Committee.
Chair Tisdale agreed and said the certificates should also include a statement of
appreciation of participation from the Board. He noted for the record that Director
Walker joined the meeting.
Director Menten said that the Board began to discuss the GM Oversight process
during the February 3, 2018, Board-only retreat but had run out of time. She asked
Director Walker if he had any update regarding the potential for amending the
General Manager’s core goals.
Director Walker stated that the core goals were part of the General Manager’s job
description.
Ms. McManus noted that the General Manager’s goals for 2018 had already been
approved and that any changes would apply in 2019.
Director Walker said that the GM Oversight Committee could discuss parts of the
job description.
Director Menten said that, as Chair of the GM Oversight Committee, Director
Walker would want to discuss changes to the core goals at the March 3, 2018,
joint Board/Senior Leadership Team (SLT) retreat.
Director Walker agreed that was the appropriate time to talk about the General
Manager’s core goals for 2019.
Ms. McKillop stated that the Board should be aware that changing the core goals
would rewrite the General Manager’s job description.

Director Walker said that the committee could just reshuffle the goals or they could
make changes that were more substantial.
Ms. McKillop said that she could provide the list of core goals used for other staff
evaluations.
Director Lubow asked whether a change to the core goals would change the
General Manager’s contract.
Director Deadwyler responded that discussion was about revising the goals.
Chair Tisdale asked whether the core goals were articulated in the current contract
or whether the contract stated that the Board was responsible for setting the core
goals for the General Manager.
Director Walker said that the contract stated the General Manager’s performance
evaluation was based on his core goals.
Director Deadwyler asked who set the goals.
Director Lubow responded that the Board set the goals in the form of the General
Manager’s contract.
Ms. McManus added that the evaluation also included the task goals that came out
of the Board retreat. She said the core goals had not changed
Chair Tisdale asked what Director Menten was contemplating in revising the goals.
Director Menten said that she wanted to refresh the goals to account for the
current situation at RTD and to analyze whether the goals were set too low or too
high. She said that the General Manager’s contract stated that changes could be
made for the following year’s goals if presented with proper notice in October.
Chair Tisdale asked whether it was fair to summarize Director Menten’s intent as
being to discuss at the upcoming retreat whether the core goals should be modified
or expanded for 2019, which would then give the Board ample opportunity to draft
revisions and provide notice before the October deadline.

Director Menten agreed but said that she had not heard it stated specifically by
others that the core goals could be changed. She said she did not see a problem in
changing the core goals, especially if the Board gave sufficient notice.
Chair Tisdale, again to summarize, said that what he was hearing was that the
question was not about proposing an amendment to contract, but rather that the
contract allowed Board to annually review the General Manager’s, goals, strategies,
and tactics. He said the Board had typically set three core goals for the General
Manager. He stated he had heard from Directors initially that they would consider
increasing the number of core goals and decide whether the goals should be better
articulated.
Director Menten said she would not limit the discussion to an increase in core goals
and said that the committee may decide to have more or fewer.
Ms. McManus stated that she had sent Director Menten two documents, the initial
document previously used in the recruitment for the General Manager Position,
which flowed into General Manager Genova’s initial contract, and another
document that served as the original job description for the General Manager. She
reiterated that the Board would need to look at changes sooner rather than later,
because any substantial changes could prompt either General Manager Genova or
the Board to make changes to the contract.
Chair Tisdale asked whether there could be some initial discussion in March.
Director Walker said that was what he was hearing.
Chair Tisdale said that such a discussion would be congruent with the general
mission of the retreat.
Ms. McManus said yes and that both General Manager Genova and his
predecessor, Phil Washington, felt that the General Manager should be evaluated in
the same manner as the rest of the RTD employees. She stated that she would
send out the list of core goals applicable to other employees.
Director Deadwyler stated other staff members’ goals were being achieved through
goals written for the General Manager.
Chair Tisdale said that General Manager’s contract did say that he should be
reviewed in same manner as other employees.

Director Walker noted the Board was fairly constrained in what it could do but said
he welcomed the conversation.
Director Deadwyler said that, if the original core goals written for former General
Manager Noel Busck were still in use, those goals should be revisited.
Ms. McManus said the core goals had not changed, which was why the evaluation
criteria were consistent for some time.
Director Walker said that the Board changed the General Manager’s task goals, not
the core goals, but added that nothing was written in stone.
Chair Tisdale said that the core goals should be re-examined each time the
committee convenes. He said the committee could decide to get rid of the core
goals entirely but noted that would be unlikely. He added that the committee could
either increase or reduce the number of core goals
Director Menten said that, in her previous experience on the GM Oversight
committee, the Directors had said that the core goals were set and nothing could
be done to change them. She said she disagreed with that notion.
Director Walker said his recollection was that the committee could not change the
core goals previously because of the timing of the changes.
Chair Tisdale added that the task of the GM Oversight Committee was to evaluate
the General Manager’s performance for 2018, whereas the General Manager’s
goals for 2019 would be set during the upcoming retreat.
Director Menten said that former Director Bagley had said previously that the
General Manager, whether Mr. Washington or Mr. Genova, and the Board had
agreed to a contract, and he felt that the Board could not change the terms of
employment in middle of a contract.
Ms. McManus noted that the General Manager was in an option year on his
contract.
Chair Tisdale said the question was whether the Board should exercise the General
Manager’s option, renegotiate the contract, or part company.
Ms. McKillop noted the difference between core and task goals was that core were
intended to be inherent skills or attributes required for someone to have at a given

level of position, whereas task goals were individual job objectives set for each
year. She said it was in the Board’s prerogative to change the goals and the agency
would then reevaluate how those goals are interpreted. She added that the core
goals were metrics to use when interviewing candidates.
Director Walker said that neither the Board nor the General Manager could change
the contract unilaterally and that, while there was not a lot of wiggle room to
change core goals, there was no option for the Board to mandate a change to the
contract. He said that the Board could renegotiate the contract with General
Manager Genova if he agreed to do so.
Director Deadwyler asked the length of the contract.
Ms. McManus said the contract was for three years, plus two one-year options.
Director Folska, Ph.D., asked Director Menten what she was considering in terms of
adding or deleting core goals.
Director Menten said that one example would be the core goal criterion of providing
service. She said that, in order to exceed expectations, the General Manager
needed to meet only one target, which she said was a weak objective.
Ms. McManus clarified that, in that example, Director Menten was not proposing a
change in the core goals but rather the evaluative elements underneath them.
Director Menten agreed that might be the case. She said that she was looking at
what the word “exceeded” meant and had argued that the criterion related to
“being called to speak at a conference” was not in and of itself indicative of the
General Manager exceeding expectations for his leadership. She said that the
General Manager meeting individually with Directors would show his leadership.
Chair Tisdale summarized that the issue was more a reassessment of the General
Manager’s evaluative criteria. He said that the committee retooled the evaluation
format recently and that Director Menten was suggesting the focus of the
evaluation, rather than the core goals themselves, could be revisited.
Director Menten agreed and said the titles of the evaluation criteria may need to be
refreshed. She said that it had been nearly 15 years since the FasTracks initiative
appeared on the ballot.

Chair Tisdale stated that such matters could be brought up during the March retreat
and said ensuring that the goals are measurable would be part of the conversation
moving forward.
Director Deadwyler said she appreciated Chair Tisdale’s comments. She stated she
was on the GM Oversight Committee years ago and that the committee could not
come to a conclusion on how to measure accomplishments, which was unfair to
the General Manager.
Director Walker said that he did not share the same concern, because he stated
that most of the measuring elements were fairly objective.
Chair Tisdale said that some of the criteria had changed since Director Deadwyler
served on the GM Oversight Committee.
Director Walker agreed and said that the Directors would review the core goals and
develop task goals at the March retreat, after which the General Manager would
flesh out those goals and present them to the Board for approval.
Director Deadwyler again asked how the goals would be measured.
Director Lubow said that too would be discussed.
Chair Tisdale said that discussion would be part of the process.
Director Walker said the General Manager would determine how he and staff would
meet the goals and that the Board would decide how the goals were measured.
Director Menten agreed and gave the 2017 Women’s March as an example of an
empirical measure, since a certain number of attendees were expected and many
more attended. She asked Ms. McKillop to provide an explanation of how the core
goals flowed down into the evaluation criteria and stated that she did not want to
make the goals unattainable.
Ms. McManus said that the evaluative elements were simply plugged in. She said
that making changes to the elements would be easy unless there were numerous
changes.
Chair Tisdale said the framework was flexible enough to allow tweaks.

Ms. McManus said that one additional change from the previous year was that the
evaluation survey would now reflect all of the specific evaluative elements.
Director Deadwyler said she discussed with former Director Francone how the
responses to the survey were weighted.
Ms. McManus said the changes to the survey would mean that each of the
individual responses would carry a lot of weight.
Director Menten said she did not realize that the survey questions were not equally
weighted.
Ms. McManus said the weighing was a function of the survey’s format. She said
that, in reviewing the survey as a whole, there were specific comments that could
not be incorporated into the overall evaluation.
Director Deadwyler suggested that was the reason some Directors did not complete
their surveys.
Ms. McManus said that the survey could be easily contoured.
Chair Tisdale said he understood Director Walker’s intention to make the General
Manager’s performance evaluation a collaborative process. He said he felt good
about that and that each of the Directors would support him in that effort. He
noted for the record that General Manager Genova had arrived in the room.
General Manager Genova said he did not have specific comments about the CPUC
hearing to report and that he expected the hearing would conclude that day.
Chair Tisdale stated that former Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) official
Clifford Eby had given good testimony describing the FRA process, the impact of
waivers and what they represent, and how FRA deals with waivers.
Director Deadwyler asked when an answer would be rendered.
General Manager Genova said that the ALJ would draft his opinion within weeks
and would then present his findings to the Commissioners. He said the written
order would take about a month.
Director Lubow asked whether the ALJ’s findings would be made public.

General Manager Genova said that the findings would eventually be presented in a
written order and that the ALJ’s preliminary findings would become a public
document.
Chair Tisdale said RTD’s General Counsel would likely file comments on the ALJ’s
findings.
General Manager Genova stated that the testimony was incredibly complex. He said
that the previous witness had cleared up many of the questions about the design of
the system.
Chair Tisdale said that the ALJ would meet with the Commissioners that day during
a break in the hearing. He said there would be no closing arguments presented that
day and that comments would be submitted later.
Director Lubow asked if the Directors could review the written closing statement.
General Manager Genova said yes and commented that no one in the audience was
there in opposition. He said the proceeding was unusual in that the ALJ was only
one asking questions.
Director Walker noted that he sent a draft schedule of the GM Oversight Committee
calendar to Ms. McManus.
Ms. McManus said that she and Director Walker had spoken about the schedule
earlier but noted that the timeframe would change as a result of the earlier
conversation.
Director Walker said he would have something to report during the February 27th,
2018, Board Meeting.
Director Folska, Ph.D. said that she wanted the committee to be cognizant that the
agency may have to cut service and raise fares.
Chair Tisdale said that those were poignant issues. He said that Mike Meader, Chief
Safety Officer and Assistant General Manager of Safety, Security, and Asset
Management, had given a sobering presentation that alerted us to the issues
Director Folska addressed. He said the agency would have to look long and hard at
what would happen to service as Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA)
negotiations conclude.

Director Folska, Ph.D., said that, when considering what to do with fares, the
agency should be cautious of combining service reductions with fare increases. She
suggested that selling both service reductions and fare increases simultaneously
would not sit well with constituents.
Director Menten agreed and said that the key word in her public meetings would be
“efficiencies”. She said that in a given meeting with 60 constituents only a few
typically used RTD’s services. She said those people did not like to hear about fare
subsidies.
Director Deadwyler said that her constituents appreciated honesty and stated that,
if the agency were in trouble, people would want to hear the truth. She said she
was asked at one of her public meetings why others at RTD were not as forthright.
Chair Tisdale said he continued to work on a resolution with Director Lubow
regarding FasTracks and that their focus was on the paragraph that explained what
had happened.
Director Lubow said she felt strongly that it would not be a good time to raise fares
if the agency decided to cut service.
Chair Tisdale noted that such matters were not on the day’s agenda and that there
would be other opportunities to address them.
IV.

Adjourn
Chair Tisdale adjourned the meeting at 1:04 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

