Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Civil Rights Committee
Tuesday, June 9, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Civil Rights Committee
Chaired by Jeff Walker

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Walker called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta

Director, District L
Director, District C

Present
Present

5:28 PM
4:52 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Remote
Present

5:21 PM

Claudia Folska

Director, District E

Absent

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy
Bill James

Director, District N
Director, District J
Director, District A

Absent
Present
Present

5:32 PM
5:28 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Present

5:32 PM

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District I
Director, District M

Absent
Present

5:25 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

4:05 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District F

Present
Absent

5:09 PM

Jeff Walker

Committee Chair

Present

5:25 PM

Director Bagley participated via remote. Director Folska, Director Francone, Director
Lubow, and Director Tobiassen were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jessie Carter, Garrett Christnacht, Susan Cohen, Heather
Deckard, Nate Diaz, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, Eric Farrington,
David Genova, Mike Gil, Kim Heldman, George Hovey, Erin Klaas,
Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Barbara
MacManus, Judy McMurphy, Vivian Morales, Ed Neuberg, Paula
Perdue, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Zamy Silva, John Tarbert,
Brian Thye, Bill Van Meter

Others Present:

Kevin Boland, Jenn Masak, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn

B. Recommended Actions
No recommended action was presented.

C. Updates

• Civil Rights Committee Update
Zamy Silva, Senior Manager for Civil Rights, reviewed the Civil Rights
Update presentation included in the Civil Rights Committee agenda packet
for June 9, 2015. The presentation included percentages achieved on
Disadvantaged Business Enterprises (DBE) and Small Business Enterprises
(SBE) on both base system and FasTracks projects, recent and upcoming
events, an overview of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) program
and the upcoming 25th Anniversary celebration, the Equal Employment
Opportunity (EEO) Office software, and the Workforce Initiative Now (WIN)
Program. She highlighted the Civil Rights and Public Engagement Briefing
for the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) held on June 8, 2015.
Zamy Silva acknowledged the work of Ed Neuberg, Manager for ADA, since
he started with the agency a few months back.
Director Deadwyler wondered about the ADA celebration as she was a
speaker at a similar event held at the Capitol earlier in the year. Ed Neuberg
replied that the official ADA anniversary is July 26th. He noted that it may
have been a celebration noting the significance of the year as ADA embarks
on the 25th anniversary. He added that the upcoming event is a community
event.
Chair Sisk commended the Civil Rights staff on the impressive statistics. He
asked to eventually see statistics on how long WIN participants stay with
employers and how are they utilizing the education and opportunities
received through the WIN program. Zamy Silva replied that her staff has

those numbers available. She added that the goal of the WIN program is to
find opportunities for individuals to work in the community and to enable
them to continue to grow in their career paths. The growth depends on the
individuals and the projects available. Dave Genova, Interim General
Manager, added that Denver Transit Partners (DTP) intends to use the WIN
program for operations and maintenance positions once the Eagle P3 project
opens, giving the participants a long term program, not just construction
projects. Chair Sisk thanked the Civil Rights staff again for their work and
extended a welcome to Ed Neuberg.
Director Solano agreed with Chair Sisk. Director Solano noted that as the
focus shifts from construction to operations a lot of the construction
projects will ramp down making it hard to determine what will happen to the
participants. He pointed out that at least the participants are getting trained.
Director Deadwyler shared her conversation with a WIN participant who was
hired full time but keeps getting told he is not needed on certain days or
weeks. She wondered how the agency keeps them working if they are not
working with the contractor. Zamy Silva noted that Martell Dyles, WIN
Program Manager keeps a detailed account of participants. She added that
since the work is project driven at times it is difficult to offer consecutive
work; it all depends on the skills of the individual, the job, the company and
the project. The WIN Program works with contractors to find out about
other opportunities that could benefit the WIN participants.
Committee Chair Walker mentioned that he participated in the briefing for
the Department of Transportation on June 8. He noted that Bryna Helfer,
Office of Public Engagement Deputy Assistant for DOT, Stephanie Gidigbi,
Deputy Director of Public Engagement for DOT, and Kathy Mannes, Director
for the Center for Workforce and Industry Partnerships at the U.S.
Department of labor, showed a lot of enthusiasm over the WIN program. He
thanked Zamy Silva for her work.

D. Other Matters
No other matter was presented.

E. Next Meeting Date - August 11, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Walker adjourned the meeting at 5:49 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

