Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 10,
2012
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Nate’ Malone, Senior Executive Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

April 10, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
April 10, 2012.
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Bagley; Chair Kemp; Directors Daly, Hoy, James,
McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen, Malpiede, and Walker
Director Cohen arrives at 5:41

Board Members
Absent:

Anderson, Deadwyler, Williams

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, J. Skip Brown, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke,
James Cook, Martell Dyles, Sherry Ellebracht, Eric Farrington, Mike
Gil, Terry Howerter, Brian Iacono, Kate Iverson, Austin Jenkins, Lee
Johnson, Marla Lien, Brian Matthews, Doug MacLeod, Patrick
McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Jenifer
Ross- Amato, Jannette Scarpino, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna, John
Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Greg Smith, Mike Turner, Michael Washington,
Phil Washington, Susan Wood, Don Young

Others Present:

Laura Aldrete – PB, Gary Forbes – First Transit, Stan Gronek, Stu
‘Livensparger – First Transit, Lee Johnson-First Transit Commerce City,
Seth Patterson, Larry Tenenholz – Veolia, Katrina Wert – CCD/WIN
****

Call to Order:
I.

Committee Chair Bagley called the meeting to order at 5:32 p.m.

Recommended Action
 Alameda Station TOD Pilot Project
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to negotiate and
execute all documents necessary to facilitate the development of the Alameda
Station TD Pilot Project.
Director Walker stated he has a conflict with the project and will refrain from
participating.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 10,
2012
Page 2 of 5

Bill Sirois introduced this item going briefly through the presentation handout and
indicating there was only one change on page 11 of the document. In regards to the
City storm water Project, D4 will be providing $2.5M instead of $3.9M as listed.
RTD’s contribution of $700K associated with the redevelopment of the Bus Barn
Site will not be due until the selling of the property. D4 will upfront these costs.
The City is contributing $13M in TIF revenues. The City’s contribution goes away
without development at the Alameda Station.
Bill Sirois highlighted the anticipated risks and benefits from this project:
o
Risks:

Timing of Development within Broadway Marketplace

Conveyance of South Cherokee

Value for Sliver Parcel Option

Parking Management

Encumbrance of $700K on Bus Barn site
o
Benefits:

Creates transition to a transit oriented community

Increased visibility and connectivity to the station

Improved station environment that is pedestrian oriented

Leverage significant resources from the City and D4

Longer term opportunity to double or triple ridership at the station
Committee Chair Bagley reminded the Board that this project is 1 of 4 Pilot
Programs previously brought before the Board. The other programs were Arvada,
Federal Center, and Welton. He also shared with the Board that we are in
partnership with the City and County of Denver and DURA. He complimented staff
on a thorough presentation and clarity on a project that has such complexity.
Motion:

Director James made the motion to
move this item before the full Board
at the April 17 Board meeting.
Director Tobiassen seconded the
motion.

Discussion: Director Daly expressed his opinion that this project is what is
meant by transit oriented communities (TOC)-it takes parking away
and provides opportunities for a more livable community (I.e. walking,
bicycling, retail, and housing) and it gives a good combination of TOD
balance. He asked the question why the loop extra is being stored in
front of a store. Kate Iverson responded the goal was to locate the
loop extra away from the premium space but close enough that when
needed they could respond in a timely manner.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 10,
2012
Page 3 of 5

Director Tayer states that this is an excellent program and the kind of
initiatives that we want. He expressed concern in three areas:

The numbers and dollars that RTD is getting for the property.
RTD is giving up a lot to make this happen. The numbers are
pricing at $2.6M or $20 per square feet. They are not pricing at
the appraised value.

Parking-we are giving up 302 spaces and receiving 100 back in
less desirable space location

Private easement for the site—what is its value? Conjugating all
these issues, are we giving up too much for the value that RTD
will received? Overall his concern is “are we setting a precedent
for future TOC deals?’
Bill Sirois responded that the assumptions were based around the fact that we
had a willing seller and willing buyer. It did not address issues like the
marketplace value. This is a very complicated deal with several threads
throughout. He passed out a matrix to help explain some of the intricacies of
the deal. This was not the traditional approach or model.
Director Malpiede expresses some concern about the environmental assessment,
and questioned what happens if something more is uncovered during the testing.
What is the cost and who assumes the risk? Bill Sirois stated that D4 reserves the
right to make a new proposal or could pull out of the contract in the event that
something unexpected shows up in the environment testing phase.
Director McMullen commented that he is pleased with the project and it appears to
be a win/win all the way around. It would make this a neighborhood that it has
never been before and we could see property value go up. It also offers a front
door entrance to our station where as to right now it’s hidden and the community
has to go through a back alley to get there.
Chair Kemp expressed concern that roughly our net value is about $300K for the
property so is there a possibility that if anything happens or goes wrong we
potentially could go negative on this transaction? Bill Sirois stated that what we
have said was that we would go up to $100K. If we were to change that value we
would have to come back to the Board but we are not exposing ourselves to
anything above that. Chair Kemp asked Marla Lien, legal counsel, on what is our
liability risk? Marla Lien stated it depends on what RTD wants to do; we’ve taken
up liability for debt, for property clean up on property we want to use. What the
Board needs to decide is whether the risk outlined to you is worth the benefits.
Normally when we do a proposal on a new property we have to do clean up to get
it prepared for development so this is no different.
Director Hoy did some rough math and estimated that if the property is worth $25
per sq feet, this is a $3.2M transaction. If RTD ends up with only $300K, we have

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 10,
2012
Page 4 of 5

put $3M into the deal. Is it worth it? He also asked what happens to the Kmart
currently located on that property. Bill Sirois states that an imminent domain action
by the metro district may be needed to take out 9000sf of the shopping center,
essentially taking the dollar tree store, some parking spaces and revamping the
Kmart’s loading dock. Director Hoy states that is sounds like a great project but
there are a lot of pieces that needs to be pulled all together.
Bill Sirois reiterated that all tonight is, is an action that gives staff the authority to
move forward with a POS, will not be closing on the property until all parts of the
proposal are done to RTD’s satisfaction. Director O’Boyle expresses concern that it
appears we have little value by the end of this deal. He expressed that the Board
has fiduciary responsibility to the use of public funds and how do we demonstrate
to the taxpayers this is a good use of public funds. He also inquired about the 25
year maintenance agreement and what recourse RTD may have against the person
who completes the transaction to maintain the property. RTD stand to lose all of its
investment if this deal is not fully consummated.
Director Tobiassen shared with the Directors that if this doesn’t happen now it
could potentially come back and bite us. It’s a great deal for the neighborhood and
he sees great value in the long run. This is about taking a dysfunctional site and
turning it into something desirable. In the long run, the LRT station and property
value will rise so we need to leverage now to pay off in the long run.
Chair Kemp questioned if we are truly sharing the risks equally in this project with
the City and County of Denver. General Manager Washington responded there is
some risk as already identified. We have noted the partnership involved in this
arrangement: the City storm water drain project; D4 providing $2.5M in taking out
part of the shopping center as examples. The benefits are worth the risk. He often
talks about the degree of probability and in this case he thinks the probability
equals 40-70%. We have to determine the probability of success. To recap some
of the benefits, residential on site, the opening up and making the RTD station
more visible, the development of the Bus Barn, and the possibility of the pedestrian
bridge someday-this is a true policy decision. There will be some risks but the
probability of success is good. The partnerships we have with the City and County
of Denver is a great relationship and he recommends we move forward.
Director James stated there are quantitative and qualitative benefits to this
decision. The qualitative benefits include this being the biggest TOD outside of
DUS, and the benefit to RTD from the drainage perspective. He does not perceive
the risks as being so unusual. The partnership between DURA, D4 and RTD is
strong and can work through some of these issues. We need to also note that
there is not much interest in the Sliver property outside of this deal. This deal has
constraints which limits RTD liabilities. He will vote to approve this deal.
Director Tayer noted that Bill has articulated well the value of the project and the
expressed goals are what we want to achieve. This is the first bite of the apple.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 10,
2012
Page 5 of 5

The issue has already been raised in the community around RTD’s credibility and
fiscal responsibility. If we need to build up credibility, this deal raises some
questions that merit further consideration. Are we setting the right precedent?
What message are we sending? Is this a fiscally responsible management of funds?
Because of these concerns, his vote will be no.
Director Bagley stated that one of the goals under TOC is to move parking further
away from station since this is premium property. He noted but for this
opportunity, nothing will happen. TIF will go away, there will be flooding in the
neighborhoods, and the Bus Barn will sit in the flood zone. These deals are very
complicated. This is a brown field, not a green field. The positive impact to this
area is real. The improvements by CDOT on the highway/streets in this area, the
revitalization of an old neighborhood and shopping center, all of these are benefits
that will be hard to come this way again. RTD can be a catalyst. The apartment
market today is starting to be robust but there is no guarantee that it will be so in
the future. We cannot forego this opportunity.
Vote on
the motion:

The motion passed with 6 members
in favor (Bagley, Cohen, Daly,
James, McMullen, and Tobiassen)
and 5 against (Hoy, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Kemp, and Malpiede).
Director
Walker abstained and Directors
Anderson, Deadwyler and Williams
were absent.
Committee Chair Bagley declared
the motion PASSED.

II. Other Matters
 There were no other matters
III. Next Meeting Date—April 17, 2012
IV. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned to the DBE committee meeting at 6:40 p.m.

