Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

STUDY SESSION
July 26, 2016 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Tobiassen called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Kent Bagley
Director, District H
Barbara Deadwyler
Director, District B
Claudia Folska
Director, District E

Status
Present
Present
Absent
Present
Present

Arrived
5:32 PM
5:08 PM

5:44 PM
5:15 PM

5:30 PM
3:40 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present

Bill James

Director, District A

Absent

Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District G
Director, District I
Director, District M

Absent
Present
Present

5:27 PM
5:37 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present
Present

3:37 PM
5:20 PM
5:22 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:27 PM

Directors Bagley, James and Lasater were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Susan Cohen, Heather
Copp, Lou Cripps, Nate Currey, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, David
Genova, Doug Gragg, Kate Iverson, Erin Klaas, Shontel Lewis, Adrian
Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Barbara McManus, Michael Nabhan, TaiShrae Parish, Scott Reed, Caroline Seeberger, Bill Sirois, Errol
Stevens, John Tarbert, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Brian
Welch

Others Present:

II.

Homer Anderson, Mallory Baker, Jackson Crane, Robert Ferrin,
Eleanor Johnstone, Dana Klein, Sean Mackin, Andrew McFadden,
Cindy Patton, Jessica Prosser, Jeremiah Simpson, Gary Van Dorn

2016 Annual Program Evaluation (APE) and Financial Plan
Heather Copp, CFO and Assistant General Manager of Finance and Administration,
indicated that she and Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning, would
answer any Board questions after reviewing the Power Point Presentation that was
included in the July 26, 2016 Study Session Agenda Packet.
Susan Cohen, Senior Manager of Finance and ECM, stated that Revenue and Cost
Assumptions will cover both Base and FasTracks systems. She explained that the Base
system figures come out of RTD’s Strategic Budget Plan (SBP). Passenger fare revenue
for the base system is estimated to increase every three years based on a cumulative
three-year rate of inflation, and Sales and Use taxes are forecasted from CU Leeds School
of Business. The FasTracks system will have a 10% fare increase in 2019 and 2022;
after 2025 fare increases will occur every three years based on the cumulative three-year
rate of inflation. She also stated that staff does not expect to have any discretionary
grants past the year 2022.
Susan Cohen explained that as of now, staff is anticipating and assuming that there will
be close-up costs associated with the projects that opened or will open this year, such as
the Flat Iron Flyer (FF), University of Colorado A Line, B Line, G Line and R Line. She
stated that RTD must operate and maintain our completed projects; however, compared to
last year’s Annual Performance Evaluation (APE), RTD’s revenue forecasts are down. Staff
does not anticipate hitting the cumulative revenue forecasts until 2034. As mentioned
previously, staff is assessing how to balance the APE and the SBP. She noted that the
FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA) is going to be depleted for operating costs, not
capital costs as originally intended.
Director Lubow asked how much of the Base revenue is used to balance the FasTracks
budget. Susan Cohen noted that staff will have an exact amount available at the Financial
Administration and Audit Committee Meeting on August 9, 2016. Heather Copp remarked
that the specific dollar amount is quite large.
Director Lubow wondered what led to the misunderstanding that resulted in the
expectation that FasTracks funding could cover operations and maintenance. Heather
Copp remarked that it depended on one’s perspective. She noted it has been known for
quite a while that Base system funds would be needed to support FasTracks operating

costs. She added that RTD is allowed to use Base dollars to support FasTracks, but staff
wanted to make sure this was made very clear to the Board.
Director Folska commented that what Heather explained sounded clear, but her
understanding of the information is still foggy. She asked since the CU Leeds forecast
was off so much this year, how does the Board or staff know that the forecasts for years
ahead are correct. She added that the Board needs better clarity to understand how the
agency got to this position. She further commented that her understanding was that the
Base system and FasTracks system were two separate financial pots and they were not
supposed to meet.
Director Solano asked how staff is planning to replenish the FISA given that the FasTracks
funds are depleted and FasTracks is not complete. Heather Copp remarked that RTD has
no ability or intent to replace the FISA as those funds are needed to pay for operating and
maintenance costs.
Director Anderson commented that in 2012 the Board made conscientious decisions about
RTD’s future. She noted RTD would not be opening 5 lines this year without the
unsolicited proposals that had been received. She stated that the Board used those funds
then to make sure that RTD was building as much of FasTracks as possible. The Board
was under a lot of pressure to finish FasTracks so RTD built as much as it could as fast as
it could.
Director Hoy added that there was a recommended action for FISA a few years ago but
the intent of FISA was to get something built, not to operate the system.
Director Francone thanked staff for the Board Budget Workshop and noted that it was
extremely helpful. She added that when she was attending the B Line grand opening
festivities she was approached by a Westminster City Council member and he was very
negative with his evaluation of the FasTracks program. She said it was his opinion that
FasTracks cannot be maintained but staff has demonstrated through the APE that
operations and maintenance are a priority.
Director Walker noted that he remembered the conversations that Director Anderson
brought up and he remembered that the B Line could have gone up to 104th, but that is all
that would have happened. He stated that the Board made a conscious decision to build
the various lines, knowing that it would take money to operate them. He added that using
other accounts to build it outweighed the risks of not building it. The current price of Real
Estate is expensive, but acquiring property, along with expensive material costs are
difficult to lower without an economic downturn, which no one at RTD wants to happen.

Director Sisk stated that he cannot let Director Francone’s comment go without retort. He
pointed out that the council member she referred to was Councilor Baker and he has never
supported FasTracks. He added that FasTracks was promised to the voters and RTD made
it happen. The B Line is a fabulous addition to the entire metropolitan area and he thought
Director Hoy and Chair Tobiassen did a fantastic job at the opening.
Director Francone commented that her previous comment was not meant to be a criticism.
She stated that when Councilor Baker approached her she was happy to inform him that
RTD is taking steps to increase its operations and maintenance funds. She added that
people are beginning to take notice of that and she thanked staff for realizing and
implementing that need.
Chair Tobiassen added that he too had been approached by Councilor Baker and they
discussed transit costs. He added that since he is a member of the E470 Board he knows
the true costs of transportation. He commented that even driving on highways is not
really free.
Chair Tobiassen asked staff for the Taxpayer’s Bill of Rights (TABOR) cap amount for
FasTracks. Susan Cohen stated that the TABOR cap has three pieces to it: RTD can issue
a total of $3.477 billion in principal, RTD can incur total repayment over time of $7.129
billion and the maximum repayment of principal and interest is $309 million in any single
year. Chair Tobiassen inquired as to where RTD stands in that debt max. Heather Copp
explained that RTD is close to the principal amount.
Chair Tobiassen inquired about the Environmental Impact Study (EIS) commitments and
asked what they entail. Susan Cohen explained that there is a requirement for additional
parking for Eagle and the Southeast Rail Extension that RTD will need to build or provide.
Chair Tobiassen commented that staff used FasTracks funds to supplement Access-a-Ride
a few years ago and inquired as to those amounts. Susan Cohen stated that the Board
capped those amounts in 2013.

III.

Parking Management Briefing
General Manager Genova indicated that staff has a comprehensive report on parking this
evening. He asked that the Board refrain from asking any questions until the presentation
is completed. He stated that Brian Welch, Senior Manager of Planning Technical Services,
Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning, and Errol Stevens, Manager of
Parking Management will be presenting this topic tonight along with himself.

General Manager Genova noted the discussion surrounding parking has been going on for
some time. He explained that the originally RTD could charge for parking but legislation in
2006 changed that. The State eventually relaxed in constraints its 2007 and amended
them in 2013, which lead to the parking management program RTD has today. He stated
that RTD’s limited authority allows for cars registered in district to park for free for the
first 24 hours, then $2.00 a day after that; out of district cars are charged $4.00 per day,
and reserved parking can only be 15% of the capacity of the parking facility.
General Manager Genova noted that there were three parts to the parking briefing:
 Universal Pay for Parking modeled potential impacts if RTD patrons were changed
for parking each day
 Current Parking Management Program describes the current program and uses
results to predict impacts of daily paid for parking.
 Partnering Projects compares the differences and similarities of the first two
programs, where an outside partner manages the program.
He stated that the information presented tonight is for information only, as staff wanted to
discuss this item with the Board before a recommended action item was presented.
Brian Welch, Senior Manager of Planning Technical Services, reminded the Board that staff
briefed the Board in March on the scope of the parking management study. The scope
focused on a technical assessment and is summarized in the following phases:
 Phase 1: Summarization of the Existing RTD Parking System
 Phase 2: Peer Agency Review/Determination of Elasticity
 Phase 3: Estimation of Costs and Feasibility
 Phase 4: Demand Variables/Spill over Analysis
 Phase 5: Contract and Risk Assessment/Items for Additional Study
 Phase 6: Calculations of Adjusted Net Operating Incomes
He explained that the study only reviewed the managed facilities where there is a total of
18,691 existing spaces. The remaining facilities were deemed too small, too remote,
managed by others or RTD was prohibited from charging. In addition, staff included the
total future spaces of around 24,000 in the analysis. He noted that both Dallas Area
Rapid Transit (DART) and Utah Transit Authority (UTA), our peer agencies, strongly
advised staff to be consistent with parking. DART curtailed their pilot program at select
facilities after demand shifted to lots without parking charges. UTA terminated their pilot
program at select facilities due to poor performance.
Staff reviewed parking fees across the country and there is a wide range of fees. The
typical patron response to parking charges depends on free or paid parking at destination,
EcoPass, parking lot utilization rates and station accessibility. He noted that RTD would

most likely lose some riders while others found alternative transportation to the stations.
The three scenarios examined were: A – low rate with an initial annual revenue of $10
million per year, B – variable rate with an initial annual revenue of $11.9 million per year,
and C – high rate with an initial annual revenue of $14.6 million per year. He added the
consultant’s scenario numbers were similar to the numbers that RTD staff had estimated.
He said the overall conclusion of the consultant is that daily parking charges can be
feasibly implemented at RTD facilities, and multiple scenarios would be revenue positive.
Errol Stevens, Manager of Parking Management, explained that in 2008, the Board
approved a guideline for RTD’s parking management program. The program was
estimated to recover the cost of parking from those that use the parking. It also had no
general fund subsidy and was supposed to be financially sustaining. Higher fees were
adopted for Out-of-District patrons and demand at busy facilities was managed to shift use
to underutilized facilities. There is a 30-day maximum stay at each facility because
patrons were using them as storage for their vehicles.
Errol Stevens explained that staff developed a friendly patron flow of park-pay-board and a
variety of payment options to ease the process for RTD’s riders. Each facility has a smart
pay station that accepts credit cards and exact cash. There is a pay by phone option
where patrons can use an authorized expense account and also a web based automated
payment platform. He remarked that the legislature established penalties for non-payment:
first offense is a no cost warning, second offense is $20, third offense is $50 and fourth+
offenses are $100. He noted that the program revenue in 2015 was $1.25 million, which
covered operating costs and amortized equipment costs.
General Manager Genova indicated that the next section covers collaboration in parking.
He explained that differences in projects lead to unique considerations. He stated that
RTD must consider funding, ownership, federal interests, other parking demands and prior
agreements. He noted that RTD will continue to negotiate and recommend parking plans
appropriate for each individual location. Factors to consider when evaluating each plan
include capital contributions, federal funding, ownership of land, facility and spaces,
operations and maintenance responsibilities and funding. The parking facilities currently
outside the RTD parking management program are Boulder Junction, Westminster Station,
Olde Town Transit Hub, and Iliff Station.
General Manager Genova reminded the Board that the recommended action to include
parking facilities along the new corridors in the existing parking management program was
tabled to the August 9, 2016 Operations and Customer Service Committee Meeting. He
hoped this presentation provided the Board with further information to consider the
recommended action.

Director Folska indicated that a concern of hers during the fare study process was that
parking was not integrated. She noted that when ridership is examined, staff must review
the fare and the cost of parking. She added that it may not be appropriate to have
consistent fees throughout the District.
Director Sisk thanked staff for the presentation and indicated that he looks forward to
reading the parking report. He added that if RTD tries to change the legislation that
occurred in 2013 there could be problems. He noted that RTD made certain promises that
need to be kept. He also added that RTD should not turn over parking management to a
third party as that seems like a bait and switch.
Director Lubow asked if some of RTD’s parking lots are free. Errol Stevens indicated that
half are free and half are in the managed program.
General Manager Genova stated that under a universal program, everyone would be
charged every day for parking. He said that the revenue potential would expand in a huge
way.
Director Lubow inquired as to the benefits to RTD if under the current statues a third party
receives the revenue General Manager Genova indicated that if RTD partnered with a third
party, they would be responsible for the operations and maintenance costs of the facilities
and that financial burden would be removed from RTD.
Director Lubow noted that RTD will have to watch out for public backlash as people are
used to and feel entitled to free parking.
Director Anderson stated she is interested in the partnered projects. She commented that
each one of them is uniquely different and it is important for RTD to work closely with
those partners so that everyone benefits. She asked for more details about those projects
to see how they differed from each other.
Jessica Prosser, City of Arvada, shared that she has been working on the agreement for
the Olde Town station with RTD. She indicated that it really is a transit oriented
development as rail is going through the Olde Town hub. She said that the City of Arvada
has a significant investment in the parking facility and the City wants those spaces
available for people going to Olde Town as well as using transit. She noted that a daily
rate is important to the City, but they would like to wait six months to evaluate the
demand. She added that while the City would like the first 24 hours to be free, they also
do not want people to use the Olde Town Park-n-Ride lot if they are going to the airport
and parking for an extended amount of time.

Robin Ferrin, City of Aurora, stated that one of the differences the City of Aurora is
proposing is a daily rate of $3 and a monthly rate of $50. He said that the City of Aurora
is taking a comprehensive approach to address street parking as well. Aurora wants to
give its residents more options to get around.
Director Anderson thanked the city representatives and stated that the Board can see the
differences in each community. She stated that it is very important that RTD work with
its partners and the individual uniqueness of each area. She noted that she also wants to
provide continuity for our passengers.
Director Menten inquired if the 15% cap on reserved parking was by statute or Board
policy. General Manager Genova indicated that the cap was limited by statute.
Director Menten further inquired if the monthly reserved parking fee had been evaluated
anytime recently. General Manager Genova said that the monthly reserved fee had not
been evaluated, but he noted that at the Mineral and Downtown Littleton stations, there is
a waiting list for the reserved spots and Nine Mile is almost sold out. He said perhaps it is
time to re-evaluate the fee.
Director Deadwyler noted that RTD’s contribution to the Illif station is $100,000 a year
and RTD is leasing the property to the City of Aurora for free. She stated that she does
not see how this benefits RTD and asked if all of the operating and maintenance costs will
be maintained by the City of Aurora. She feels this is a lot of money and asked what RTD
is getting in return for the Iliff Station to be rent free.
Rolf Asphaug, Acting General Counsel, stated that RTD is paying $100,000 because the
original surface lot plan would have cost $2.7 million and then RTD would have had to pay
for the operating and maintenance costs as well. He explained that instead, RTD provided
the $2.7 million to the City of Aurora and they contributed the rest to build the multi-level
structure. He noted that all of the 600 spaces belong to RTD and the $100,000
represents the money that RTD would have had to pay anyway for maintenance costs if a
surface lot was built. Director Deadwyler indicated that she understands the concept, but
she does not like it since the City of Aurora will be charging the parking fees and keeping
the money.
Director Hoy commented that it is fair to have the people using the service pay for the
service. He stated that the people who opt out will pay nothing. RTD has to subsidize
parking and if we charge for a parking space, those who want to pay that charge will pay
and park.

Chair Tobiassen inquired as to how many riders RTD has each day. Brian Welch indicated
that RTD has about 300,000 boardings each day. Chair Tobiassen noted that staff is only
discussing the single riders who come in cars. Brian Welch explained that 1/5 of RTD’s
ridership utilizes parking and that while a ridership loss associated with a parking charge
would be measureable, in the overall context of RTD’s ridership, it would be a small
number.
Chair Tobiassen indicated that at Anschutz they are charging what it actually costs to
maintain their lots, which is about $100 a month. He added that 60% of RTD’s ridership
is transit dependent and they are not going to pay these fees. He estimated that the
demographic for those that use the Park-n-Rides are affluent, upscale, non-minority and
high income. He stated that people choose covered parking because they want their
vehicles protected from the sun and hail. He added that RTD takes a lot of political heat
from a small group of entitled people who use these facilities.
Director Walker stated that he agrees with Director Hoy. He thinks that there are benefits
that come along with fewer cars. He also stated that the 300,000 estimated boardings
per day should be cut in half to determine ridership since most people make two trips each
day. He stated that he is not opposed to charging for parking spots, but stated that there
are benefits to having it be free.
Brian Welch explained that staff’s intention tonight was to explain the economics of RTD’s
parking management program. He said that across the United States, transit agencies are
all over the place with their fees. He reiterated that given all of the factors, it would be
revenue positive.
Director Folska asked Errol Stevens to provide the Board the exact operating and
maintenance costs for the parking structures prior to the next Operations and Customer
Service Committee Meeting. She added that she would also like a map of the current
system including the future stations and what the revenue would be at each.
Brian Welch indicated that RTD has 30,000 existing spaces, but only 24,600 are currently
managed.
Director Lubow asked if it was necessary to go to the legislature if the decision was made
to increase parking rates. Errol Stevens explained that RTD’s parking fees are established
by the Board, but the penalty amounts are established by statute.
Director Hoy sated that the $10 million estimate to maintain the parking facilities is based
on the total 30,000 spaces, not just the spaces in the parking management program.

IV.

Other Matters
Chair Tobiassen thanked staff for the two presentations and their time. He thought they
were very informative.
Director Archuleta thanked staff for their efforts with the B Line opening events. He said
that the VIP event was great and he appreciated all of the details that went into the
planning.

V.

Adjourn
Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 7:52 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

