December 3, 2019
Special Board Meeting
DOUG TISDALE: The Special Board meeting of Tuesday, December 3, 2019-- the record will
reflect that we are convened as of 5:30 PM Mountain Standard Time.
I do respectfully ask that anyone who has cell phones or electronic devices, do us a favor. Please
switch them to vibrate or off for the sake of the record and for the benefit of the public here, so
that they're not distracted.
And a reminder to you that all of our meetings are video and audio recorded. So please bear that
in mind. Ms. McManus, would you now please call the role of the Directors? Or in her place,
Mr. McKay.
JOHN MCKAY: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Present.
JOHN MCKAY: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
JOHN MCKAY: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
JOHN MCKAY: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
JOHN MCKAY: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Present.
JOHN MCKAY: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
JOHN MCKAY: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
JOHN MCKAY: Director Lubow?

[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, hello.
JOHN MCKAY: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Here.
JOHN MCKAY: Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: I'm here.
JOHN MCKAY: Director Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
JOHN MCKAY: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Here.
JOHN MCKAY: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
JOHN MCKAY: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
JOHN MCKAY: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Present. Thank you very much. It would appear from the roll call that we
have all of the 15 Directors present in the room. We'll begin with a safety briefing as is our
custom and as is so important, safety being our core value.
If we have a medical emergency that necessitates calling 911, we will actually ask our General
Counsel to make that telephone call. If there are any medically-trained individuals in the room
who could provide assistance, we respectfully request that you do provide assistance. And please
be advised that there is an Automatic Emergency Defibrillator-- an AED device-- that is located
in a glass case just outside the room on the wall to the right.
Now, in the event that we must evacuate this building due to an emergency, we ask you to please
calmly exit out the door you came in-- that's at the back of the room there-- then go up the stairs
to the first floor, go around the security desk, and through the front door. There will be police
and security there who will direct you to a safe meet-up area.

And if there is anyone needing special attention in the event of an evacuation, please be advised
that assistance will be provided. On a related safety note, RTD does take every reasonable
precaution to ensure the safety and security of its passengers, vehicles, and facilities.
That said, the Agency does rely on both staff and the general public to be aware of and alert to
any suspicious or dangerous activity on buses, and trains, and around stations, stops, and
platforms. As such, we encourage all of you, please, download the Transit Watch app, which
allows users to report suspicious or dangerous activity and communicate directly with our RTD
security personnel on a real-time basis in the event of an emergency situation that you may
encounter.
The Transit Watch app is available via Google Play and the Apple App Store. Remember, if you
see something, say something. And with the Transit Watch app, you'll never ride alone. Thank
you very much.
The first item on our agenda this evening is an Executive Session. We apologize for the
inconvenience this may cause to everyone, but it is required under the circumstances. This is for
a discussion of options for handling the remainder of term of the GM CEO's employment under
the GM CEO Employment Agreement. And it will be conducted pursuant to Colorado Revised
Statute 24-6-402 (4) (f) (1), which is in connection with personnel matters.
So at this time, I will entertain a motion to move into Executive Session for the purpose of the
discussion of options for handling the remainder of the term of the GM CEO's employment
under the GM CEO Employment Agreement. Again, referencing Colorado Revised Statute
Section 24-6-402 (4) (f) (1) concerning personnel matters. May I have a motion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry, who was the motion? OK, Director Folska. And second, Vice
Chair Rivera-Malpiede. Is there any discussion on that motion?
As I recall, we do not need to take an electronic vote on this. We can take a mere voice vote
relative to the members. All those in favor of an Executive Session, please indicate by saying
aye.
ALL: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed? There is silence, so therefore we have a unanimous
consent to the Executive Session. I will request at this time, then pursuant to that, that we have
all of the members of the public and all of the members of the RTD staff, please vacate the room
except for Mr. Genova and for Mr. Asphaug. Everyone else, please, if you would vacate, and we
will keep this as short in order as we can.
Please understand that we will recommence our open meeting immediately upon the conclusion
of the Executive Session. And is Assistant General Counsel also going to be present with us for
this?

ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair, if you don't mind, I would like that.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, then we will have-- Assistant General Counsel Jennifer Ross-Amato
will also remain for the Executive Session that we are about to commence.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
BOB GRADO: I was going to see if you were going to continue with your Executive Session, I
was just going to see if you wanted to stop. And we ask everybody to leave.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Can you speak into the microphone, because we need to make a record
on this too?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Chair?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, Director Folska?
[AUDIO OUT]
DOUG TISDALE: --third, we are back in open session. And we are about to open the doors to
allow people in. But in the meanwhile, Director Menten, let me recognize you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, I do kind of dispute seizing somebody's property. This opens the
door for a whole lot of slippery-slope things. But I would like it, before we do open the doors, if
John-- who is one that is a source of information-- comes into this room and tells me how he
knew that somebody has a device.
It's either that or seize it. And let me tell you, we've acted improperly, as far as I'm concerned, in
one meeting where we arrested somebody. And trust me, those things don't go away.
So I don't believe in just shaking the head no. I would like to hear from the horse's mouth, John.
How did he know that somebody has got a device that is recording before we go and seize
people's stuff?
DOUG TISDALE: Fair comment. Director Williams, you are recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. I think we agreed we were not going to seize anybody's
property. And then I think, again, that nobody has said anything that they seem to be concerned
about-- that if the information that was spoken in Executive Session is released, we will soon
know who did that. My question would be, do we have any right to ban somebody from coming
to a meeting again based on that?
ROLF ASPHAUG: Director? Chair?
DOUG TISDALE: Please, if you may, General Counsel.

ROLF ASPHAUG: Rolf Asphaug. We will certainly look into it. We'll certainly look to take
whatever action is appropriate to preserve the-- to protect the Executive Session. And a lesson
learned for all of us.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you so much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. We appreciate that. Director Buzek, you're recognized.
VINCE BUZEK: And I'll just be quick. I don't think we should blow this up. It's unfortunate that
it may have happened. We don't know that it happened. But in the future, when people leave the
room, let's make sure they take all their bags.
[LAUGHTER]
Thanks. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: And the Chair certainly acknowledges that the Chair could have said, by the
way, please take your materials with you. But I have heard Director Menten's statement, and
taken it to heart, and would suggest that perhaps-- and we're in a position to open the room-- but
that perhaps we invite Mr. McKay in so that he can report to us on what information we had.
And then we can simply make a statement and then move on to our action items, because we
don't want to consume too much time with this particular matter.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair-- this is General Counsel. Can I suggest that rather than have the
Board do that interrogation, that the Transit Police can talk? And we can look at it that way. I
think that would be better and would insulate the Board from any-DOUG TISDALE: Is there any objection from any Board Member to the suggestion of General
Counsel? Hearing none, General Counsel, please proceed in that manner. Thank you very much.
Can we open up the doors now and let folks in?
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
DOUG TISDALE: All right. For the sake of the record, we will acknowledge that we have
returned to open session, that the members of the public have returned to the room, and we are
continuing on with our agenda.
And the next item on our agenda is the first action item. And there are two action items. This one
is labeled as Item 4 Action A. And that's Board's options upon resignation of General Manager
Chief Executive Officer per the General Manager Chief Executive Officer Employment
Agreement.
It is recommended that the Board of Directors elect the option designated as number 3 under
Section 4 (e) of the GM CEO Employment Agreement. May I have a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.

DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Folska. I have a second from the First Vice
Chair. Is there any discussion on that motion?
PHONE AUDIO: Thank you. Please-DOUG TISDALE: And that was a voice from heaven, because we're on the telephone
connection as well, I know. Seeing no Directors who have identified a desire to speak to the
motion, we have before us the motion to elect the option designated as number 3 under Section
4E of the General Manager Employment Agreement.
The motion was made by Director Folska and was seconded by the First Vice Chair, Director
Catlin. Is there any further discussion? None.
May we now take a vote on that motion, please, if Director Folska would vote first? And
Director Catlin, if you would vote second. Then if the rest of you would all please vote.
All votes have been casted by a vote of 15 in favor and none opposed. The Board has elected to
proceed under Section 4E Option 3 of the General Manager's Employment Agreement. Thank
you very much for that.
We turn next to our agenda action item B. That is procedures for designating Interim General
Manager CEO. It is recommended that the Board of Directors establish procedures for the timely
selection of an Interim General Manager.
You have received a detailed Board report together with numerous documents. And I will state
simply for the sake of the record, the documents that you have received are all that the Board
office was able to identify or find in the records relative to the procedures that were implemented
both in 2010 and in 2015 concerning this process. Director Williams, you are recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I'm hoping we're going to have some healthy
discussion on this. I'd like to say that I got a motion here that I think came from Director Cook
and Lubow about how we would handle this. It appears to me that it is the optimal solution.
I think that we are a group of reasonable adults, and that we have a Human Resources
department who I think is competent and fairly well-compensated for their professionalism that
could help us begin this procedure. So I'd like to say that I support this motion. And then I'll sit
back.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Director Broom, you're recognized.
BOB BROOM: I disagree with soliciting proposals from people outside of the organization for
this short-term assignment. It doesn't make any sense, for me, to bring somebody in to learn
about RTD from the ground up.
I mean, they may be an excellent manager, but then I think you run the risk also-- does that
person also feel that this is going to give them a leg up on other candidates who were being

selected as the permanent person in this position? So unless there's no interest from the Senior
Interimship Team to fill this role, then I would say we should not go outside. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Broom. Director Guissinger, you are
recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair. Just to be clear, there are two versions here. And one
of them is a motion for designation, and it's in big print. And the other one is a little more
informal.
But I think that what Director Williams is looking at, and what I would support, is the smallerprint one here. I think, Director Tisdale, you would make some changes. I just haven't had a
chance to review them. And I think that may be true with Director Williams. So you may want to
make some friendly amendments to it.
But I guess I would say, first, to recognize what we're asking for, which is that we consider what
is likely a very few additional applications. I do strongly support having the SLT members apply
for this. We're not asking for a lengthy extension of the process-- just to accept applications from
inside and outside RTD to find our very best applicant, which may be inside or outside RTD.
And I would strongly say it's not a reflection on the staff. I think the SLT is very capable of
keeping all our trains running, so to speak, and all of that. But it's a unique opportunity, I think,
to get someone who could bring extra input to our processes and issues.
And hopefully, we would find someone with deep management experience and excellent
references who would come in and work well with staff. That would be my expectation that that
would be the only way we would move that direction.
I think it's no surprise to anyone that our stakeholders are seeking change. And the governor, the
legislature, our local governments, and writers, and potential writers are all watching this.
There's a lot of concern out there.
I've been attending meetings at the Capital with Mr. Genova and our lobbyists. And we're
hearing ideas floating around the Legislature to exercise additional oversight. So I think that
going out and asking for these applications could be a good thing.
I also think that there are a lot of people out there who would like to help us-- and that may be in
a more specified role in the long-term. But I think in the short-term, people from the Metro
Mayor's Caucus, from the partnership-- the governor's office, others-- as Mr. Genova pointed out
today, when we had the Pass Program Working Group, what that does is it invests outside people
in our agency.
And they start to see the issues and why we can't do some of the things that they want us to do.
And so I think asking Board Members just to go out and find names of people who could carry
some weight in the community is a worthwhile endeavor.

And again, I hope that staff supports us in this. I think that, again, we could end up with a staff
person in this position, but I really would support this and would like to see us go out and see
what's out there. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. And I just do want to respond to one thing,
because you specifically mentioned it. And let me point out, you do have, as you call it, the
informal memo. And then you have a statement that's a formal motion for designation. There is
nothing in this draft motion that is not contained in that informal memo. There are no additional
terms.
I did discuss some additional terms previously with both Director Lubow and the Treasurer, and
they expressed reservation over that. I will represent to you, there is nothing in this draft motion
that is not contained in that informal memo. Director Mihalik, you are recognized.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
NATALIE MENTEN: Please, may I-- Director Mihalik, do we have a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: There is no motion at the present time, no. Director Mihalik, you are
recognized. That's a good point of order. The answer is there is no motion.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Menten beat me to it, so I'll-- I was just going to say I wasn't sure
what we were actually discussing. There was competing motions going on, so I wasn't clear
where we were at.
DOUG TISDALE: For the sake of the record, we're discussing a process. And I believe that
Director Cook may be about to make a motion.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair. And thanks everybody for the comments so far. I'll go
ahead, just because we haven't had the motion put on the table yet to move that the RTD Board
of Directors approve and authorize the following process included in the more informal memo.
And just by way of recapping that, that includes, for example-- and just by way of preface, this is
a variation on the second option within the packet. And if you look at that option, it's a bare
sentence or two. It's sufficient on its own. I think it doesn't have to be elaborated to the extent
that you have described. And I'll speak to that in a bit.
But just to complete the motion, we would solicit applications from both inside and outside the
Agency, from the senior leadership team, and also from appropriate candidates who have shown
the ability to effectively manage large organizations. We'll use normal channels of
announcement, plus word-of-mouth and outreach by all on the Board, as Director Guissinger
mentioned, to garner as many viable applications as possible.

Second, the Executive Committee will oversee the Interim GM announcement. Now, in the
motion number 2 included within the packet, there was to be an ad hoc committee. This instead
designates the Executive Committee as the body that will oversee the Interim GM
announcement, receive the applications, and conduct a preliminary screening of the applications
and applicants.
Information about all the prospects will remain confidential. And for the purposes of the interim
position, an application need be no more than a resume, plus a letter of interest or cover letter,
and vitae, as the Chair has noted, presented to the Executive Committee. And these will be due in
by December 23.
Fourth, the Executive Committee will present to the Board also submittals indicating if it wishes
the top two each of internal and external applicants by January 3. And finally, the Board as a
whole will then determine some appropriate number of individuals to interview by Special Board
meeting with the urgent goal of making the appointment effective by the date of Dave Genova's
departure as January 20.
So just by way of talking to the Chair's points, they, in many ways, are an elaboration on that.
And I thank you for the work that you put into it. In some ways, the added specificity, I think,
may work against what we are hoping to achieve.
For example, it mentioned that it has to be received by the Board Office. Let's suppose
somebody reasonably assumes it goes to HR. And I don't want an adherence to this motion to
restrict our consideration of those people.
So that's just one example of where the added specificity may trip us up in a way that I don't
think we really intended. So I'd like to stick to that more general wording, if possible,
understanding that the Executive Committee will, of course, work with our agency to flesh out
how this process is handled.
So with that, I'll just add my comments and second what Director Guissinger and others have
said. This isn't an indictment or any kind of an accusation or a lack of faith as an expression
regarding the senior leadership team, but it seems wise to the extent we can to open it up, so that
we have the broadest possible set of candidates to consider.
And it is also a gesture regarding our openness in taking help and interest from the community
for this interim, this critical interim period, when we know we'll be doing a lot of things. Our
senior leadership team is very capable, but probably will be taken up handling all these things.
So we have the added advantage, if it is an outside person, of not detracting from that, not having
to take them from those key tasks in the upcoming months. So that's all I'll say right now. Thank
you, Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: If that's a motion, I want to second it. Yeah, if it's a motion, I want to
second it. I'm seconding.

DOUG TISDALE: Director Williams is seconding. So the motion is by Director Cook, and the
second is by Director Williams. All right, discussion on the motion. So do you have discussion
on the motion, Director Buzek? If so, you're recognized.
VINCE BUZEK: I do, and thank you, Mr. Chair. I concur with Madam Treasurer Cook and also
Director Guissinger on the comments that they made. And I see this motion as a good hybrid of
what was proposed in our packet materials.
There is a perception out there that some of the problems within RTD are systemic. If we limit
our look for an Interim GM to strictly people inside the organization, I think that only bolsters
that concept, that perception. So I'm glad that we're hopefully going to look outside and inside.
And we're moving into this Reimagine RTD process, aren't we? This is a chance to take a bold
step and to make a statement to our stakeholders, to our local government officials, to our state
government officials that we mean business-- that we really want the best for this agency. And
that we're not going to limit our search in any way. Not even in this interim position to someone
within the agency.
We're going to look for the best possible opportunities that we can here. So I think this creates
exciting possibilities to move this agency forward and to engage in the Reimagine process.
Thank you. That's all I have.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director. Director Folska, you're recognized.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. And thank you, Director Cook, and Director
Lubow, and Director Guissinger, for your contributions to this mission and the thoughtful time
and effort that you've put into it. I really do appreciate that.
Director Lubow was here when Mr. Washington resigned, and we had to find an interim. And we
looked at SLT at that time. We also had an ad hoc committee.
Our search for a permanent interim was something like $350,000. I mean, you can look it up, but
it was not cheap. And it took a long time. And we ended with Mr. Genova, and we were lucky to
have that.
So with respect to the timeline, first of all, I reject the proposal. I do not support this for a variety
of reasons. I think that we have the talent in SLT to find someone immediately to take the helm
of this ship and hold on to it until we have found the appropriate person outside.
I do think that we have a lot of talent inside and outside. And that should be taken-- we should
take our time. And to Director Buzek's comment about Reimagine RTD, I think that's a very
important point. We don't know what we're going to come up with at the end of this two-year
investigation of how we are reimagining RTD.
And at that time, we may find that the person we select even within a year or a year and a half
doesn't now have the appropriate skills, because we've reimagined something completely

different. Which makes me think that, well, maybe we need to have an interim through the
Reimagine period.
The date of this, January 20, for Mr. Genova to depart does not do what I had agreed to do in the
Executive Session, which was to say, oh yeah, that's great. We'll have Mr. Genova be here and
help us with our new Interim General Manager and that transition.
There is no time for that transition. So unless Mr. Genova agrees to stay longer, as suggested by
Director Menten, then it really doesn't make any sense. I do appreciate the speediness of that, but
I think it's taking too long.
My preference would be-- and also, there's a morale issue. And this Board has an obligation not
just to the people that voted for you, but the people who work for you, and the General Manager,
and the entire Agency, and the drivers. The morale in this organization is bad, and it starts right
here at the top with each and every one of us. So I think it's our responsibility to set the tone.
I also think that when you think about perhaps an SLT person moving into this position that you
need to consider, at least for me, who is going to backfill that position while they're interim. And
also, do they want to be the permanent General Manager?
And when an Interim General Manager is vying for that position, they lobby and they make
promises that they may not be able to keep. And so I would want someone to be our General
Manager who wants to go back to their other life, whether it's SLT or outside, whatever we wind
up doing. I don't want to hire an Interim General Manager who wants that job.
And again, I think we have an obligation to our Senior Leadership Team to support them and
show them that we believe in them. Because, quite frankly, this is one of the toughest jobs
anybody could ever have. And we as a Board, and our constituents, and the whole district are
asking a hell of a lot from these people. And it isn't easy. So I would not be supporting this.
Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Folska. Director Walker, you are recognized.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. I guess I'm on the fence, but I'll be looking for information to help
put me on one side or the other. So my experience with a search for interim is to have that person
identified, not through an application process, but just through knowledge of that person's
abilities and experience. So that person is just identified and asked to step into that role by the
Interim Search Committee.
I see the two-week time frame to add at the beginning of January to the January 20 as pretty tight
to negotiate a contract for employment even on an interim basis. And I don't know if we'll be
able to do that, because it's an uncertain date of termination of the contract. I don't know what we
would do in that interim if the contract is not executed by the 20th.
So that's a question for somebody. If you want to ask somebody that, I appreciate it. If not, I can
live without it. Also-- let's see-- this motion talks about confidentiality. I'm wondering if we

would sign an NDA-- if the Board would be requested to sign a nondisclosure agreement to
make sure that information stays confidential.
And also, there's a-- let's see-- item 3-- I'm sorry. The last bullet point-- the Board as a whole will
then determine some appropriate number. It's not a certain number. I don't know if that's-- I
would prefer to have a certain number-- something that we can look to and whittle down to
instead of just leaving it open.
A lot of the organizations that I have participated in have a certain number of applicants or a
certain number of Board members. And so we know what we want to get to rather than having it
open-ended.
So those are my questions and concerns. I hope they get answered in the course of our
discussion. If not, then I won't be supporting it. But if they do, I might support it. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Madam Second Vice Chair, Director RiveraMalpiede, you are recognized.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Listening to everybody speak tonight,
I think, is really important for the community to hear that this is a really serious job. This is what
we were voted into office to do, was to make the tough decisions.
I am in support of this piece. And the reason that I'm in support of it is because we made a
commitment to our communities to lead this agency. And our agency is in crisis. And we are
initiating a whole new way of thinking through Reimagine RTD.
For me, Reimagine RTD includes inclusivity, thinking outside of the box, and making sure that
we're not living in the same institutional culture that we're in. We're dealing with serious issues.
We don't have enough bus drivers. We have employees who don't feel respected. We have
incidents happening on our buses.
I think this is our time as the Board of Directors to take the lead and say to the community at
large, we are hearing everything you're saying to us. We understand that we have a serious
credibility problem. And we're going to work with you. And we're going to work with our staff,
which is the best staff in the country to come to a solution.
And we're not going to bind ourselves by saying we're going to keep it in-house. We're willing to
go outside as well, and listen to everybody, and to really look outside of the box, and make sure
we've done our due diligence, so that we can look anyone in the eye and say, yeah, we went for
it. And I want you to know that we did it in an open and transparent methodology, and that your
voice matters. So for those reasons, I will be supporting this. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Director Lubow, you are recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I also will be supporting this motion. To me, it's
common sense that we would want to have the largest pool possible to select from. And that

means not only internally but externally. It's just common sense that we would want the best
person possible and not restrict ourselves in who we would look for.
I think it is not a statement of disrespect or lack of confidence in the AGM, but we want the best
pool. It also would give to our stakeholders and to the taxpayers knowledge that we are very
serious about this search, and we're not taking an easy way out.
As to Jeff Walker's suggestion about what would happen if we did not hire somebody within the
time that Mr. Genova is supposed to retire, it seems to me, we have a couple of options to
explore. And one of them would be finding out legally, and also asking Mr. Genova if he could
stay for longer, and/or looking at the succession plan that's already in place and seeing if that
would work also.
So we're not bereft of options. That's it. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lubow. Director Broom, you are recognized.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I just have a question. Do we have an acting pay policy here
at RTD where when somebody leaves, then you appoint somebody to take their place for
temporary until you hire for a permanent position?
I mean, I can't imagine we're going to spend a whole bunch of time negotiating a contract with
somebody that's going to fill in on a temporary basis. If we have a policy with how you deal with
somebody that steps in, then that's what we would use for this interim person and not make it so
complicated. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And I believe that we have a response to that question
specifically, which is that there is a provision that any Interim General Manager CEO that is
appointed from SLT has in the past been accorded an adjustment of 10% of current base salary
or the minimum of the salary range, whichever is greater. And that was expressed in the
Financial Impact in the Board Package Report that you received. Director Menten, you are
recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Thinking about this, and you scroll down, and you see the
alternatives, alternatives in this matter include appoint an Interim General Manager, one of three
individuals named by GM Genova in the succession plan.
And so I ask about that one specifically, because the other two have rarely been covered already.
And that is searching inside, outside, spending energy to do that. What would be the process, if
we were to sit down with the three who are named, which would include-- and let me go with
official names, so that we do have this-- two mice-- so that we have this as part of the record-But if we were to sit down with Mike Meader, Chief Safety Officer, Michael Ford, Chief
Operations Officer, and Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer, how would we sit down?
What type of forum would that be? Would that be an open meeting?

Would we be able to call for an executive-- I would think we would be able to call for an
Executive Session, if so needed, if we were going to get into, perhaps, that initial interview. But I
am getting more and more concerned as I hear-- with just some burning fires that we've got
going on right now, that we are going to be investing some substantial energy into what I
consider a temporary position.
So can somebody-- who is best to explain that question? Because that's option number one on the
list. I understand it's not number one for some people, but-DOUG TISDALE: The Chair will attempt to provide a response and will look to Executive
Manager of the Board to supplement that. The option number one that is listed is the option that
was implemented in 2010, which is the long memo that's attached to the Board packet and also in
2015 when you, and Director Lubow, and Director Folska, and Director Walker participated in
the process of selecting an Interim General Manager CEO and then selected a permanent General
Manager CEO following that.
So the process would be that which was followed at that time. That's what the understanding
was, because that was the procedure that was adopted both in 2010 and in 2015. The Board in
2019 is talking about a somewhat different process, and that's what the motion is, and that's what
we're discussing.
NATALIE MENTEN: So in looking back at the minutes-- which I spent three hours today going
back through all the breadcrumbs in my old archives emails-- and what I see that we did in 2015
was we opened an invitation to all the AGMs and said, please apply. That is different than taking
the three that are on the table right now, in my opinion.
So when we did the open invitation in 2015, we had two responses-- Bruce Abel and Genova.
That was more like that option two or three or whatever, but it wasn't option one. I see them as
different.
So for me right now, I don't know if it's appropriate, but I can say there's one of these people, I
think, that's carrying less of a load than some others. And for this temporary position, they might
be the best person to carry suit, because I think the other two are pretty up to their eyeballs in
taking care of a couple of the fires that we've got going on.
So I've got to say, today I was maybe persuaded to go outside and do all that stuff-- that's fine.
Let's do that for the long-term. But for the interim, I don't want to lose time.
So that's where I'm leaning. And I just don't know what that process would be to interview them.
And they may-- I don't know. When you name them in the succession plan, do you actually sit
down and go, you sure you want that?
DOUG TISDALE: And Director, if I may just respond to that. Certainly, you may vote on this
motion now. And then if this motion fails, you may propose an alternate motion for an alternate
procedure. But the discussion is now this motion, and I take it, that's a discussion in opposition to
this motion.

But I'm not trying to prejudge what you're going to say. That's up to you. But that's the process
that you can follow, so it can be addressed.
And I think it should be noted too just for the sake of the record that I believe General Counsel
relative to the application process that we're talking about in the course of this motion, which is
generally outlined in that informal memo that you have received relative to confidentiality
concerns. And if General Counsel can address that, please.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Thank you, Chair. This is General Counsel Rolf Asphaug. I just need to
caution the Board that we're talking about providing assurances of confidentiality. However, the
Colorado Open Records Act does have provisions that allow for public inspection of finalists for
an executive position.
The term executive position, at least as I can tell right now-- and I've just seen this, so I haven't
really researched this in depth-- is not necessarily a permanent executive position. So we have to
be careful when we look at and solicit applications that those applications and the supporting
documentation that's provided might be open to public inspection if that's considered to be a
finalist.
Sometimes you have people who have current jobs and don't particularly want their current
employer to be aware. That might be less of a concern when you're talking about an interim
position anyway, but I just did need to bring that to the Board's attention, especially in light of
the concerns about a nondisclosure agreement. We can certainly promise that we'll exercise
confidentiality to the extent permitted by law, but we have to be careful about that.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, General Manager-- or General Counsel-- excuse me.
We appreciate your input on that score. And the citation eludes me now, but I think, in point of
fact, you may be referring to Colorado Revised Statute Section 24-72-204 (3) relative to-- and
3.5, to be precise-- relative to that disclosure. Is that part of the reference that you're making?
ROLF ASPHAUG: Yes, Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Madam Treasurer Director Cook, you are recognized.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair, for the second chance here. I wanted to respond to some
of the points that have been made and first with regard to Secretary Walker's points. I think we
have in the past marshaled some measures that helped to assure confidentiality.
And I assume that we'll do similar things this time. They may, and I think have in the past,
included NDAs by people interviewing or otherwise viewing these details that are meant to be
kept from public until such time they are designated as finalists.
Regarding the concern that we will not be timely able to appoint an interim, I would point out
that we-- in the time frame provided includes delivery to the Board as a whole by January 3, the
submittals received, all of them. And I'm guessing, simply because of the constrained time
frame, they're not going to be that numerous.

And the idea at that point is if it looks like it's not going to work to go with the broader group, we
need to select people from the inside, well, we're aware we were, anyway. We're not set back in
terms of the time frame. We can go with those from the inside of the agency who have applied.
So I don't think we're harming ourselves by doing this in terms of the time frame or
compromising our ability to transition well. I think what we're doing is taking a quick look to see
if there is a broader group of people who may want to help out. And in terms of our current
circumstance, the point was well-made that we have people who are really involved in key
efforts right now. This might be a chance to not have to worry about compromising that.
And then there was the point about the two plus two. I think we'll need to gauge whether or not
we have identified finalists. And we can consult with Rolf Asphaug as we do that.
And if it comes to the point where it's apparent to you that we are at the finalist stage, then we
can apprise the people who have applied, and they can have the option to withdraw, which is
what I think has happened in the past, rather than have their names disclosed. So I don't see any
of that-- they're valid and appropriate concerns, and we need to address them, but I don't see any
of them fatal in terms of our ability to do this. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Cook. Director Mihalik, you are recognized.
KEN MIHALIK: Oh, thank you, Mr. Chair. I guess just sitting here, it's kind of sobering when
we think about January 20. It's just right around the corner. Think about Christmas and New
Year's.
And previously, I would have been in support of this, but I think, as Director Cook, you
mentioned earlier, the unintended consequences of the specificity of the plan that's in the packet,
I think some of the-- we may have some unintended consequences to the elaborate, and I'll say
relatively elaborate, scheme that's presented here. I think we need to maximize the transition time
that we do have with Mr. Genova. It's going to be gone really fast unless he wants to change his
mind or something.
And so just listening to all the arguments, I can't support this now. Particularly after Dr. Menten
pointed out the alternative one and as it was, at least in some form, the tradition the past two
times. And it seemed it's worked out well on those. That's it.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Mihalik. Director Williams, you are
recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. I've been in and out of whether I was going to speak. But
again, I'm in favor. I think something that we haven't mentioned in any of this work is that we do
have a Human Resources Department.
They hire people all night and day. They hire executive staff and have been involved, I believe,
in hiring a number of people who might be considered for this position.

So I don't think that this is the end of the world. I think that we can begin the process
immediately, and that it's quite feasible that within a month we can have an interim, and that we
can have some people who might be viable candidates beyond an interim.
And I think that if our Human Resources Department can't do that, then maybe we need to be
looking at using other sources. So I think they're capable of doing it. And I think that all of us are
committed to making this happen. And so I think we should move on. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Williams. And I'm going to take out of order now First
Vice Chair Catlin, because she has not yet spoken on this matter, and Directors Folska and
Guissinger have, so we're going to move her up the list and hear from Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: I've heard some compelling arguments on both sides of this. I think that this
hybrid plan that is proposed does have some benefits. And if it is done in a manner that is similar
to a request for proposal process for a big project where you first submit a statement of interest
and then you go on to a more elaborate procurement process, that it could be done in such a
manner so that it wouldn't place undue burden on either the applicants or the people reviewing
and to get it done in a short order.
But I would suggest that I would open up the internal candidates to all of the SLT just to provide
some opportunities. And I think I-- well, I do agree with Director Buzek that this does send a
pretty clear message to our stakeholders that we are willing to look outside the box and not just
because we have done things one way the two times previous, that we wouldn't necessarily be
bound to be doing that again. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Catlin. Director Folska, you are recognized.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. First of all, I'd like to say that the responsibility
of this Board of Directors is to be the governing body of this agency and responsible for the
hiring and firing of the General Manager. That doesn't fall under the HR job whatsoever.
And so we have a tremendous burden on our HR department now to find drivers and operators
for our trains. So to think that this could be passed on to our HR department is just wrong. Sorry.
To Director Catlin's point of going out with an RFP, I mean, you can talk to Mr. Iacono here.
That takes months. And, I mean, I would be open to seeing it open to all of SLT and not just a
succession plan.
But remember, each and every one of us, when we got here, we spent hours and hours-- and I
calculated it today. It's about 50 hours per person to learn what you know. And even now, those
of us who've been here so long, and Director Walker the longest, still don't know all the fine
details of how to run this organization.
And this organization has a huge lift between now and May of 2020. So my sense is that the time
it takes to get someone up to speed from the outside would be inappropriate to spend our
resources that way, and that we should move forward immediately.

I would love to have it done today, and then move on, and spend our energy, and our resources,
and our money, which it'll take a lot of, to find the right person for the long-term. That's all, Mr.
Chair. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Folska. Director Guissinger, back to you
now.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'll be very speedy. If I understood correctly, you weren't really referring
to getting an RFP. Is that correct?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: It's an analogy.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's what I thought. What we're talking about is a very short process
that we'll have this process done in just a very few weeks even with the holidays here.
I guess I'm wondering if we answered Director Walker's questions. I think Director Cook and
Director Lubow took a stab at it. You mentioned that it's not a process you usually see with
applications.
We're just trying to find a simple way to move this forward in a speedy time and really allowing
the same amount of time-- I think it's about the same amount of time as they allowed in the past
for SLT team members to apply. We've got about the same amount of time, even with the
holidays, for applications. And I don't expect it to be a lot of people. So thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Guissinger. Director Broom, you are
recognized.
BOB BROOM: I'm not sure when the appropriate time to bring this up is, but I think we should
consider also whether we should go out for a request for proposals for executive search firms,
because I think you need somebody that can go out and find candidates, and not just place ads,
and wait, and see who applies.
And while this other process is going forward, we could start that process of soliciting proposals
from executive search firms, so that we're not doing everything end to end to end. We're
overlapping this process, so that we can move forward quickly to find the permanent person.
And that's where we should be spending most of our time and effort. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Broom. And the notion that we need to
include in this discussion that I'll just raise to your attention now, and I believe you've been
distributed, is the job description.
I believe each of you have a copy of the current job description that was approved in April of
2016, which was immediately following the execution of the General Manager's contract, the
first contract, which was executed in March of 2016. So I just referenced that for your attention
now.

We've heard from Director Guissinger. We've heard from Director Broom. [COUGHS] Excuse
me. And before going back to Director Lubow-- is Mr. Brian Iacono in the room, and present,
and perhaps could respond just in general to the process relative to, for example, a request for
proposals, request for qualifications, and so forth, just so the Board has that present information?
BRIAN IACONO: Yes, sir. Typically, the time frame-- is that what you wanted me to speak
about, sir, the time frame for a request for interest would take? OK.
At this point, there would be no funding involved. So we're just soliciting for an interest, right?
So typically, again, we'll have to allow time for finding the funding source and getting that
process started.
In my estimation, when I look at what we've done in the past, we could probably turn this in-- I
mean, the internal search before was less than a week. And if you wanted to advertise something,
it will be a short time frame.
But again, typically in a procurement process, if you allow a little bit more time, the quality of
your responses is a little stronger. If you allow a short amount of time, then you may get maybe
not very many responses at all.
Again, I heard the comment from Director Broom about executive search. We've done executive
search contracts, solicitations before. The average time was about 75 to 90 days in that selection
process to get a firm hired in that process. And that's moving pretty quickly, because the Board
will be getting a lot of meetings.
When I went through my notes-- because I've had the pleasure of going through this three times
recently-- so when I went through my notes, there's a lot of activity required for the Board.
Whether it's reviewing the resumes, the proposals, interviewing the candidates, it takes time and
logistics to make that happen.
So just to get some requests for interest, again, I think that's a relatively easy process. But what
takes the longest is once you get those responses, it takes some time to evaluate and decide what
direction the Board wants to go in. I hope that answered your question, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Thank you very much. We appreciate that. It's intended to be a
general discussion. And it's not specifically intended to pretend to respond to any particular
question, because the Directors may have independent questions they wish to ask of you. So if
you might just stay close for a moment, that would be useful. And we can follow up on that.
VINCE BUZEK: We've got a motion and a second on the appointment of an Interim GM
process. This seems to be getting outside the scope of that and into the full-time, and there's talk
of RFPs. And Director Catlin said that's not what she was asking for.
So I think we're tending to confuse the issue. Maybe we should-- it's probably too early to call
the question, but at least move things along and not have a dialogue. Thanks.

DOUG TISDALE: The Chair appreciates that. And the point is it was, if anything, directed to the
comment that the First Vice Chair made, just so that there wouldn't be confusion on the part of
the Board. But you're right. This motion does not anticipate nor call for that. All right. Director
Lubow, I think we're to you now.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I wanted to speak to that point that some of us who
are thinking of this thought of this, what we're calling the informal motion now. It's just for the
interim. And we were hoping, perhaps through a second motion, that there could be some
parallel process initiated for permanent in terms of initial stages, but that's separate-- totally
separate than this.
And what I wanted to do in terms of speaking to this is that, yes, this is somewhat out of
precedent, in that we're looking for the Interim GM to look outside as well as inside. But I think
that in this particular time, the agency has some turmoil. And under those circumstances, I think
it's really reasonable to look outside as well as inside. To not do so, I think, would be missing a
real opportunity. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Walker, you are recognized.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. So thank you to those who did address the question I had, but I
can't support this. We have three people already identified as in the order of succession-- in the
succession plan. They're ready, willing, and able to step up and fill this interim step.
We have a process in place. And I think that that's what's important. That should be followed.
The time for changes to that process was last month, last year, five years ago, because we knew
this day would come. The day was always going to come, no matter who sits in that seat of GM.
If the process isn't working, then the time to change it is before the process goes into play and
not during the game. There's still an unknown cost of what a person from the outside would
render or ask for to fill that unknown length of time. It could be four months. It could be a year.
It could be longer.
We know from the Administration that lots of folks have sat in acting roles for years now. I don't
know what that cost is, and as we've had discussions over the last several months, we're pretty
strapped for cash now.
And to think that we could at the last minute go back to SLT, that's assuming that none of them
apply. And say, OK, well, you're up, last minute. I don't think that's fair to the three folks who
have planned for this day who may or may not apply under these circumstances.
So I won't be supporting this. I appreciate the effort. I appreciate the thought that's gone into it.
But I'm just not comfortable breaching the protocols that we have in place already when we need
them the most. So thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. secretary. We'll recognized Director Lewis before
calling anyone else. Director Lewis, you are recognized.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I have a few questions about this proposal. The first
question I have is, as it's written in our legislation, that we are here to serve the transit dependent
and the poor, I'm curious how this proposal brings us closer to that.
And I ask that, because I'm concerned that change in this process right now takes us away from
providing services that we really need to be providing right now for our riders, for our operators,
for our mechanics. And so I'm just curious if anyone has answered that question.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Could you repeat? I couldn't hear.
SHONTEL LEWIS: How does this proposal move us closer to serving our riders, operators, our
mechanics, and taking care of our staff?
DOUG TISDALE: And if any one from staff wishes to venture a response to Director Lewis, we
may. And we can recognize later in order any Directors who wish to respond to that. But the
question by Director Lewis, and could you state that, please, just clearly one more time, so we
make sure that everyone hears it?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure, and I might state it differently for staff and state it differently for the
Board. So for the Board, how does this proposal move us closer to providing services for our
riders and for our operators?
And I would probably ask staff, do they believe that this interferes with the work that they are
trying to do on a day-to-day as they are dealing with multiple fires, and trying to put those things
out, and take care of our operators and our riders?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And the first question, addressed to the Board is somewhat
rhetorical. If any Director wishes to respond-- right. No, I hear. And what I'm saying is it's not
that we can compel Directors to respond, but we make it open. If they wish to convince you, they
can choose to respond.
The second question as to staff, it may put staff in a difficult position now to respond to that
when the Board is considering this issue. But I will leave that open if one chooses to volunteer.
But perhaps Director Williams wants to respond to your question to the Board.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Director Lewis. I do. I think there's a number
of points in this. We are not in this proposal asking to hire an executive search firm.
We are not asking to expend any additional funds. I think I've said repeatedly that I thought that
our Human Resources department that does an excellent job here now could do the first steps of
this process in receiving applications and vetting candidates to some degree. And that there is no
expense in that.
The last time we did this in 2015 was a different hiring market. This is now much more internet
involved. The last time I posted a job-- and we all know that the unemployment rate is very low
here, and it's hard to get people. I got 47 responses in a day from one online search.

So I think that half of the country in transportation is watching what's going on here tonight. And
there are a number of people who are aware of the fact that we are going to be looking both for
an interim and for a permanent position. I think that there's discussion in RTD's district of people
who would be interested.
I think that we are going to find there's interest in our staff. And there is no expense in any of
that. I am very opposed to the cost of an executive search based on our financial condition right
now. I think our primary goal of everybody in RTD is filling our driver shortage and serving our
customers.
That's why I think everybody in this room is interested in first and foremost, but I believe that we
must have some criteria in our charter that we need to have somebody at the helm of the ship, to
go back to Director Folska's nautical reference that I liked. And I don't see that we are spending
any additional money there or that we are providing any less service. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Williams. First Vice Chair Catlin, you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Just for clarification, Mr. Iacono, you were really addressing a
very short process for what I described as analogous to request for information followed by a
request for proposal. In this case, it would be a statement of interest on behalf of a candidate
followed by a more rigorous process.
So that initial step, which would be requesting letters of interest from candidates, you said would
be fairly short. And are we talking two weeks? Or within the time frame that our motion states?
BRIAN IACONO: That's at the pleasure of the Board. I mean, there is no set number of days.
Like I said earlier, Director Catlin, if it's a short amount of time-- again, some suggestions of
electronically dealing with that-- I mean, on our procurements, we use an electronic system. We
get the word out that way.
But again, typically, the more time you provide, the better the process goes in general terms. But
when you're talking about your specific process of going through a more lengthy process, yeah,
that could be very time consuming.
PEGGY CATLIN: And we're just really talking about the first step, I think, with this particular
motion. So thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I actually wasn't finished talking.
DOUG TISDALE: Is it a right of reply relative to something that was indicated here? Because
otherwise, I'm going to have to go to Director Whitmore, and then I'll come back to you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: But let me finish.
KATE WILLIAMS: She was asking. I was answering her first question.

DOUG TISDALE: Oh, I'm sorry. So you had not concluded is what you're saying. Accept the
Chair's apologies. Let us return and restore Director Lewis to the cue. And let us hear from her.
And then we will hear from Director Whitmore. Sorry, Director Lewis. You are recognized.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's all good, Chair. Thank you so much. So I have a few more questions. So
in this first bullet point, it says, plus word of mouth and outreach by all the Board to garner as
many viable applications as possible.
And then in the second paragraph, it says that the Executive Committee would oversee the
Interim GM announcement, review applications, and conduct a preliminary screening. And so as
I interpret that and read that, it sounds like the Board would say, hey, here's some folks that I
know that would be good for these positions.
And then the Board would also decide from those applicants who would be good for those
positions. Am I understanding that correctly?
DOUG TISDALE: I'll allow Director Cook to respond to that question that you've asked directly
concerning the intention.
SHELLEY COOK: So regarding the word of mouth that, was prior to the deadlines. We would-each of us and sort of layering on the work that-- I don't know if it would be the Board officer,
Mr. Iacono, or both-- would do in terms of getting the word out and soliciting interest in the form
of a letter, cover letter, whatever you want to call it, and resume, that we, each of us, would
activate our network to encourage interest, but that once we got the list submitted to us by the
Executive committee, then it would be a matter of restricting our look to what is contained
within those submittals made timely by the deadline. Is that what you're asking, sort of? Yeah.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It answers the question, and I don't mean any disrespect when I say this, and
I'm sure that's not the intent, but it does feel inappropriate that the Board would bring forth
applicants, and then review those applicants, and make final decisions. That's one point. And I'm
sure that's-- I trust that's not the intent. And I know I've been known to be harsh in my language,
and that's not my intention, but I've gotten a number of calls from constituents and riders whose
buses aren't showing up.
And many of you have had the same folks who are reaching out to you whose buses aren't
showing up. And I had a young woman who went to apply for services, because she was now
unemployed, and the reason that she was unemployed is because she could not give her employer
a time that she would be able to come in consistently, because her bus services are inconsistent.
And so at a time where we need consistency, this feels like not the right place to have this
conversation. We need folks who are able to keep those buses and those trains and our services
operating right now for the folks who are utilizing-- utilizing those services. And that's-- I have a
very visceral response to that, because our riders-- we have people's lives in our hands. And so
I'm not talking about HR. I'm not talking about cost. I'm not talking about expense. I'm talking
about, how do we make sure that the people who can keep this train running for the next two
months are able to do that?

I will also go back and tell you all that at Denver Public Schools, we recently looked for a
superintendent, which is the equivalent of a general manager. It took us much more time to be
able to find a replacement. This I agree with Director Menten that this is a temporary role, and
we haven't even, in this proposal, address what happens if we find someone outside of that. What
do we do with a temporary employee?
SHELLEY COOK: All I can say is the intent here-DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry. I'm sorry. We got to let her finish, and then if you want to go in the
queue, I'll be happy to recognize you again. You know I will. Were you concluded?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Just one more thing. One of the directors mentioned that we made a
commitment to our agency to lead, and I would argue we did not make a commitment to lead this
agency into dysfunction, when they need stability. I'm done.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Appreciate that, Director Lewis. Director Whitmore,
you are recognized.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I appreciate the discussion tonight. This has been
very important and very educational. I will support the motion. I feel the arguments made by
several of my colleagues really bear the opinions and the wishes of our constituents that we do
need to think outside the box. And I think for the very reason that Director Lewis is stating, that
we do have a crisis, we do have obligations that are not being met, and in order to meet those
obligations, I think we need to open this opportunity up, albeit temporary, to the world, if we
will.
So I appreciate the time spent by Directors Cook and Lubow on this matter and the opinions
expressed by everybody around the dais. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Director Lewis, before I go to you, let me ask if
Director-- if the treasurer, Director Cook, would like to respond further to clarify her thoughts.
SHELLEY COOK: Only that, I think we have the exact same intent, and that is to maximize our
ability to respond to the needs in our mission, the needs of our writers and our mission and our
mission as an agency, so thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Director Lewis, you are recognized.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I would like to say, in response to Director Whitmore, I
am in support of someone from the outside coming into this agency, because I do believe that
someone from the outside coming into this agency will bring visionary bold leadership and some
change that is much needed. I do not think it's the right time right now.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Director Menten, you are recognized.

NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Sometimes you doubt where you're standing on something,
and you got to say, you know, back to the ground. Service-- we've got issues. We need to deal
with those. I can't-- I've been through this process once. I can't even imagine that I'm going to
have to sit down, do interviews, get to know somebody, who's coming in for a temporary role,
while we are going out to interview for a permanent role. This will just be-- holy-- OK, I guess I
don't get to spend much time with my dog at all. But I think-- I think -- But, I get to spend time
with Judy. Good, OK. Great.
But I think it will be a big energy drain on us. And I-- just having been through this and, again,
refreshing my memory today painfully, going through those 2015 emails all the way from,
basically, March into 20-- March, 2015, into 2016. This is a long, hard haul. Are you wanting to
call the question?
DOUG TISDALE: No, the chair does not call the question. The chair only listens to what the
directors say. Directors have lots of rights. They can choose to exercise them or not.
NATALIE MENTEN: So I will oppose, and if this should fail, then I'd like to make a motion
about one of the three that's on the secession plan so that we move forward and immediately start
to get on track with what the issues we have on our plate at this moment. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Madam Second Vice Chair, you are recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Mr. Chairman, I'd like to call for the question.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, the question has been called. All those in favor of closing debate at
this time, please indicate by saying, aye.
ALL: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed to that? There are none opposed. The question is
before the Board. The question is the motion, at which motion I will attempt to restate, which is
that the Board authorizes the process set forth in the informal memo. That's what I understand
the motion to be. So if-- Board staff and-- I'm sorry-- the movement on that was-- Director-- Mr.
Cook. I'm sorry-- General Counsel.
ROLF ASPHAUGH: Apologize, Chair Tisdale, this is Rolf Asphaugh, General Counsel. Are we- just for the sake of the record, are we talking about this?
MULTIPLE BOARD MEMBERS: Yes.
ROLF ASPHAUGH: I don't know that the audience has ever heard this, and-DOUG TISDALE: I don't believe they have, Counselor.
MULTIPLE BOARD MEMBERS: No, it was read--

DOUG TISDALE: It was read by Director Cook. Yeah.
ROLF ASPHAUGH: Was it? It was read into the record. I had gotten some confusion from
people-DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, I thought that not the entirety of the text was read. I thought a
summary of it-MULTIPLE BOARD MEMBERS: No, I read it.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, all right. So the entire text was red, and if the audience didn't hear it, we
apologize and regret that. But that's unfortunate. We're moving forward. The motion was by
Director Cook, and the second was by Director Williams. If the Board office will now put up the
vote, and if Director Cook will vote first, Director Williams, and then if the rest of you will vote.
By a vote of eight in favor and seven opposed, the motion passes. The no votes were Director
Broom, Director Folska, Director Lewis, Director Menten, Director Mihalik, Director Tisdale,
Director Walker. And so that motion passes, and that concludes the discussion relative to the
procedures for designating the Interim General Manager / CEO. Board office is to proceed as
indicated in the informal memorandum as read to the committee.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Merry Christmas and Happy New Year.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, the Executive committee will have a busy Christmas week from
Christmas Eve to New Year's Eve. All right, we turn now to the discussion item. That's agenda
item number five, and we would begin discussion of procedures for selection of permanent
General Manager CEO. As was indicated in the Board report, the materials that were attached to
the Board report for the second agenda item that we just concluded are, of course, relevant to this
third agenda item, which is to begin the discussion.
It is not intended nor understood that, we will conclude the process of selecting the procedures
for a permanent general manager CEO. But we need to begin the discussion. To some extent, we
have already begun that discussion in the comments that were made just immediately prior to
this. So we now ask for input from the Board relative to your thoughts on this. And Mr. Iacono is
present on behalf of procurement, and Ms. McKillop is present on behalf of human relations so
that if there are questions that impact either of those groups, they are here to respond. Director
Menten, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you, sir. I'm going to focus on the financials and in digging
through the check register back in 2015. I do not know that I have a complete accurate total of
what it cost us in different categories to do what we needed to do. So in these listings, I have one
firm that we used for public local outreach, one firm who was the executive search team out of-I don't remember what city, but-- Yun-- I pronounce her name differently than they pronounce
their name, so.
BOB BROOM: Krauthammer?

NATALIE MENTEN: I've heard it's even different than that, but OK. Then we had legal counsel
on both sides. And then, additionally, a group that managed research for us, so I know the Board
office is waiting to get some response on some of these different pieces. Just make sure what's
where. What do you have in your records? Do you have a total for what this whole process?
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Iacono, you are recognized to answer.
BRIAN IACONO: Thank you, Chair, Mr. Chair. Director Menten, for the strategic advisory
services, I show that we issued a not to exceed contract for $97,000, and $40,000 was paid of
that. And the executive search firm-- I show that we issued a contract for $110,000, and
$105,000 of that was paid. So right there, we have $145,000. The legal and the other services
that you mentioned-- I have not gotten that information yet, so I'm still working on that piece.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, And then let me go to that first line item. You had the $40,000
and the $97,000. $97,000 was max approved. $40,000 was spent.
BRIAN IACONO: Correct.
NATALIE MENTEN: And that was the local public outreach?
BRIAN IACONO: Correct.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, and so you're still filling in some-- potentially filling in some holes
for the others.
BRIAN IACONO: The other items that you had mentioned, I'm still trying to get that data out of
our system.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, and I might make a copy of my spreadsheet for you.
BRIAN IACONO: I'd love that.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, all right, I'll do that. That was part of my day to day fun. So that's, in
this discussion, important for me knowing what we were spending on different avenues and
whether we should continue in that process. I can say I know there are a couple areas that I
would like to change. But until we have all of the specifics, I'll just have to hold off.
And then I will express a concern that I had. I know we have this agreement that we will be
signing to keep everything confidential. But what we did-- and you won't be as-- you don't have
to worry about this stuff, Brian. We would have what we called the vault, and all of the
documents, the applications, all of that stuff was kept literally in the vault. The vault was upstairs
on the third floor, and the only way you could go in and see the vault was when you were here.
We could not take notes from any of these meetings and take the notes home to read them over.
That is how I do a lot of my homework. So I would like to change that when we go into this,
where if I go to a meeting, and I take minutes and notes, and even put them into little code for

Natalie, that only Natalie will know what it says, at least I can take them home with me and read
them and digest it.
It's also in a tough position when we are totally dependent on this confidentiality, and I
understand there's some people who do not-- just like we had no clue that Phil Washington was
talking to LA Metro before he gave us resignation. I can understand and appreciate that, but I am
a first hand person. I hardly ever will just trust somebody to tell me-- I just have to fact check it.
So how am I supposed to fact check an applicant if I can't call and talk to a union or a Board
office administrator or something else? I am just that hands on kind of a director. So looking for
suggestions. I can tell you those are two things I felt very uncomfortable with last time. Thank
you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Menten. And just to make sure that I can clarify this for
the sake of staff as we go forward in further discussions, your question is, can we, in this process
for a permanent general manager, allow directors to take notes relative to this information and
take those notes home with them, provided, of course, as you acknowledge, that they have, in
fact, signed a nondisclosure agreement relative to the information that they have? I take it that's
the context of your question. You can respond if I'm correct in assessing that.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you, and since I have the opportunity, I will expand. So what I
recall was a binder, probably about like that thick, that had dividers for each of like, say, 15
candidates. And we were expected to digest all of that within sitting upstairs and not take notes.
So I would like to take my binder home.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, I understand the question. Thank you. And that's something that we
can include as part of the discussion. The other part of your question, I think, is something that at
some point, general counsel or his successor is going to have to respond to. And that is, can each
of the individual 15 members of this Board of directors call up each of the applicants, employers,
co-workers, and other people to ask questions about that candidate? Is that the question?
NATALIE MENTEN: No. I think when most applicants these days fill out a job, and it says on
there, who is your current employer, and there is a checkbox that says, may we contact your
employer, we should have that option and allow the candidate to make the discussion. At least
then my hands are not completely tied.
DOUG TISDALE: Let the candidate make the discussion-- I'm just trying to clarify.
NATALIE MENTEN: Make the decision, am I allowed to contact your former Board of
directors?
DOUG TISDALE: OK, no, but the question is, you, Director Natalie Menten, or all 15 directors
or someone who is actually assisting us with the search contact that person.
NATALIE MENTEN: Natalie Menten.

DOUG TISDALE: OK, Natalie-NATALIE MENTEN: I mean you all can do it all you want. I know I want to.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, I mean-- yes, I want. I want the Board to hear what the question is.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. OK, so all 15 Board members should have the ability to do that. I
know that I personally will. I can't speak to whether they wish to do so.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you for clarifying.
NATALIE MENTEN: You're welcome, Thank you for asking.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Williams, you are recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. I don't believe that Director Menten ever did answer the
question, was she willing to sign a nondisclosure agreement in advance of the conditions that
she's asking for. That's point one.
NATALIE MENTEN: Did somebody ask me that, besides you?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Menten, you may respond to the question directly posed to you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Was I asked before? Did I miss it?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: No. It was-- I said, on the condition that there was a nondisclosure
agreement, you're requesting, could you take home with you the confidential binder with all of
the applicant's information.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: That's small print. Ted, the dog, might glance at it. That's it.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director.
KATE WILLIAMS: He's got to sign, too, paw print.
DOUG TISDALE: Right.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, that was my--

DOUG TISDALE: Point of order. Yes, Director Folska, you're recognized on point of order.
KATE WILLIAMS: I wasn't finished.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I think we need to continue becauses this is -DOUG TISDALE: And thank you very much. We are back to Director Williams concluding her
remarks at this time.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I have a couple of notes that I took on this. Normally, when
people are hiring and interviewing, it is appropriate to call references. On occasion, it's
appropriate, as Director Menten pointed out, to call their employer. I just have finished hiring a
couple of people, so I've been through this very recently. And yes, that usually says, please don't
call my employer, or it's OK, if you call my present employer, or I'm not employed at the
moment at all. So I think we would honor that.
I think the point that 15 people would do that is not a good idea, that, perhaps, we should have
some point of reference there that the executive-- somebody from the Executive committee is
calling, or Director Menten is calling them all and informing the rest of us. So I think there's
some things we can work around that.
I think that in the layout of this document, there were some things that I objected to. And one of
them, could we not be buddies? You know, do we have to be buddies? I think there might be a
better way to describe how we interact between the group, who is reviewing the documents, and
the rest of us.
And then if our cost estimate stands at the moment at someplace around $145,000, that was in
2015. So I think that's a lot of money and that one of the first things that we ought to do as a
responsible group is look at less expensive ways of conducting this procedure. And that's all I
have to-- we have advertising that I think we could use. And that's all I have to say right now.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Williams. And let me confirm with Mr.
Iacono that the $145,000 is the information you've compiled so far, and there is additional
information that you're looking into. And I believe that Executive manager has information on
legal fees also that were incurred. Am I correct?
BRIAN IACONO: That is correct, Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you very much. And Executive manager, do you have any
information relative to the approximate amount of legal fees?
SPEAKER: So it seems, through my research, that it's close to $10,000. That is for two separate
legal fees-- the external legal that represents RTD and the external legal fees for the candidate,
which are usually paid by the agency.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Appreciate that amplification. Director Buzek, you are
recognized, sir.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I-- I'm speaking now to tell you that I really don't
have a lot to say.
[LAUGHTER]
I think I need more time to think about this long range and the search for the long term executive.
I think that we should all gather our thoughts at maybe another meeting or Study Session, really
come together and think about that. Now included in our packet was a 2015 memo, not policy,
just a memo about what happened. So it's not our policy. So whatever we do from this point
forward, as it relates to the permanent general manager, this is up to us. It's whatever we want to
do, and whatever we decide to do, that's how we're going to do it. And we need to give it some
serious thought.
I like some of Director Williams' comments about the ability to seek out qualified candidates
without expending incredible sums of money through an executive search firm. That might be
something to consider as well. And as far as each of the Board members being able to contact a
candidate or its employer, I think that's an abysmal idea. I think that just will lead to a complete
breakdown, and the process will make us look unprofessional. And we'll give to those directors
that reach out to the candidates information that the rest of us don't have. There's no
transparency, so I'd be against that. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Buzek. We appreciate that. And Director
Lubow, you are recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I would just urge us to, as we're looking for an
interim, that we have a parallel search going on for the permanent, because I really would hate to
see the permanent search last nine months to a year the way the prior one did. And hopefully, we
can do this much quicker and get a really good person in in a much quicker time frame. So I
would hope that something parallel could be happening, including I think it's clear that certain
things need to be done as prerequisites.
I believe, typically, you do some kind of compensation comparison analysis. And that's probably
going to need to be done whoever we hire, so maybe that could be initiated. And similarly, I'm
wondering if the good old Executive committee, who we have tasked with doing much during
this Christmas vacation, wouldn't also be thinking of a process, a potential process of an
effective-- cost-effective and efficient means finding a permanent choice and not going through
the very expensive headhunter process that we did before. I haven't asked the Executive
committee, but maybe they would accept. Anyway, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lubow. Director Catlin, Madam First Vice
Chair, you are recognized.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. To Director Williams' point about the last one
being in 2015, I also wanted to point out that, yes, we've also improved some of our processes
with electronic communication. So that may, in fact, be a cost-saving measure. I would be
careful with not using some sort of an executive search firm. Having been on the other side of
that process a couple of times,
I have some thoughts about some things that were very successful and some things that were,
perhaps, not as successful. So I'd be more than happy to share that with the Executive committee
at the appropriate time. And I just wanted to say that I've been through that a few times, and it
was a national type of search. So just wanted to bring that up.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam First Vice Chair. Director Walker, Mr.
Secretary, you are recognized.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So I was fine with the process that we had before. It was a different
job market. It was a slightly different Board-- same composition, same structure, but different
faces. We were at a different phase. We were just coming out of-- I'm sorry. We were heading
into some major openings with FasTracks. Some of those have been delayed, but we still-- we're
still in that mode, so I guess we still have one large opening and some other items.
So given that, I guess there are some parallels to where we are now. One thing that I learned
from then is that the Board's-- this Board's behavior, this specific Board's behavior-- and I guess
it's true with any Board-- but this specific Board's behavior, our words, our actions, what we do,
what we don't do will influence the type of applicants. It will influence the number of applicants
that we receive.
So you know, every potential applicant is going to have their preference about how they want to
interact or what their level of contact they want to have with us, if any, or that they would want
us to have with their current employer or associates. So we can get a full complement, a big,
wide net of applicants for the long term for the permanent, or we could winnow that down by our
actions even before they get to apply. So I'm hoping that we're all mindful of that as we move
into this process.
But generally speaking, I was fine with the way the process using the executive search firm to
screen and have some dialogue with the applicants. And they would have that one point, that one
reference, and we'd feed him what we want. "Him" in the last case. It could be a female this time.
But anyway, we feed the search from our point of contact at the first firm at the search firm with
our preferences, and they dispense that information to the applicants. And they also-- the
information from the applicants is funneled through to us. So that's how it worked, and I thought
it worked well, and I'd like to see something like that again. It saves us a ton of time. It keeps the
information consistent, and it keeps it streamlined. And I think it kept us on the schedule, pretty
close to. Thanks. That's it.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Director Broom, you are recognized.

BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair, I'd like to speak in favor of-- first thing is getting an executive
search firm on Board to help us. If we don't do that, and we're going to reinvent the wheel, it's
truly going to take a year or more for us to hire somebody. And that means you're going to have
a different Board hiring the person rather than the Board that's currently sitting that has the best
feel for what we really need to move this organization forward. And so for so many reasons, and
to keep us from making mistakes in the process and running people off that might be good
candidates, we need to hire somebody that does this on a full time basis and has lots of contacts
in the industry to get people to apply who otherwise aren't really looking for a job Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Broom. Madam Treasurer, Director Cook,
you are recognized.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair. Let's see. I wanted to offer support for the idea to the
extent we can, undertaking some of the steps that we know will have to happen regardless,
including compensation analysis, for example, as voiced by Judy Lubow. And the process, also-I think what we've done previously can inform what we're doing. We want probably to adapt it to
our current situation, so that bears some thinking about-- in the meantime, between now and the
time that we can more actively pursue this around the end of the year, at the beginning of the
new year.
But one thing-- it seems to me that it might be good if, before just launching right into the
process, or maybe it was part of the process with a headhunter. I'm not dead set against that. I
hope we can economize on that. But do some thinking about the needs of the organization. As a
Board come, together and think.
And maybe it's a facilitator discussion on a day or something, and come to a sort of a common
understanding of the particular needs we have at the time, and allow that common understanding
of the strengths we might seek to guide what we would do going forward in terms of the process
and the person that is the profile that we would sort of sketch out for our recruiter or for our
efforts. So I just wanted to add that as a possible first step or to inform the process that we
ultimately take on.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Treasurer Director Folska, you are
recognized.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I would say this discussion should be
postponed until the new year. And the reason is the makeup of this Executive committee will
likely change. You will not be the same five people in January on this committee doing this
work. So as nice as this conversation as it is, I think it's premature. So I also really appreciate
Director Walker's comments about attracting the kind of people that we want here. And this idea- many of you haven't gone through this, but this compensation analysis is a bloody nightmare.
And it is for so many reasons. Executive directors of transit agencies across America are paid
wildly different upfront. They are not transparent. We're one of three elected boards of directors
in the country, and we have that transparency. It's one of the beauties of having an elected board.
Other places, like in Dallas, they don't. And so the compensation package that one would look at,

say, would be $90,000, $150,000. But when you look at everything else that they have, it's more
like 600,000. So it's very difficult, just like comparing an agencies, comparing executive
directors. Well, it was nearly impossible.
So I think that's something that you guys have to decide. What's the range that you're willing to
offer? And people will know that this is an expensive place to live, and if people are moving here
from outside, you've got other problems. But in general, I'd say this conversation is premature,
because the Board hasn't been newly formed for 2020. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Director Folska, Madam, Second Vice Chair.
Director Rivera-Malpiede, you are recognized.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you Mr. Chair Tisdale. You know what? This has been a
really good conversation, and I would just like to reiterate what Director Cook has just shared,
which I think is really imperative in my mind. And the fact that we are going to be looking for a
new CEO for this district and representing so many people in our community that, before we
start going down this road, we, as a collective Board, need to decide what it is that we need and
what the issues are we're facing, and what is the skill set that we need to attract to work with us
to achieve those goals?
So I think that's really an important piece. It's something I'm going to be looking at for a long
time in terms of what would be my top five issues or skill sets I would want in somebody to lead
this agency. And I would just encourage all of my colleagues to take a look at that as well. Thank
you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam, Second Vice Chair. And to follow up on that
point, the chair will know-- excuse me-- that the most important job that a Board has is the
selection of its CEO. It's just that simple. We have one employee, the CEO. There is no task
more important for this Board. You can talk about budgets all you want. You can talk about
schedule changes. You can talk about service reductions. It all comes down to the general
manager, and that's the most important job that we have.
So it is important that we take time to think about it. And it is important that you decide what
you do want from a general manager. And that's why you were passed out tonight. This job
description-- so you would know what the job description is that we've been working under since
April of 2016, which was a few days after Mr. Genova signed his contract in March of 2016 to
be the general manager. And also to point out that a search for a general manager CEO will take
no less than six months. And after the American Public Transportation Association advises us
that the average search length for a CEO is 14 months, APTA advises that the average length for
a CEO search is 14 months.
That means that the soonest we would have a general manager CEO as a permanent replacement
would be June of next year. No, that's the six months. That's the earliest possible date that we
could get something done based upon what Mr. Iacono has advised what staff has advised in
terms of the search process. And that, based upon APTA'S average numbers, considering over

1,200 transportation agencies across the United States of America, it would be February of 2021
that we would have a general manager.
That's the average. Of course, we can do it faster. We may be within that six-month time frame,
and maybe by June, we have it done. But we just need to keep that in mind as we look at this
process. And the reason it takes a little time is what I said first. It's the most important job this
Board has, period. Director Lewis, you are recognized.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I agree with a lot of Folska said. I just want to lend my
voice into this conversation. So I hope that this process is thoughtful, confidential, and cost
effective, like many of the Board members have said. There are some pieces that I would just
like, so I'm indifferent. If we go with this process, if we change the process, if we create
something as a Board that benefits what we believe we should be doing, if we take more time,
I'm cool with that.
What I did see that was missing in terms of the important traits for a GM is rider input. And so
there wasn't any mention of how we might engage our riders. As I think there are a lot of folks in
Colorado, in our city, that have a lot of ideas, who are experts in transit, who might be able to
help us out in creating that profile. And we could have folks submit those anonymously. Again,
we could figure out what that process looks like.
I think what I've heard tonight is that we aren't sure where we'd like to go, and I would argue
that's more reason for us to put in an interim from inside, but we're not talking about that. And
we're going to have that conversation. But I would like to say that, Director Cook, I really did
love your idea about this process, but again, indifferent.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lewis. Are there any other directors who
would wish to weigh in at this time on the discussion? Recall, this is just the beginning of the
discussion. We will have a continuing dialogue on this, no doubt, at virtually every meeting,
because it is such an important task for us. But at this time, I will ask, are there any other
speakers who wish to speak relative to this process?
If not, then we will turn next to other matters on this-- for the Board meeting. And let me take
one second. All right, and as we know, in terms of the process that we've just discussed, this
actually-- tonight is a part of the public outreach that we are doing, because there is media
coverage relative to this. We know the fourth estate will provide good reporting relative to what
we're doing, what we are seeking to accomplish. So I believe that we have excellent
opportunities for this immediate public outreach that we were talking about earlier in the
selection of the Interim CEO.
The next item under Other Matters that the chair needs to bring to your attention is that we have
received, from the Colorado State Auditor, the engagement letter for the state audit. As you
recall, the state audits the RTD periodically. Our meetings commands on December 17, so this
long process of the state audit, while we're going through all of these other issues, begins.

So the Colorado Office of the State Auditor will meet with us on Tuesday, December 17th at
10:30 AM, at which time it is requested that Mr. Genova and the chair execute the engagement
letter, giving them permission to come in and do what they will. So I just wanted to give you a
heads up on that.
Director Menten, you have another matter to bring before the Board?
NATALIE MENTEN: No, I have a question regarding the matter you were just speaking of.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, please.
NATALIE MENTEN: So they have not defined the subject of the audit?
DOUG TISDALE: I just received this letter as of 4 o'clock this afternoon, and I was busy at that
time preparing for this and trying to get some other things on. I haven't even read it yet. But we
have directed it to Executive manager, and I think general manager may have a comment. Mr.
Genova, welcome to the comments, sir.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I believe they're going to be looking at fare box
recovery ratios. It is mentioned in the letter, and that was mentioned to us in the verbal
conversations we've had.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, so I had planned on doing this anyway, so this is great timing,
because I knew that we had something coming up, because Miss McKillop had mentioned that.
But I would like to recommend the following-- that I can already, I think, tell based off the 2008,
2009 fare box recovery audit that we had done, what will happen is the state controller will come
back and say, why are you using depreciation within it? Change this. Change that, duh-duh-duh.
We will get little value out of that, even though at one point, I would've liked to have seen that
audit.
At this point in time, what we have been told is it is time for us, per Ms. McKillop, to do a salary
comparison, compensation comparison, I should say, within the agency. And that is planned,
because it's been about seven years since we did one. Perhaps since we have to pay $400,000 to
do a fare box recovery audit, because that's on our funding, perhaps we could shift the legislative
audit committee to instead put on the record a compensation survey for this agency, including a
comparison with benefits.
We would kill two birds with one stone and only be spending money on the compensation audit,
which is something right now in our strategic budget. So why not do that instead of spending
$400,000 on a fare box recovery, which will produce nothing for us?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director, and we will invite Chief Financial Officer
McKillop to consider that. She need not comment at this time, but just for the sake of the record,
because people may be confused about it, it's not that we are choosing to spend $400,000 on this
audit or that we selected it. The legislature mandated in our Enabling Act that this be done and

that we pay for it. That's Colorado Revised Statute Section 32-9-115.3. So it's not sort of
arbitrary and capricious. It was established by statute.
Director Lubow, you are recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. What Director Menten raised-- raised a point for me
that I wanted to discuss is that can Board members and other people, maybe through us, direct
what the audit will include? Because I know some stakeholders are interested in looking at
RTD's budget as, how sustainable is it? What are the issues that-- what are the problems that are
unsustainable? And it would be nice if the auditor could look at that or other things that might be
a real subject of something that we could use. So I don't know the process.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Let me recognize our Chief Financial Officer to
address that question for your benefit.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So they determined their perform-- they do performance audits on us.
And so they determine the performance audit based on the recommendation from the audit
committee in the legislature. So they dictate-- even the state auditors don't necessarily get to pick
which audits they do of us or any other State Department. It is dictated by the audit committee at
the state. So I think our chances of having them audit anything other than fare box recovery is
going to be slim to none, because they're getting direction directly from the legislative audit
committee.
JUDY LUBOW: Can I-DOUG TISDALE: Yes, please, feel free. If you can find a way to change the legislature, we'd
love to hear it.
JUDY LUBOW: Well, not me, but we know people that do have the ear of the legislators, and
they might be interested in listening. And that seems like that lobbying might be apt at this point.
Is it written in stone at this point? I mean, could that be changed by that committee?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So it could possibly be changed, but once they issue the audit letter,
that means they've done significant amount of work, pre-work already to get their scope of work
done. And if the meeting is on December 12th-DOUG TISDALE: 17.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: 17, there's a good chance that that would be kind of late in the process.
We did talk to them about potentially even holding off on the audit, since right now, we have a
lot going on between now and mid-year. And apparently, that wasn't well received either,
because we got the letter, so I'm not saying-- the other thing I would caution about them doing a
salary survey is that's not their area of expertise. When we go out for that, we would look at
somebody that does that for a living. And that is in our scope of work for 2017.

Regarding the other issues that were brought up, Director Lubow, that would be more
appropriate for a performance audit in the future. And we may want to suggest that for
something that they might want to do in the future.
JUDY LUBOW: OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I'm not saying it's impossible. I'm just saying that's how the process
works. I've been in that process for 20-something years, so I know that they're not very flexible.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lubow. Director Guissinger, you can weigh
in.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that Ms. McKillop is probably quite right, but I do know that our
lobbyists, Brandeberry-McKenna, work a lot with the audit committee. So it would be a very
good question to pose when they're here in a few minutes.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Maybe this-- with their contract renewal of the last
meeting, they'll be highly motivated to make sure that they can change this audit now. So there is
a task in front of them. Any other comments relative to the other matters at this time for the
Board meeting? If not, then let me, for the sake of the record,
I will entertain a motion to adjourn the special Board meeting of December 3. I have a motion. I
have a second. Any discussion on that motion? Then as of 7:42 PM Mountain Standard time, this
Board meeting is now adjourned. We will take a five-minute recess, probably more like eight
minutes, and resume with our first committee meeting at.

