Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, March 1,
2011
Page 1 of 3

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of Directors

Date:

March 1, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
March 1, at 7:16 p.m.
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Bagley; Directors Anderson, Brohl, Cohen, Daly,
Deadwyler, James, Hoy, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, and
Tobiassen. Chair Kemp (via phone)

Board Members
Absent:

Director Riley

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Janne Bennick,, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Lee Cryer, Jeel
Desai, J. Donovan, David Genova, Mike Gil, Terry Howerter, Austin
Jenkins, Marla Lien, P. McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod,
Jerry Nery, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Scott Reed, Teresa Sedmak,
Jannette Scarpino, Prunaya Shrestha, Bill Sirois, Walt Stringer, Greg
Straight, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Mike Turner, Ashland Vaughn,
Del Walker, Susan Wood.

Others Present:

Maria Garcia-Berry, Ken Burns, David Hollis – HNTB, John Huggins –
Coalition for Smart Transit, Jeff Lieb – Denver Post, Brian Middleton,
Michael Newman – First Southwest Company, Perry Palmer – David
Evans & Associates, Blake Pendergrass – Fresc, Roger Sherman, Julie
Skeen, Tim Romer – Goldman Sachs(via phone) and Scott Weeks –
DRCOG

****
Call to Order:

Committee Chair Bagley called the meeting to order at 7:16 p.m.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, March 1,
2011
Page 2 of 3

I.

TOD Update
Bill Sirois introduced Pat McLaughlin who pointed out how the report was organized,
report content and perspective of 2011 and beyond. A copy of the complete transit
oriented development status report is available in the Board meeting minutes’ book.
Pat touched briefly on the data collection methodology that looked at within ½ mile of
the station, construction completed, under construction, formally proposed or amended.
They also performed periodic verification with local officials and developers.
Perspective 2011 and beyond:
 Slower recovery than previously thought
 Rental market will be strong
 Shift in housing location preferences
 Commercial real estate development remains murky
 Affordable and senior housing will continue to lead
 Properties near transit are stronger
Pat also reviewed some of the residential, commercial and retail TOD market trends.

II. TOD Pilot Updates
Bill Sirois provided an update on the four TOD Pilot sites:
 Alameda—This site is the most active. They are working with the City, DURA
and the Denver Design District.
 Welton—there has been some coordination with the Restonian Hotel
Development Group. They have also applied for assistance through the ULI
Technical Advisory Panel to help address issues that have been proposed.
 Olde Town Arvada—they are working on the parking structure to be ready for
opening day.
 Federal Center—GSA is moving through the Federal disposition process.
Questions and Comments from Board members:
Director O’Boyle: Asked for data pertaining to public assistance for TOD project.
Director Bagley later clarified some of the type of things that the local governments
might be doing (i.e. incentives, dollar investments, HUD development, or similar things
such as what Director Anderson discussed in Olde Town Arvada)
Director James shared he worked with Yale and the University Station. The trend
seems to be more with affordable housing where demand is exceeding supply.
Director Anderson shared that the goal they have for Olde Town Arvada is as a transit
station. They wanted more than subsidized housing and had to rid about eight city
blocks of trash housing. This has been a longtime project (20+ years) and it takes
time and work to get good transit oriented development.
Director Hoy commented on the TOD status report stating it was a masterpiece and a
good resource to have. Bill Sirois indicated this will be online. Director James

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, March 1,
2011
Page 3 of 3

commented real estate should be made available on RTD home page where it could be
more visible to the public. Director Bagley commented how this report can be used to
further economic development and get the word out to the real estate community.
RTD can be seen as a resource.
Director Bagley asked Bill Sirois to comment on the “unfunded stations”. Bill Sirois
indicated this reports typically covers those stations that are part of FasTracks.
Director Bagley requested the 2011 update to include some general comment relative
to the unfunded stations that are outside the scope of FasTracks.
Director Deadwyler asked for a clarification of the statement made by Bill Sirois on the
application status for the Welton Station. Bill Sirois explained they have asked to work
with the City on the Five-Points revitalization. If accepted through the ULI, the normal
$15K could be discounted to about $5K in costs.
Director Bagley asked for an update on the Alameda Central Corridor and the
Greyhound. Bill Sirois indicate the discussions are advancing on the site plan.
Director Bagley asked Bill Sirois to provide an update on the unsolicited proposals for
the Federal Center. Bill Sirois indicated he receives a number of calls and interest
expressed. RTD is still looking at best approach but he believes the RFP process may
be the best course of action to ensure equitable process for the unsolicited proposals.
RTD needs time to coordinate with Lakewood and GSA before any action can be
taken.
III. Other Matters
Director Tobiassen indicated there was a good national public radio article that after
talking about some of the challenges and issues, made some positive comments on the
Denver approach.
Director Tobiassen inquired about the status of NAIOP at Nine-Mile. Patrick indicated
he has provided information to both NAIOP teams and that he is also the one providing
breakdown information on affordable housing. Director James shared he was
instrumental in getting RTD involved as a resource in NAIOP and they have presented
information to the CU class and will be providing information to the DU class.
IV. Next Meeting Date
The next meeting of the Planning and Development Committee is scheduled for April 5,
2011.
V. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 8:00 p.m.

