2021-05-04 Operations _ Customer Service
Committee - 5-4-2021
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I guess we'll do that. I'm not going to read a bunch of stuff,
but the Operations and Customer Service Committee meeting will now come to order. We are convened
as of 5:42 today. Thanks to everybody for joining us.
I don't think I need to read all the stuff that Director Catlin read earlier. So I'll just flip through all these
pages that I have here till I get to the stuff that I do need to say. There's a slight amendment to the
agenda. We are going to have our report from the APAC Committee before we go straight to a
recommended action. So I don't believe there's any reason that we can't do that. If anybody objects to
that amendment to the agenda, please speak now.
Hearing nothing, I'm going to ask Mr. McKay to unmute Brenda so that she can give us a report from the
APAC committee. Brenda, you're up. No, she's still muted. Let's see. We can't get a report until we get
her unmuted. Brenda, I see you, but I do not hear you.
And we're going to give her a minute for some technology there. The APAC committee is the ADA
Paratransit Advisory Council committee. I'm not sure what the C is for. And they meet on a regular basis.
So Brenda, if you can speak to us, that would be great. Mr. McKay, is she unmuted from your end? There
she is.
BRENDA CARNEY: Can you hear me now?
KATE WILLIAMS: I can totally hear you now. That's fine.
BRENDA CARNEY: So, I'm afraid it's going to be-- let's see. I don't know what you guys can see.
Whatever it is, that's fine.
[INTERPOSING VOICES].
KATE WILLIAMS: Don't worry about it. You're fine.
BRENDA CARNEY: So I am Brenda Carney, and here's our last meeting. After our preliminaries and
safety moment and all that, we were introduced to Debra Johnson, RTD General Manager and CEO. And
she then spoke to us about her background and role. The next thing has to do with the nomination of the
permanent member giving rise. And the APAC Committee will decide that upcoming since I am rolling off
the committee and won't be able to do it, which-- I'm sorry, [INAUDIBLE] [AUDIO OUT]
--was on for our vehicles, and that will be increased to from one to three except if everybody is in the
same household. The pilot rideshare was discussed. It's entered stage two, and that is for fixed-ride
wheelchair riders. And also, three ZIP codes were added. And the complete list of ZIP codes is 80012,
13, 14, 15, 16, and 17.
ACPD did volunteer to help pilot the web portal. Everything was tested that was to be tested. And the
portal is live. And here are the usage numbers-- I mean, those new pieces of software. And here are the
usage numbers-- 4,000 created accounts, 4,000 trips booked.
So let's see-- 1,000 trips canceled, 7,000 pick up arrival messages sent, and over 100,000 ETA
messages sent. So those are our research numbers for that. The eligibility and training vendor selection
will be submitted to the board from RTD management and will be voted on May 11.

The dispatch scheduling software vendor RFP-- the spec list is complete. And RTD is transferring funds
for purchase. Release of the RFP is expected within the next several months. And selection will be later
in the year. Installation of software is expected at the end of this year.
Review of vehicle specification process-- RTD maintenance is ready to replace the 600 series vehicles at
the next member meeting. Members will volunteer to give input, which will include in-person meetings at
the maintenance facility to review vehicles and provide input unless social distancing is still required. And
in that case, the meetings will be virtual. And that was our meeting.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super. Thank you so much for that report, Brenda. I do not have a note here telling me
when the next APAC meeting is. Mr. Hamilton-BRENDA CARNEY: It is Tuesday the 11th-KATE WILLIAMS: Super. Thank you.
BRENDA CARNEY: --same day as the board meeting.
KATE WILLIAMS: We'll be busy that day. Thank you so much, Brenda. We appreciate your time, and we
appreciate all of the time that you have given. I'm sorry to hear that you'll be leaving the committee.
BRENDA CARNEY: Me too, actually. Thank you. I really appreciate your patience. [LAUGHS]
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah. Glad to have you. We're going to go on now to-- we have one recommended
action tonight. And that is the ADA paratransit eligibility assessments/travel training. I'll read the action
now. There is no amendment. This is to authorize the general manager and CEO or her designee to
execute all documents necessary to enter into a contract with Medical Transportation Management, Inc.,
also referred to as MTM, for the provision of ADA paratransit eligibility functional assessments and travel
training for a five-year period in an amount not to exceed $4,735,769.00. Do I hear a motion?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, so moved.
DOUG TISDALE: Second, Tisdale.
KATE WILLIAMS: There was somebody before Tisdale, but that's fine. I'll take Tisdale because I heard
him. So thank you, Directors. At this time, I'd like to ask the staff to present any pertinent information.
Please-MICHAEL FORD: I do.
KATE WILLIAMS: But [INAUDIBLE] at the end, we can have Q&A. Thank you, Mr. Ford. The floor is
yours.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. By way of background, RTD requires all of our
applicants for the Access-a-Ride service to participate in in-person functional assessments. The
functional assessments enable RTD to determine the eligibility of an ADA paratransit service within three
eligible categories under the ADA.
The three categories include determining whether an individual is unable to understand how to complete
bus and rail trips due to cognitive deficiencies, or number two requires a lift-equipped bus or light-rail
vehicle if such accommodations are unavailable. In this particular category, this no longer applies
because all of our RTD services are accessible. And three is unable to navigate independently to and
from bus stops or light-rail station. So that's a little bit of the background.
As part of the discussion on January 5, 2021, RTD did issue an RFP a request for proposal soliciting
technical and priced proposals to provide paratransit eligibility assessments and travel training services.
Roughly a month later, February 8, 2021, RTD did receive proposals for the following firms-- the

adaride.com, Easter Seals Colorado, Medical Transportation Management, Inc., known as MTM, and
Transdev.
As part of the process, a panel was assembled to evaluate the proposal based on the following evaluative
criteria-- experience of the firm and individuals proposed for key positions and disciplines at 35%, another
35% understanding RTD's requirements and objectives in relationship to the specifics of the scope of
work, and the cost at 30%.
The evaluation panel consisted of our senior manager of paratransit, our manager of paratransit services,
and Paratransit Eligibility Program coordinator. In addition to that, two members from the disability
community participated in the evaluation panel and advised staff as well.
So based on those assessments, the average individual score that was received, MTM was deemed the
most technically qualified proposal for this award. The score for the cost element was calculated by the
procurement staff and then was added to the technical score to round out the whole total score process.
So MTM was selected because of the experience providing eligibility, evaluation, and travel training
nationally. And experience in the proposed staff that they had on board was another plus. Performance
under this contract is for a five-year period not to exceed $4,735,769.00, again for a five-year term.
The funding for this contract has already been addressed in the calendar year 2021 including for our
budget that was appropriated by the Board of Directors. In the further contract, the year's fundings will be
included in the annual budget appropriations request. So I just wanted to give you a little bit of overview of
this process and what went into it to get to where we are today. At this time, I'm happy to take questions
along with my staff.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Ford. Are there any of the directors who have questions on this
recommended action? I do see Director Tisdale. Go ahead, sir.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. We heard that the APAC will actually be
considering this same item at their meeting next Tuesday prior to the board meeting. I have in effect two
questions.
First, are we aware of any concerns expressed by the APAC relative to the approval of MTM? And
secondly, will we be advised at the board meeting next Tuesday when we are to take final action as to the
APAC's recommendation for MTM as the vendor? Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Ford?
MICHAEL FORD: Yeah, Madam Chair, we will definitely advise you of that. I would probably defer to Paul
Hamilton just about the first question about bringing that in and their processing that. We did have some
folks from the disabled community or disability community that was part of this. But Paul, could you speak
to the first question?
PAUL HAMILTON: Right. They will essentially receive a report that will not only include the findings that
we're sharing with you today, but also the input that was given to us by non-RTD members of that
Advisory Committee that scored all four of the proposals. And as COO Michael Ford has indicated, that
included one of our current members of the APAC Committee, Donna Thurston, as well as a previous
member of our APAC Committee, Kristin Trustman, who is now on the RTD Accountability Committee.
And most importantly, their input throughout this process indicated that they were seeing the same thing
we were seeing. They saw MTM as being one of the strongest scored proposals. But I think to answer
your second question, yes, if there's anything that needs to be reported in short order as a result of input

that we received from the APAC Committee next Tuesday in the morning, we would absolutely be
bringing that back to you and making you aware of it.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I could just add one other element, I want to thank the staff. And I
also thank the members of the committee, recognizing we've had discussions. And I keep talking about
understanding the customer pain points. This was intentional. When we put forth the solicitation, I wanted
to ensure that we would hear from the end user because they know better than we do as relates to
assessments and travel training.
So if, in fact, we weren't in lockstep we wouldn't be bringing this to the board for consideration at this
juncture. So I just wanted everybody to understand what our path forward entailed. So thank you very
kindly for the opportunity to speak.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Director Tisdale, your hand is still up?
DOUG TISDALE: And I apologize for that. And it gives me the opportunity to say that I suspected all of
that all along. But I thought it was important to say so on the record. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Seeing no other hands, and Director Tisdale will eventually put his
down. Here we go. Then I will ask if there's anybody who is-- Brenda, do you have your hand up?
BRENDA CARNEY: My apologies if this was misunderstood. We actually discussed this last meeting.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that.
BRENDA CARNEY: So my apologies for that.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're fine. Appreciate your input. I'm going to ask if we're doing this the easy way
these days, having to Director Buzek mover and Director Tisdale is the second. Is there anybody on the
board who is intending to vote no? If so, please let us know now.
Hearing nothing, I'm going to assume that this recommended action moves forward with 13 votes in favor.
We do not have another recommended action tonight. So we will move to other matters. I have another
matter. But I will ask if there is anyone else who has other matters-- oh, I see hands go up. Director
Dishell, the floor is yours.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just wanted to quickly thank staff who are going through a
pretty rigorous stakeholder engagement process. I had the opportunity to participate in the Southwest
stakeholder engagement process today. And I am really excited to see first, the incredible challenge they
had to solicit feedback during the pandemic, but also really looking forward to the continued work and
continued engagement out in the community. I've been wanting to thank Pauletta, Christina, and
everyone else who helped to make that possible today and their works on that is appreciated to really put
RTD in the community instead of asking people to come to RTD.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. Similarly, an atta boy from me. I want to thank GM CEO Johnson,
COO Ford, and his team, AGM Tonilas and her team. We had an end-line update last week, and the
stakeholders were involved as well as members of the public. And it's some pretty good news on the endline. Ridership numbers are holding steady.
And as early as February of this year, our on-time performance and trips-completed numbers were in the
80-percentile range. And as of April 25th, our on-time performance on the end line is now 94% and with
99% of trips completed. So great progress, and especially I thank Michael Ford and his team for getting
all this stuff done and getting the ship righted and sailing straight. Thanks.

Oh one more thing, as an aside, I know a number of you have heard and commented, but Westminster is
my biggest city in my district and its mayor, Herb Atchison resigned last night after the study session.
Mayor Pro Tem Anita Seitz will be the acting mayor until next Monday when she is sworn in as mayor and
will fill out the rest of Mayor Atchison term through November. Thanks. That's all I had.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that report, Director. Many of us have spent some time-- Mr. Atchison,
and we will miss him. I see Director Guissinger's hand up.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair. Two quick things-- House Bill 1186, which is the Accountability
Committee bill with amendments to the RTD statute, passed on a bipartisan vote 23 to 11 on third reading
yesterday and is going to the governor's desk. So that's good. Is fully expecting the governor to sign it.
And thanks to General Manager Johnson and Michael Davies for-- I just took a quick look at the memo on
looking at the big transportation bill and where RTD might be able to plug in to apply for funding. And that
was excellent. I thought it was a really nice analysis. They had a press conference. They being the
governor, the legislators, and others just before this at 4 o'clock.
Very interesting if you want to go back and find it. They had a nice mix with Kevin Priola, a Republican
from Adams County, along with some of the Democratic leadership in the legislature, John Suthers from
Colorado Springs, the Boulder mayor. So they were reaching out to the various sides. They had a union
representative, a representative of the environmental community, who was Elise Jones from our
Accountability Committee, the mayors of Denver, and as I said, Colorado Springs and Boulder and
several people from the business community and Uber, all supporting the package, which is the biggest
infusion of money towards transportation projects from the General Fund that has been put forward and
also a variety of fees that are spread out over a lot of different road users.
And so it was a nice statement of support. Interestingly, Mayor Suthers from Colorado Springs, who
described himself as a conservative Republican, also said that as former US attorney, he feels very
comfortable that the bill, that as it becomes statute, that the fees would pass the Colorado Supreme Court
as fees and would not need to go to a TABOR vote. So it's some excitement there with some big
transportation funding that's well overdue. They said it was about a $5 billion infusion to a $9 billion
shortfall or needs for state transportation funding.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super. Thank you for that report, Dr. Guissinger. I see-- any other hands, anybody who
has another matter they want to bring to this committee?
BOBBY DISHELL: Madam Chair, if I may, a question for Director Guissinger, based on what she just
brought up with her perhaps-KATE WILLIAMS: Absolutely, Director Dishell, go.
BOBBY DISHELL: GM/CEO Johnson or Michael Davies, if he is on. Previously, the governor's been
pretty clear about not giving any money from this bill to RTD. And I'm wondering if that tune has changed
at all just in terms of managing customer expectations. I know we can get ourselves into a little bit of a
hole if we're out celebrating this bill as though RTD will be receiving a windfall when in reality, the
governor has been incredibly clear publicly that RTD will not be receiving any money. And so I'm
wondering what is the real idea of how much funds we could actually get so that we can communicate out
honestly about this bill.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'd invite Ms. Johnson or Mr. Davies to chime in there. But I think there is no funding
directly to RTD. But the memo that I mentioned that we got just before the meeting talks about the
multimodal pockets and places that are available for transit funding that RTD would be available for

getting that. And I guess the other thing I think is-- and I know this is a little side from what you're asking-but the idea that there's multimodal funding and infrastructure funding certainly will help float our boat as
well as others.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So if I may, Madam Chair, to add on to Director Guissinger and Director Dishell's
question, contained therein, there's talk about the non-attainment area air-pollution mitigation enterprise.
And those monies are designated to the MPO being the Metropolitan Planning Organizations of which
DRCOG serves as for this greater region. And with that as a backdrop, RTD can leverage that money for
eligible projects very analogous to CMAQ funds at the federal level, which is congestion, mitigation, airquality improvement programs.
So as we look at that, that, in and of itself could help with funding of which were eligible for. There's no
direct funding source. But recognizing what Director Guissinger mentioned about the multimodal
transportation and mitigation options funds, recognizing that there is also aspects of reducing greenhouse
gases, and then looking at the clean transit enterprise, in order to do that, you'd have to take cars off the
road. And one thing to do is that there is mass transit. So you are spot-on that there's no direct funding.
But residual impacts as it relates to the overarching goals of the transportation bill could yield some
revenues for the organization in helping to reduce our footprint. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Ma'am. Dr. Dishell, Dr. Guissinger, you good?
BOBBY DISHELL: It's exciting to see this much investment but I appreciate the added flavor. It really set
where we are for planning, putting back on the board from a planning perspective.
KATE WILLIAMS: Anyone else, raise your hand. I'm raising my hand. I want to bring up another matter
that's a little off topic of what we've just been through. But I have spent in the last couple of weeks, more
than one occasion at Union Station in the bus concourse and at the platform where the light-rail trains join
up with all of that. And I know that we have all heard a lot about Allied Security over the last two years or
so.
But I want to point out that I was there incognito. I did not have on a big T-shirt that said, "Hello, I'm an
RTD board director." I was with some of my staff. And the Allied Security people were absolutely
phenomenal. They were kind and gentle to the homeless and other questionable people who do tend to
congregate in those areas. They were helpful to people who were asking for questions and directions. It
was very striking.
My staff asked several of those people what was the number one question that they were asked. And we
were very interested to hear that the number one question they were asked was where's the A-train? We
got that same answer on more than one occasion. So I just want to point out that there are always two
sides to every story. And I'd like to thank Mr. Meader and the people from Allied Security for the work that
they do for us.
If there are any other questions or comments, I am open to those now. Hearing none, the next meeting of
this committee-- I am unsure-- is either June 15 or June 22. It says June 15 on my agenda. It said June
22 in the two-week calendar. So you all stand by for the answer to that mystery unless there's anybody
here that can enlighten us.
Thank you all for your time. We will be meeting in the second or third week of June, and we stand
adjourned at 6:11.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Mr. McKay.

ERIK DAVIDSON: According to the post calendar online, we have June 15 as the next date.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. So I will see you all here on June 15 if I don't see you someplace else
beforehand. We stand adjourned now. It's still 6:11. Thank you, and good night.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Good night.
NICOLE CAREY: Good night.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Night, all.

