Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday April 26, 2011 at
8:35 p.m. Page 1 of 2
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

April 27, 2011

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday May April 26,
2011 at 7:40 p.m. in Rooms R,T, & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Chair Pro Tem Tayer; Directors Anderson, Bagley, Brohl,
Deadwyler, Cohen, Daly, Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen,
O’Boyle, Riley, and Tobiassen.
Chair Kemp.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Mark Baudermann, Craig Carter, Rick Clarke,
Susan Cohen, Libby Cox, Lee Cryer, Chuck Culig, Kevin
Diviness, Jane Donovan, Sherry Ellebracht, Mike Gil, Kenn
Hardin, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Marla Lien, Barbara
McManus, Doug MacLeod, Anthony Menendez, Brian
Middleton, Andy Mutz, Tai-Shrae Parish, Paula Perdue, Steve
Pilon, Scott Reed, Christian Reitter, Jeannette Scarpino,
Teresa Sedmak, Roger Sherman, Danielle Smith, Pauletta
Tonilas, Christina Tubb, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Del
Walker, and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Steve Bachar, Amber Brenzikofer – Parsons, Ken Burns –
CAC, Gene Davis – Denver Daily News, Mac Callison – City of
Aurora, Gary Eckhardt – STANTEC, Dave Erb – FasTracks
Citizens Advisory Committee, Charles Holcer – Neighborhood
Gazette, David Hollis – HNTB, Melanie Keene, Sean Lehocky –
Commerce City, Jeff Leib – Denver Post, Brian Lewandowski
– CU Boulder, David Lewis – CAC, Ernest Liming –
Statesman, Miles Light, Tom Mand – Reporter, Terry Marln –
DTCG, Julie Martin – DTCG, Chris Martinez, Rich McClintock
– TS, Alex Mehn – TS, Jerry Mugg – HNTB, Bob Murphy –
City of Lakewood, Jim Paulmeno – CDOT, Gene Putman –
City of Thornton, Nanci Regnier – Regnier and Associates,
Terry Rinter – CCD, Chris Romer – Denver Mayoral Candidate,
Richard Romig – Aecom, Ken Simonson – Associated General
Contractors of America, Chris Taylor – Spectrum A/V, S.S.
Sowell, Scott Weeks – DRCOG, Richard Wobbekind – CU
Boulder.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday April 26, 2011 at
8:35 p.m. Page 2 of 2
****
Chair Pro Tem Tayer called the Study Session meeting to order
at 7:40 p.m.

Call to Order:

I. GM Tactical Plans for 2012
General Manager Washington noted that after the March 5, 2011 Board
Retreat, that 4 strategic goals were discussed and established for the
upcoming 2012 budget cycle. The 4 priorities are:
1. Strategic
partnerships/collaboration/communication/government
affairs/public perception.
2. FasTracks Funding.
3. Asset Management/fiscal sustainability/service distribution/and
Access-A-Ride.
4. Innovation Funding.
A copy of these tactical plans and the actions/planned actions by staff over
the next year was included with the Board Packet. This information is also
available with the study session minutes in the Board Office.
Mr. Washington further noted that the staff would be supplying information
with each upcoming quarter with regards to these strategic goals. Of the four,
three goals fulfill going to a ballot initiative in 2012. In the next few months,
staff will also be coming to the Board with the budget for the 2012 fiscal
year.
II. Other Matters
None
III. Adjournment
The Study Session adjourned at 7:43 p.m.

