Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Planning & Development Committee
Tuesday, December 1, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning and Development Committee
Chaired by Bill James

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair James called the meeting to order at 6:13 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta

Director, District L
Director, District C

Remote
Absent

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Present
Absent

6:11 PM

Claudia Folska

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

6:09 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy
Bill James

Director, District N
Director, District J
Committee Chair

Present
Present
Present

6:11 PM
6:09 PM
6:09 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Present

6:11 PM

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District I
Director, District M

Present
Present

6:09 PM
6:08 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

6:11 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present

6:09 PM
6:09 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

6:10 PM

Director Anderson participated via remote. Directors Archuleta and Deadwyler were
absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Rachel Carson, Jeff Cluphf, Heather Copp,
Nate Currey, Kevin Diviness, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, David
Genova, Doug Gragg, Svetlana Grechka, Kate Iverson, Jim Kelley,
Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Adrian Mabry, Mac McIntosh, Barbara
McManus, Jeff Miessel, Vivian Morales, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed,
Gary Schear, Cal Shankster, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Keith
Swedhin, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Kate Wilson

Others Present:

Mike Dino, Patricia Doersch, Eugene Howard, Ed Newberry, Anne
Miano, Bob Rizzuto, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Elena Wilken

B. Recommended Actions

• Approval of 2016 Granite Paver Maintenance Contract Amendment for 16th
Street Mall Transitway Lanes
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager, or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to amend the contract for 16th Street Mall
maintenance with the Gallegos Corporation (Gallegos), to extend the
contract end date from the current end date of July 31, 2016 to December
31, 2016 and increase the total Contract value by $1,000,000 to a total of
$3,764,183.96. Funding for this action is included in the 2016 Adopted
Budget.
Motion:

Director Solano made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the December 15, 2015
Board meeting.
Director Folska seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Henry Stopplecamp, Acting Assistant General Manager for
Capital Programs, pointed out that this recommended action is
not an additional request for funding. RTD is committed to
spend $1 million annually in maintenance of the 16th Street
Mall Transitway. The City and County of Denver (Denver)
contributes up to $300,000 per year. The recommended
action asks to extend the contract with the current contractor,
Gallegos, until the end of 2016. The plan is to launch a
Request for Proposal (RFP) process in 2016 to secure a new
contract by 2017.

Jeff Cluphf, Park-n-Ride Construction Manager, added that the
average daily maintenance of the 16th Street Mall is $3,000.
Part of the issues are caused by the 300 freeze and thaw
cycles the 16th Street Mall Transitway sees on an annual basis
combined with the wheel traffic. He added that Gallegos has
been diligently working on the project. Their work has a 2
year warranty, noting that they are vested in the project. He
pointed out that the last contractor could not keep up with the
maintenance so they did not submit a bid during the last RFP.
Jeff Cluphf hopes for competitive bids for the next contract.
Director Lubow wondered how the conversation of changing
the mall from granite to cement fits into this recommended
action. Henry Stopplecamp replied that it does not fit in this
conversation. He explained that the recommended action is
for the maintenance of the Mall as required by the InterGovernmental Agreement (IGA) with Denver from three years
ago. This IGA is a continuation of the lawsuit from the late
80’s which called for RTD maintain the Mall transitway for the
next 30 years. The process to look at alternative materials is
under way. Director Lubow asked if that process would
preclude this maintenance cost. Henry Stopplecamp replied
that it potentially could if the recommendation is a concrete
solution. Director Lubow asked for confirmation that we are
waiting for the alternate material process to be done. Henry
Stopplecamp confirmed that was the case.
Director Francone wondered if RTD typically spent the $1
million budgeted for maintenance of the 16th Street Mall.
Henry Stopplecamp replied in the affirmative, adding that it
has been above the budgeted amount in recent years.
Director Francone asked what would happen if the alternative
materials process moved at a speedy pace rendering Gallegos’
service not necessary. Henry Stopplecamp replied that
Gallegos is paid for work performed. He added that in the
event of changing the transitway, there would still have to be
a contract awarded to pull out the pavers. Whenever that
happens, staff would recommend going back to Denver to
agree on next steps.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 2]
MOVER:
Paul Solano, Director, District K
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Committee Vice-Chair
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lubow, Sisk,
Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Gary Lasater, Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Ernest Archuleta, Barbara Deadwyler
Committee Chair James declared the motion PASSED.

• Policy for Joint Development and Disposition of Real Property
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors adopts the attached Resolution which adopts the
Policy for Joint Development and Disposition of Real Property.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the December 15, 2015
Board meeting.
Director Hoy seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Kate Iverson, Manager for Transit Oriented Development,
reminded the Directors that staff presented the recommended
changes to the policy in June. Staff offered to meet one-onone with the Directors to discuss any comments and/or
concerns in August, and presented a draft to the Board in
November. She noted that there were no comments on this
particular policy. She added that most of the changes from
the draft to the final document are clarifications and language
clean ups.
Director Bagley said that he has carefully read both this policy
and the Unsolicited Proposal Policy for Real Property Policy.
He noted that he spent about 40 minutes with Kate Iverson on
the phone about two weeks ago discussing the documents.
He believes that both of these documents deserve Board
approval.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 0 WITH 1 ABSTENTION]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Larry Hoy, Director, District J
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSTAIN:
Tina Francone
ABSENT:
Ernest Archuleta, Barbara Deadwyler

Committee Chair James declared the motion PASSED.

• Unsolicited Proposal Policy for Real Property
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors adopts the attached Resolution
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the December 15, 2015
Board meeting.
Director Hoy seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Kate Iverson, Manager for Transit Oriented Development,
shared that the main concerns with this policy throughout the
revision process had to do with notice and transparency. The
final version of the policy removes the sole source criteria.
Staff would still work with adjacent property owners first
when dealing with small pieces of property that are not
needed. When an unsolicited proposal is received, staff will
evaluate the agency’s need and the proposal’s technical merit.
If the proposal measures well in these two areas, then staff
would move forward with the competitive process.
Director Bagley noted that there are a few current projects,
such as the Alameda Station and the University of Denver
Station Senior Housing, that are examples of this policy. He
reminded the Directors that price is not the only factor when
evaluating these types of projects. He noted that the
relationship with the community is critical as the community
may benefit from certains developments, such as affordable
housing and other issues pertinent to the area.
Director Folska highlighted the importance of streamlining
processes and procedures to attract viable developers and
build new streams of revenue. She added that finding the
balance of what is great for developers and what is in the best
interest of RTD is a tough job. She praised staff for their work
on this policy.
Director Lubow thanked staff for their openness to comments
and making the document stress the competitiveness and
transparency.
Chair Sisk thanked staff for their work on the policy. He
expressed his satisfaction with the elimination of sole source
from the document. He reiterated the importance of

transparency for the agency. He noted that in the past he has
been on the fence about this policy but now he is in favor.
Director James mentioned that he is happy to see both of
these policies approved. He thanked staff and the Directors
for taking the time to work throughout this process. He
expects that these policies would allow RTD to be perceived
as a dependable agency to work with.
Director Anderson pointed out that she supports the hard work
that has gone into working on this policy. She added that she
is in favor of the more explicit open process.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 0 WITH 1 ABSTENTION]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Larry Hoy, Director, District J
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSTAIN:
Tina Francone
ABSENT:
Ernest Archuleta, Barbara Deadwyler
Committee Chair James declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates
There were no updates presented.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters presented.

E. Next Meeting Date - January 5th, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair James adjourned the meeting at 6:36 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

