Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Vince Buzek, District J
First Vice Chair – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Second Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Secretary – Marjorie Sloan, District M
Treasurer – Troy Whitmore, District K
Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Shelley Cook, District L
Erik Davidson, District I
Bobby Dishell, District D

Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Rosenthal, District E
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

Thursday, November 10, 2022
REMOTE MEETING
12:00 PM
To join the meeting: Register Here
(connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or to listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 825 7418 9787#
Webinar Passcode: 1660#
Public Comments can be emailed in advance to be
included in the record to
RTD.BoardOffice@rtd-denver.com

Executive Committee Agenda
Chaired by Vince Buzek
I.

Call to Order

II.

Public Comment

III.

November Board Meeting Agenda Review

IV.

Recommended Action
A.

Federal Lobbying Contract Extension

For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her
designee to execute an amendment to exercise the option to extend the current
federal lobbying services contract with Squire Patton Boggs, LLP for two additional
years through and including December 31, 2024.

B.

2023 Legislative Program

For the Board of Directors to adopt the 2023 Legislative Program.
C.

Independent Audit Committee Appointments

It is recommended by RTD Directors Catlin, Davidson, and Dishell that the Board of
Directors appoint as members of the Independent Audit Committee Jim Brendel
(External Member) to a three-year term expiring December 31, 2025, John
Olenberger (External Member) to a two-year term expiring December 31, 2024, Erik
Davidson (Board Member) to a two-year term expiring December 31, 2024, and
Peggy Catlin and Bobby Dishell (Board Members) each to a one-year term expiring
December 31, 2023.
D.

Zero Emission Policy

The Regional Transportation District (RTD), under the General Manager and CEO’s
leadership, shall achieve net zero emissions by [20__] as measured by Scope 1 and
Scope 2 emissions as defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. RTD's Board shall
reevaluate this policy after receiving an asset transition plan (or similarly named
plan which details RTD’s plans to transition to a zero emission fleet) and no less
than annually to measure progress towards this policy.
In the event working towards this policy is in conflict with RTD’s ability to deliver
service, staff shall bring a recommended action to the Board to weigh the options
against this policy and to determine whether adjustment is necessary.
V.

Discussion Items
•

Government Relations Report

•

Timeline and Recruitment Process for Board Office Executive Manager

VI.

Other Matters

VII.

Adjourn

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - November 15, 2022
I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Land Acknowledgement

IV.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

V.

Retiree Awards
Douglas Sleevi – Bus Operator – 23 years
Special Recognition
2022 National Snowplow Roadeo
Single-Axle Snowplow
10th Place – Daniel Gerrero and Richard (Chip) Seedroff
29th Place – Robert Reposa and David Waite
Tandem-Axle Snowplow
14th Place – Daniel Gerrero and Richard (Chip) Seedroff
33rd Place – Robert Reposa and David Waite

VI.

Public Participation

VII.

External Entities Reports

VIII.

Audit Ad Hoc Committee Report

IX.

Zero Emission Vehicles (ZEV) Ad Hoc Committee Report

X.

Finance and Planning Committee Report

XI.

Operations and Safety Committee Report

XII.

Performance Committee Report

XIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes and Committee Reports

XIV.

Chair's Report

XV.

General Manager's Report

XVI.

Public Hearing for 2023 Budget
A.

2023 Proposed Budget

For the Board of Directors to adopt Resolution No. ___, Series of 2022 for the
adoption of the 2023 Budget, Resolution No. ___, Series of 2022 for the 2023
Budget appropriation and Resolution No. ___, Series of 2022 for the appropriation
of 2023 previously appropriated capital.

XVII. Unanimous Consent
B.

38th•Blake Development Negotiation

For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and/or her delegate to
negotiate and execute an Exclusive Negotiation Agreement (ENA) with Portman
Holdings for the future lease and development of the real property located at 3800
Wynkoop Street, Denver, Colorado (the Property).
C.

IT Work Order Contract

For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her
designee, to execute all documents necessary to award a contract to DatamanUSA
for Information Technology (IT) Work Order Services in an amount not exceed $10
million over five years nor $2 million in any single year.
D.

Access-on-Demand

For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her
designee to execute contracts with Lyft, Metro Transportation, Uber Transit and
zTrip for the provision of Access-on-Demand services. These contracts are for a
duration of three years, at a not-to-exceed cost of $9,344,175.
E.

Access-a-Ride/FlexRide Contract Extensions

For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her
designee to enter into a six-month contract extension with MV Transportation, Via
Mobility Services, Transdev and Transdev on Demand from January 1 through June
30, 2023, for the provision of Access-a-Ride and FlexRide services. The not-toexceed amount for the contracted services is $23,554,323. Additionally, the notto-exceed amount for fuel is $2,086,688. The total six-month not-to-exceed
amount for the contracted services with fuel is $25,641,011.
F.

Contract Award for Welton Safety Improvements

For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her
designee, the authority to negotiate and execute all documents necessary to award
contract No. 322FH0027 to Krische Construction, Inc. (KCI), for an amount of
$4,395,002 for Welton Street Safety Improvements.
XVIII. Recommended Action
G.

Bylaws Amendment — Director Informal Meeting Process

It is recommended by RTD Directors Dishell, Guissinger, and Sloan that the Board
of Directors amend Article IV of the Bylaws of the Regional Transportation District
to establish a procedure for informal meetings to engage in discussions of public
business with three or more Board members in addition to regular Board, special
Board, Standing committee, and Ad Hoc Committee meetings.

H.

Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the Future

For the Board of Directors to endorse the Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the
Future (MPFF). Consistent with the System Optimization Plan (SOP), the MPFF will
be reviewed and updated with Board approval periodically on a no-less-than triennial
basis to provide for a consistent and effective coordinated policy and vision for
service.
I.

Independent Audit Committee Appointments

It is recommended by RTD Directors Catlin, Davidson, and Dishell that the Board of
Directors appoint as members of the Independent Audit Committee Jim Brendel
(External Member) to a three-year term expiring December 31, 2025, John
Olenberger (External Member) to a two-year term expiring December 31, 2024, Erik
Davidson (Board Member) to a two-year term expiring December 31, 2024, and
Peggy Catlin and Bobby Dishell (Board Members) each to a one-year term expiring
December 31, 2023.
J.

Zero Emission Policy

The Regional Transportation District (RTD), under the General Manager and CEO’s
leadership, shall achieve net zero emissions by [20__] as measured by Scope 1 and
Scope 2 emissions as defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. RTD's Board shall
reevaluate this policy after receiving an asset transition plan (or similarly named
plan which details RTD’s plans to transition to a zero emission fleet) and no less
than annually to measure progress towards this policy.
In the event working towards this policy is in conflict with RTD’s ability to deliver
service, staff shall bring a recommended action to the Board to weigh the options
against this policy and to determine whether adjustment is necessary.
XIX.

Report of Director Activities

XX.

Other Matters

XXI.

Executive Session
Executive Session pursuant to § 24-6-402(4)(b), C.R.S., to receive legal advice,
and § 24-6-402(4)(c), C.R.S. (matters required to be kept confidential by state law
and rules), § 40-18-104, C.R.S., and 7 CCR 723-7, Public Utilities Commission
Rules 7349(d)(I) and (IV) (confidentiality of light rail vehicle accident investigations)
regarding the September 21, 2022 R Line Derailment.

XXII. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.4.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Federal Lobbying Contract Extension

Committee Meeting Date:
November 10, 2022
Board Meeting Date:
November 15, 2022

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to execute an
amendment to exercise the option to extend the current federal lobbying services contract with Squire
Patton Boggs, LLP for two additional years through and including December 31, 2024.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer
PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes
BACKGROUND
RTD retains services of lobbying firms to assist staff with advocacy and legislative services related to
RTD’s annual legislative program
DISCUSSION
RTD’s current federal lobbying services contract with Squire Patton Boggs, LLP, was executed on
December 19, 2019, for an initial term of three years. RTD has an option to amend the current contract
and execute two additional years of federal lobbying services. Squire Patton Boggs, LLP, has met all
contractual requirements, and their performance has met expectations, hence the agency would benefit
from executing the recommended action. No changes to the contract’s statement of work are associated
with this recommended action.
In support of RTD’s Strategic Plan priority of Financial Success, exercising the option would result in a
cost savings to the agency of $108,000 annually, netting a total savings of $216,000 for the contract
duration. If approved, RTD will execute an amendment with Squire Patton Boggs LLP, that will retain
federal lobbying services through December 19, 2024.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funding for this contract amendment is included in the 2023 budget.

Prepared by:
Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 7

1.4.A

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 8

1.4.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Committee Meeting Date:
November 10, 2022

2023 Legislative Program

Board Meeting Date:
November 15, 2022
RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to adopt the 2023 Legislative Program.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 Minutes
BACKGROUND
As part of the 2021-2026 Strategic Plan, staff initiated a process to develop and implement an annual
Legislative Program. In October 2021, the Board of Directors approved the agency’s first Legislative
Program, which is considered by the Board annually and serves as a guiding document for Government
Relations staff and external advocates to pursue goals related to legislation and policy matters.
Additionally, the Legislative Program serves as an organizing document that can be adjusted throughout
a legislative session to provide an avenue for Board adopted policy positions to be communicated to, and
pursued by, agency staff.
DISCUSSION
In line with the agency’s mission and vision established in the Strategic Plan, the development and
inclusion of the goals and actions contained in the Legislative Program are designed to make lives better
through connections. It is important that RTD serve as a trusted partner to the region’s local, state, and
federal elected officials. To achieve the adopted goals, RTD must be proactive in education and inform
the District’s elected officials of the challenges and opportunities available to advance shared goals.
Equally important is building trust through partnership that fits within the framework of RTD’s financial
forecast. The 2023 Legislative Program, included as Attachment A, outlines priority actions on a variety
of issues that staff believe are achievable through advocacy and collaboration.
If approved, the 2023 Legislative Program would be implemented beginning January 1, 2023.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Approval of this recommended action has no immediate financial impact on the agency.

ATTACHMENTS:
•

2023 Legislative Program

(PDF)

Prepared by:

Packet Pg. 9

1.4.B

Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 10

1.4.B.a

Attachment A

2023 Legislative Program

To establish a set of Board-approved legislative and advocacy policies that benefit the Regional
Transportation District (RTD) and assist in guiding staff’s actions and efforts during the 2023
legislative session that support the priorities and success outcomes of the agency’s adopted 20212026 Strategic Plan.
STRATEGY
Developing and maintaining relationships with myriad stakeholders is central to RTD’s strategic
approach to government relations. Staff will work to communicate, educate, inform and partner
with the agency’s Congressional delegation, the Governor’s Office, the state General Assembly
delegation, and local elected officials to advocate for policies approved by the Board.
Additionally, staff will continue to work with its industry associations – such as the America Public
Transportation Association (APTA), the Colorado Association of Transit Agencies (CASTA), regional
transportation management organizations/associations (TMOs/TMAs), Chambers of Commerce,
and other stakeholder organizations – to partner and collaborate on shared goals to advance and
seek support for legislative positions approved by the Board. Lastly, tactics included in the
Legislative Program will be guided and informed by the priorities set forth in the agency’s Boardapproved 2021-2026 Strategic Plan – Community Value, Customer Excellence, Employee
Ownership, Financial Success.
EXECUTION PLAN
Contained herein are specific priorities and actions that outline areas of focus for the 2023
Legislative Program. Beyond the actions listed in this program, specific legislative matters are likely
to arise that warrant consideration by the Board of Directors.
To allow staff flexibility for consideration of items to be changed, added, or deleted as a result of
legislation introduced during the legislative session, the recommended change must be presented
to the Board as part of a Board Committee agenda. If time does not allow for an item to be
agendized for a Committee meeting for discussion by the Board, RTD will remain neutral on the
legislation in question.

Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: 2023 Legislative Program (4725 : 2023 Legislative Program)

PURPOSE

1.4.B.a

Attachment A

A. Implementation of
Surface Transportation
Authorization

Engage in national deliberations with partners such as the
APTA to advocate for increased federal investment in public
transportation. Ensure that programs created and
implemented by the U.S. Department of Transportation (US
DOT) are eligible for RTD to participate, and that rules and
regulations associated with US DOT’s programs do not
negatively impact the agency.

B. Discretionary Grants

Advocate for federal discretionary grants to support transit
projects and planning throughout the district. Grant programs
include, but are not limited to, Capital Investment Grant
Program, Federal/State Partnership for State of Good Repair,
Bus and Bus Facilities, and Rebuilding American Infrastructure
with Sustainability and Equity or RAISE Grant program.

State
A. Partnering with the
State of Colorado on
oversight

Work and communicate actively with members and staff of the
Colorado General Assembly on issues of state oversight
including Office of the State Auditor recommendations and
Accountability Committee recommendations. Ensure members
and staff are informed of RTD’s actions related to oversight and
implementation of recommendations.

C. Advocate for
environmental
stewardship through
Statewide Rules and
Regulations

Closely monitor, partner and participate in policy rules and
regulations proposed and implemented by the state of Colorado.
Advocate for the positive impact transit can have on air quality
improvement and ensure sources of eligible funding are
available to implement transit mitigation measures that can
assist in Greenhouse Gas reduction through the region.
Providing a safe working environment for RTD’s front-line
employees is paramount to retaining and attracting a workforce
needed to deliver transit services outlined in RTD’s System
Optimization Plan. Following examples in other states, RTD staff
will work to identify a bill sponsor to introduce and pass state
legislation that would reclassify RTD transit workers to enhance
penalties for committing assault on an RTD employee while
performing job duties.

D. Support legislation to
enhance penalties for
assault related crimes
on
RTD
front-line
employees

Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: 2023 Legislative Program (4725 : 2023 Legislative Program)

Federal

1.4.B.a

Attachment A

Local
A. DRCOG Funding

Work and communicate with local jurisdictional partners to
provide information and best practices for implementing
funding eligible for transit operations or capital improvements
that assist RTD in providing optimal transit services.

Service In accordance with recommendations made by the
Accountability Committee, RTD staff will administer and
implement the Board-approved framework for Subregional
Service Councils. The Subregional Service Councils will serve
as a forum to discuss and receive feedback on service
planning. Additionally, the Subregional Service Councils will
identify, propose and achieve consensus on partnership
projects within each respective subregion.
C. Local Official and Key Build and maintain collaborative relationships and engagement
Stakeholder Engagement opportunities with local officials and key stakeholders.

Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: 2023 Legislative Program (4725 : 2023 Legislative Program)

B. Subregional
Councils

1.4.C

DIRECTOR REQUESTED AGENDA ITEM
Independent Audit Committee Appointments

Committee Meeting Date:
November 10, 2022
Board Meeting Date:
November 15, 2022

Added to Committee Agenda as a Director initiated request pursuant to RTD Board Bylaws Art. V,
Section 3(b). Requires formal motion and second at Committee meeting.
MOTION
It is recommended by RTD Directors Catlin, Davidson, and Dishell that the Board of Directors appoint as
members of the Independent Audit Committee Jim Brendel (External Member) to a three-year term
expiring December 31, 2025, John Olenberger (External Member) to a two-year term expiring December
31, 2024, Erik Davidson (Board Member) to a two-year term expiring December 31, 2024, and Peggy
Catlin and Bobby Dishell (Board Members) each to a one-year term expiring December 31, 2023.
REPRESENTATIVE
Directors Catlin, Davidson, and Dishell
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 minutes
BACKGROUND
In December 2020, the Colorado Office of the State Auditor (OSA) completed a performance audit of
RTD and in April 2021, the American Public Transportation Association (APTA) completed a peer review
of RTD’s internal audit function, both of which included recommendations for improving RTD’s internal
audit function. RTD entered an engagement with RubinBrown, LLP (RubinBrown)for professional
assistance in implementing those recommendations according to standards promulgated by the Institute
of Internal Auditors (IIA) as well as to provide guidance regarding the staffing of RTD’s internal audit
function.
In January 2022, RubinBrown recommended that RTD outsource its internal audit function in order to
leverage the professional expertise of subject matter experts while also benefitting from the efficiencies
to be gained by contracting for hourly services as opposed to full-time employees.
In February 2022, RTD issued a request for proposals to outsource the internal audit function.
In June 2022, the RTD Board of Directors authorized RTD to enter a contract with RubinBrown to
provide internal audit services for three base years and two option years.
In July 2022, the RTD Board Chair appointed Directors Catlin, Davidson and Dishell to an Audit Ad Hoc
Committee to coordinate with RubinBrown on recommendations to the Board to implement the
outsourced internal audit function and form an RTD Audit Committee.

Packet Pg. 14

1.4.C

In August 2022, the Audit Ad Hoc Committee, in coordination with RubinBrown, began the recruitment
for Audit Committee members. Recruitment for community members interested in volunteering to serve
on the committee was publicly advertised through the RTD website and LinkedIn. Applicants were asked
to respond to the request for qualifications with a letter of interest and resume.
Audit Committee members are expected to:
•
•
•

Possess the financial acumen to read and understand RTD’s financial statements and to
otherwise help the Board fulfill its fiduciary responsibilities
Attend four to five Audit Committee meetings per year
Review committee materials in advance of meetings and come prepared to ask questions and
participate in discussions

A total of six applications were received from external applicants and three applications were received
from current Board members.
Consistent with the Audit Committee Charter, adopted by the Board on October 25, 2022, the term of
office for an Audit Committee member is two years for a Board Member, except for two initial one-year
terms upon initial formation of the Audit Committee. Board Members will have a two-year term,
staggered with at least two Board members’ terms overlapping an election year. External members of
the Audit Committee will have two or three-year terms, staggered to overlap election years. Continuance
of Audit Committee members will be reviewed annually. To ensure continuity within the Audit
Committee, the appointment of future members should be staggered to avoid full turnover in the Audit
Committee.
DISCUSSION
In adopting this recommended action, the agency seeks to meet the 2021-2026 Strategic Plan priorities
of Community Value, Customer Excellence, Employee Ownership, and Financial Success. The purpose of
this action is to appoint well-qualified individuals who can advise the District on a range of transit issues
that affect RTD customers, the public, and the region.
The Audit Ad Hoc Committee in conjunction with RubinBrown and Chief Financial Officer Doug MacLeod
carefully reviewed the qualifications and recommend the below appointments to the Independent Audit
Committee.
The following external applicant is recommended for appointment to a three-year term expiring
December 31, 2025:
Jim Brendel is a Certified Public Accountant with over 40 years of progressive experience in accounting,
auditing, consulting, leadership, and firm management. He has significant experience in auditing financial
statements of public, private, governmental, and non-profit entities, as well as in evaluating internal
controls, including IT and cybersecurity controls.

Packet Pg. 15

1.4.C

The following external applicant is recommended for appointment to a two-year term expiring December
31, 2024:
John Olenberger is a Certified Public Accountant with nearly 25 years of internal audit experience. He
has broad experience in providing process consulting, risk management, internal audit, quality
assessment reviews, and financial statement attestation services to a variety of public and private
entities.
The following Board Member is recommended for appointment to a two-year term expiring December
31, 2024:
Erik Davidson, Director, District I
The following Board Members are recommended for appointment each to a one-year term expiring
December 31, 2023:
Peggy Catlin, Director, District N
Bobby Dishell, Director, District D
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no financial impact associated with the adoption of this recommended action.

ATTACHMENTS:
•

Request for Qualifications, Independent Audit Committee Members

•

J. Brendel Cover Letter and Resume

(PDF)

•

J. Olenberger Cover Letter and Resume

(PDF)

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Peggy Catlin, Director, District N
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 16

1.4.C.a

Request For Qualifications
Independent Audit Committee Members
The Regional Transportation District (RTD) is seeking qualified candidates to fulfill one to five volunteer positions
on a new independent Audit Committee. RTD provides public mass transportation service in the form of fixed
route bus, micro transit, paratransit, light rail, and commuter rail services to the Denver metropolitan area. Over
3 million people reside within RTD’s 2,342 square mile service area spanning 40 municipalities in six counties and
two city/county jurisdictions. RTD is a political subdivision of the State of Colorado and must ensure effective
stewardship and accountability for its use of public funds.
RTD has a 15-member Board of Directors that are elected by their constituents to serve four-year terms. The
RTD Board of Directors is responsible for setting policy, overseeing the agency’s approximately $1.6 billion
annual budget, and establishing short and long-range goals and plans in concert with local, state, and federal
agencies. The independent Audit Committee will report to the RTD Board of Directors. Please see the role
description below for the requested qualifications and additional information.
Please submit a letter of interest and resume to rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com with the subject
line “Audit Committee RFQ” by Friday September 16, 2022, at 5:00 p.m. Late submissions will not be
considered.

RTD Independent Audit Committee Member Role Description
The RTD Board of Directors is looking for forward-thinking leaders who are passionate about strengthening
governance in the nonprofit sector, to serve on its independent Audit Committee. The Audit Committee will report
to the 15-member, publicly elected Board of Directors, whose Board service is limited to two, four-year terms. The
Audit Committee may also be comprised of two to three members of the Board of Directors.
RTD’s Board of Directors envisions the Audit Committee will be comprised of two to three outside leaders from the
nonprofit, for-profit, or government sectors who are dedicated to the organization’s mission. Serving on the
volunteer Audit Committee is an extraordinary opportunity for an individual looking to gain committee member
and governance experience.
Audit Committee members are expected to have the financial acumen to read and understand RTD’s financial
statements and to otherwise help the board fulfill its fiduciary responsibilities.
Audit Committee members are expected to attend four to five Audit Committee meetings per year. They are
expected to read committee materials in advance of meetings and to come prepared to ask questions and
participate in discussions.
Audit Committee term limits and consecutive terms limits have not been established, but a commitment of two or
three years is recommended.
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: Request for Qualifications, Independent Audit Committee Members (4729 : Independent Audit Committee Appointments)

We make lives better
through connections.

1.4.C.a

Desired Skills and Expertise
We are currently recruiting for diverse leaders with the ability to perform the following essential functions:
• Oversee the accounting and financial reporting process and the audit of the entity’s financial statements
by an independent auditor
• Monitor internal controls and compliance with respect to the entity’s operations and related laws and
regulations
• Oversee the entity’s risk management process
• Oversee and assess the performance of the internal auditor
• Report directly to the RTD Board of Directors
Basic desired skills, knowledge, experience and expertise:
• Independence as defined by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Institute of Internal
Auditors, and U.S. Governmental Accountability Office
• Basic understanding of governmental financial reporting and auditing
• Basic understanding of RTD
Additional desired skills, knowledge, experience and expertise:
• Financial expertise:
o Understanding of generally accepted accounting principles and financial statements;
The ability to assess the general application of such principles in connection with the accounting for
estimates, accruals and reserves;
o Experience preparing, auditing, analyzing or evaluating financial statements that present a breadth
and level of complexity of accounting issues that are generally comparable to the breadth and
complexity of issues that can reasonably be expected to be raised by the registrant’s financial
statements, or experience actively supervising one or more persons engaged in such activities;
o Understanding of internal controls and procedures for financial reporting; and
o Understanding of audit committee functions.
• Transportation experience including operations, rules/regulations or compliance related to
state/local/Federal funding
• Information Technology/Cyber-Security controls, compliance and auditing
• Experience interpreting and applying provisions related to compliance, regulatory environments and
contracts.
• Professional skepticism
o Willing to provide an independent point of view
o Intellectually curious and inquisitive
• Possesses integrity and confidence
• Organized and proactive
• Strong communication and interpersonal skills
o Ability to ask difficult questions and have uncomfortable conversations with members of
management, service providers, and even other committee members
o Capable of facilitating good discussion and offer new perspectives and constructive suggestions
• Willing to devote time and energy
o Ready, willing, and able to dedicate the time to review external and internal audit updates
o Patience and wherewithal to understand various report summaries and key in on the most important
issues
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 18

Attachment: Request for Qualifications, Independent Audit Committee Members (4729 : Independent Audit Committee Appointments)

Subject: Regional Transportation District (RTD) Audit Committee Member Role Description
Page 2

1.4.C.b

Jim Brendel

September 15, 2022

I recently received the Request for Qualifications for Independent Audit Committee Members for the
Regional Transportation District (RTD) from the Colorado Society of CPAs. I am respectfully
requesting to be considered for this position.
I am a Certified Public Accountant in the State of Colorado and recently retired from public
accounting after a 42 year career, all in Denver. In my career, I worked as a staff accountant through
partner in auditing financial statements of public, private, governmental and non-profit entities. I
have worked directly with audit committees of public and private companies as the audit partner,
and also as a consultant conducting special investigations. I have served on the audit committee for
two non-profit entities, and on the board of directors for two accounting firms and many other nonprofit entities.
I served as Director of Audit and Accounting for Hein & Associates, a regional CPA firm based in
Denver, with responsibilities including developing and monitoring our policies regarding auditor
independence and consulting on complex accounting and financial reporting issues. I have also
instructed classed on independence within the firm and at several colleges.
As an audit partner, I have significant experience in evaluating internal controls, including IT and
Cyber Security controls. I also have significant experience in interpreting and applying the provisions
of contracts and regulatory requirements to the operations and reporting requirements of my
clients, and was required to maintain a high degree of professional skepticism at all times.
In my leadership roles at Hein Associates, Moss Adams, and various professional associations, I have
demonstrated excellent communication and interpersonal skills and am experienced in dealing with
conflict and having uncomfortable conversations. I frequently led meetings and am experienced in
working collaboratively with other team members.
With my recent retirement, I have the time and energy to devote to new roles and would like to lend
my financial, auditing, and leadership experience to other entities where I could contribute and
make a difference. Since my background and experience is in financial statement auditing, and I
have worked with as well as served on audit committees, I am very interested in serving as an audit
committee member and I believe that is where I could add the most value.
I’ve attached a copy of my current resume and would welcome the opportunity to discuss my
experience with you.
Sincerely,

Jim Brendel

Packet Pg. 19

Attachment: J. Brendel Cover Letter and Resume (4729 : Independent Audit Committee Appointments)

Dear RTD Board Office:

1.4.C.b

Retired accounting firm partner and firm leader with over 40 years of progressive experience
in accounting and auditing, consulting, leadership and firm management.
Professional Experience

Moss Adams LLP
Executive Committee (Board of Directors) member, 2017 – 2020. Responsibilities included
determining policy and setting strategic direction for the Firm, oversight and evaluation of the
executive officers, and evaluating and approving the acquisition of other practices.
Operations Management Committee member, 2017 – 2020. Responsibilities included operational
management and conduct of the Firm’s day-to-day business.
Regional Managing Partner, 2017 – 2020. Responsible for overall financial performance of the
region (five offices and over 500 personnel), implementation of the Firm’s strategic plan in the
region, assuring quality standards are met, oversight and evaluation of partners in the region.
Assurance partner, 2017 – 2021. Planning, managing and executing audit engagements,
developing and maintaining client relationships, understanding clients’ businesses and providing
appropriate audit service to meet their needs, developing and leading engagement teams,
supervising, developing and mentoring personnel.
Hein & Associates LLP
Managing Partner, 2016 – 2017. Responsible for setting strategic goals and objectives,
supervising day-to-day operations of the Firm, monitoring performance, driving business growth,
working with business line leaders and individual partners to set and monitor progress against
goals, and partner evaluations.
Executive Committee (Board of Directors) member, 2005-2017. Responsibilities included
determining general policies of the Firm, developing and updating the Firm’s strategic plan and
vision, reviewing and approving business plans and compensation structure.
Denver Office Partner in Charge, 2012 – 2015. Responsible for the financial performance of the
office, developing annual budgets and hiring plans, ensuring that quality standards are met,
office goal setting, supervising and evaluation of partners.
National Director of Audit and Accounting, 2009 – 2011. Responsibilities included ensuring that
the Firm’s audit practice met all applicable quality control standards, setting audit policy and

Packet Pg. 20

Attachment: J. Brendel Cover Letter and Resume (4729 : Independent Audit Committee Appointments)

Jim Brendel, CPA

1.4.C.b

Audit Partner and Manager, 1987 – 2017. Planning, managing and executing audit engagements,
developing and maintaining client relationships, understanding clients’ businesses and providing
appropriate audit service to meet their needs, developing and leading engagement teams,
supervising, developing and mentoring personnel. Provided expert witness testimony in a variety
of financial matters.
Coopers & Lybrand
Audit Staff through Audit Manager – 1979 – 1987. Provided audit services to clients in
numerous industries, developed and evaluated staff, managed audit engagements.
Dietrich Partners
Advisory Board Member – 2022 – present. Provide strategic consulting and advice to
management of this middle market consulting firm based in Denver.
Community Involvement
Colorado Society of CPAs, Board Member, 2020 – 2022
Colorado State University Accounting Advisory Board Member, 2015 – present
Boys Hope Girls Hope, Finance Committee Member, 2009 – present
Association for Corporate Growth Denver, Board Member and Treasurer, 2001 – 2016
Colorado SIDS Program, Board Member and Treasurer, 1993 – 1999
Eagles Youth Sports, Board Member and Treasurer, 1999 - 2008
American Heart Association Colorado, Audit Committee member, 1988 - 1990
Education
Colorado State University, Bachelor of Science in Business Administration with a Concentration
in Accounting, 1979. Gold Key Award as the number one accounting graduate.

Packet Pg. 21

Attachment: J. Brendel Cover Letter and Resume (4729 : Independent Audit Committee Appointments)

procedures, determining and implementing the Firm’s audit approach, coordinating PCAOB
inspections and peer reviews.

1.4.C.c

September 14, 2022

To Whom It May Concern:
I wish to express interest in being considered as a member of the RTD’s new audit committee.
A former member of KPMG’s management team with nearly 25 years of Internal Audit
experience, I started my own internal audit practice (CICN) 14 years ago with the thought of
creating a new and innovative type of firm.
I think it is important that candidates for RTD’s audit committee not only have the technical
ability to perform the work, but also personally embrace public transportation and use public
transportation in their travels and daily commutes. Growing up in Massachusetts and starting my
career in Boston at Arthur Andersen, public transportation (Massachusetts Bay Transportation
Authority- “the T”) was far more than a “nice to have”. At over $30/day for parking, if you were
traveling into or within the City you were taking the T.
A big factor for me in selecting the lot for our house was its proximity to what would become the
Central Park RTD A-line station. It was important to me to be within walking distance of an
RTD rail station as transportation to the airport and downtown clients. I usually refer to the
distance of our house from downtown as “3 stops away”, rather than 6.5 miles, and proudly
leave my car in the garage when traveling to the airport, opting to take the A-line a few stops
dropping me an escalator ride away from security check-in. Having used public transit in close
to 15 cities worldwide, it is my default, and often times exclusive form of transportation.
I enjoy seeing how things work… and how things could work better. When many people hear
the word “audit” they tend to think financial audits. While many Internal Auditors have a
financial background, myself included, Internal Audit is far more than assessing financial
controls.

Packet Pg. 22

Attachment: J. Olenberger Cover Letter and Resume (4729 : Independent Audit Committee Appointments)

Colorado Independent
Consultants Network, LLC

Internal Audit is about gaining an in-depth understanding of how all aspects of a business
operate and working with the business to ensure the smoothness of these operations while
maintaining compliance with applicable regulations. As an audit committee member, I would
want to ensure the internal audit function does not lose sight of this operational improvement
aspect.
As a Colorado licensed CPA and former external auditor, I feel I have the financial acumen
needed to oversee both the external and internal audit functions. I also have first-hand experience
with the RTD, having participated on the outsourced audit team for a Office of the State Auditor
safety audit. Our firm is also assisting DRCOG with their operational and financial compliance
monitoring efforts for use of 5310 Federal funds passed through the Federal Transit Authority.
Some of the subrecipients of this funding are also contract providers for the RTD.
I am active in the internal audit community, serving as the Chief Audit Executive for some of our
clients and chairing the Chief Audit Executive Roundtable for the Denver chapter of the Institute
of Internal Auditors, where I previously served as the chapter president and board chair.
While this is a volunteer position, I would request an RTD ID or other pass be provided to
members of the audit committee to allow free access to encourage their use of and experiences
with the RTD system. I believe the more personal experience one has with the RTD system, the
better suited they will be to excel in this position. I would further request the audit committee be
comprised of at least three individuals, so as to promote diversity in opinions, which I believe
will best serve the RTD.
Attached is my resume. Please do not hesitate to contact me directly with any questions at
303-333-8989 or jolenberger@cicn.biz.

Sincerely yours,

John F. Olenberger, CPA

Packet Pg. 23

Attachment: J. Olenberger Cover Letter and Resume (4729 : Independent Audit Committee Appointments)

1.4.C.c

1.4.C.c

John F. Olenberger
Certifications
Certified Public Accountant
Certified Internal Auditor

Education
Bachelor of Science in Accounting,
University of Nebraska-Lincoln

Current and Previous Clients
Adams County, CO
Arapahoe County, CO
Arthur Andersen, LLP*
Bath Iron Works
Capmark Affordable Equity
City of Aspen
City of Denver
City of Santa Fe, NM
CO Community College System
CO Dept. of Health Care Policy&Financing
CO Dept. of Human Services
CO Dept. of Transportation
CO Division of Wildlife
CO Housing & Finance Authority
Commonwealth Energy
CT Yankee Nuclear Power Plant
Denver International Airport
Denver Regional Council of Governments
Denver Water
Dresser-Rand
eHealth
The Fay School
Front Range Community College
Garfield County
Hertz Car Rental
Intrepid Potash
Janus Henderson Investors
Jefferson County, Colorado
Jefferson County School District
KPMG, LLP*
Maine Yankee Nuclear Power Plant
Massachusetts Financial Services*
Mass. House of Representatives
Massachusetts Municipal Association
Massachusetts State Senate
National Ecological Observatory Network
National Fire Protection Association
Port of Los Angeles
Poudre School District
Pueblo Community College
Quaker Fabric Company
Santa Clara Valley Water District
SRS Acquiom
Time Warner Telecom
Universal Service Administrative Co.
US Olympic Committee
Viega
Waste Management*
Yankee Rowe Nuclear Power Plant

Prior to founding CICN, John was a Manager in the Denver office of
KPMG’s Advisory Services practice. John has 23 years of experience
providing process consulting, risk management, internal audit, quality
assessment reviews, SOX documentation & testing and financial statement
attestation services to organizations in a variety of industries, including local
and state government, K12 school district auditing, higher education,
aviation, mortgage banking, not-for-profit, waste management, nuclear
deregulation, food service, health care, telecommunications, and
manufacturing. John is a Certified Public Accountant and Certified Internal
Auditor, actively maintaining both certifications through continuing
professional education.
Experience Highlights
▪ Managed and performed over 100 operational and financial internal
audit engagements, covering contract compliance, physical security,
human resources, airport operations, debt issuance & servicing, loan
servicing, A/P, Payroll, property inspections, OHSA compliance,
accounting, P-Card usage, Grahm Leach Bliley Act (GLBA), and cash
handling, among many other areas.
▪ Served as a Quality Assurance Review team member with the Institute
of Internal Auditors, performing a review of a major corporation's
Internal Audit function
▪ Designed and executed annual entity wide risk assessments used for
Enterprise Risk Management activities, including creation of Internal
Audit plans.
▪ Documented and analyzed numerous business processes through use
of flowcharting and analytics.
▪ Investigated and quantified several multi-million dollar fraud schemes
at Fortune 500 companies.
▪ Served as Audit Committee Chairman for the Nashua Valley Council of
the Boy Scouts of America, refining the budgeting process, and leading
the audit firm selection process.
▪ Served as President of the Board of Directors for a 98 unit
homeowners association.
▪ Past Chairman of the Board of Governors and President of the
Institute of Internal Auditors Denver Chapter.
▪ Chairman of the Chief Audit Executives roundtable for the greater
Denver market with over 130 members.

*Denotes former employer

Packet Pg. 24

Attachment: J. Olenberger Cover Letter and Resume (4729 : Independent Audit Committee Appointments)

John Olenberger is the founder of Colorado Independent Consultants
Network, LLC (CICN), an established network of experienced professionals
specializing in Internal Audit, Risk Consulting, and Financial Analysis.

1.4.D

DIRECTOR REQUESTED AGENDA ITEM
Zero Emission Policy

Committee Meeting Date:
November 10, 2022
Board Meeting Date:
November 15, 2022

Added to Committee Agenda as a Director initiated request pursuant to RTD Board Bylaws Art. V,
Section 3(b). Requires formal motion and second at Committee meeting.
MOTION
The Regional Transportation District (RTD), under the General Manager and CEO’s leadership, shall
achieve net zero emissions by [20__] as measured by Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions as defined by the
Greenhouse Gas Protocol. RTD's Board shall reevaluate this policy after receiving an asset transition plan
(or similarly named plan which details RTD’s plans to transition to a zero emission fleet) and no less than
annually to measure progress towards this policy.
In the event working towards this policy is in conflict with RTD’s ability to deliver service, staff shall
bring a recommended action to the Board to weigh the options against this policy and to determine
whether adjustment is necessary.
REPRESENTATIVE
Zero Emission Vehicle (ZEV) Ad Hoc Committee
PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes
BACKGROUND
According to the United Nations and leading scientists around the world, “in order to avert the worst
impacts of climate change and preserve a livable planet, global temperature increase needs to be limited
to 1.5 °C above pre-industrial levels to keep global warming to no more than 1.5°C – as called for in the
Paris Agreement – emissions need to be reduced by 45% by 2030 and reach net zero by 2050.”
(https://www.un.org/en/climatechange/net-zero-coalition)
Operating under this goal, public agencies and private companies have worked collaboratively to work
towards achieving Net Zero by the timelines listed above. The Greenhouse Gas Protocol, as managed and
published by World Resources Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable Development, has
emerged as the leading, global set of standards and frameworks to measure greenhouse gas emissions.
https://ghgprotocol.org/about-us.
As defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol:
• Scope 1 GHG emissions are those emissions that are directly released and created by the
Agency.
• Scope 2 GHG emissions are those emissions that occur as a consequence of supplied electricity,
heat, steam, and/or cooling.

Packet Pg. 25

1.4.D
•

Scope 3 GHG emissions are those emissions that occur as a result of activities taking place at the
Agency. These are typically emissions that are created as part of the supply chain

Both locally and across the United States, transportation agencies and governments who manage
transportation agencies have committed to transitioning to a zero emission fleet and reducing
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. RTD’s commitment delivers strong community value, both by aligning
with what Coloradans have clearly stated is a priority, reducing overall GHG emissions, and by removing
those same direct emissions that pollute some of our most vulnerable communities.
By way of example, and not limitation
• Washington Metro has committed to transitioning its 1,500 buses to zero-emission bus fleet by
2045. https://www.wmata.com/initiatives/sustainability/Zero-Emission-Bus-Update.cfm
• Los Angeles Metro has committed to transitioning 2,230 buses to net zero by 2030 as part of
California Air Resources Board’s larger plans and requirements.
https://ww2.arb.ca.gov/sites/default/files/2021-09/LAMetroRolloutPlanADA.pdf
• In 2018, the Mayor of San Francisco and San Francisco MTA committed to achieving a net zero
fleet by 2035, as the City of San Francisco works to achieve net zero by 2040.
https://www.sfmta.com/press-releases/san-francisco-commits-all-electric-bus-fleet-2035
• King County Metro has committed to transitioning its fleet to net zero and to power its net zero
fleet with renewable energy by 2035.
https://kingcounty.gov/~/media/depts/metro/accountability/reports/2022/zero-emission-bus-fleettransition-plan-may-2022
• Chicago’s Pace system has committed to transitioning 700+ buses to a zero emission fleet by
2040. https://acrobat.adobe.com/link/review?uri=urn:aaid:scds:US:c48b3ed2-08b6-318c-a42d1b1a37bf9889#pageNum=1
• In 2018, New York’s Metropolitan Transportation Authority committed to deploying a zeroemission bus fleet by 2040. https://www.governor.ny.gov/news/earth-day-governor-hochulannounces-mta-expand-next-wave-deployment-zero-emission-buses-six
DISCUSSION
Here in Colorado, in 2019, the Colorado General Assembly passed an aggressive greenhouse gas
reduction bill: H.B. 19-1261. The legislation set a goal to reduce statewide greenhouse gas emissions
from all sources by 26 percent by 2025, 50 percent by 2030, and 90 percent by 2050, compared to a
2005 baseline. In 2021, the Governor’s Office released a Greenhouse Gas Reduction Roadmap, which
showed transportation as one of the largest sources of Greenhouse Gas pollution.
The recommended action before the Board demonstrates RTD’s strong commitment to partnership and
being part of the climate solution. The Recommended Action is more robust when it comes to reducing
GHG emissions than most plans as it requires RTD to not only transition its bus fleet, but its entire fleet
of vehicles (Scope 1 emissions) along with the energy used to power those vehicles and all our
operations (Scope 2 emissions). While it is clear RTD cannot do this alone, it can be a leader in this
space as we collectively work to reduce GHG emissions in Colorado.

Packet Pg. 26

1.4.D

Strategic Plan Alignment
Community Value - RTD strives to be a strong community partner, providing value to customers as well
as to the broader Denver metro region while sustaining planet Earth. The community around us regularly
strives to reduce carbon output. A transition to ZEV allows RTD to move with our community
stakeholders in a transition away from GHG emitting vehicles and the fossil fuel industry. Further, this
reduces harmful pollution in some of our most vulnerable communities.
Customer Excellence - RTD strives to consistently deliver high-quality customer service. Customers
regularly ask for more sustainable vehicles. Many ZEVs require less maintenance, allowing vehicles to
stay in use for longer without the same maintenance.
Employee Ownership - RTD seeks to attract and retain a highly skilled and engaged workforce. The
transition to Zero Emission Buses and a more efficient agency requires cross training, training of new
skills, and preparing a workforce for the future instead of holding them in the past.
Financial Success - RTD takes very seriously the management of all financial resources. While the
upfront investment in renewable sources, energy efficiency, low emission buses may be higher than
using traditional sources, many of these same investments save funds in the long run through reduced
future costs. Over time, this allows RTD to make investments now that will last through our future.

ATTACHMENTS:
•

Attachment A - United Nations - Net Zero Coalition (PDF)

•

Attachment B - Greenhouse Gas Protocol

•

Attachment C - WMATA Zero-Emission Bus Update (PDF)

•

Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan

•

Attachment E - San Francisco Commits To All-Electric Bus Fleet By 2035

(PDF)

•

Attachment F - King County Metro Zero Emission Bus Fleet Transition Plan

(PDF)

•

Attachment G - Chicago Pace's Transition to Zero Emission

•

Attachment H - MTA to Expand Next Wave Deployment of Zero Emission Buses (PDF)

(PDF)
(PDF)

(PDF)

Prepared by:
ZEV Ad Hoc Committee,
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 27

Attachment: Attachment A - United Nations - Net Zero Coalition (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

1.4.D.a

Packet Pg. 28

Attachment: Attachment A - United Nations - Net Zero Coalition (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

1.4.D.a

Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: Attachment A - United Nations - Net Zero Coalition (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

1.4.D.a

Packet Pg. 30

Attachment: Attachment A - United Nations - Net Zero Coalition (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

1.4.D.a

Packet Pg. 31

Attachment: Attachment A - United Nations - Net Zero Coalition (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

1.4.D.a

Packet Pg. 32

Attachment: Attachment A - United Nations - Net Zero Coalition (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

1.4.D.a

Packet Pg. 33

Attachment: Attachment A - United Nations - Net Zero Coalition (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

1.4.D.a

Packet Pg. 34

Attachment: Attachment A - United Nations - Net Zero Coalition (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

1.4.D.a

Packet Pg. 35

1.4.D.b

About Us | Greenhouse Gas Protocol
What is GHG Protocol?
GHG Protocol establishes comprehensive global standardized frameworks to measure and manage greenhouse gas
(GHG) emissions from private and public sector operations, value chains and mitigation actions.
Building on a 20-year partnership between World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for
Sustainable Development (WBCSD), GHG Protocol works with governments, industry associations, NGOs, businesses
and other organizations.

Who Uses GHG Protocol?
GHG Protocol supplies the world's most widely used greenhouse gas accounting standards. The Corporate Accounting
and Reporting Standard provides the accounting platform for virtually every corporate GHG reporting program in the
world.
Companies and Organizations
In 2016, 92% of Fortune 500 companies responding to the CDP used GHG Protocol directly or indirectly through a
program based on GHG Protocol.
Learn more about our work for companies and organizations.
Countries and Cities
Through their commitment to the Compact of Mayors, hundreds of cities across the globe have committed to using the
GHG Protocol for Cities.
We also work with partners in key countries to develop national GHG emissions programs based on the GHG Protocol.
Learn more about our work for cities and countries .

History of GHG Protocol
GHG Protocol arose when WRI and WBCSD recognized the need for an international standard for corporate GHG
accounting and reporting in the late 1990s. Together with large corporate partners such as BP and General Motors, in
1998 WRI published a report called, “Safe Climate, Sound Business.” It identified an action agenda to address climate
change that included the need for standardized measurement of GHG emissions.
Similar initiatives were being discussed at WBCSD. In late 1997, WRI senior managers met with WBCSD officials and an
agreement was reached to launch an NGO-business partnership to address standardized methods for GHG accounting.
WRI and WBCSD convened a core steering group comprised of members from environmental groups (such as WWF, Pew
Center on Global Climate Change, The Energy Research Institute) and industry (such as Norsk Hydro, Tokyo Electric,
Shell) to guide the multi-stakeholder standard development process.
The first edition of the Corporate Standard, published in 2001, has been updated with additional guidance that clarifies
how companies can measure emissions from electricity and other energy purchases, and account for emissions from
throughout their value chains. GHG Protocol also developed a suite of calculation tools to assist companies in calculating
their greenhouse gas emissions and measure the benefits of climate change mitigation projects.
The Paris Agreement, adopted within the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC) in
December 2015, commits participating all countries to limit global temperature rise, adapt to changes already occurring,
and regularly increase efforts over time. GHG Protocol is developing standards, tools and online training that helps
countries and cities track progress towards their climate goals.

Packet Pg. 36

Attachment: Attachment B - Greenhouse Gas Protocol (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

We offer online training on our standards and tools, as well as the “Built on GHG Protocol” review service, which
recognizes sector guidance, product rules and tools that are in conformance with GHG Protocol standards.

1.4.D.c
Skip to main content

Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority
Metro
Home

Metro is transitioning to a 100% zero-emission bus fleet to improve regional air quality, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and provide customers with a
quieter, comfier ride. This will require a phased approach that gets Metro to a fully zero-emission fleet of more than 1,500 buses by 2045. Transitioning to
zero-emission technology requires more than just new buses; Metro will also invest in facility and infrastructure upgrades over the coming years to support the
introduction of new buses.
Read more on our Capital Investments: Zero-Emission Bus Program page (/initiatives/plans/zero-emission-buses.cfm).

RELATED INFORMATION
Project Updates
(/initiatives/strategic-plans/Bus-Lanes/project-updates.cfm)
Silver Hill Road (MD 458) in Suitland, Maryland
(/initiatives/strategic-plans/Bus-Lanes/bus-lane-silver-hill-road.cfm)
Georgia Avenue (MD 97) in Montgomery County, Maryland
(/initiatives/strategic-plans/Bus-Lanes/bus-lane-georgia-avenue.cfm)

© 2022 WMATA

Packet Pg. 37

Attachment: Attachment C - WMATA Zero-Emission Bus Update (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Zero-Emission Bus Update

1.4.D.d

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority

Prepared for:

California Air Resources Board

Prepared by:

ZEBGO Partners

444 South Flower Street
Suite 800
Los Angeles, California 90071
March 2021

Packet Pg. 38

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Final
Rollout Plan

1.4.D.d
Table of Contents

TABLE OF CONTENTS
E.1 ROLLOUT PLAN SUMMARY ........................................................................................................ E.1-1

1

INTRODUCTION .............................................................................................................................. 1-1
1.1
Innovative Clean Transit Regulation..................................................................................... 1-1
1.2
Metro’s Background.............................................................................................................. 1-2
1.3
Metro’s Existing ZEB Plans, Procurements, and Projects ................................................... 1-2
1.3.1
ZEB Program Master Plan .................................................................................... 1-2
1.3.2
NextGen Bus Study ............................................................................................... 1-3
1.4
Rollout Plan Approach .......................................................................................................... 1-3
1.5
Rollout Plan Structure ........................................................................................................... 1-3

2

FLEET AND ACQUISITIONS............................................................................................................ 2-1
2.1
Baseline Bus Fleet ................................................................................................................. 2-1
2.2
Technology Portfolio ............................................................................................................. 2-2
2.3
Existing ZEB Procurements and Projects............................................................................. 2-3
2.4
Procurement Schedule .......................................................................................................... 2-4
2.4.1
ZEB Range Requirements and Costs ................................................................... 2-5
2.4.2
Conversion of CNG Buses to ZEBs ...................................................................... 2-5

3

FACILITIES AND INFRASTRUCTURE MODIFICATIONS............................................................... 3-1
3.1
Facility Modifications ............................................................................................................ 3-1
3.2
Division Charging Strategies and Infrastructure.................................................................. 3-3
3.3
On-Route Charging Strategies and Infrastructure ............................................................... 3-4
3.4
Phasing and Construction Staging ....................................................................................... 3-8
3.4.1
Construction Phases ............................................................................................. 3-8
3.4.2
On-Site Staging ................................................................................................... 3-14
3.5
Schedule and Adaptability................................................................................................... 3-15
3.5.1
Division 1 ............................................................................................................ 3-16
3.5.2
Division 2 ............................................................................................................ 3-17
Division 3 ............................................................................................................ 3-18
3.5.3
3.5.4
Division 5 ............................................................................................................ 3-19
3.5.5
Division 7 ............................................................................................................ 3-20
3.5.6
Division 8 ............................................................................................................ 3-21
3.5.7
Division 9 ............................................................................................................ 3-23
3.5.8
Division 10 .......................................................................................................... 3-24
3.5.9
Division 13 .......................................................................................................... 3-24
3.5.10
Division 15 .......................................................................................................... 3-27
3.5.11
Division 18 .......................................................................................................... 3-29

4

DISADVANTAGED COMMUNITIES................................................................................................ 4-1
4.1
Disadvantaged Communities Served ................................................................................... 4-1
4.2
DAC Prioritization Strategy ................................................................................................... 4-3

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Final Rollout Plan

March 2021 | i

Packet Pg. 39

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

E.2 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY.................................................................................................................... 1-1
E.2.1 CARB’s Innovative Clean Transit Regulation ....................................................................... 1-1
E.2.2 Zero-Emission Bus Technologies ......................................................................................... 1-1
E.2.3 Metro’s Zero-Emission Bus Efforts ...................................................................................... 1-2
E.2.4 Metro’s Path to an All-Zero-Emission Fleet ......................................................................... 1-2

1.4.D.d
Table of Contents

5

WORKFORCE TRAINING ................................................................................................................. 5-1
5.1
Training Requirements.......................................................................................................... 5-1

6

COSTS AND FUNDING ................................................................................................................... 6-1
6.1
Preliminary Costs .................................................................................................................. 6-1
6.2
Funding Sources ................................................................................................................... 6-1

7

START-UP AND SCALE-UP CHALLENGES ..................................................................................... 7-1

Appendices
Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Appendix A: Metro Board-Approved Resolution

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
ii | March 2021

Final Rollout Plan

Packet Pg. 40

1.4.D.d
Table of Contents

Table E.2-1. Summary of Existing Divisions and Baseline Fleet ......................................................... E.2-4
Table 2-1. Summary of Directly Operated Bus Fleet (Baseline Conditions) ...................................... 2-1
Table 2-2. Summary of Contracted Bus Fleet (Baseline Conditions) ................................................. 2-2
Table 2-3. Existing BEB Procurements................................................................................................. 2-3
Table 2-4. Existing ZEB Chargers ......................................................................................................... 2-3
Table 2-5. Summary of Future Bus Purchases (through 2040)........................................................... 2-4
Table 2-6. Summary of Future Bus Retrofits........................................................................................ 2-5
Table 3-1. Summary of Bus Division ZEB Improvements................................................................... 3-1
Table 3-2. Metro Transition and Construction Phases........................................................................ 3-8
Table 4-1. Disadvantaged Communities.............................................................................................. 4-1
Table 6-1. Metro's ZEB Funding .......................................................................................................... 6-1

List of Figures
Figure E.2-1. North Hollywood Station On-Route Charger .................................................................. E.2-5
Figure E.2-2. General Layout of Division Charging Infrastructure ....................................................... E.2-6
Figure E.2-3. LA Metro's Preliminary Transition Schedule ................................................................... E.2-7
Figure 3-1. Metro’s Divisions................................................................................................................. 3-2
Figure 3-2. General Layout of Division Charging Infrastructure .......................................................... 3-3
Figure 3-3. Conceptual Division Pantograph-Charging ........................................................................ 3-4
Figure 3-4. North Hollywood Station On-Route Charger ..................................................................... 3-5
Figure 3-5. Metro’s Layover Locations and Potential On-Route Charging Locations ......................... 3-7
Figure 3-6. Phase 1: On-Going Work..................................................................................................... 3-9
Figure 3-7. Phase 2: Independent Divisions........................................................................................ 3-11
Figure 3-8. Phase 3: Dependent Divisions .......................................................................................... 3-13
Figure 3-9. Division 9 Staged Construction ........................................................................................ 3-14
Figure 3-10. LA Metro's Preliminary Transition Schedule .................................................................... 3-15
Figure 3-11. Division 1 – Existing, Construction Staging, and Buildout .............................................. 3-16
Figure 3-12. Division 2 – Existing, Construction Staging, and Buildout .............................................. 3-17
Figure 3-13. Division 3 – Existing, Construction Staging, and Buildout .............................................. 3-18
Figure 3-14. Division 5 – Existing, Construction Staging, and Buildout .............................................. 3-19
Figure 3-15. Division 7 – Existing, Construction Staging, and Buildout .............................................. 3-20
Figure 3-16. Division 8 – Existing, Construction Staging, and Buildout .............................................. 3-22
Figure 3-17. Division 9 – Existing, Construction Staging, and Buildout .............................................. 3-23
Figure 3-18. Division 13 – Existing and Construction Staging (2nd and 3rd Levels) ............................. 3-25
Figure 3-19. Division 13 – Buildout (2nd and 3rd Levels) ....................................................................... 3-26
Figure 3-20. Division 15 – Existing, Construction Staging, and Buildout ............................................ 3-28
Figure 3-21. Division 18 – Existing, Construction Staging, and Buildout ............................................ 3-29
Figure 4-1. DACs in Service Area ........................................................................................................... 4-2
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Final Rollout Plan

March 2021 | iii

Packet Pg. 41

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

List of Tables

1.4.D.d
Table of Contents

BEB

Battery-Electric Bus

Board

Metro Board of Directors

BRT

Bus Rapid Transit

CARB

California Air Resource Board

CMF

Central Maintenance Facility

CNG

Compressed Natural Gas

DAC

Disadvantaged Communities

FCEB

Fuel Cell Electric Bus

ICT

Innovative Clean Transit

kW

Kilowatt

LADWP

Los Angeles Department of Water and Power

MW

Megawatts

OEM

Original Equipment Manufacturer

RFP

Request for Proposal

SBE

Standard Bus Equivalent

SCE

Southern California Edison

SP

Strategic Plan

ZE

Zero-Emission

ZEB

Zero-Emissions Bus(es)

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Acronyms and Abbreviations

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
iv | March 2021

Final Rollout Plan

Packet Pg. 42

1.4.D.d

E.1 ROLLOUT PLAN SUMMARY
Agency Background
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
(Metro)

Mailing Address

One Gateway Plaza
Los Angeles, California 90012-2952

Transit Agency’s Air District

South Coast Air Quality Management District

Transit Agency’s Air Basin

South Coast Air Basin

Total number of buses in Annual Maximum
Service1

1,8902

Urbanized Area

Los Angeles – Long Beach – Anaheim, CA

Population of Urbanized Area3

12,150,996

Contact information of general manager, chief
operating officer, or equivalent

James T. Gallagher
Chief Operations Officer
213.418.3108
gallagherj@metro.net

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Transit Agency’s Name

Rollout Plan Content
Is your transit agency part of a Joint Group4

No

Is your transit agency submitting a separate
N/A
Rollout Plan specific to your agency, or will one
Rollout Plan be submitted for all participating
members of the Joint Group?
Please provide a complete list of the transit
agencies that are members of the Joint Group
(optional)

N/A

Contact information of general manager, chief
operating officer, or equivalent staff member
for each participating transit agency member

N/A

Does Rollout Plan have a goal of full transition
to ZE technology by 2040 that avoids early
retirement of conventional transit buses?

Yes

Please explain how your transit agency plans to Staff is evaluating the pandemic's impact to service, ridership,
avoid potential early retirement of conventional and available funding. However, sufficient time appears to be
buses in order to meet the 2040 goal
available to preclude the need for early retirement of buses.

1 The ICT regulation defines “Annual Maximum Service” (13 CCR § 2023(b)(3)) as the number of buses in revenue service that are

operated during the peak season of the year, on the week and day that maximum service is provided but excludes demand response buses.
2 This is based on December 2018 (directly operated and contracted) service levels.
3 As last published by the Census Bureau before December 31, 2017
4 The ICT regulation defines a Joint Zero-Emission Bus Group or Joint Group (13 CCR § 2023.2) as two or more transit agencies that

choose to form a group to comply collectively with the zero-emission bus requirements of section 2023.1 of the ICT regulation.
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Final Rollout Plan

March 2021 | E.1-1

Packet Pg. 43

1.4.D.d

Rollout Plan’s approval date

03/25/21

Resolution No.

2020-0636

Is copy of Board-approved resolution attached
to the Rollout Plan?

Yes (Appendix A)

Contact for Rollout Plan follow-up questions

Marc Manning
Senior Director, Vehicle Engineering & Acquisition
213.392.6896
Manningm@metro.net

Who created the Rollout Plan?

Consultant

Consultant

ZEBGO Partners

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Rollout Plan Development and Approval

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
E.1-2 | March 2021

Final Rollout Plan

Packet Pg. 44

1.4.D.d

E.2 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
In accordance with the California Air Resource Board’s (CARB) Innovative Clean Transit (ICT)
regulation, the following report serves as Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s
(Metro) Rollout Plan to transition its bus fleet to 100 percent zero-emission (ZE) by 2040.

CARB’s ICT regulation requires all public transit agencies in the State of California to transition from
conventional buses (compressed natural gas, diesel, etc.) to ZE buses (battery-electric or fuel cell
electric) by 2040. The regulation requires a progressive increase of an agency’s new bus purchases to
be zero-emission buses (ZEBs) based on fleet size. By 2040, CARB requires all transit agencies in the
state to be operating only ZEBs.
To ensure that each agency has a strategy to comply with the 2040 requirement, the ICT regulation
requires each agency, or a coalition of agencies, to submit a ZEB Rollout Plan before purchase
requirements take effect. The Rollout Plan is considered a living document and is meant to guide the
implementation of ZEB fleets and help transit agencies work through many of the potential challenges
and explore solutions. Each Rollout Plan must include a number of required components (as outlined
in the Rollout Plan Guidelines) and must be approved by the transit agency’s governing body through
the adoption of a resolution, prior to submission to CARB.
Metro must comply with the following requirements under the ICT regulation:
-

July 1, 2020 – Board-approved Rollout Plan must be submitted to CARB5
January 1, 2023 – 25 percent of all new bus purchases must be ZE
January 1, 2026 – 50 percent of all new bus purchases must be ZE
January 1, 2029 – 100 percent of all new bus purchases must be ZE
January 1, 2040 – 100 percent of fleet must be ZE
March 2021 – March 2050 – Annual compliance report due to CARB

E.2.2 Zero-Emission Bus Technologies
According to the ICT regulation, a ZEB is a bus with zero tailpipe emissions and is either a batteryelectric bus (BEB) or a fuel cell electric bus (FCEB).
BEBs depend on a system to store and retrieve energy much as cars and trucks need fuel. BEBs have
multiple battery packs that power an electric motor, resulting in ZE. Similar to many other batterypowered products, BEBs must be charged for a period of time to be operational. Currently, BEBs can
be charged at the facility or in-service (on-route charging) via a number of connectors and dispensers.
A FCEB uses hydrogen and oxygen to produce electricity through an electrochemical reaction to power
the propulsion system and auxiliary equipment. This ZE process has only water vapor as a byproduct.
FCEBs can replace diesel or compressed natural gas (CNG) fuel buses without significant changes to
operations and service and functions as a resilient backup alternative in case of natural disaster. The
5 Due to the impacts of COVID-19, CARB provided an extension to all large transit agencies in California, upon request. Metro requested

and was granted an extension to submit the Rollout Plan by December 31, 2020. In October 2020, Metro requested and was granted
another extension to accurately capture the results of the recently released NextGen Plan and other service- and market-related updates.
Metro now will submit its Board-approved Rollout Plan to CARB by March 2021.
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Final Rollout Plan

March 2021 | 1-1

Packet Pg. 45

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

E.2.1 CARB’s Innovative Clean Transit Regulation

1.4.D.d

Metro’s past and ongoing ZEB analysis has found that BEB adoption is the ZEB technology that best
aligns with Metro’s 2030 ZEB goals. This is in a large part due to the market of BEBs in terms of
technological advancement, costs, and availability. While FCEBs are promising and have many potential
benefits (as compared to both CNG and BEB), unpredictability in operation costs and a limited supply
chain makes it an unviable option at this time, especially considering Metro’s aggressive ZEB goals.
However, Metro will continue to monitor FCEB advancements and consider the technology in future
applications.

E.2.3 Metro’s Zero-Emission Bus Efforts
Metro is already embracing the prospects of a ZE future and is taking multiple steps to not only meet
the requirements of CARB’s ICT regulation, but to also provide a cleaner and more sustainable future
for the communities that it serves. These efforts include:
-

-

-

-

Metro’s Strategic Plan to ZEB Transition. In 2017, the Metro Board endorsed staff’s Strategic Plan
for the transition to ZEBs. The first phase is to convert the Orange Line to ZEBs by 2020 and the
Silver Line as soon as feasible, thereafter. The second phase involves the creation of a ZE Master
Plan that would evaluate the entire Metro bus system and map out the best strategy and anticipated
cost to convert to ZE operation.
BEB and Infrastructure Investments. Shortly after the Board’s endorsement of the 2017 Strategic
Plan, Metro awarded three ZEB contracts for the electrification of the Orange and Silver Lines; two
with BYD for five 60-foot ZEBs intended for the Orange Line and 60 40-foot ZEBs for the Silver
Line, and one with New Flyer for 40 60-foot ZEBs for the Orange Line. To support these BEBs,
Metro is in the process of installing 10 plug-in chargers at Division 8 and eight on-route chargers
to support the Orange Line’s transition. In September 2019, Metro’s Board approved exercising
the options of 40 additional BYD 40-foot ZEBs. With this exercise, Metro has plans to deploy 145
BEBs.
ZEB Program Master Plan. In July 2018, Metro awarded “ZEBGO”, a joint venture of multiple
industry experts to produce a Master Plan and action-ready RFPs to transition to all ZEBs by 2030
– an ambitious plan that will guide Metro in adopting all ZEBs - 10 years before the ICT regulation
requires.
NextGen Study. While not directly tied to ZEB efforts, Metro is currently restructuring existing
service to better meet the needs of current and future riders. The NextGen Bus Study will evaluate
a number of alternatives and strategies to improve service, which may include more frequent
service and shorter headways. This study is ongoing and is being coordinated with Metro’s ZEB
Master Plan efforts.

E.2.4 Metro’s Path to an All-Zero-Emission Fleet
The Rollout Plan identifies a strategy for Metro to procure and operate an all-ZEB fleet by 2030 – ten
years before the ICT regulation requires. In accordance with the Rollout Plan Guidance, this document
provides an overview of a number of key components to Metro’s ZEB transition, including fleet
acquisitions, schedule, training, and funding considerations. As previously mentioned, Metro is
currently studying and has a goal of transitioning to all ZEBs by 2030. Therefore, there are no
anticipated issues with meeting the ICT regulation’s 2040 requirement.

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
1-2 | March 2021

Final Rollout Plan

Packet Pg. 46

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

fuel cell is generally used in conjunction with a battery, which supplements the fuel cell’s power during
peak loads and stores electricity that is recaptured through regenerative braking, allowing for better
fuel economy.

1.4.D.d

It should also be noted that COVID-19 has caused unprecedented losses in Metro’s revenue through
both the loss of fares from diminished ridership and loss of sales tax revenue from a reduction in Los
Angeles consumer spending. For these reasons, Metro has reduced service and operations and is still
evaluating the long-term ramifications on the system and the agency’s capital projects and goals. Metro
will proceed with planning and will adjust as the results from COVID-19 impacts stabilize and trends
are more predictable.
The following subsections provide a brief summary of the Rollout Plan.
E.2.4.1

Baseline Conditions

As of December 2018, Metro currently operates a fleet approximately 2,230 buses out of 11 divisions.
Another 165 buses are leased to contractors to operate Metro routes. Table E.2-1 summarizes each
division and its respective fleet.

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Final Rollout Plan

March 2021 | 1-3

Packet Pg. 47

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Due to the rapidly evolving nature of ZEB technologies, it is possible that the findings and
recommended approaches in this report will be outdated when it is time for implementation. The
information in this Rollout Plan is informed and based on December 2018 service levels. This
information is used because it represents the fleet under typical operating conditions. Since then, there
have been a number of special projects, including bus bridges, that may skew the fleet size and division
requirements.

1.4.D.d

Div.

Address

Operator

Fuel Type

Main
Functions

32’
Buses

40’
Buses

45’
Buses

60’
Buses

Total
Buses

Total Buses
(SBE #)

1

1130 E. 6th St, Los Angeles

Metro

CNG

O&M

-

132

35

22

189

207

2

720 E. 15th St, Los Angeles

Metro

CNG

O&M

-

172

-

-

172

172

3

630 W. Ave 28, Los Angeles

Metro

CNG

O&M

-

86

91

-

177

196

5

5425 Van Ness Ave, Los Angeles

Metro

CNG

O&M

-

134

7

52

193

221

7

8800 Santa Monica Bl. W.Hollywood

Metro

CNG

O&M

-

148

80

5

233

252

8

9201 Canoga Ave, Los Angeles

Metro

CNG

O&M

-

61

107

34

202

241

9

3449 Santa Anita Ave, El Monte

Metro

CNG

O&M

-

161

62

-

223

236

10

742 N. Mission Rd, Los Angeles

Metro

CNG

O&M

-

69

13

69

151

189

13

920 N. Vignes St, Los Angeles

Metro

CNG

O&M

-

56

14

93

163

213

15

11900 Branford St, Los Angeles

Metro

CNG

O&M

-

82

109

50

241

288

18

459 W. Griffith St, Gardena

Metro

CNG

O&M

-

74

116

62

252

307

278

Stored at D10 or CMF

Metro

CNG

Training

-

31

1

-

32

33

Directly Operated Subtotal

2,228

2,555

95

14913 E. Ramona Bl Baldwin Park

Transdev

97

21222 S. Wilmington Ave, Carson

98

1611 Naud St, Los Angeles

CNG

O&M

16

18

-

-

34

31

MV Transit Diesel/CNG

O&M

5

70

-

-

75

74

Southland

O&M

29

27

-

-

56

50

Contracted Subtotal

165

155

Fleet Total

2,393

2,710

CNG

Source: ZEBGO, 2018
Note: Division 10 has been repurposed. It will not being used for revenue service except for the temporary relocation of buses during ZEB retrofits. Also, the diesel buses at Division 97 have
subsequently been replaced with CNG buses.

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
E.2-4 | March 2021

Final Rollout Plan

Packet Pg. 48

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Table E.2-1. Summary of Existing Divisions and Baseline Fleet

1.4.D.d

E.2.4.2

Proposed Zero-Emission Implementation Strategy

To achieve ZEB goals, Metro will adopt an inverted pantograph solution at both divisions and strategic
layover locations (on-route charging). This technology (Figure E.2-1 and Figure E.2-2) will maximize
space and safety of personnel due to the reduced interaction between staff and electrified equipment.
These pantographs will be connected to chargers that vary in power. At this time, division-based
chargers are expected to be provide 150 kilowatts (kW) of power in a “one to many” orientation (i.e.,
one charger energizes more than one dispenser), and on-route chargers will provide power in excess
of 300 kW.
Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Figure E.2-1. North Hollywood Station On-Route Charger

Source: Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority, July 2020

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Final Rollout Plan

March 2021 | E.2-5

Packet Pg. 49

1.4.D.d

Source: ZEBGO, December 2019

E.2.4.3

Phasing and Construction

To maintain Metro’s transition schedule, the availability of buses, construction schedule adherence,
and utility enhancements will all have to be aligned.
Metro’s transition will be accomplished in multiple on-site construction stages across three phases
(periods). These “stages” are segments of the division that will be temporarily shut down to install the
necessary BEB-supporting infrastructure. The buses that would normally occupy the staging space will
be temporarily relocated on-site or to a neighboring division or facility. This approach will ensure that
construction and normal operations can proceed concurrently. This construction method avoids the
complete shutdown of the division undergoing improvements, which reduces the risks of service
impacts. The number of stages and number of buses that need to be temporarily relocated during each
stage vary based on a division’s layout, existing fleet, and additional capacity.
“Phases” are essentially classifications of when and how these divisions are grouped. Phase 1 of the
transition is currently underway with the electrification of the Orange and Silver Lines. The remaining
two phases are grouped based on a division’s space availability and dependency on other divisions for
temporary bus relocation. Phase 2 generally consists of “independent” divisions, divisions that have
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
E.2-6 | March 2021

Final Rollout Plan

Packet Pg. 50

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Figure E.2-2. General Layout of Division Charging Infrastructure

1.4.D.d

available space to relocate its buses on-site during staged construction or are in close proximity to a
division that does, and Phase 3, consists of “dependent” divisions, divisions that are dependent on
other divisions for temporary bus storage or service.
As technology advances, Metro will make adjustments to maximize utility and cost feasibility. This will
have direct impacts on the implementation schedule.

Figure E.2-3. LA Metro's Preliminary Transition Schedule

Source: ZEBGO, January 2021
Note: Division 10 will not be retrofitted to accommodate ZEBs. Division 10 will primarily be used for temporary storage and bus relocations
during the transition.

E.2.4.4

Start-Up and Scale-Up Issues

To meet ICT deadlines, there are several challenges and opportunities that Metro has identified. The
following briefly described some of the challenges that Metro faces for its transition:
-

-

-

Technological adaptation. Currently, Metro is modeling and planning for a transition based on the
baseline service and existing ZEB technology. With 2030 and 2040 deadlines looming, it is difficult
to anticipate future technological enhancements and changes, such as improved batteries and
chargers. Slight changes in these technologies could improve bus ranges, in turn, reducing costs.
Metro will monitor these changes as it would be counterproductive to invest in technologies that
will soon be outdated.
Costs. Adoption of ZEBs has many benefits, including potential lifecycle cost savings. However,
the investment required for capital and change management will be very expensive. Metro will
have to be creative with funding mechanisms and sources to ensure that the transition to ZEB will
not be detrimental to its operations and service.
Market Production Factors. The ICT regulation will put a lot of pressure on OEMs to produce ZEBs
at unprecedented rates. However, it is not only California that is interested in converting to ZEBs.

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Final Rollout Plan

March 2021 | E.2-7

Packet Pg. 51

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Figure E.2-3 presents the preliminary transition schedule. These activities include supplying additional
power to the division, which includes utility applications, design, and construction, and the
procurement, design, and construction of on-site charging equipment.

-

-

-

-

Legislative changes, such as the ICT regulation, will make it challenging to meet ZEB goals for
agencies if the supply of buses cannot meet the demand.
Phasing and Transition. Maintaining service and adhering to ICT regulation purchase
requirements, all while managing on-site construction, facility rebuilds, temporary bus relocations,
bus procurements, and utility enhancements introduces a lot of risk to the Metro’s program. If one
element of this transition doesn’t go as planned, there will be implications for other components
of the program.
Utility Upgrades. Metro’s divisions are currently under the jurisdiction of two utilities and its
potential on-route charging locations are under nine. These utilities have different rate structures
and protocols to apply for and receive additional power. How each utility is regulated, whether
municipal or private, also dictates procedural requirements. These nuances will make it
challenging to plan for due to the variances in schedule and procedure.
Managing Power Demand. The transition to BEBs will require strategies to ensure that Metro can
utilize power in the most cost-efficient way. Metro is currently doing this via utility negotiations
and demand modeling to determine methods to reduce peak demand.
Uncertainty due to COVID-19. COVID-19 has impacted all facets of the global economy, transit is
not an exclusion. During the pandemic, ridership and revenues have plummeted and caused major
shortfalls in Metro’s budget which has impacted capital programs and operations. At this time, it
is unclear what short- and long-term impacts will be for service. There is a possibility that service
ridership levels may not return to previous levels resulting in changes to procurement and funding.
Metro will continue to analyze trends to determine changes and plans.

E.2.4.5

Next Steps

The process to transition to ZEBs should and will be iterative to minimize risk, but also to
accommodate new developments in a rapidly evolving market. Metro will use the information outlined
in the Master Plan to identify and further refine the following:
-

-

-

-

Solutions to complete service if technology does not advance as forecasted. Approximately 31
percent of Metro’s baseline bus blocks travel further than 150 miles per day – a range that exceeds
current batteries’ capabilities. In order to meet 100% service completion, Metro will have to
consider other solutions, including investing in additional on-route charging, filing for exemptions
under the ICT regulation, purchasing additional buses, or restructuring service to suit
technological limitation.
Costs refinement. Construction, capital, operating, and maintenance costs vary based on a number
of factors. It will be important to get an understanding of the up-front and lifecycle costs and
savings of investing in ZEBs. Staff continues to develop cost estimates and Metro will need to
revisit these estimates to determine if pricing has changed and make adjustments to
procurements, as needed.
Explore collaboration opportunities. Metro can continue to maximize outcomes by engaging with
other regional and local agencies. Best practices, lessons learned, and cost-sharing among agencies
will provide net benefits for Metro and partner agencies.
Continue to engage utilities. Whether adopting BEBs or FCEBs, there is a good chance that the
amount of power at the division is either insufficient or needs to be adapted to these new
technologies. While procuring buses and installing chargers may be relatively straightforward, the
process and protocols associated with electrical enhancements on the utility side can be complex.
Therefore, it is essential that Metro continues to coordinate with electric utility providers to ensure
critical deadlines are met.

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
E.2-8 | March 2021

Final Rollout Plan

Packet Pg. 52

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

1.4.D.d

1.4.D.d

1

INTRODUCTION

In accordance with the California Air Resource Board’s Innovative Clean Transit regulation, the
following report serves as Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s (Metro)
Rollout Plan to transition its bus fleet to 100 percent zero-emission (ZE) by 2040.

Innovative Clean Transit Regulation

The California Air Resource Board’s (CARB) Innovative Clean Transit (ICT) regulation became
effective October 1, 2019 and requires all public transit agencies in the state to transition from
conventional buses (compressed natural gas (CNG), diesel, etc.) to ZE buses (battery-electric or fuel
cell electric) by 2040. The regulation requires a progressive increase of an agency’s new bus purchases
to be zero-emission buses (ZEBs) based on its fleet size. By 2040, CARB expects all transit agencies in
the state to be operating only ZEBs.
To ensure that each agency has a strategy to comply with the 2040 requirement, the ICT regulation
requires each agency, or a coalition of agencies (“Joint Group”), to submit a ZEB Rollout Plan (“Rollout
Plan”) before purchase requirements take effect. The Rollout Plan is considered a living document and
is meant to guide the implementation of ZEB fleets and help transit agencies work through many of
the potential challenges and explore solutions. Each Rollout Plan must include a number of required
components (as outlined in the Rollout Plan Guidelines) and must be approved by the transit agency’s
governing body through the adoption of a resolution, prior to submission to CARB.
According to the ICT regulation, each agency’s requirements are based on its classification as either a
“Large Transit Agency” or a “Small Transit Agency”. The ICT defines a Large Transit Agency as an
agency that operates in the South Coast or the San Joaquin Valley Air Basin and operates more than
65 buses in annual maximum service or it operates outside of these areas, but in an urbanized area
with a population of at least 200,000 and has at least 100 buses in annual maximum service. A Small
Transit Agency is an agency that doesn’t meet the above criteria.
As a “Large Transit Agency” Metro must comply with the following requirements under the ICT
regulation:
-

July 1, 2020 – Board-approved Rollout Plan must be submitted to CARB6
January 1, 2023 – 25 percent of all new bus purchases must be ZE
January 1, 2026 – 50 percent of all new bus purchases must be ZE
January 1, 2029 – 100 percent of all new bus purchases must be ZE
January 1, 2040 – 100 percent of fleet must be ZE
March 2021 – March 2050 – Annual compliance report due to CARB

6 Due to the impacts of COVID-19, CARB provided an extension to all large transit agencies in California, upon request. Metro requested

and was granted an extension to submit the Rollout Plan by December 31, 2020. In October 2020, Metro requested and was granted
another extension to accurately capture the results of the recently released NextGen Plan and other service- and market-related updates.
Metro now will submit its Board-approved Rollout Plan to CARB by March 2021.
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Final Rollout Plan

March 2021 | 1-1

Packet Pg. 53

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

1.1

1.4.D.d

1.2

Metro’s Background

Metro serves as transportation planner, coordinator, designer, builder, and operator for one of the
country’s largest, most populous counties. More than 9.6 million people – nearly one-third of
California’s residents – live, work, and play within Metro’s 1,433-square-mile service area.

1.3

Metro’s Existing ZEB Plans, Procurements, and Projects

As early as 1993, Metro has adopted policies that commit the agency to using alternative energy buses.
Pursuant to this vision, Metro successfully transitioned the second largest bus fleet in North America
from all-diesel to CNG in 2011 and has continued to commit to innovative technologies and strategies
to further reduce its carbon footprint. The conversion to ZEBs is the next step in Metro’s future and it
has the opportunity to further improve the air quality for Los Angeles residents and visitors in the
future.
The transition to a ZEB fleet has been a goal of Metro even before the ICT regulation was adopted. In
July 2017, the Metro Board endorsed staff’s Strategic Plan for the transition to ZEBs. The first phase
in the Strategic Plan is to convert the Metro Orange Line to ZEBs by 2020 and the Metro Silver Line as
soon as feasible, thereafter. The second phase involves the creation of a ZE Master Plan that would
evaluate the entire Metro bus system and map out the best strategy and anticipated cost to convert to
an all-ZE operation.
Shortly after the Board’s endorsement of the 2017 Strategic Plan, Metro awarded three ZEB contracts
for the electrification of the Orange and Silver bus rapid transit (BRT) lines; two with BYD for five 60foot ZEBs intended for the Orange Line, 60 40-foot ZEBs intended for the Silver Line; and one with
New Flyer for 40 60-foot ZEBs intended for the Orange Line.
In September 2019, Metro’s Board approved exercising the options of 40 additional BYD 40-foot ZEBs.
With this exercise, Metro has plans to deploy 145 BEBs.
1.3.1

ZEB Program Master Plan

In July 2018, Metro awarded “ZEBGO” a joint venture of multiple industry experts to produce a Master
Plan and action-ready RFPs to transition to all ZEBs by 2030. As part of this plan, ZEBGO is
responsible for providing the following services:
-

Industry Outreach
Inventory of Metro Operations
Assessment of Best Industry Practices
Evaluation of Compliance with Existing Standards and Codes
Support Negotiation of Rate Structures with Utilities
Analyses/System Modeling and Phasing Options
Development of Technical Specifications for ZEBs and Facilities
Development of Action-Ready Request for Proposals (RFPs)

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
1-2 | March 2021

Final Rollout Plan

Packet Pg. 54

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

As of December 2018, Metro directly and indirectly operates approximately 2,400 buses on 165 routes.
In that same time period, directly operated Metro lines served approximately 17.3 million riders, per
day.

1.4.D.d

ZEBGO’s efforts are still ongoing and many of its findings inform the Rollout Plan. The Master Plan’s
work is iterative and will continue beyond the Rollout Plan submission deadlines. Therefore, some of
the information outlined in this report may be superseded based on technological advancements and
new information and data.
NextGen Bus Study

In 2018, Metro also began the process of restructuring existing service to better meet the needs of
current and future riders. The NextGen Bus Study will evaluate a number of alternatives and strategies
to improve service, which may include more frequent service and shorter headways. This project is in
now in the implementation phases, and its bus assignments and service blocks will be coordinated
with Metro’s ZEB Master Plan efforts.

1.4

Rollout Plan Approach

The Rollout Plan identifies a strategy for Metro to procure and operate an all-ZEB fleet by 2030 – 10
years before the ICT regulation requires. In accordance with the Rollout Plan Guidance, this document
provides an overview of a number of key components to Metro’s ZEB transition, including fleet
acquisitions, schedule, training, and funding considerations. As previously mentioned, Metro is
currently studying and has a goal of transitioning to all ZEBs by 2030. Therefore, there are no
significant concerns with meeting the ICT regulation’s 2040 requirement. Due to the rapidly evolving
nature of ZEB technologies, it is possible that the findings and recommended approaches in this report
will be outdated when it is time for implementation. For that reason, Metro continues to evaluate
technologies and strategies beyond 2030, when a fully operational ZEB fleet is anticipated. Those areas
of current study will be indicated, where applicable.
The information in this Rollout Plan is informed and based on December 2018 operations. This
information is used because it represents the fleet under typical operations. Since then, there have
been a number of special projects, including bus bridges, that may skew the fleet size and division
requirements. The Master Plan, however, will make use of the most recent information available in
anticipation of the release of the NextGen Bus Study, which will provide the foundation for the final
version of Metro’s Master Plan.
It should also be noted that COVID-19 has caused unprecedented losses in Metro’s revenue through
both the loss of ridership and a reduction in sales tax revenue. For these reasons, Metro has reduced
service and operations and is still evaluating and forecasting the long-term ramifications on the system
and the agency’s capital projects and goals. That said, how COVID-19 impacts Metro’s electrification
goals is still unclear, however, Metro will continue to proceed with planning and adjust as needed once
COVID-19 is stabilized and trends are more predictable.

1.5

Rollout Plan Structure

In accordance with CARB’s Rollout Plan Guidance, Metro’s Rollout Plan includes all required
elements. The required elements and corresponding sections are detailed below:
-

Transit Agency Information (Section 1: Rollout Plan Summary)
Rollout Plan General Information (Section 1: Rollout Plan Summary)
Technology Portfolio (Section 4.2: Technology Portfolio)
Current Bus Fleet Composition and Future Bus Purchases (Section 4: Fleet Acquisitions)
Facilities and Infrastructure Modifications (Section 5: Facilities and Infrastructure Modifications)

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Final Rollout Plan

March 2021 | 1-3

Packet Pg. 55

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

1.3.2

1.4.D.d

Providing Service in Disadvantaged Communities (Section 6: Disadvantaged Communities)
Workforce Training (Section 7: Workforce Training)
Potential Funding Sources (Section 8: Costs and Funding Opportunities)
Start-up and Scale-up Challenges (Section 9: Start-up and Scale-up Challenges)

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

-

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
1-4 | March 2021

Final Rollout Plan

Packet Pg. 56

1.4.D.d

2

FLEET AND ACQUISITIONS

The following section provides an overview of Metro’s baseline conditions, planned purchases, and
description of how Metro will meet the requirements of the ICT regulation.

Baseline Bus Fleet

As of December 2018, Metro directly operates 2,228 buses (2,555 standard bus equivalents [SBEs]).7 An
additional 165 SBEs are indirectly operated through contracted services. Metro, as the owner of these
buses, will work with contractors to ensure that these buses are replaced and that the owners of the
facilities establish plans and support infrastructure pursuant to the ICT regulation. Metro’s fleet consists
of a mixture of 40-foot, 45-foot, and 60-foot CNG buses.8 Table 2-1 and Table 2-2 presents a summary of
Metro’s directly operated bus fleet and contracted bus fleet, respectfully.
Table 2-1. Summary of Directly Operated Bus Fleet (Baseline Conditions)

Manufacturer
New Flyer

NABI

In-Service
Year

Series

Fuel Type

Length

3850-4199

CNG

40’

5300-5522

CNG

40’

5600-6149

CNG

40’

7000-7214

CNG

40’

2000

7300-7514

CNG

40’

7525-7599

CNG

7600-7949

CNG

No. of Buses

No. of Buses (SBE)

143

143

188

188

183

183

306

306

202

202

Standard

5

5

2001

Standard

24

24

40’

2005

Standard

70

70

40’

2002

Standard

85

85

39

47

48

58

11

14

130

156

129

155

41

50

29

35

53

64

6

8

33

40

2015
2016
2001
2014
2015

Bus Type
Standard
Standard
Standard

2004
8000-8099

CNG

45’

2005

Standard

2006
8100-8359

CNG

45’

8360-8400

CNG

45’

2009
2010
2009

Standard
Standard

2010
8401-8491

CNG

45’

2011

Standard

2012
8500-8649

CNG

45’

2012

Standard

7 SBEs were determined by applying a 1:1 ratio for 40-foot buses, 1:1.2 ratio for 45-foot buses, and 1:1.5 ratio for 60-foot buses, all values
were rounded up to the next whole number.
8 One 65-foot bus operates from Division 8

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Final Rollout Plan

March 2021 | 2-1

Packet Pg. 57

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

2.1

Manufacturer

Series

Fuel Type

Length

In-Service
Year

Bus Type

2013
9200-9399

CNG

60’

9400-9494

CNG

60’

9495-9495

CNG

65’

9500-9594

CNG

60

2005
2006
2006
2007
2007
2007
2008

Articulated
Articulated
Articulated
Articulated
Total Buses

No. of Buses

No. of Buses (SBE)

116

140

84

126

112

168

40

60

55

83

1

2

78

117

17

26

2,228

2,555

Source: Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority, December 2018

Table 2-2. Summary of Contracted Bus Fleet (Baseline Conditions)

Manufacturer

In-Service
Year

Series

Fuel Type

Length

3850-4199

CNG

40’

5300-5522

CNG

40’

2001

5600-6149

CNG

40’

Orion

11001-11067

Diesel*

NABI

7600-7949
3100-3149

New Flyer

No. of Buses

No. of Buses (SBE)

3

3

16

16

Standard

10

10

2014

Standard

38

38

40’

2001

Standard

35

35

CNG

40’

2002

Standard

13

13

CNG

32’

2010

Standard

50

40

Total Buses

165

155

2015
2016

Bus Type
Standard

Source: Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority, December 2018
*The diesel buses at have subsequently been replaced with CNG buses.

2.2

Technology Portfolio

Metro’s past and ongoing analysis has found that BEBs are the most suitable technology to meet ZEB
goals. This is in a large part due to the market of BEBs in terms of technological advancement, costs, and
availability. While FCEBs are promising and have many potential benefits as compared to both CNG and
BEB, unpredictability in operation costs and a limited supply chain makes it an unviable option at this
time, especially considering Metro’s aggressive ZEB goals. However, Metro will remain open for
potential future FCEB integration into its fleet.

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
2-2 | March 2021

Final Rollout Plan

Packet Pg. 58

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

1.4.D.d

1.4.D.d

2.3

Existing ZEB Procurements and Projects

Metro has taken and is taking several steps to ensure that it is in the best position to meet the Board’s
2030 ZEB goal. As mentioned, Metro’s Board envisions the fleet transition in two phases. Phase 1 will
focus on the conversion of the Orange and Silver BRT Lines to ZEB by 2020 and 2021, respectively,
and Phase 2 will convert the rest of the fleet.

To support these buses, multiple enhancements have been initiated or completed at divisions and
stops that serve these lines. For instance, at Division 8, which serves the Orange Line, Metro has
coordinated with the utility, the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power (LADWP), to add
additional electrical capacity, and ABB, a charger manufacturer, to construct 10 150-kW plug-in
chargers to support overnight and midday charging. There is also ongoing construction for on-route
chargers at three locations along the Orange Line’s route. These on-route chargers range from 450-kW
to 600-kW are based on the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) pantograph charging standard,
J3105-1. The Orange Line is anticipated to be fully electrified by the end of 2020.
The Silver Line and the divisions and stations that serve it - Division 9, Division 18, and El Monte and
Harbor Gateway Transit Centers - are all currently being analyzed and designed to determine the most
suitable chargers. The Silver Line is anticipated to be electrified by 2021.
Table 2-3. Existing BEB Procurements

OEM

Model

Battery (kWh)

Length (ft.)

Route

No. of Buses

No. of Buses
(SBE)

New Flyer

XE60

320

60

Orange

40

60

BYD

K11

610

60

Orange

5

8

BYD

K9

348

40

Silver

60

60

BYD

K9

348

40

TBD

40

60

145

168

Total
Source: Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority, December 2019

Table 2-4. Existing ZEB Chargers

Location

Quantity

OEM

Power (kW)

Type

Status

Division 1

5

BYD

100

Plug-In

Installed

Division 8

10

ABB

150

Plug-In

2 Installed
8 in Procurement

Canoga Station

2

Siemens

450-600

Pantograph

Commissioning

North Hollywood Station

4

Siemens

450

Pantograph

In Operation

Chatsworth Station

2

Siemens

450-600

Pantograph

Under Construction

Source: Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority, December 2020

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Final Rollout Plan

March 2021 | 2-3

Packet Pg. 59

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

To date, Metro has approved the procurement of 145 BEBs. Table 2-3 presents Metro’s existing BEB
procurements and Table 2-4 details Metro’s existing chargers both installed and under construction.

1.4.D.d

2.4

Procurement Schedule

As previously indicated, Metro also leases approximately 165 buses to contractors to provide service on
Metro routes – Metro does not own or operate the facilities where these buses are stored. That said,
Metro will continue to provide buses and coordinate with contractors as facility master plans are
developed. At this time the schedule and approach for these facilities’ upgrades are under development.
Table 2-5 summarizes Metro’s anticipated procurements through 2040. In September 2019, the Metro
Board granted approval to execute 369 bus options (40 BEB and 329 CNG) to cover Metro’s fleet needs
(pre-pandemic) until 2022. This table is built off of the assumption that BEBs/battery capacities will be
available to meet Metro’s service block ranges so that a 1:1 replacement ratio is achievable. Years 2023,
2026, and 2029, are highlighted because these indicate when Metro’s new purchases should be 25
percent, 50 percent, and 100 percent ZEB, respectively, in accordance with the ICT regulation.
Table 2-5. Summary of Future Bus Purchases (through 2040)

Year

Total
Buses
(SBE)

No.

Pct.

Bus Type

Fuel Type

No.

Pct.

Bus Type

Fuel Type

2022

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2023

4

4

100%

40’/60’

BEB

-

-

-

-

2024

156

156

100%

40’/60’

BEB

-

-

-

-

2025

140

140

100%

40’/60’

BEB

-

-

-

-

2026

259

259

100%

40’/60’

BEB

-

-

-

-

2027

259

259

100%

40’/60’

BEB

-

-

-

-

2028

259

259

100%

40’/60’

BEB

-

-

-

-

2029

259

259

100%

40’/60’

BEB

-

-

-

-

2030

259

259

100%

40’/60’

BEB

-

-

-

-

2031

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2032

393

393

100%

40’/60’

BEB

-

-

-

-

2033

364

364

100%

40’/60’

BEB

-

-

-

-

2034

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2035

4

4

100%

40’/60’

BEB

-

-

-

-

2036

156

156

100%

40’/60’

BEB

-

-

-

-

2037

140

140

100%

40’/60’

BEB

-

-

-

-

2038

259

259

100%

40’/60’

BEB

-

-

-

-

Conventional (CNG) Buses

Zero-Emission Buses

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
2-4 | March 2021

Final Rollout Plan

Packet Pg. 60

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Based on initial analysis, all new bus purchases will be ZEB starting in 2022 – seven years before the
ICT regulation requires. Early retirement should not be an issue pursuant to the ICT regulation based
on Metro’s future purchases, however, Metro is still evaluating strategies to avoid early retirement
pursuant to its 2030 goals.

1.4.D.d

Year

Total
Buses
(SBE)

No.

Pct.

Bus Type

Fuel Type

No.

Pct.

Bus Type

Fuel Type

2039

259

259

100%

40’/60’

BEB

-

-

-

-

2040

259

259

100%

40’/60’

BEB

-

-

-

-

Conventional (CNG) Buses

Zero-Emission Buses

Source: ZEBGO, 2020

ZEB Range Requirements and Costs

Approximately 31 percent of Metro’s bus blocks travel more than 150 miles per day – a range that
exceeds current batteries’ capabilities. To reduce impacts to service, Metro intends to apply a number
of strategies to meet service (range) requirements, including the investment in on-route chargers,
additional bus purchases, battery/charging management systems, and solar and battery storage. In
future ZEB applications, Metro will also consider FCEBs, especially if battery technology doesn’t
advance as forecasted.
2.4.2

Conversion of CNG Buses to ZEBs

A full fleet conversion to ZEBs by 2030 will require Metro to increase procurements by 848 buses. To
address the increased capital costs associated with advanced procurements, the conversion of
approximately 757 buses will be included in the procurement schedule.9 Currently, conversions are
anticipated to take place during the mid-life overhaul during the years 2027 and 2028, though this may
be refined further to evenly distribute purchases across the transition period (Table 2-6).
Table 2-6. Summary of Future Bus Retrofits

Year

Number of Buses (SBE)

Bus/Conversion Type

2027

393

CNG to BEB

2028

364

CNG to BEB

Source: ZEBGO, 2020

9 Addressing the 91-bus shortfall is currently being analyzed by Metro and will likely be addressed by additional procurements or retrofits

(conversions).
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Final Rollout Plan

March 2021 | 2-5

Packet Pg. 61

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

2.4.1

1.4.D.d

3

FACILITIES AND INFRASTRUCTURE MODIFICATIONS

The following sections detail the planned charging strategies, infrastructure, detailed division
improvements, and program schedule.

Facility Modifications

Metro’s transition to ZE technologies, namely, BEB, will require several modifications and
replacements to existing infrastructure and operations. This would include the decommissioning of
CNG equipment, enhancements and expansions of electrical equipment, additional electrical capacity,
and the installation of BEB gantries, chargers, dispensers, and other components. These changes will
not only occur at 10 of Metro’s directly-operated bus divisions – Division 10 will only be used for
relocations during the transition - but also at select bus layover locations and transit centers that will
function as on-route charging stations.
Figure 3-1 illustrates the location of Metro’s divisions and Table 3-1 summarizes the modifications and
schedules planned at 10 of Metro’s bus divisions.
Table 3-1. Summary of Bus Division ZEB Improvements

Div.

Address

Main
Service Upgrades
Estimated
Functions Planned ZEB Infrastructure Capacity Req’d? Construction Timeline

1

1130 E. 6th St,
Los Angeles, CA

O&M

Inverted pantograph
charging

189
buses

Yes

2025-2029

2

720 E. 15th St,
Los Angeles, CA

O&M

Inverted pantograph
charging

172
buses

Yes

2024-2027

3

630 W. Ave 28,
Los Angeles, CA

O&M

Inverted pantograph
charging

177
buses

Yes

2025-2029

5

5425 Van Ness Ave,
Los Angeles, CA

O&M

Inverted pantograph
charging

193
buses

Yes

2024-2029

7

8800 Santa Monica Bl.
West Hollywood, CA

O&M

Inverted pantograph
charging

233
buses

Yes

2025-2030

8

9201 Canoga Ave,
Los Angeles, CA

O&M

Inverted pantograph
charging

202
buses

Yes

2021-2024

9

3449 Santa Anita Ave,
El Monte, CA

O&M

Inverted pantograph
charging

223
buses

Yes

2021-2026

13

920 N. Vignes St,
Los Angeles, CA

O&M

Inverted pantograph
charging

163
buses

Yes

2023-2026

15

11900 Branford St,
Los Angeles, CA

O&M

Inverted pantograph
charging

241
buses

Yes

2021-2025

18

459 W. Griffith St,
Gardena, CA

O&M

Inverted pantograph
charging

252
buses

Yes

2021-2026

Source: ZEBGO, February 2020
Note: On-route charging will also be utilized to supplement division charging

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Final Rollout Plan

March 2021 | 3-1

Packet Pg. 62

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

3.1

1.4.D.d

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Figure 3-1. Metro’s Divisions

Source: ZEBGO, 2019

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
3-2 | March 2021

Final Rollout Plan

Packet Pg. 63

1.4.D.d

Division Charging Strategies and Infrastructure

All divisions will support DC inverted pantograph charging. In an effort to maximize space and cost
savings via reduced demand charges, Metro is currently planning for a “one to many” 150-kW charger
to dispenser ratio (one charger to more than one buses) for overnight charging. Metro will also
integrate “fast charging lanes” at divisions to provide buses with the opportunity to “top off” during
midday pull-ins and/or during servicing before connecting to the overnight “slow” chargers. These
“fast charging lanes” will have chargers in excess of the 150-kW chargers. Individual division strategies
are still being analyzed and may vary and change based on unique operating and service conditions.
As technology develops, Metro will also consider other ratios and charging strategies which may impact
the layout of each division.
At the divisions, chargers, conduit, and associated pantographs will be supported by an overhead frame
that will cover the surface of the bus parking tracks (Figure 3-2). This overhead strategy is due to the
general constrained space at most of Metro’s divisions. BEB charging infrastructure includes a number
of charging cabinets, switches, switchgears, and transformers that require a considerable amount of
space. This general design will be at divisions to maximize space and ensure compatibility with all
procured BEBs.
Figure 3-2. General Layout of Division Charging Infrastructure

Source: ZEBGO, December 2019

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Final Rollout Plan

March 2021 | 3-3

Packet Pg. 64

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

3.2

1.4.D.d

Source: ZEBGO, December 2019

3.3

On-Route Charging Strategies and Infrastructure

As mentioned, on-route charging is a consideration for Metro’s ZEB transition. On-route charging will
extend bus ranges, reduce peak demand (kW) at divisions, and serve as future-ready strategy as it is
likely that charging during the day will eventually be more cost-competitive than charging at night due
to an increasing availability of renewable power.
On-route charging facilities will also utilize DC inverted pantograph chargers. All on-route chargers
are anticipated to be “high-powered” (in excess of 150-kW) to ensure that buses can receive more
energy in a small period of time, typically during layovers. Metro is planning for up to 1.2 megawatts
(MW) of power per SAE J-3105.

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
3-4 | March 2021

Final Rollout Plan

Packet Pg. 65

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Figure 3-3. Conceptual Division Pantograph-Charging

1.4.D.d

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Figure 3-4. North Hollywood Station On-Route Charger

Source: Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority, July 2020

On-route charging is most useful at endpoints or layover locations of trips. As of December 2018,
Metro has 529 layover locations, of these, approximately 52 are considered ideal and deemed
preliminarily feasible as on-route charging areas. These locations were based on the number of vehicles
that layover, available space (for charging equipment), and its off-street orientation – for maintenance
and safety issues, it was assumed that off-street locations would mitigate safety and vandalism issues
with the public. Staff continues to refine modeling and related analysis at these locations to determine
which ones will be candidates for implementation. It is assumed that all on-route locations will have
450 kW or greater chargers and will be pantograph-based to support Metro’s fleet. It is likely that some
of these will be at transit centers that are shared between other transit agencies. For that reason, Metro
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Final Rollout Plan

March 2021 | 3-5

Packet Pg. 66

1.4.D.d

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

is ensuring that an established charging standard is applied to promote future shared use. Figure 3-5
illustrates Metro’s 529 layover and 52 potential on-route charging locations, respectively.

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
3-6 | March 2021

Final Rollout Plan

Packet Pg. 67

1.4.D.d

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Figure 3-5. Metro’s Layover Locations and Potential On-Route Charging Locations

Source: ZEBGO, December 2018

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Final Rollout Plan

March 2021 | 3-7

Packet Pg. 68

1.4.D.d

3.4

Phasing and Construction Staging

Adhering to the construction schedule and milestones will be critical because divisions’ charging
infrastructure construction and utility upgrades must be completed before buses are delivered,
otherwise, the buses will not be able to operate. The following sections describes the order in which
each division will be constructed (phased), and the work to be done on each division’s site (staging).
Construction Phases

The prioritization of divisions’ conversions will be based on a number of factors, however, space
availability (i.e., divisions with more space can accept more buses on a temporary basis) is the most
critical as it directly impacts the schedule and Metro’s transition goal. It should be noted that the
strategy that Metro plans to employ for facility construction will have minimal or no impact on service.
Staff has segmented the transition schedule into three distinct phases to accomplish both Metro and
ICT requirements as presented in Table 3-2.
Table 3-2. Metro Transition and Construction Phases

Phase #

Description

Divisions

1

On-Going Work includes Metro’s ongoing construction and ZEB-related work to
transition the Orange and Silver Lines.

8, 9, and 18

2

Independent Divisions require few or no bus relocations for ZEB-related
construction.

8, 9, 15, and 18

3

Dependent Divisions require the temporary relocation of buses to nearby divisions 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, and 13
in order to make room for staged construction.

Source: ZEBGO, December 2018

Phase 1 – On-Going Work
Phase 1 is the full electrification of Metro’s BRT services, the Orange and Silver Lines as shown in
Table 3-2. Electrical enhancements and chargers are currently being installed at Division 8, along with
on-route chargers at multiple stations. Concepts for Divisions 9 and 18 are currently under
development to serve future BEBs.
Phase 1 is illustrated in Figure 3-6.

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
3-8 | March 2021

Final Rollout Plan

Packet Pg. 69

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

3.4.1

1.4.D.d

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Figure 3-6. Phase 1: On-Going Work

Source: ZEBGO, December 2018

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Final Rollout Plan

March 2021 | 3-9

Packet Pg. 70

1.4.D.d

Phase 2 – Independent Divisions
Phase 2 consists of the conversion of Metro’s remaining services, including all local, rapid, shuttle,
and express routes. Due to adequate on-site space or adjacent Metro property, Divisions 8, 9, 15, and
18 are considered “independent divisions” because BEB infrastructure enhancements can largely be
completed with no or minimal buses relocations. Initial work has begun on Division 9 and 18 due to
Metro’s Board approval of exercising the 40 additional BYD buses in September 2019.

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Construction work will be done in stages, on-site, to allow on-going transit service and operations to
continue without interruption. Buses can be shifted around on-site to vacate areas for electrification
improvements while still operating all buses and serving all routes assigned to these divisions.
Phase 2 is illustrated in Figure 3-7.

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
3-10 | March 2021

Final Rollout Plan

Packet Pg. 71

1.4.D.d

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Figure 3-7. Phase 2: Independent Divisions

Source: ZEBGO, December 2018
Note: Division 10 will not be retrofitted to accommodate ZEBs. Division 10 will primarily be used for temporary storage and bus
relocations during the transition.

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Final Rollout Plan

March 2021 | 3-11

Packet Pg. 72

1.4.D.d

Phase 3 – Dependent Divisions
Phase 3 continues Phase 2 conversions by focusing on the remaining local, rapid, shuttle, and express
routes. Due to space constraints, Divisions 1, 2, 3, 5, 7 and 13 are considered “dependent divisions”
and will require portions of assigned fleets to be temporarily relocated to and operated from other
divisions to allow portions of the site to be turned over for staged construction activities. Phase 3 will
likely result in increased operational costs due to the increased deadhead miles incurred.

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

If one of the Phase 3 divisions is under construction while a portion of its fleet is temporarily relocated
to Division 10, no other dependent division can be improved unless additional relocation storage space
is identified and made available.
Phase 3 is illustrated in Figure 3-8.

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
3-12 | March 2021

Final Rollout Plan

Packet Pg. 73

1.4.D.d

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Figure 3-8. Phase 3: Dependent Divisions

Source: ZEBGO, December 2018

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Final Rollout Plan

March 2021 | 3-13

Packet Pg. 74

1.4.D.d

3.4.2

On-Site Staging

Due to space constraints at each division, most divisions’ ZEB infrastructure upgrades will be done in
multiple on-site “stages” which will require the temporary relocation of buses to other divisions.
Each stage generally represents a natural break of bus parking at each division. For each stage, buses
will be relocated for approximately six months so that BEB charging equipment can be installed. At
the conclusion of the staged construction, buses can once again be parked there. Figure 3-9 provides
an example of the stages of construction at Division 9.

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Figure 3-9. Division 9 Staged Construction

Source: ZEBGO, December 2018

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
3-14 | March 2021

Final Rollout Plan

Packet Pg. 75

1.4.D.d

3.5

Schedule and Adaptability

Figure 3-10 presents the preliminary transition schedule. These activities include electrification,
design, and construction.
Figure 3-10. LA Metro's Preliminary Transition Schedule

Source: ZEBGO, January 2021
Note: Division 10 will not be retrofitted to accommodate ZEBs. Division 10 will primarily be used for temporary storage and bus relocations
during the transition.

The following sections detail the existing conditions and planned modifications for 10 of Metro’s 11
divisions. As noted previously, December 2018 service levels were used as a baseline. The number of
existing buses on-site are based on the total (regardless of active or spare, or vehicle length). All
divisions are able to accommodate at least the number of existing buses if converted to BEBs. Ongoing
analysis and bus procurements will refine these numbers based on fleet mix and the advancement of
battery technology.

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Final Rollout Plan

March 2021 | 3-15

Packet Pg. 76

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

As previously discussed, Metro has a very aggressive ZE transition schedule. While the ICT regulation
requires a full fleet conversion by 2040, Metro is planning on converting by 2030. To maintain this
schedule, the availability of buses, construction schedule adherence, and utility enhancements will all
have to be aligned. It should also be noted that as technology develops and new data is acquired, Metro
will continue to make adjustments to maximize utility and cost feasibility. This will have direct impacts
on the implementation schedule.

1.4.D.d

3.5.1

Division 1

Existing Conditions
Division 1 is located at 1130 E. 6th Street in the City of Los Angeles. 189 CNG-powered buses are stored,
maintained, fueled, and serviced at the division. Division 1’s fleet consists of 132 40-foot, 35 45-foot,
and 22 60-foot buses. Buses are parked in unassigned, numbered tracks (nose-to-tail). The division is
constrained with no significant space for future ground-level BEB charging equipment. Five 100-kW
BYD plug-in chargers are onsite (pre-ICT and Master Plan).

Additional electrical capacity will be required to meet the service needs of buses at Division 1. Based
on preliminary demand modeling, approximately 12 MW of power will be needed from LADWP to
support the current fleet. Construction and enhancements to bring this additional capacity is
anticipated to take two to three years.
Construction for Division 1 and its associated BEB charging equipment and support systems will be
completed in three, six-month stages. Buses are anticipated to be temporarily stored at Division 10
during these stages. Ultimately, Division 1 is expected to have 66 150-kW and six 450-kW chargers and
will be BEB-operational in 2029. Figure 3-11 illustrates the process that Division 1 will undergo towards
full electrification.
Figure 3-11. Division 1 – Existing, Construction Staging, and Buildout

Clockwise (from the upper left), from existing conditions (December 2018), to construction staging, to full buildout
Source: ZEBGO, December 2018

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
3-16 | March 2021

Final Rollout Plan

Packet Pg. 77

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Planned ZEB Modifications and Timeline

1.4.D.d

3.5.2

Division 2

Existing Conditions
Division 2 is located at 720 E. 15th Street in the City of Los Angeles. 172 CNG-powered buses are stored,
maintained, fueled, and serviced at the division. Division 2’s fleet consists of all 40-foot buses. Buses
are parked in unassigned, numbered tracks (nose-to-tail). The division is constrained with no
significant space for future ground-level BEB charging equipment.

Additional electrical capacity will be required to meet the service needs of buses Division 2. Based on
preliminary demand modeling, approximately 12 MW of power will be needed to be provided by
LADWP to support the current fleet. Construction and enhancements to bring this additional capacity
is anticipated to take two to three years.
Construction for Division 2 and its associated BEB charging equipment and support systems will be
completed in three, six-month stages. Buses are anticipated to be temporarily stored at Division 10
during these stages. Ultimately, Division 2 is expected to have 86 150-kW and four 450-kW chargers
and will be BEB-operational in 2027. Figure 3-12 illustrates the process that Division 2 will undergo
towards full electrification.
Figure 3-12. Division 2 – Existing, Construction Staging, and Buildout

Clockwise (from the upper left), from existing conditions (December 2018), to construction staging, to full buildout
Source: ZEBGO, December 2018

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Final Rollout Plan

March 2021 | 3-17

Packet Pg. 78

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Planned ZEB Modifications and Timeline

1.4.D.d

3.5.3

Division 3

Existing Conditions
Division 3 is located at W. Avenue 28 in the City of Los Angeles. 177 CNG-powered buses are stored,
maintained, fueled, and serviced at the division. Division 3’s fleet consists of 86 40-foot and 91 45-foot
buses. Buses are parked in unassigned, numbered tracks (nose-to-tail). The division is constrained
with no significant space for future ground-level BEB charging equipment.

Additional electrical capacity will be required to meet the service needs of buses at Division 3. Based
on preliminary demand modeling, approximately 13 MW of power will be needed to be provided by
LADWP to support the current fleet. Construction and enhancements to bring this additional capacity
is anticipated to take two to three years.
Construction for Division 3 and its associated BEB charging equipment and support systems will be
completed in three, six-month stages. Buses are anticipated to be temporarily stored at Division 10
during these stages. Ultimately, Division 3 is expected to have 89 150-kW and four 450-kW chargers
and will be BEB-operational in 2029. Figure 3-13 illustrates the process that Division 3 will undergo
towards full electrification.
Figure 3-13. Division 3 – Existing, Construction Staging, and Buildout

Clockwise (from the upper left), from existing conditions (December 2018), to construction staging, to full buildout
Source: ZEBGO, December 2018

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
3-18 | March 2021

Final Rollout Plan

Packet Pg. 79

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Planned ZEB Modifications and Timeline

1.4.D.d

3.5.4

Division 5

Existing Conditions
Division 5 is located at 5425 S. Van Ness Avenue in the City of Los Angeles. 193 CNG-powered buses
are stored, maintained, fueled, and serviced at the division. Division 5’s fleet consists of 134 40-foot,
seven 45-foot, and 52 60-foot buses. Buses are parked in unassigned, numbered tracks (nose-to-tail).
The division is constrained with no significant space for future ground-level BEB charging equipment.

Additional electrical capacity will be required to meet the service needs of buses Division 5. Based on
preliminary demand modeling, approximately 14 MW of power will be needed to be provided by
LADWP to support the current fleet. Construction and enhancements to bring this additional capacity
is anticipated to take two to three years.
Construction for Division 5 and its associated BEB charging equipment and support systems will be
completed in three, six-month stages. Buses are anticipated to be temporarily stored at Division 10
during these stages. Ultimately, Division 5 is expected to have 97 150-kW and four 450-kW chargers
and will be BEB-operational in 2029. Figure 3-14 illustrates the process that Division 5 will undergo
towards full electrification.
Figure 3-14. Division 5 – Existing, Construction Staging, and Buildout

Clockwise (from the upper left), from existing conditions (December 2018), to construction staging, to full buildout
Source: ZEBGO, December 2018

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Final Rollout Plan

March 2021 | 3-19

Packet Pg. 80

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Planned ZEB Modifications and Timeline

1.4.D.d

3.5.5

Division 7

Existing Conditions
Division 7 is located at 8800 Santa Monica Boulevard in the City of West Hollywood. 233 CNG-powered
buses are stored, maintained, fueled, and serviced at the division. Division 7’s fleet consists of 148 40foot, 80 45-foot, and five 60-foot buses. Buses are parked in unassigned, numbered tracks (nose-to-tail).
The division is constrained with no significant space for future ground-level BEB charging equipment.

Additional electrical capacity will be required to meet the service needs of buses Division 7. Based on
preliminary demand modeling, approximately 14 MW of power will be needed to be provided by
Southern California Edison (SCE) to support the current fleet. Construction and enhancements to
bring this additional capacity is anticipated to take three to five years.
Construction for Division 7 and its associated BEB charging equipment and support systems will be
completed in three, six-month stages. Buses are anticipated to be temporarily stored at Division 10
during these stages. Ultimately, Division 7 is expected to have 117 150-kW and three 450-kW chargers
and will be BEB-operational in 2030. Figure 3-15 illustrates the process that Division 7 will undergo
towards full electrification.
Figure 3-15. Division 7 – Existing, Construction Staging, and Buildout

Clockwise (from the upper left), from existing conditions (December 2018), to construction staging, to full buildout
Source: ZEBGO, December 2018

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
3-20 | March 2021

Final Rollout Plan

Packet Pg. 81

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Planned ZEB Modifications and Timeline

1.4.D.d

3.5.6

Division 8

Existing Conditions

10 ABB 150-kW plug-in chargers will be installed on western wall of the Division. However, this work
preceded the ZEB Master Plan which is recommending a different charging strategy and layout.
Planned ZEB Modifications and Timeline
Additional electrical capacity will be required to meet the service needs of buses Division 8. Based on
preliminary demand modeling, approximately 14 MW of power will be needed to be provided by
LADWP to support the current fleet. Construction and enhancements to bring this additional capacity
is anticipated to take two to three years. It should be noted that additional capacity was installed at the
division to accommodate the 10 plug-in chargers.
To accommodate additional buses and future BEB equipment, the division is being designed for noseto-tail track parking. Construction for Division 8 and its associated BEB charging equipment and
support systems will be completed in two, six-month stages. Due to available storage capacity at
Division 8 and the adjacent Marilla Lot (Metro-owned parking lot), buses can be rearranged on site
and/or moved temporarily to Marilla Lot during construction.
Ultimately, Division 8 is expected to have 101 150-kW and three 450-kW chargers and will be BEBoperational in 2024. Figure 3-16 illustrates the process that Division 8 will undergo towards full
electrification.

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Final Rollout Plan

March 2021 | 3-21

Packet Pg. 82

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Division 8 is located at 9201 Canoga Avenue in the City of Los Angeles. 202 CNG-powered buses are
stored, maintained, fueled, and serviced at the division. Division 8’s fleet consists of 61 40-foot, 107 45foot, 33 60-foot, and one 65-foot bus. Bus parking predominates the site and buses are parked in
diagonal stacked rows in the south and west portions of the division. As part of a recent reconfiguration
of the parking, two diagonal rows have been combined to be nose-to-tail.

1.4.D.d

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Figure 3-16. Division 8 – Existing, Construction Staging, and Buildout

Clockwise (from the upper left), from existing conditions (December 2018), to construction staging, to full buildout
Source: ZEBGO, December 2018

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
3-22 | March 2021

Final Rollout Plan

Packet Pg. 83

1.4.D.d

3.5.7

Division 9

Existing Conditions
Division 9 is located at 3449 Santa Anita Avenue in the City of El Monte. 223 CNG-powered buses are
stored, maintained, fueled, and serviced at the division. Division 9’s fleet consists of 161 40-foot and
62 45-foot buses. Division 9 has both nose-to-tail parking and diagonal parking. Buses assigned to the
division are parked in one of 11 parallel rows at the western end of the site. Overflow parking is
provided for buses in the diagonal-arranged lot to the east.

Additional electrical capacity will be required to meet the service needs of buses at Division 9. Based
on preliminary demand modeling, approximately 19 MW of power will be needed to be provided by
SCE to support the current fleet. Construction and enhancements to bring this additional capacity is
anticipated to take three to five years. Existing diagonal parking will be transitioned to nose-to-tail to
accommodate more buses and conform with BEB infrastructure plans.
Construction for Division 9 and its associated BEB charging equipment and support systems will be
completed in two, six-month stages. Due to available storage capacity at Division 9, buses can be
rearranged on site without temporary displacement. Ultimately, Division 9 is expected to have 112 150kW and four 450-kW chargers and will be BEB-operational in 2026. Figure 3-17 illustrates the process
that Division 9 will undergo towards full electrification.
Figure 3-17. Division 9 – Existing, Construction Staging, and Buildout

Clockwise (from the upper left), from existing conditions (December 2018), to construction staging, to full buildout
Source: ZEBGO, December 2018

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Final Rollout Plan

March 2021 | 3-23

Packet Pg. 84

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Planned ZEB Modifications and Timeline

1.4.D.d

3.5.8

Division 10

Division 10 is located at 742 N. Mission Road in the City of Los Angeles.
As of September 2020, due to future anticipated service needs, Metro has permanently closed Division
10 for revenue service. However, Division 10 is expected to be a key component in Metro’s ZEB transition
as it will be relied upon for temporary storage and bus relocations as other divisions are being
improved.
Division 13

Existing Conditions
Division 13 is located at 920 N. Vignes Street in the City of Los Angeles. Division 13 is also connected to
Metro’s Central Maintenance Facility (CMF). 163 CNG-powered buses are stored, maintained, fueled,
and serviced at the division. Division 13’s fleet consists of 56 40-foot, 14 45-foot, and 93 60-foot buses.
Division 13 is a multi-level structure. The “Lower Level” (subterranean) is for employee parking, “Level
1” (street level) is for 40- and 45-foot bus parking, maintenance, fueling, and wash, and the “Upper Level”
is for 60-foot bus parking. Buses are parked in unassigned, numbered tracks (nose-to-tail).
Planned ZEB Modifications and Timeline
Additional electrical capacity will be required to meet the service needs of buses at Division 13. Based
on preliminary demand modeling, approximately 10 MW of power will be needed to be provided by
LADWP to support the current fleet. Construction and enhancements to bring this additional capacity
is anticipated to take two to three years.
Construction for Division 13 and its associated BEB charging equipment and support systems will be
completed in one six-month stage. Buses are anticipated to be temporarily stored at Division 10 and
CMF during these stages. Ultimately, Division 13 is expected to have 95 150-kW and three 450-kW
chargers and will be BEB-operational in 2026. Figure 3-18 illustrates the existing (December 2018) and
construction staging for the 2nd and 3rd levels, and Figure 3-19 illustrates these levels at full buildout.

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
3-24 | March 2021

Final Rollout Plan

Packet Pg. 85

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

3.5.9

1.4.D.d

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Figure 3-18. Division 13 – Existing and Construction Staging (2nd and 3rd Levels)

Source: ZEBGO, December 2018

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Final Rollout Plan

March 2021 | 3-25

Packet Pg. 86

1.4.D.d

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Figure 3-19. Division 13 – Buildout (2nd and 3rd Levels)

Source: ZEBGO, December 2018

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
3-26 | March 2021

Final Rollout Plan

Packet Pg. 87

1.4.D.d

3.5.10

Division 15

Existing Conditions
Division 15 is located at 11900 Branford Street in the City of Los Angeles. 241 CNG-powered buses are
stored, maintained, fueled, and serviced at the division. Division 15’s fleet consists of 82 40-foot, 109
45-foot, and 50 60-foot buses. Bus parking comprises the majority of the site in the south and west
portions of the division. Parking is single row diagonal and has recently been expanded into an
underutilized space.

Additional electrical capacity will be required to meet the service needs of buses at Division 15. Based
on preliminary demand modeling, approximately 17 MW of power will be needed to be provided by
LADWP to support the current fleet. Construction and enhancements to bring this additional capacity
is anticipated to take two to three years.
Given the current layout, making room for charging equipment could be challenging but rearranging
two or more rows, as was done at Division 8, would provide ample parking space.
Construction for Division 15 and its associated BEB charging equipment and support systems will be
completed in two, six-month stages. Due to available storage capacity at Division 15 and the nearby
Marilla Lot (Metro-owned parking lot), buses can be rearranged on site and/or moved temporarily to
Marilla Lot during construction. Ultimately, Division 15 is expected to have 121 150-kW and three 450kW chargers and will be BEB-operational in 2025. Figure 3-20 illustrates the process that Division 15
will undergo towards full electrification.

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Final Rollout Plan

March 2021 | 3-27

Packet Pg. 88

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Planned ZEB Modifications and Timeline

1.4.D.d

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Figure 3-20. Division 15 – Existing, Construction Staging, and Buildout

Clockwise (from the upper left), from existing conditions (December 2018), to construction staging, to full buildout.
Source: ZEBGO, December 2018

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
3-28 | March 2021

Final Rollout Plan

Packet Pg. 89

1.4.D.d

3.5.11

Division 18

Existing Conditions
Division 18 is located at 450 W. Griffith Street in the City of Gardena. 252 CNG-powered buses are
stored, maintained, fueled, and serviced at the division. Division 18’s fleet consists of 74 40-foot, 116
45-foot, and 62 60-foot buses. Buses are parked in unassigned, numbered tracks (nose-to-tail). The
division is constrained with no significant space for future ground-level BEB charging equipment.

Additional electrical capacity will be required to meet the service needs of buses at Division 18. Based
on preliminary demand modeling, approximately 17 MW of power will be needed to be provided by
SCE to support the current fleet. Construction and enhancements to bring this additional capacity is
anticipated to take three to five years.
Construction for Division 18 and its associated BEB charging equipment and support systems will be
completed in three, six-month stages. Due to available storage capacity at Division 18, buses can be
rearranged on site without temporary displacement. Ultimately, Division 18 is expected to have 126
150-kW and five 450-kW chargers and will be BEB-operational in 2026. Figure 3-21 illustrates the
process that Division 18 will undergo towards full electrification.
Figure 3-21. Division 18 – Existing, Construction Staging, and Buildout

Clockwise (from the upper left), from existing conditions (December 2018), to construction staging, to full buildout.
Source: ZEBGO, December 2018

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Final Rollout Plan

March 2021 | 3-29

Packet Pg. 90

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Planned ZEB Modifications and Timeline

1.4.D.d

4

DISADVANTAGED COMMUNITIES

The following section provides an overview of disadvantaged communities (DACs) in Metro’s service
area and the strategy to prioritize them for ZEB adoption.

Disadvantaged Communities Served

73 percent of Metro’s divisions are located in communities that are classified as “disadvantaged”
according to CalEnviroScreen. The conversion of existing CNG operations to BEB operations will
directly benefit the communities in the vicinity of these divisions by way of a reduction in noise and
local emissions. These divisions also serve multiple routes that traverse multiple DACs across Los
Angeles County.
Table 4-1 summarizes whether or not divisions are located in DACs and the number and percentage
of DACs that its respective routes serve. Figure 4-1 illustrates Metro divisions and routes in DACs.
Table 4-1. Disadvantaged Communities

Division

In DAC?

NOx Exempt Area?

Communities (Tracts)
Served

DACs Served (#)

DACs Served (%)

1

Yes

No

299

206

69%

2

Yes

No

299

234

78%

3

Yes

No

343

213

62%

5

Yes

No

285

211

74%

7

No

No

362

194

54%

8

No

No

283

114

40%

9

Yes

No

343

188

55%

13

No

No

251

148

59%

15

Yes

No

404

181

45%

18

Yes

No

480

339

71%

Source: CalEnviroScreen 3.0, June 2018

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Final Rollout Plan

March 2021 | 4-1

Packet Pg. 91

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

4.1

1.4.D.d

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Figure 4-1. DACs in Service Area

Source: ZEBGO, CalEnviroScreen 3.0, June 2018

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
4-2 | March 2021

Final Rollout Plan

Packet Pg. 92

1.4.D.d

4.2

DAC Prioritization Strategy

As previously mentioned, Phase 1’s ZEB transition is focused on the Silver and Orange BRT lines. The
second and third phases will focus on Metro’s other routes and services.

The population that resides in DACs tend to be society’s most vulnerable. They typically rely on the
public transit system, are more likely to be impoverished, and are more frequently exposed to harmful
emissions and pollutants that result in negative health outcomes. Thus, DAC communities will benefit
the most once ZEBs are adopted and this is why Metro is making a concerted effort to ensure that
divisions and routes within and that service DACs are among the first to be transitioned to ZEBs, as
shown in Table 4-1.

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Final Rollout Plan

March 2021 | 4-3

Packet Pg. 93

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Since ZEBs cannot operate unless infrastructure is in place to charge buses, Metro’s transition
(primarily Phases 2 and 3) largely focuses on division electrification and not individual routes. Once
divisions are electrified, buses will be strategically deployed to routes and service blocks with a priority
of DAC service. It should be noted that in Phase 2, three of the four divisions to be electrified divisions
are in DACs, the remaining four DAC divisions will be electrified in Phase 3.

1.4.D.d

5

WORKFORCE TRAINING

The following section provides an overview of Metro’s plan and schedule to train personnel on the
impending transition.

Training Requirements

The transition to ZEBs will significantly alter Metro’s service and operations. Converting to ZEBs from
CNG is an arduous endeavor and will impact all ranks of the organization. This will require extensive
change management and training which will be provided by the OEMs and Metro. Training will need
to be conducted after buses are procured and in advance of the delivery of said buses. Therefore, it is
expected that all personnel will be sufficiently trained before the buses arrive. Training conditions and
schedules will be included in procurement documents, as they are with all existing procurements. If
other OEM-provided buses are procured in the future and/or if new components, software, or protocols
are implemented, it is expected that Metro’s staff will be trained well in advance of the commissioning
of these additions. Since battery technology is rapidly evolving, it is likely that buses and supporting
battery chemistries and software will change between 2020 and 2040, therefore, Metro’s future
procurements/deliveries will require refresher or updated trainings for relevant staff.
The following provides a list of personnel and positions that will need to be retrained upon adoption
of ZEBs (this list is not exhaustive):
-

Bus Operators
Bus operators will need to be familiarized with the buses, safety, bus operations, and pantograph
operations.

-

Facilities Maintenance Staff and Maintenance
Facilities staff will need to be familiarized with scheduled and unscheduled repairs, high-voltage
systems, and the specific maintenance and repair of equipment.

-

First Responders
Local fire station staff will need to be familiarized with the new buses and supporting facilities.

-

Mechanics
Mechanics will need to be familiarized with the safety-related features and other components of
ZEBs.

-

Instructors
For both Operator Central Instruction and Maintenance, instructors will need to understand all
aspects of the transition of ZEBs to train others.

-

Service Attendants
Service attendants will become familiarized with proper charging protocol and procedures that are
ZEB-specific.

-

Management Staff
All management staff (supervisors, directors, etc.) will be familiarized with ZEB operations and
safety procedures.

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Final Rollout Plan

March 2021 | 5-1

Packet Pg. 94

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

5.1

1.4.D.d

6

COSTS AND FUNDING

The following section identifies potential funding sources that Metro may pursue in its adoption of
ZEBs.

Preliminary Costs

Based on preliminary estimates, Metro’s transition is expected to cost between $1.3 billion and $1.6
billion. Infrastructure will cost between $900 million and $1.4 billion. and BEBs are expected to cost
$222 million more than the conventional CNG buses. These costs only reflect capital infrastructure.
Various operations and maintenance costs, including utility, operating, and maintenance costs are still
be analyzed.

6.2

Funding Sources

There are a number of potential federal, state, local, and project-specific funding, and financing
sources at Metro’s disposal. To date, Metro has applied for and been awarded various Federal, State,
and Local funds for ZEB projects, as indicated in Table 6-1.
Table 6-1. Metro's ZEB Funding

Type

Agency

Funding Mechanism

Year

Status

Award

Federal

FTA

Low- or No-Emission Vehicle Grant

2015

Awarded

$4.3M

Federal

FTA

Low- or No-Emission Vehicle Grant

2016

Not Awarded

N/A

State

Caltrans

Transit and Intercity Rail Capital Program

2016

Not Awarded

N/A

Local

SQAMD

AB2766 Discretionary Fund

2017

Awarded

$2M

State

CARB

Carl Moyer Memorial Air Quality Standards 2018
Attainment Program

Not Awarded

N/A

State

Caltrans

Transit and Intercity Rail Capital Program

Not Awarded

N/A

2020

Source: Los Angeles Metropolitan Transportation Authority, February 2020

Metro is also leveraging utility-based programs such as LADWP’s Commercial EV Charging Station
Rebate Program and SCE’s Charge Ready Program. For funding, Metro will also continue to use local
tax measure(s) and other strategies to meet its 2030 goals, such as public-private partnerships, and
other grant opportunities.

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Final Rollout Plan

March 2021 | 6-1

Packet Pg. 95

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

6.1

1.4.D.d

7

START-UP AND SCALE-UP CHALLENGES

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Technological adaptation. Currently, Metro is modeling and planning for a transition based on
December 2018 service levels and existing ZEB technology. With challenging 2030 and 2040
deadlines looming, it is difficult to anticipate future technological enhancements and changes,
such as improved batteries and chargers. Slight changes in these technologies could improve bus
ranges, in turn, reducing costs. Metro (and the market) must be aware of these changes as it would
be counterproductive to invest in technologies that will soon be outdated.
Costs. Adoption of ZEBs has many benefits, including potential lifecycle cost savings. However,
the investment required for capital and change management will be very expensive. Metro will
have to be creative with funding mechanisms and sources to ensure that the transition to ZEB will
not be detrimental to its operations and service.
Market Production Factors. The ICT regulation will put a lot of pressure on OEMs to produce ZEBs
at unprecedented rates. However, it is not only California that is interested in converting to ZEBs.
These multi-state policy changes will have a great impact on these transitions; however, it will also
make it challenging to meet ZEB goals for agencies if supply of buses can meet with demand.
Phasing and Transition. Metro has the second largest transit fleet in the United States.
Transitioning to ZEBs without any service interruptions will be very challenging due to the limited
space for construction, staging buses, and maintaining service.
Utility Upgrades. Metro’s divisions are currently under the jurisdiction of two utilities, whereas
potential on-route charging locations are under nine. These utilities have different rate structures and
protocols to apply for and receive additional power. How each utility is sanctioned (whether municipal
or private) also dictates procedural requirements. These nuances will make it challenging to plan for
due to the variances in schedule and process.
Managing Power Demand. The transition to BEBs will require strategies to ensure that Metro can
utilize power in the most cost-efficient way. Metro is currently doing this via utility negotiations
and demand modeling to determine methods to reduce peak demands. However, shaving demand
may also come at a hefty capital cost, something that staff is currently analyzing.
Uncertainty of COVID-19. COVID-19 has impacted all facets of our global economy, transit is not
an exclusion. During the pandemic, ridership has plummeted and caused major shortfalls in
Metro’s budget which has impacted capital programs and operations. At this time, it is unclear
what short- and long-term impacts will be for service. There is a possibility that service ridership
levels may not return to previous levels resulting in changes to procurement and funding. Metro
will continue to analyze trends to determine service changes and plans.

In conclusion, Metro is still determining the path forward towards its transition goals. At this time,
Metro is slated to convert its entire fleet to ZEBs by 2030, 10 years in advance of what is required by
the ICT. Metro’s next steps in this process is to continue refining analysis and Master Planning efforts.

Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Final Rollout Plan

March 2021 | 7-1

Packet Pg. 96

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

As mentioned, Metro has a very aggressive ZEB transition schedule – 10 years before the ICT
regulation requires. To meet both deadlines, there are several challenges and opportunities that Metro
has identified. The following briefly described some of the challenges that Metro faces for its transition:

Attachment: Attachment D - LA Metro Rollout Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

1.4.D.d

Appendix A: Metro Board-Approved Resolution

Packet Pg. 97

1.4.D.e

San Francisco Commits To All-Electric Bus Fleet By 2035

“San Francisco is proud to once again lead on sustainable initiatives that not only improve our city, but improve the world,” said Mayor Farrell. “This new
investment represents a bold shift in how we move hundreds of thousands of people on public transit, while reaffirming San Francisco’s commitment to
sustainable energy practices.”
The SFMTA Board of Directors today approved a resolution supporting the commitment towards an all-electric bus fleet. Muni currently operates the largest fleet
of zero emissions electric trolley buses. Trolley buses, like all light rail, streetcar, and cable car vehicles, run on 100 percent greenhouse gas-free Hetch Hetchy
electricity via overhead wires. Muni also runs a fleet of low emissions electric hybrid vehicles. The electric hybrid vehicles run on battery, as well as clean,
renewable diesel.
“We are excited about the possibility that by 2035 we will be able to provide an all-electric fleet that won’t require overhead wires,” said Cheryl Brinkman,
Chairman of the SFMTA Board of Directors. “As an agency, we have always been forward thinkers when it comes to greening our fleet and we will continue to take
steps to test electric vehicles here in San Francisco to reach our goal.”
The SFMTA has been rolling out new electric hybrid buses with higher capacity on-board battery systems. The increased on-board battery capacity will allow the
SFMTA to run a test program to operate “Green Zones” along several electric hybrid routes that would run only by battery for significant portions of the route. The
“Green Zone” signifies an area in which the vehicle will not produce any emissions. The SFMTA is working to identify these zones throughout the city.
“Muni's transit system is the cornerstone of our city's environmentally sustainable transportation system and is one of the greenest in the world,” said Ed Reiskin,
SFMTA’s Director of Transportation. “Our efforts to take our fleet to the next level won’t only make for better and more efficient service, but they will continue the
work we are doing to be one of the cleanest fleets in the country and improve rider experience.”
The SFMTA is at the ready to move forward with electric bus technology when manufacturers can prove their electric buses can withstand heavy ridership and
steep hills. The agency would also have to consider new facilities that can charge a large fleet and developing a systemwide infrastructure to charge vehicles in
service or on the street. John Haley, SFMTA’s Transit Director said, “While the battery technology is emerging rapidly, it isn’t quite ready for primetime.
Manufacturers aren’t yet producing the number of all-electric buses San Francisco and other urban areas would need, nor could we guarantee that the vehicles
would work for the required 15 years with heavy ridership and challenging topography.”
In 2019, the SFMTA intends to purchase a limited number of zero-emission battery electric buses and test them in service throughout San Francisco to evaluate
how they perform on crowded and hilly routes. The most important step to support the zero-emission goal is to determine the infrastructure needs for electric
buses, including upgrades for our existing facilities to accommodate charging requirements and maintenance.
Of the nearly 900 all-electric buses purchased across the country, only 207 are actually in service. By contrast, Muni is currently operating 250 electric trolley
vehicles.
In recent years, the SFMTA has replaced over 90 percent of its older diesel buses with cleaner, more efficient electric hybrid vehicles that run on renewable diesel.
These electric hybrid vehicles offer dramatically lower fuel consumption, decreased engine idling time while in service, and a substantial reduction in emissions.
The SFMTA’s switch from conventional diesel to electric hybrid vehicles has reduced consumption of fuel by 5.4 million gallons and 82,000 tons of CO2 over the
12-year life of the fleet.
Over 50 percent of the transit fleet, including light rail, cable cars, historic streetcars and electric trolley buses are largely powered by greenhouse gas-free
hydropower generated from Hetch Hetchy. Beyond that, our new electric hybrid buses use 100 percent renewable fuel. This eliminates greenhouse gas emissions
and petroleum fuel and saves a million gallons of fuel each year. San Francisco’s transportation sector generates approximately 46 percent of the City’s total
greenhouse gas emissions mostly generated by the use of private cars and commercial trucks. By contrast, Muni carries 26 percent of all trips in the city, but
accounts for less than two percent of these emissions.
On April 19, 2018, in celebration of Earth Day, Mayor Mark Farrell committed San Francisco to net-zero greenhouse gas emission by 2050, a move that will
eliminate the City’s carbon footprint.

Packet Pg. 98

Attachment: Attachment E - San Francisco Commits To All-Electric Bus Fleet By 2035 (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Mayor Mark Farrell and the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency (SFMTA), which operates Muni, today announced San Francisco’s commitment to
have an all-electric bus fleet by 2035. This means that the SFMTA will only purchase all-electric buses starting in 2025 to meet the goal for 2035. An all-electric
bus does not use fuel and relies solely on the battery within its operating system.

MOVING TO A
ZERO‐EMISSION BUS
FLEET:
TRANSITION PLAN
May 2022

Prepared by King County Metro

Packet Pg. 99

Attachment: Attachment F - King County Metro Zero Emission Bus Fleet Transition Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

1.4.D.f

King County Metro Transit
Zero‐Emission Bus Fleet
Transition Plan

May 2022

Metro Transit Department
King Street Center, KSC-TR-0415201
S. Jackson St
Seattle, WA 98104
206-553-3000 TTY Relay: 711
www.kingcounty.gov/metro

Attachment: Attachment F - King County Metro Zero Emission Bus Fleet Transition Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

1.4.D.f

Packet Pg. 100

1.4.D.f

Executive Summary
Introduction
1. Fleet and Procurement






Current Fleet Planning
Early Short Range Proterra Fleet
Trolley Buses
Fleet Planning
Procurement Strategy and Standards

2. Facilities and Infrastructure
3. Charging Strategy





Infrastructure Deployment
Utility Rates (?)
Utility Readiness
Power Resiliency

4. Utility Partnerships
5. Information Technology (IT)



IT Platform
Vehicle Data

6. Operations
7. Workforce
8. Policy Environment
9. Financial Resources
10. Equity and Social Justice
Appendix A: Zero‐Emission History
Appendix B: Battery‐Electric Bus Technology Description

Attachment: Attachment F - King County Metro Zero Emission Bus Fleet Transition Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Contents

Packet Pg. 101

1.4.D.f

Achieving a zero‐emission mobility future is essential to King County Metro's core values of safety,
equity and sustainability. By protecting our air and water, reducing congestion, and expanding
accessibility and opportunity, we will create even more walkable and rollable communities that support
health and help everyone achieve their potential.
In 2019, our region’s transit network helped take the equivalent of more than 190,000 cars off the road
each day and prevented roughly 700,000 tons of greenhouse gas emissions. In the 2020 Strategic
Climate Action Plan (SCAP) and the Metro Strategic Plan, Metro pledged to do even more to address the
climate crisis countywide and in the fleet Metro operates. Metro committed to:




Reduce car trips and increase transit ridership to reduce the 6.1 million tons of greenhouse
gases emitted annually in King County from passenger vehicles by investing where needs are
greatest; providing fast, reliable, and integrated mobility services; and supporting transit‐
oriented develop countywide.
Transition to a zero‐emission fleet powered by renewable energy by 2035 to eliminate the
100,000 tons of greenhouse gases emitted annually by Metro’s bus fleet.

Metro’s climate goals promote the agency’s vision to deliver a regional, innovative, and integrated
mobility network that is safe, equitable and sustainable. Since 2016, King County Executive Dow
Constantine has directed Metro to transition to a zero‐emission fleet as efficiently as possible. In 2017,
Metro committed to transition to a zero‐emission fleet by 2040 so long as vehicle and charging
technology meets Metro’s current and future service needs, charging infrastructure meets our standard
operations, renewable energy supplies are secured, safety is maintained, staff are trained, and costs of
transitioning are monitored to ensure that incremental costs do not limit Metro’s ability to deliver and
expand service. The 2019 King County Council “Jump Start” legislation accelerated Metro’s initial
commitment from 2040 to 2035, with the stated intent to “reduce the overall carbon emissions from
transportation as quickly as possible while achieving the goals of Metro Connects.” In 2021, to support
its policy updates, Metro’s analysis found that the agency can achieve the greatest emission reductions
from investments in alternative fuels (e.g., renewable diesel), high frequency transit, transit‐supporting
land use (e.g., RapidRide plus transit‐oriented development) and transitioning to a zero‐emission bus
fleet.
Transitioning to a zero‐emission fleet by expanding the battery‐electric bus fleet and retaining electric
trolley buses, in complement with an integrated mobility system and transit‐supportive land use, are the
foundations of King County’s portfolio strategy to reduce transportation‐related greenhouse gas
emissions. By investing in transit service where the needs are greatest and prioritizing the scaled‐up
deployment of zero‐emissions buses in south King County where communities have been
disproportionately affected by air pollution, Metro is advancing equity.

Zero‐Emission Transition Report
Executive Summary

Attachment: Attachment F - King County Metro Zero Emission Bus Fleet Transition Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Executive Summary: A Zero‐Emission Vision

1
Packet Pg. 102

1.4.D.f

To support a 100 percent zero‐emissions fleet by 2035, Metro will use a phased approach to
 Acquire battery‐electric buses
 Build the necessary charging infrastructure and supportive information technology
 Convert transit operations
 Train and recruit the workforce
Key milestones are identified in Figure 1 and listed under ‘Key Transition Steps’ below.
Metro develops a long‐term fleet plan to identify bus purchases by year that takes into account planned
service, and bus type, age, and size. Metro will transition its fleet to zero‐emission by replacing hybrid
buses as they are retired with battery‐electric buses. All bus purchases from 2024 onward will be zero‐
emission. Based on the fleet plan, Metro identifies the infrastructure needed to support the fleet. Metro
will provide the necessary infrastructure with both new construction and renovation of existing facilities.

Key Transition Steps






Purchase of 40 extended‐range battery‐electric buses (BEBs) ‐ 20 40‐foot and 20 60‐foot – to be
put in service by the end of 2022
Opening of the South Base Test Charging Facility (SBTC) in 2022 that can charge 9 buses
simultaneously with chargers from three different vendors to support the first 40 extended‐
range BEB buses and to test the charging infrastructure (Figure 2)
Construction and electrification of the Interim Base at South Campus with charge management
in 2025 to support 120 new BEBs (Figure 2)
Deploy charging infrastructure for battery‐electric buses in the field at layover (on route)
locations

Zero‐Emission Transition Report
Executive Summary

Attachment: Attachment F - King County Metro Zero Emission Bus Fleet Transition Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Getting to a Zero‐Emission Fleet

2

Packet Pg. 103








Completion of the electrify transportation study, to inform on‐route charging locations and site
electrification planning
Opening of the South Annex Base by 2028 to accommodate up to 250 battery‐electric buses
with deployment of standard charge management system (Figure 2)
Conversion of Metro’s seven existing bus bases to support electrified operations
On‐going partnership efforts with local utilities, including planning for grid capacity and rate
structures
Continued development of charging standards, systems, and evolving technology of battery‐
electric buses
On‐going preparation and training of Metro’s workforce for a zero‐emission system, from
operators and maintenance staff to safety personnel to service planning and scheduling

Figure 2: South Campus Investments

Zero‐Emission Transition Report
Executive Summary

Attachment: Attachment F - King County Metro Zero Emission Bus Fleet Transition Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

1.4.D.f

3

Packet Pg. 104

1.4.D.f

King County Metro has established a goal of achieving a zero‐emissions bus fleet powered by renewable
energy by 2035. The following transition plan identifies the steps Metro will take in the near term as
well as its longer‐term strategy for achieving a zero‐emission bus fleet. This goal will be met through a
combination of battery‐electric buses (BEBs) and zero‐emission trolley buses (trolleys). This plan is
intended to satisfy a recent FTA requirement for including a Transition Plan along with any application
for funding of zero‐emission fleets or supportive infrastructure and to help guide Metro’s planning and
investment strategies as we move toward our zero‐emission goal.
The FTA identified the following requirements to be included in the Transition Plan:
1. Demonstrate a long‐term fleet management plan with a strategy for how the applicant intends to
use the current request for resources and future acquisitions. (Section 1: Fleet and Procurement)
2. Address the availability of current and future resources to meet costs for the transition and
implementation. (Section 8: Financial Resources)
3. Consider policy and legislation impacting relevant technologies.
4. Include an evaluation of existing and future facilities and their relationship to the technology
transition. (Section 2: Facilities and Infrastructure)
5. Describe the partnership of the applicant with the utility or alternative fuel provider. (Section 4:
Utility Partnerships)
6. Examine the impact of the transition on the applicant’s current workforce by identifying skill gaps,
training needs, and retraining needs of the existing workers of the applicant to operate and maintain
zero‐emission vehicles and related infrastructure and avoid displacement of the existing workforce.
(Section 7: Workforce)

Background
Department Overview: King County Metro is among the ten largest transit agencies in the United
States, with nearly 1,400 buses and 157 routes1. Pre‐Covid, Metro’s system reached more than 1500
buses2 and 215 routes. Metro operates a diverse service profile, including local bus routes, RapidRide
(bus rapid transit), vanpools and rideshare, ADA paratransit (Access) vans, and marine routes. In 2019,
before the pandemic, Metro served a daily average of 332,000 bus passengers.3 Ridership dipped during
the pandemic but is on the upswing. The bus fleet includes diesel‐hybrids, electric trolleys, and battery‐
electric buses (BEB). Fifty‐five percent of Metro’s current buses are 60‐foot, articulated buses. The non‐
bus revenue fleets include more than 1,100 active vanpool and rideshare vehicles and the ADA
paratransit program, Access, which includes nearly 400 active vehicles.
Metro has a history of taking steps to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. In 2004, Metro became
an early adopter of diesel‐hybrid buses. Originally starting service in 1940, Metro renewed its
commitment to the trolley fleet by purchasing 174 new zero‐emission trolley buses in 2015. The trolley
and diesel‐hybrid fleets have reduced the agency’s GHG emissions and supported Metro’s climate goals.
Metro was also an early adopter of battery electric buses with the purchase of 11 Proterras in 2016.
Metro is continuing this commitment as it looks to add more battery‐electric buses and continue its
operation of trolleys on its path toward a fully zero‐emission bus fleet.

Attachment: Attachment F - King County Metro Zero Emission Bus Fleet Transition Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Introduction

1

As of May 2022
Metro operated more than 1500 Metro‐owned buses pre‐Covid, plus 119 additional coaches for Sound Transit
3
Link to APTA ridership
2

Zero‐Emission Transition Report

1
Packet Pg. 105

1.4.D.f

Metro has been progressing towards a zero‐emission fleet since its initial commitment in 2017. Metro’s
plan to reach zero‐emission by 2035 includes both trolley and BEB buses. Our fleet today includes 174
zero‐emission trolleys and 21 battery‐electric buses (11 Proterra and 10 extended‐range New Flyer
buses), with the remainder being diesel‐electric hybrids. Between now and 2035, Metro will replace
diesel‐electric hybrids with BEBs as buses are ready for retirement, as shown in Figure 3. By 2035, its
fully zero‐emission fleet will have just more than 1,400 buses, per Metro’s current fleet plan. As
described below, Metro develops a fleet plan based on projected service. With the impacts of COVID‐19,
Metro’s current fleet plan forecasts minimal fleet growth in the near term. If service and ridership
projections increase more than the current projection, this could also increase the demand for fleet.

Fleet Planning
To guide Metro’s fleet management and infrastructure planning, Metro develops a long‐term fleet plan.
The fleet plan considers planned service and bus type, age and size to identify bus purchases by year.
Metro will transition its fleet to zero‐emission by replacing hybrid buses as they are retired with battery‐
electric buses. All bus purchases from 2024 onward will be zero‐emission.
Bus purchases based on the latest fleet plan which projects the types and timing of purchase of new
vehicles ‐ is represented in Table 1. The fleet plan is regularly evaluated through Metro’s Fleet Steering
Committee.

Transition to Zero Emission Bus Fleet
1,600
1,400
1,200
1,000
800
600
400
200
‐
2021

2022

2023

2024

2025

2026

Trolley

2027

2028

2029

Metro Battery Buses

2030
Hybrids

2031

2032

2033

2034

2035

Attachment: Attachment F - King County Metro Zero Emission Bus Fleet Transition Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

1. Fleet and Procurement

Figure 1: Fleet Transition to Zero‐Emission
Zero‐Emission Transition Report

2

Packet Pg. 106

Table 1: Bus Purchase Plan
2024 2025 2026
BEBs
120
Trolleys
Total ZE

2027

2028
240

2029
15

2030
175

30

2031
55

2032
235

2033
209

2034
35

2035
250

Total
1334
30
1364

Near Term Bus Purchases
Metro has recently started taking delivery of an order of 40 extended range New Flyer BEBs (twenty 40‐
foot and twenty 60‐foot). As of the writing of this plan, 10 buses had arrived, with the remainder
expected to arrive over the course of the year. All 40 extended‐range BEBs are expected to be fully
entered into service by the end of 2022. These buses will operate from South Base Test Facility, which
was commissioned in spring 2022 (and described more in Section 2). These extended‐range buses
supplement the initial 11 short‐range BEBs launched on the Eastside of King County. The short‐range
BEBs are supported with proprietary charging infrastructure at the Eastgate park‐and‐ride and Bellevue
Base.
In 2025, Metro will receive 120 BEBs to operate from Interim Base. In 2028, the next 250 BEBs will arrive
to operate out of the new South Annex Base. In the following years, Metro will continue to replace its
remaining diesel‐hybrids with BEBs through 2035, as buses age and charging infrastructure is built both
at operating bases and at layover charging facilities.

Trolleys
Metro has successfully operated a zero‐emissions trolley program since 1939. Currently, the trolley fleet
comprises approximately 12 percent of the total fleet and carries about 15 percent of riders4. The
trolleys run exclusively in Seattle and continue to be an integral part of Metro’s system.
Metro plans to grow its electric trolley fleet in 2027, from 174 to 204 coaches, with the purchase of an
additional thirty trolleys. Metro is considering opportunities for strategic expansion and enhancement of
the trolley system. In addition, Metro is planning to upgrade the trolley battery systems on the existing
fleet as the current batteries reach the end of their useful life. Upgraded batteries will improve off‐wire
capabilities and provide flexibility to enable the trolleys to navigate construction zones and other
blockages. Metro is also planning to replace its existing trolley fleet when it reaches retirement age in
about 2033.

Early Short Range Proterra Fleet
In 2016, as Metro was first exploring battery bus technology, we purchased three first‐generation,
rapid‐charge, Proterra buses followed by a purchase of eight second‐generation Proterra buses in 2018.
These buses have a range of approximately 25 miles.
Metro evaluated competitive vendor proposals and chose to work with Proterra because, at the time,
they had deployed the most electric buses in North America. Currently, these buses are in revenue
service for two routes, 226 and 241, supported by both layover charging, at Eastgate park‐and‐ride, and
base charging at Metro’s Bellevue Base. Eastgate has three chargers on a single gantry with capacity for
4

Attachment: Attachment F - King County Metro Zero Emission Bus Fleet Transition Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

1.4.D.f

Based on 2022 Metro ridership data

Zero‐Emission Transition Report

3

Packet Pg. 107

1.4.D.f

As late as 2018, the electrical dispenser mechanism developed by Proterra, and used by the Eastside
routes 226 and 241, known as infrastructure‐mounted blade charging (“blade charging”), was being
considered as a standard by the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE)13 J‐3105 standards committee
(see Section ”Procurement Strategy and Standards,” following) for more information on SAE
standards).However, in the final published standard, blade charging was not included.
The SAE standards adopted in January 2020 have been incorporated in Metro’s procurement
documents. Metro expects to continue to use the Proterra blade‐charging buses in revenue service for
the next decade at a minimum because the infrastructure exists and there is no need for replacement
until the electrification of Bellevue Base occurs.

Testing Zero‐Emission Technology
Bus technology has evolved since Metro’s initial investment in the short‐range Proterra buses. With the
development of extended range BEBs, the newer technology provided options for fleet procurements
that could better meet Metro’s operational needs. To help inform future purchases and to better
understand the technology, Metro completed testing of 10 extended range battery‐electric buses,
manufactured by BYD, New Flyer, and Proterra. The 10 test buses included 40‐ft buses and 60‐ft
articulated buses, two per length (40‐ft or 60‐ft), and per OEM5. Testing was conducted to verify the
140‐mile range and performance specifications with various loads, terrain, and weather conditions. One
of each length was operated with passengers. The buses, batteries, and charge facilities were leased.
During the summer and fall, the buses performed at or above expectations. More testing is required to
gain additional experience with revenue service and operation in cold weather. The testing helped
Metro staff learn more about the technology and complete updates and revisions to training
requirements and documentation. It also informed purchasing and procurement specifications.
Prior to the bus test, Metro determined that overhead, pantograph down charging was the best option
because it provided the most efficient and safest power transfer method available in the industry while
keeping the weight of the buses down. (See further discussion in the ‘Procurement Strategy and
Standards’ section). This decision was based on analysis of various charging methods and will provide
the basis for base design and conversion moving forward.
Metro also developed a concept of a test charging facility to allow assessment of different charging
options, discussed further in Section 2.

Procurement Strategy and Standards
SAE International, also known as the Society of Automotive Engineers, is a global association of
engineers and technical experts in the aerospace, automotive, and commercial vehicle industries whose
core competencies include standards development through consensus. Establishing technical standards
5

Proterra does not manufacture 60‐ft articulated buses, therefore the test buses consist of two 40‐ft BYD buses,
two 60‐ft BYD buses, two 40‐ft New Flyer buses, two 60‐ft New Flyer buses and two 40‐ft Proterra buses, for a
total of 10.

Zero‐Emission Transition Report

Attachment: Attachment F - King County Metro Zero Emission Bus Fleet Transition Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

five chargers, the first of its kind in North America. These buses provide valuable information regarding
electricity use and utility charges and allow Metro operators, mechanics, and riders to experience the
technology.

4

Packet Pg. 108

are for the purpose of advancing quality, safety, and innovation in these industries. The organization has
established more than 37,000 standards in their history. In a rapidly changing field such as electric
vehicle technology, standards serve to establish baseline attributes of various systems (such as charging
systems) that enable a level of standardization to facilitate commercial adoption while the industry
continues to evolve. The SAE standards denoted in this document were agreed to by all North American
bus manufacturers, including Proterra, and will be used for procurement documents to ensure
consistency and interoperability exists between chargers, charge dispensers and buses.
When the 2017 Metro feasibility study was released, the North America bus charging standards were
not finalized. Charging standards were called out in the 2017 study as a key requirement to support the
battery‐electric bus industry.
Currently, there are two proposed standards—plug‐in charging (SAE J1772 CCS‐1), and automated (SAE
3105) which includes pantograph down charging (SAE J3105‐1), pantograph up charging (SAE J3105‐2),
and pin and socket (SAE J3105‐3). The last two have not yet been deployed in North America. The
former, SAE J3105‐1 has a few hundred deployments including Seattle, Los Angeles, New York City and
other major transit agencies. After review and approval through the Zero‐ Emissions Bus Program
governance structure, Metro is recommending purchase of buses using the pantograph down charging
standard, SAE J3105‐1, for multiple reasons. All North American bus manufacturers have experience
building to this standard. It lessens the weight on the bus because the bus carries minimal charging
hardware; a lower weight bus allows for greater range and longer battery life. This charging system
places all responsibility for charger connection on the technology and not on the operator through the
standard’s hardware, communication, and geo‐positioning mechanism. Additionally, fleet maintenance
prefers the pantograph down standard because it lessens bus maintenance. Plug‐ in charging ports (SAE
J1772 CCS‐1) will be available for maintenance needs and on road recovery if necessary.

Bus Batteries
With the expansion of Metro’s electrified fleet, there will be an increasing need to ensure the continued
safe and proper handling of the bus batteries once they have reached the end of their service life. Since
this usually happens once or twice before the vehicle frame itself reaches end‐of‐life, there is a need for
a process to handle battery packs separate from their on‐vehicle housings. Such a process is already in
place for the high voltage batteries coming from Metro’s fleet of hybrid buses, with some batteries
being recycled and others being reused based upon battery chemistry, market conditions, and safety
requirements. However, there are indications that disposal of batteries and fire protection storage costs
will increase in the upcoming years. To improve this system and accommodate additional battery
quantities, chemistries and configurations, Metro is working with partners, such as the Pacific Northwest
National Laboratory and the NAATBatt6 trade association.
Metro is also exploring various other strategies such as OEMs take‐back and in‐house stationary power
applications.
There will be increasing opportunities to partner with utilities around demand response to further lower
electrical bills. IT will continue to evolve with the final goal of a fully integrated system that both

Attachment: Attachment F - King County Metro Zero Emission Bus Fleet Transition Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

1.4.D.f

6

NAATBatt International promotes the development and commercialization of electrochemical energy storage
technology and the revitalization of advanced battery manufacturing in North America.

Zero‐Emission Transition Report

5

Packet Pg. 109

1.4.D.f

Battery‐electric bus technology is dynamic; the solutions Metro develops today are expected to be
scalable, but Metro anticipates there will be changes as the technology matures and Metro better
understands how to deploy and manage zero‐ emissions buses. Metro needs to continually evolve its
battery‐electric bus program to ensure it is scalable, innovative, and sustainable while still providing
service at the highest levels and improving on current practices. The next two decades will be a time of
tremendous change and growth for both for Metro and battery‐electric technology. Enhancements in
energy and power density will improve Metro’s operational capability and resiliency.
Additionally, there are trade‐offs to consider with battery size and charging strategy. Strategic use of
layover charging can help support buses with smaller batteries. These trade‐offs are discussed further in
Section 3, under ‘Layover Charging and Bus Battery Size’.

2. Facilities and Infrastructure
Supporting battery‐electric buses will take both electrified base facilities to park, charge and maintain
buses and on‐route charging infrastructure to provide charging in the field. The base facilities will come
from both new facilities and conversions of existing facilities. This section describes the facilities planned
to support the fleet plan. Figure 7, later in this section, shows an overlay of the facility planning and the
fleet plan.

New Base Construction
Metro has begun building new facilities with large‐scale electrical charging infrastructure. Metro is also
developing information technology (IT) solutions for charge management and route planning. The first
focus is on South Campus as shown in Figure 4. South Campus includes the South Base Test Facility,
Interim Base and South Annex Base.
South Base Test Facility. The South Base Test Facility (SBTF) was recently commissioned to support the
initial 40 BEBs arriving this year. This facility was designed to enable testing of equipment from multiple
vendors in multiple configurations to inform design of future infrastructure and test interoperability. It
also provides training opportunities. A diagram and further description of South Base Test Facility is on
the following page.
Interim Base. The newly constructed Interim Base at South Campus (Interim Base) will be electrified in
2025. The electrification of Interim Base involves the design and electrification to support 120 battery
electric bus. Interim Base is intended as a prototype for future battery‐electric bus deployment and base
electrification. Metro expects there will be lessons learned and changes that will refine Metro processes
and base design as electrification occurs across the bases and fleet.
South Annex Base. South Annex Base at South Campus (South Annex Base) will be in operation as an
electrified base in 2028 with capacity for 250 BEBs.

Zero‐Emission Transition Report

Attachment: Attachment F - King County Metro Zero Emission Bus Fleet Transition Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

manages electrical load between Metro and the utility but also interfaces with vehicle maintenance,
asset management and dispatch software.

6

Packet Pg. 110

Figure 2: South Campus Electrification Projects

Zero‐Emission Transition Report

Attachment: Attachment F - King County Metro Zero Emission Bus Fleet Transition Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

1.4.D.f

7

Packet Pg. 111

1.4.D.f

South Base Test Facility (SBTF): A Valuable First Step









SBTF is large enough to provide charging infrastructure for the 40 extended‐range BEBs without
affecting operational integrity of the base
Completion of this capital project provided Metro with additional experience using the Energy
Savings Performance Contracting (ESPC) alternative contracting method for electrification
infrastructure construction for potential time savings and other benefits
It allows Metro to test compatibility between various charger and bus manufacturers
demonstrating interoperability;7 as well as understanding the equipment reliability
In the next decade as charger software develops, Metro can deploy new or upgraded charge
management software in this controlled environment removed, from base charging
infrastructure. Like all software upgrades, adequate testing in an environment localized to a
non‐essential facility is key to success.
It serves as a facility for the development of training and maintenance practices and for sharing
Metro’s learnings with others as a leader in the industry.

What’s learned from SBTF will inform the planning for the charging infrastructure at future facilities.

Figure 3: South Base Test Charging Facility
7

Interoperability ensures that products from different bus and charger manufacturers work together and allows
Metro to purchase buses and chargers based on quality and cost of a product. This limits dependence on a single
manufacturer and reduces risk of relying on technology that may become obsolete.

Zero‐Emission Transition Report

Attachment: Attachment F - King County Metro Zero Emission Bus Fleet Transition Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

The South Base Test Facility is an important step as Metro progresses in deployment of its charging
infrastructure:

8

Packet Pg. 112

1.4.D.f

Metro has also begun planning for the conversion of its
existing bases to support battery‐electric buses which
will be a critical part of the transition. Metro owns and
operates seven existing bus bases across King County.
Metro plans to convert its bases sequentially with each
base expected to take between 18 and 24 months for
conversion depending on the size and complexity. As
bases are closed for conversion, the overall system
capacity will be impacted temporarily. Additionally,
there will a permanent reduction in capacity of 10‐15
percent due to the installation of charging
infrastructure within the yards.
The plan to convert bases seeks to balance
construction efficiency with the ability to maintain
operations. Figure 7 shows the projected conversion
schedule, fleet projection and system capacity. Given
our current fleet size, once Interim Base and South
Annex Base are completed, there should be enough
system capacity to enable the shutdown of bases
necessary to allow conversion while still supporting
operations.

Order of Conversion: Balancing System Capacity
and Stable Operations
The order in which Metro plans to convert its bases
was determined based on capacity, risk versus benefit,
and funding. Metro plans to shut down each facility
during the conversion process which will affect
between 7 and 17 percent of total system capacity
depending on the base that is shut down. Additional
concurrent impacts to base operations such as
necessary maintenance and potential impact from
Sound Transit construction activities and other entities
must be considered as well. Timing and extent of
power grid capacity work could also impact the final
schedule and sequence of the base conversion. There
will also be permanent capacity loss post‐conversion
due to the added infrastructure in the yard which must Figure 4: Metro Existing Bus Base Locations
be considered to avoid dipping into unstable
operations.
Each of our bases has independent complexities that factor into how difficult it will be to convert and
the perceived benefit from its conversion. Conversion of each base will require companion layover
charging sites.
Zero‐Emission Transition Report

Attachment: Attachment F - King County Metro Zero Emission Bus Fleet Transition Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Base Conversion

9

Packet Pg. 113

Figure 5: Base Capacity and Electrification Conversion

Metro plans to convert its bases sequentially with each base expected to take between 18 and 24 months for conversion depending on the size
and complexity. As bases are closed for conversion, the overall system capacity will be impacted temporarily. Additionally, there will be a
permanent reduction in capacity of 10‐15 percent due to the installation of charging infrastructure within the yards. The conversion schedule
seeks to balance construction efficiency with the ability to maintain operations and takes into consideration characteristics of each base.

Attachment: Attachment F - King County Metro Zero Emission Bus Fleet Transition Plan (4728 : Zero

1.4.D.f

Packet Pg. 114

1.4.D.f

3. Charging Strategy
Charging infrastructure is comprised of an electrical connection component (plug/socket),
communications (antenna), IT (software) and a structural component. For Metro’s preferred charging
method, the structural component is a concrete base, steel truss gantry that holds the charging heads
and the connection to the bus. Metro has chosen to use a pantograph down system.
Attached to the pantograph, through electrical wiring, are contact bars that dispense the electricity.
There are various manufacturers building charge heads. Depending on the charger manufacturer
chosen, the footprint required for the cabinets and switchgear will vary.

Figure 8. High-level charging infrastructure schematic
North American transit agencies are moving towards a mixed approach to electrical infrastructure
consisting of both on base charging as well as on route charging.8 It is worth noting another change in
technology that occurred since the 2017 Study. At that time, charging and fleet types were viewed as
distinct, either slow or fast charge options. Now BEB battery types and charging have converged to allow
for both charging options within the same bus. In general, the industry is moving to having most of the
charging located on bases with low‐power, overnight charging. However, for longer blocks of work,
layover charging locations are available. At layover locations buses charge during regularly scheduled
driver breaks. This approach does not keep batteries in a full state of charge but provides enough energy
to allow the batteries to complete blocks of work and return to base for most charging.

Attachment: Attachment F - King County Metro Zero Emission Bus Fleet Transition Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Charging Infrastructure Deployment

8

Metro’s BEB Strategic Program Manager regularly meets with other transit agencies developing BEB programs
and most are pursuing a strategy of base and on route/layover charging.

Zero‐Emission Transition Report

11
Packet Pg. 115

1.4.D.f

Metro’s internal testing has shown that the 60‐foot extended‐range battery‐electric buses can reliably
support a 140‐mile range based on the topography and climate conditions of our region. This 140‐mile
range supports approximately 70 percent of our routes (blocks of work) under our current system
design, leaving 30 percent of our service needing a solution to extend their range. To support more
frequent service and longer routes such as many of the RapidRide routes, Metro plans to develop “On‐
route” or layover charging. Layover charging stations will ideally be located at park‐and‐rides and other
layover locations to take advantage of operator break time to partially recharge the bus without having
to return the vehicle to base.

Increasing Resiliency and Flexibility
Layover charging extends the range a bus can go without having to return to a base and adds resiliency
and flexibility into the system. Layover chargers will provide options and will be valuable for buses as
batteries age and when weather impacts battery performance. Additionally, layover chargers distribute
load and electrical infrastructure over a larger area which increases resiliency. They also increase
flexibility by supporting the operations of routes from different bases, which will be valuable as routes
are shifted between bases during conversion to electrification.

Layover Charging and Bus Battery Size
Incorporating layover charging into the system will influence the size of batteries needed on a bus. The
decision regarding battery‐pack sizing versus layover charging is a balance. The battery‐pack must be
large enough to support all blocks of work. However, an overly large battery is expensive and heavy.
Batteries also deteriorate over time and lose range. Building layover charging infrastructure strategically
throughout the County will increase operational efficiency by enabling buses to charge as needed during
scheduled layovers. This strategy also allows Metro to purchase the smallest battery packs needed to
support these blocks of work, thereby reducing the cost and weight of the bus. Battery packs must be
large enough however to support sufficient range ‐ short‐range BEBs such as our first 11 Proterras for
example are very limited in where than can be used in our system. An additional benefit to
incorporating layover charging is resiliency – if one charging location is unavailable, the layover sites
provide alternate locations to charge the buses and, as batteries degrade and require more charging,
the layover locations can be used more frequently to support the ranges these buses need to meet.
North American transit agencies have begun settling on civil infrastructure to support charging.
Generally, large, North American transit agencies like Los Angeles Metro, New York City Metropolitan
Transportation Authority, and the Chicago Transit Authority are designing charging infrastructure with
an overhead bridge‐like structure (gantry), like that at the Eastgate park‐and‐ride. This system allows for
either higher or lower powered charging and provides operational efficiency for bases because, unlike
plug‐in charging, there are no cords to manage. At layover locations, either a gantry or mast‐style can be
used.9 Metro will be building overhead gantry charging infrastructure at its bases and layover locations
to support BEBs.

Attachment: Attachment F - King County Metro Zero Emission Bus Fleet Transition Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

On‐Route Charging

9

Metro’s BEB Strategic Program Manager regularly meets with other transit agencies developing BEB programs
and most are building overhead charging infrastructure.

Zero‐Emission Transition Report

12
Packet Pg. 116

1.4.D.f

Metro is pursuing five initial layover sites in
South King County to support Interim and
South Annex Base electrification. These
initial sites have been selected to leverage
work that is underway, primarily as Sound
Transit is building new or upgrading existing
transit centers related to Link light rail
construction and ST BRT investments. The
initial sites include South Renton Transit
Center, Kent Station, Kent/Des Moines, the
Federal Way Transit Center and King County
owned Burien Transit Center.
Metro is also in the process of identifying
what locations are the best candidates for
layover charging across the system. A study
currently underway is taking a closer look at
Metro’s service network as well as layover
locations and other potential hubs.

Working with Others
Layover charging will require coordination
and partnerships with others, including
Sound Transit owned
King County owned
jurisdictions, utilities, other transit agencies
and the private sector. Layover charging will
Figure 9. South King County Planned Layover Charging Locations
need significant electrical infrastructure in
multiple jurisdictions throughout the County. It will also require physical space, either at off‐street
locations such as park‐and‐rides and other transit hubs or possibly within public right of way.
Jurisdiction support and partnership in developing charging infrastructure will be critical. Jurisdictions
will play a role in permitting, zoning codes and standards and can facilitate on‐route charging
development. Additionally, support and guidance for infrastructure development at the state level could
also help facilitate. Partnering with other transit agencies such as Sound Transit who also own key
terminal locations in King County may create efficiencies through shared charging stations. There could
also be opportunities for public‐private partnerships with companies such as Microsoft, Amazon or
others as the private sector also explores electrification.
Metro is a leader and active participant in activities with other transit agencies and industry
organizations such as the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) and the Society of Automotive
Engineers (SAE) in developing standards and sharing information. We have also cooperated with utilities
and the University of Washington on conducting studies, sharing data and supporting grant applications
and retired batteries. We are also coordinating with local technical training programs at local colleges to
help prepare Metro’s future workers to maintain and operate our electric vehicles and charging
infrastructure.

Zero‐Emission Transition Report

Attachment: Attachment F - King County Metro Zero Emission Bus Fleet Transition Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Locating Charging Sites

13
Packet Pg. 117

1.4.D.f

As Metro moves forward with the battery‐electric bus program, one of the keys for success is
negotiating an appropriate tariff with the utilities. Metro buses operate inboth Seattle City Light (SCL)
and Puget Sound Energy (PSE) territory. Interim Base and South Annex Base are in Seattle City Light
territory. Metro is actively engaging with both utilities on tariff rates but is initially focused on Seattle
City Light because of the nearer term projects. Figure 10 shows the service areas of Seattle City Light
and Puget Sound Energy.

Figure 10. Service areas of Puget Sound Energy and Seattle City Light
In general terms, monthly electricity bills resulting from vehicle charging typically include fixed costs,
energy costs, demand costs, and taxes and fees. First, there is a fixed or minimum cost that is applied
per meter regardless of the amount of electricity used. Second, there is the actual cost of energy
(commonly called “usage”) which is calculated by applying a rate per kWh to the total kWh’s used by the
chargers to replenish the batteries in a given month. Third, utilities typically assess a demand charge,
which is applied per kW based on the maximum power drawn by the chargers (also commonly called
“load” or “demand”) within a given time period each month. Depending on the type of tariff structure,
different energy and/or demand rates may apply based on time of day (peak versus off‐peak periods).
Furthermore, these peak periods may change based on season of the year. Finally, taxes and fees are
assessed. There can be several individual fees, some of which are based on usage and others based on
demand.

Zero‐Emission Transition Report

Attachment: Attachment F - King County Metro Zero Emission Bus Fleet Transition Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

4. Utility Partnerships

14
Packet Pg. 118

1.4.D.f

Utility Readiness

Seattle City Light has conducted a system impact study for Interim Base. Seattle City Light has two
electrical feeders that are accessible for service. Feeder A runs north/south on the west side of E
Marginal Way S and Feeder B runs north/south on the east side of E Marginal Way S. Feeder A can
handle the additional load required for Interim Base without any required system modifications. Feeder
B is not a viable feeder to support Interim Base. Seattle City Light can support the needs of Interim Base
with no significant infrastructure work to the feeders. However, Metro is working with the utility on the
best redundancy and resiliency plan. Additionally, Metro will continue to have diesel‐hybrid buses
running out of the South Base in the near term, which can be used if electrical charging fails or if power
outages occur that impact to the ability to provide service.

Power Resiliency
A battery‐electric bus operating plan must allow for service delivery when there are power outages that
last beyond the battery storage capacity. For Interim Base before our system if fully electrified, diesel‐
hybrids will replace battery‐electric buses until power is restored if there is a power failure. In the longer
term, Metro must engage thought leaders and emergency management expertise in designing power
resiliency for this new operating model. Resiliency options should extend beyond the local power utility,
including on‐base solar power, multiples substations or large battery storage banks of reserve energy.
Another challenge is the resilience required for an extended time, such as natural or humanmade
disasters that extend power outages for a prolonged period as the local power utility is trying to recover
their systems. Public transportation is typically a critical infrastructure in the times of natural disasters,
not only for regular or amended service, but also as warming coaches, evacuation and relocation, triage
and emergency transport. A discussion has begun with Seattle City Light about power restoration to
Metro in cases of catastrophic failure. Over the upcoming months, conversations need to occur with
local and county emergency managers to discuss how a potentially electric fleet may change their
expectations for major incidents and disaster support to improve recovery services.

5. Information Technology: Charge Management and Other Investments
Metro is working with various internal and external groups on information technology (IT) investments
to support electrification. Technology infrastructure is essential to support fleet electrification. The
battery charge infrastructure can be used to charge individual coaches, but an overall charge
management system is critical to driving efficient fleet charging.

Charge Management
A charge management system (CMS) is a software/firmware/hardware system that provides control
mechanisms over the amount of power being deployed by the charge heads. This system can prevent
unnecessary fees by the utilities, and efficiently manage power to batteries while communicating with
the utility to avoid peak demand or grid instability. At its most basic, a charge management system can
be deployed at the charger level; the charger is prevented from providing above a preset amount of
power, thus preventing multiple chargers from charging at high levels and triggering demand fees.

Zero‐Emission Transition Report

Attachment: Attachment F - King County Metro Zero Emission Bus Fleet Transition Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Utility readiness is a critical component of Metro’s path to electrification. Metro will work with the
utilities to assess readiness on a site‐by site basis.

15
Packet Pg. 119

1.4.D.f





Minimizing electricity rates that fluctuate throughout the day based on demand
Requirements for coach charge depending upon vehicle assignment
The age of the equipment (older batteries are less efficient)

Charge Management and Layover Charging
When Metro first purchased BEBs, the industry standard was short‐range, fast‐charging buses like the 11
Proterra buses currently serving the Eastside. Use of the Proterra buses requires layover (i.e., on route),
higher‐powered chargers installed at Eastgate park‐and‐ride to ensure batteries have enough range to
complete the service profile without returning to the base to charge (see Error! Reference source not
found. below). If not properly
managed through a CMS, higher‐
power charging at layover facilities
will lead to unnecessarily high
electrical bills.10 The CMS collects
data from chargers and batteries at a
centralized location and can
determine if certain charge locations
are approaching electrical load limits
that lead to fees from the utility. The
software can automatically lower or
stop power levels to buses that do
not require charging (i.e., batteries
with enough charge to complete
Figure 6: Eastgate park‐and‐ride charging
assigned work) and prioritize buses
that require the most charging.
Layover charging without CMS controls leads to buses charging in brief spurts all day and at times of
peak electrical demand, like the evening, which could result in extra costs. Additionally, with small
battery‐pack buses, routes are limited. Smaller battery packs can only support charging on lower
mileage routes and on routes where charging can be accommodated every 25 miles (i.e., routes would
have to be adjusted to accommodate the range of small battery‐packs, which hinders operational
efficiency). Recently, transit agencies and bus OEMs have begun moving towards large battery‐pack,
slower‐charging buses. These buses charge overnight at lower power, and the large battery packs allow
for longer ranges. While on‐base charging lowers electricity costs, the current battery packs do not have
the range to support all service profiles without some midday charging.

Vehicle Data
Currently, Metro collects vehicle performance, mileage, and fault code data for its buses through a
Vehicle Information Box (“VIB”). This data interfaces with the current M5 Asset Management
maintenance database (“M5”), updating mileage information and identifying potential repair codes and
maintenance needs.

Attachment: Attachment F - King County Metro Zero Emission Bus Fleet Transition Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

The charge management system needs to take into consideration:

10

Jean‐Baptiste Gallo, Ted Bloch‐Rubin and Jasna Tomić, “Peak Demand Charges and Electric Transit Buses” (2014),
https://calstart.org/wp‐content/uploads/2018/10/Peak‐Demand‐Charges‐and‐Electric‐Transit‐Buses.pdf.

Zero‐Emission Transition Report

16
Packet Pg. 120

As battery‐electric buses are launched, vehicle performance, mileage and fault code data will interface
with M5 and the replacement Enterprise Asset Management system through data loggers that will also
provide data elements that are specific to battery‐electric bus vehicles, such as State of Charge (“SoC”)
and evaluation of battery usage. Under the terms of the procurement documents, any data from the
buses will belong to King County and will be provided to the County in an unencrypted “raw” format. Per
normal Metro processes, this data will be used to support vehicle maintenance. In the future, the
vehicle data should be incorporated into the broader IT platform described below.

Scheduling and Dispatch of Electric Fleet
Metro’s Scheduling “HASTUS” software is being upgraded to adopt software features that support the
requirements of a fully electric fleet. The scheduling process must take into account the charge capacity
of the fleet and on‐route charging needed to complete assigned work. The scheduling software creates
vehicle schedules by chaining together service trips and minimizing deadhead and layover time and
distance. With a fully electric fleet, the scheduling system must accommodate on‐route charging, and
determine how to chain together service trips into vehicle schedules based on requirements for and
availability of on‐route charging stations.
Dispatch of Metro’s current diesel hybrid fleet assumes that each bus is fully fueled at the base before
assignment. The main considerations for dispatching buses are the type of vehicle required, and the
mileage required to perform the assignment relative to the vehicle’s required maintenance. With an
electrified fleet, the addition of the electric charge capacity must be considered when assigning a bus,
coupled with the accessibility and proximity of layover charging available on route. These criteria must
be matched against the charge required to perform the assignment, as well as additional influencing
factors such as topography and temperature.
In addition to matching appropriate coach options with assigned work, the base yard management
system must plan for the circulation of coaches through charging stations, and position coaches so that
adequately‐charged buses are accessible to be dispatched as they are needed. The system must track
circulation and dispatching to support the frequency of dispatch required to support peak service
demands.
The current Vehicle Dispatch system needs to be replaced to accommodate the dispatch requirements
of an electrified fleet. A technology Dispatch system replacement project is planned for the 2023‐2024
biennium.

6. Operations
Metro is planning to first deploy the battery electric buses on routes in South King County. The first 40
buses will be operating from South Campus, using the new South Base Test Facility to charge. The
service profile design began by analyzing all routes from South Base. From these routes, Metro’s
scheduling group identified vehicle assignments of less than 140 miles, a range current testing supports,
and the range required in the procurement documents to determine which routes would be supported
from the initial deployment.
The next large orders of battery buses will also operate from Metro’s South Campus as Interim Base
opens in 2025 and South Annex Base in 2028. For these next deployments, Metro is planning to develop
several layover chargers. With layover charging in place, battery‐electric buses can be assigned to
vehicle assignments that are longer than 140 miles. To help identify optimal locations for on‐route
Zero‐Emission Transition Report

Attachment: Attachment F - King County Metro Zero Emission Bus Fleet Transition Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

1.4.D.f

17
Packet Pg. 121

chargers, Metro is conducting a Transit System Electrification Study that will include an analysis of
energy needs of service routes, factoring in topography, varying weather, and passenger loading. This
will help inform service planning as well as suggest locations such as park‐and‐rides, mobility hubs and
transit‐oriented development sites that could offer potential charging locations.

7. Workforce
Metro has developed and is expanding upon training and educational programs for vehicle
maintenance, operators and other employees working with battery‐electric buses. Metro has a strong
foundation in electrified transportation. Metro operates and maintains the electric trolley system which
has been in operation since 1939 and Metro’s hybrid diesel‐electric buses include batteries.
Training is required for battery maintenance, electrical infrastructure maintenance, bus cleaning and
maintenance, safety and dispatching, operator training, transit control center and service quality. The
development of these training programs spans groups from across the organization including Safety and
Security, Vehicle Maintenance, Fleet Engineering, Capital Planning and Power and Facilities.
Metro is working both to support existing employees through training and to recruit new employees
with appropriate skills. Metro’s Vehicle Maintenance group works with local Community Colleges to hire
graduates for the mechanic rank. Our in‐house educational programs support workers to stay current
on technology and high voltage safety. Our work force is equitable and our union very supportive to
employees. We work to recruit and retain employees with a competitive pay scale and create a
respectful and diverse work environment. Furthermore, we ensure employees have the training
necessary to safely perform their jobs.
Additionally, fleet procurement includes training for vehicle maintenance for our fleet needs with each
contract.

Collaborating with Labor Management
King County Metro Vehicle Maintenance has a long history collaborating with our Local 587 partners. In
the case of the Battery Electric Training our Labor Management were very supportive and pleased that
we are taking a proactive approach to educate their members on the emerging technology that will be
our future.

Apprenticeships
King County Metro Vehicle Maintenance has an established State Registered Apprenticeship
program. The program will be expanding to support the Battery Electric bus efforts and education. As
King County Metro Transit is a leader in Equity and Social Justice, we will be drawing from our current
diverse workforce to fill the new apprenticeship positions. We are always searching and reaching out to
our local school and colleges for new talent and individuals who are interested in joining the transit
world.

BEB Training Academy
To develop a workforce with the skills required to maintain a zero‐emission bus fleet, Metro has
developed the BEB Training Academy. This involves training current Vehicle Maintenance Employees
and expanding the Vehicle Maintenance staff. Since procuring diesel‐hybrids in 2004, electric trolleys in
2014 and Proterra’s in 2015, Fleet Engineering has developed curriculum for training Vehicle
Maintenance employees providing them with the skills needed to repair and maintain electric and
Zero‐Emission Transition Report

Attachment: Attachment F - King County Metro Zero Emission Bus Fleet Transition Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

1.4.D.f

18
Packet Pg. 122

1.4.D.f

Curriculums are divided is three categories: Primarily Curriculums, Secondary Curriculums and Classes
for First Responder, TCC, and District Supervisors



Primarily Curriculums
These classes are developed to train Vehicle Maintenance personal on how to maintain, trouble
shoot and repair the BEB coaches. The Primary classes will be held before the opening of the
South Interim Base.



Secondary Curriculums
The Secondary classes are classes that are developed to train Lead Mechanics and Mechanics on
how to maintain, trouble shoot and repair the BEB coaches. These classes will be held after the
South Interim Base is opened. Some systems are utilized current KCM coaches and are deemed
Secondary classes.



Classes for First Responder, TCC, and District Supervisors
Class designed to aid First Responders when responding to accidents involving all electric
coaches. The class is familiarization with the coach. Each agency will be giving the Emergency
Response Guides. The class is also designed to train District Supervisors and TCC.

Charger Maintenance
Metro’s Transit Facilities Division has been successfully maintaining bus chargers for over five years. As
projects are constructed, charger maintenance training is included in project contracts ‐ charger
maintenance training was included as part of the contracts for both South Base Test Facility (SBTF) and
Interim Base, for example. These training packages include a combination of classroom training and on‐
the‐job training.

Operator Training
Metro has developed training to prepare operators to drive BEBs. The training takes approximately 30
minutes, added on to the traditional training. The focus of the BEB training is to familiarize the operator
with the power gages and controls and provide an opportunity to go on a drive so drivers can get a feel
of the extra torque and acceleration on turns and inclines. The main considerations in driving a BEB
instead of a hybrid coach are:
1. Monitoring the charge level in the BEB
2. The difference in the operating noise level of the buses – for example, since BEBs are quieter, its
especially important to notice for pedestrians in the area.
3. Differences in the drivers compartment of gages and knobs
4. The extra power and acceleration of the BEBs
5. Docking into the charging stations

IT

Attachment: Attachment F - King County Metro Zero Emission Bus Fleet Transition Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

battery‐electric technology. While some training classes for all‐electric buses will need to be developed,
many of the curriculum used for the diesel‐hybrid and electric trolleys can be applied for all‐electric
buses. This section outlines the curriculum developed to ensure a successful transition toward all zero‐
emission, all‐electric bus fleet and to prepare a well‐trained Vehicle Maintenance department.

Metro IT and King County IT procure their own training and security needs as well as data‐
protection needs.
Zero‐Emission Transition Report

19
Packet Pg. 123

1.4.D.f

King County Metro Transit’s commitment to transition to an all zero‐emission fleet by 2035 is codified in
agency policies adopted by the King County Council and King County Regional Transit Authority. These
policies formalize the strategic direction for reducing emissions from our fleet and are an extension of a
legacy of sustainability commitments. In 2013, King County Metro Transit was a founding signatory to
the APTA Sustainability Commitment. Metro Transit’s commitment in the 2015 King County Strategic
Climate Action Plan was furthered by the 2017 commitment to transition to a zero‐emission fleet
powered by renewable energy. In 2021, the 2020 King County Strategic Climate Action Plan11, Metro
Transit Strategic Plan for Public Transportation 2021 – 203112, and Metro Connects long‐range plan
were adopted. These policies established targets to reduce Metro Transit fleet GHG emissions by 45
percent by 2025 and 70 percent by 2030, compared to a 2017 baseline. These policies adopted an
accelerated target for Metro’s bus fleet zero‐emission transition goal to 2035.
Metro Transit submitted these adopted climate action plans to FTA, as part of the FTA’s Climate
Challenge initiative. On Earth Day, April 22, the Federal Transit Administration recognized Metro and
nine other transit agencies for exemplary efforts to combat climate change as part of the FTA’s Climate
Challenge initiative. The FTA’s Climate Challenge was created in 2021 to help advance President Biden’s
greenhouse gas reduction goals. A total of 171 transit agencies have signed on to participate. Awardees
were honored across eight different categories. Metro was named the “Most Equitable” in recognition
the ways that the SCAP and Metro’s Strategic Plan to address climate change impacts and transportation
access in underserved communities.
Climate policies adopted by Washington State in 2021, including the Climate Commitment Act and the
Clean Fuels Standard. Both policies are expected to help support Metro Transit and statewide efforts to
electrify transit vehicles. The Climate Commitment Act (SB 5126) will establish a statewide cap and
invest program that will for the first time put a price on GHG pollution (implementation date of 1/1/23),
with the overall target to reduce statewide GHG emissions 95 percent by 2050 while providing billions of
dollars of new investments in Washington climate action. The Climate Commitment Act is projected to
generate several new revenue sources earmarked for reducing transportation emissions. Most of the
transportation funding will go to transit, bike and pedestrian infrastructure, and electrification projects.
The Clean Fuels Standard (HB 1091) establishes regulation (implementation date of 1/1/23) for reducing
GHGs of transportation fuels (i.e. gasoline and diesel) by 10 percent by 2028 and 20 percent by 2035, as
compared to 2017 levels. Under the Clean Fuels Standard, Metro Transit can generate credits for
electrification of public transit vehicles. Utilities in Washington state will generate revenues from
residential EV charging and be required to re‐invest a portion of revenues to support electrification
efforts in communities overburdened by air pollution. This state policy will provide a revenue source for
Metro Transit and facilitate electrification efforts by increasing utility partnership capacity and create a
more favorable market for electrification in the region.

11

King County 2020 Strategic Climate Action Plan. Available at:
https://your.kingcounty.gov/dnrp/climate/documents/scap‐2020‐approved/2020‐king‐county‐strategic‐climate‐
action‐plan.pdf
12
King County Metro Transit Strategic Plan for Public Transportation 2021 – 2031. Available at:
https://kingcounty.gov/~/media/depts/metro/about/planning/pdf/2021‐31/2021/metro‐strategic‐plan‐
111721.ashx

Zero‐Emission Transition Report

Attachment: Attachment F - King County Metro Zero Emission Bus Fleet Transition Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

7. Policy Environment

20
Packet Pg. 124

1.4.D.f

8. Financial Resources
Metro’s current budget includes funding to build and electrify Metro’s Interim Base at South Campus
and the new South Annex Base – Interim Base will support 120 BEBs and South Annex Base will support
250 BEBs. Funding is also included for additional battery electric buses. The 2023‐2024 Biennial budget
that will include the planned expenditures for the period 2023 to 2032 is currently under development.
The intent is to develop a Capital Budget that will fully fund the necessary vehicle and infrastructure
investments to achieve a zero‐emission fleet by 2035. The requested budget becomes public record at
the end of September 2022 as it is transmitted to our elected county council for consideration, with
adoption at the end of November. As part of our funding approach, Metro seeks state and federal grant
funding wherever possible for our BEB fleet. Financing models are further described below.

Financing Models
There are four general financing models that public agencies can use to fund capital infrastructure like
electrification. These are cash financing, which is Metro’s current model; debt financing where Metro
sells bonds to fund electrification; leasing buses and charging infrastructure from bus manufacturers; or
grant funding, which Metro uses for bus procurement. There are also private partnerships which are not
included in these models. Generally Metro uses cash financing and some grant funding for bus
procurement and capital projects. Per current practice, Metro utilizes the revenue fleet replacement
reserve for years where large fleet expenditures are incurred. The revenue fleet replacement reserve
was developed to help mitigate the impact of variability in the replacement costs from year to year. The
exact mix of cash funding, reserve use and debt financing will be developed based on Metro’s financial
condition and other economic considerations.

Funding Opportunities
A combination of cash, grants and debt financing would be used to fund electrification.







Cash/Fund Balance
o Metro will prioritize existing fund balance and projected revenues from sales tax, fares and
other sources to support spending on electrification infrastructure and fleet.
Competitive Grants
o Metro will seek grants through established and new sources of funding that electrification
projects and fleet replacement would be competitive for.
Debt Funding
o Despite the recent increase in projections for financing rates, it will still be beneficial for Metro
to use debt to finance some of the cost of electrification.
o Electrification and South Annex Base projects could be good options for the FTA Transportation
Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) Credit Program
Additional future revenue sources
o Legislated increases of sales tax, property tax or other sources, including revenues from credit
generation via the Washington State Clean Fuels Standard, could help to fund the cost of
electrification infrastructure.

Zero‐Emission Transition Report

Attachment: Attachment F - King County Metro Zero Emission Bus Fleet Transition Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

King County Biennial Budget

21
Packet Pg. 125

1.4.D.f

Long range battery‐electric bus service will be launched in South King County where historically
underserved communities live. Battery‐electric buses benefit communities living in the areas of the
bases by reducing ambient noise and eliminating local pollution. Metro may also choose to sponsor
educational events/outreach to the community about the new technology and its role in reducing
carbon emissions and improving air quality.
In addition, the location of the bases in proximity to areas with a high
percentage of priority populations (people of color, low‐income
individuals, and people with limited English proficiency) will make it
easier for Metro partnerships for recruiting and job skills development
with local community colleges to reach priority populations. Many of the
projects that will be undertaken to implement battery‐electric buses will
be subject to King County “priority hire” requirements, mandating that
contractors advertise and prioritize hiring within zip codes that have
lower income and employment levels than the King County Average. In
addition, in procurement for projects associated with the battery‐
electric bus program, Metro will use the “Equity and Social Justice
innovation plan,” criteria, offering consultants the opportunity to
propose equitable innovations aligned with the county’s Equity and
Social Justice Strategic Plan as part of their delivery of projects.
There will be benefits to the operator and maintenance workforce,
beyond the potential for advancement opportunities through job skills training. Compared to existing
technology, driving a battery‐electric bus reduces fatigue because of reduced noise, vibration and there
is less exposure to the operator and maintenance staff to criteria air pollutants and toxins.

Zero‐Emission Transition Report

Attachment: Attachment F - King County Metro Zero Emission Bus Fleet Transition Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

9. Equity and Social Justice

22
Packet Pg. 126

1.4.D.f

In 2016, Metro purchased three short‐range BEBs currently running in Bellevue. Metro‐operated BEBs
increased to 11 in the ensuing years. A short‐range BEB generally has a smaller fast‐charging battery
pack, which lowers bus cost as batteries are the most expensive component of a BEB; a smaller battery
pack also reduces the bus range. These BEBs have a range of approximately 25 miles and a charge time
of 10 minutes.
In 2017, Metro released a report on the “Feasibility of Achieving a Carbon‐Neutral or Zero‐Emission
Fleet” (2017 Study) in response to Council Motion 14633, requesting an assessment of the feasibility of
achieving either a carbon‐neutral or zero‐emission Metro vehicle fleet. The 2017 Study found a zero‐
emission fleet was attainable by 2040, and BEBs with a range of 140 miles satisfied 70 percent of service
needs without changing service profiles. The 2017 Study also acknowledged that BEB technology was
rapidly changing, and Metro’s zero‐emission strategy could change based on technology shifts. Based on
this information, Metro developed an internal strategy to electrify its bus fleet. The internal strategy had
electrification beginning in South King County and expanding throughout the County over time. Each
base was to be electrified one‐half at a time, and all bases would be converted by 2040. In concert with
base electrification, the bus fleet would transition to BEBs.
As part of the 2017 Study, Metro conducted an equity impact review, which included assessment of
Metro bus routes and the vulnerability to air pollution of communities along routes. The analysis found
that local communities located along corridors of routes served from Metro’s South Base have
historically been disproportionately affected by air pollution. Metro conducted a public stakeholder
process, and a primary recommendation of this group was to focus service out of South Campus to
prioritize the benefit of improved air pollution in communities disproportionately burdened.13
In Error! Reference source not found. below from the 2017 study, darker shaded areas are more
vulnerable to air pollution than lighter shaded areas. Red bus routes are the highest priority quintile to
be served by zero‐emission buses, green routes are the lowest.14 In the 2017 Study, the Executive and
Metro recommended – and the Council approved – the goal of transitioning to an all zero‐emission bus
fleet powered by renewable energy by 2040, to order 120 BEBs by 2020, and to scale up electrification
first in South King County.
The 2017 Study emphasized that several requirements must continue to be met by Metro and the bus
industry for this target to be achievable, including: vehicle and charging technology meeting operational
needs especially for 60‐foot vehicles, standardization of charging infrastructure, and availability of
renewable energy supplies. The 2017 Study also highlighted that Metro and partners would need to
continue to assess: safety for customers and employees, staff training, equity impacts, emergency
preparedness planning, and total costs of transitioning to a zero‐emission fleet to ensure that
incremental costs do not limit Metro’s ability to deliver and expand service.

Attachment: Attachment F - King County Metro Zero Emission Bus Fleet Transition Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Appendix A: Metro’s Zero‐Emission History

13

King County Department of Transportation, Metro Transit Division, “Feasibility of Achieving a Carbon‐Neutral or
Zero‐Emission Fleet,” (2017): 58 Link to 2017 Study
14
Metro, “2017 Study,” 16.

Zero‐Emission Transition Report
Appendix A

23

Packet Pg. 127

Attachment: Attachment F - King County Metro Zero Emission Bus Fleet Transition Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

1.4.D.f

Figure 7: Map of air pollution vulnerability and bus routes in King Count
Zero‐Emission Transition Report
Appendix A

24

Packet Pg. 128

1.4.D.f

This section was prepared by the Center for Transportation and the Environment1 and reflects industry‐
wide concepts that are applicable to other transit agencies as well as King County Metro. Battery‐
electric buses use energy stored in an on‐board battery
pack to drive an electric motor (or motors) which turns
the drivetrain and propels the bus. In addition to the
energy provided for propulsion, the battery system
provides energy to drive electric accessories, such as the
heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) system,
air compressor, and power steering pump. Inverters are
used to convert current from the battery (direct current,
or DC) to a form that is useable by the motor and
accessories (alternating current, or AC). A down
converter is used to reduce the DC voltage for delivery to
the low voltage batteries, which are used to provide small
amounts of electricity required while the bus is not
operating or in motion. Components such as the
multiplex I/O system, cameras, Wi‐Fi and farebox can
draw a load even while the vehicle itself is not being
powered. Furthermore, a low voltage current is also
required to close the contactors to start the bus. This
type of current is provided by the low‐voltage batteries. A
high‐level schematic of the vehicle systems is provided in
Figure 8: Basic Schematic of a
Figure 10.
Battery‐Electric Bus

Table 1: Energy and Power Comparisons between Diesel and Battery‐Electric Buses
Unit

Describes
what?

Conventional Equivalent

Example

kWh
(kilowatt-hours)

Energy

Gallons (of diesel)

The bus stores 450 kWh
(12 gallons diesel)

Output for Performance:
Horsepower

The battery pack can
provide 230kW (308hp)

Input for Fueling:
Gallons/min

The charger can provide
up to 150 kW

kW
(kilowatts)

Power

Zero‐Emission Transition Report
Appendix B

Attachment: Attachment F - King County Metro Zero Emission Bus Fleet Transition Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Appendix B: Battery‐Electric Bus Technology Description

25
Packet Pg. 129

Unlike a conventional diesel engine or a diesel‐electric hybrid where the fuel is pumped from an external
source into an onboard tank, the “fuel” for a battery‐ electric bus is provided by the electrical grid and
applied to the vehicle by a charging system. Please refer to Table 1 for a summary of the primary
concepts relative to battery‐electric buses.

Energy
In a conventional diesel bus the amount of energy available on the bus is represented by the number of
gallons of fuel in the tank. In an electric bus the amount of energy stored in the battery is represented in
terms of kilowatt‐hours (kWh).
One limitation of today’s battery‐electric buses is that they cannot store as much energy as a diesel bus.
Using the example in Table 1, the equivalent of 450kWh of energy is approximately 12 gallons of diesel
fuel in a conventional bus. At four miles per gallon, a diesel bus that holds 12 gallons of fuel would only
be able to travel 48 miles before needing to refuel. However, battery‐electric buses are much more
efficient than diesel buses. Therefore, using that same amount of energy capacity, an electric bus may
be able to travel 140 miles or more on average (depending on conditions) before needing to recharge.
However, a typical diesel bus may have a 100‐gallon tank, giving it a 400‐mile range using the same
assumptions. Using today’s technology, the only way to match that range (on one charge) in a battery‐
electric bus is to add heavier and/or more batteries. Due to weight and space considerations, adding
more batteries to compensate for the difference is not a viable option. As a result, a battery‐electric bus
currently has a shorter operating range than its diesel counterpart. Industry research efforts continue to
focus on battery density and new chemistries to address the amount of energy batteries can store.
Battery density has been improving year‐to‐year. It is not unreasonable to expect that battery‐electric
buses will be able to carry more stored energy without increasing weight or limiting passenger loads in
the future, further reducing the energy deficit relative to diesel buses.
“Refueling” battery‐electric buses takes longer than filling a diesel tank. The time required to charge a
battery‐electric bus (and provide the energy to operate) will vary based on the charging technology
used. Typical base charging (using pedestal mounted chargers, for example) requires the bus to be
plugged in for several hours to be fully charged. On‐route charging, also called layover charging, takes
advantage of scheduled stops or layovers to restore the state of charge of the battery and therefore
extending the operational range. Using layover charging, range would be governed by the number of
layovers and the amount of time available to charge at each opportunity.
It is critical for transit agencies to assess how battery‐electric buses will perform in service prior to
deployment. Developing a deployment strategy prior to purchasing and placing buses in service allows a
transit agency to make decisions about energy storage and charging options, which are two of the
distinct operating characteristics of battery‐electric buses. It is also important to coordinate with the
utility while developing a deployment strategy. Decisions about charging strategies will affect the time
of day and amount of electricity consumed which in turn affects costs. It is important that a transit
agency understand all these factors related to providing energy to the buses prior to deployment.

Power
Power describes the rate of applying or using energy over time. In a conventional diesel vehicle, a
common way this is used is to express the output or “performance” of an engine in terms of
horsepower. The equivalent unit of measure in electric vehicles is kilowatts (kW). Power is what the
battery pack can provide as an output to the vehicle for performance, such as speed and acceleration.
Zero‐Emission Transition Report
Appendix B

Attachment: Attachment F - King County Metro Zero Emission Bus Fleet Transition Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

1.4.D.f

26
Packet Pg. 130

1.4.D.f

Power as an input is an important consideration during battery‐electric bus operational planning
because it determines the amount of time it will take to charge the battery. As discussed in relation to
Energy, it is important to engage with the utility during planning. Depending on the power being applied
by each charger and the number and type of chargers operating at the same time, it can also
significantly impact the electricity bill (load or demand charges, see Section “Utility Rates”, page 19 for
additional discussion).
What About Amps and Volts
Because power is an important concept, it is useful to understand what controls the amount of power
that can be applied to a battery to charge it. In electrical terms, the basic equation is:
Power = Voltage × Current
or, equivalently, in electrical units:
Watts = Volts × Amps
Amperes, commonly Amps, is a measure of electrical current, and voltage is essentially the amount of
electrical “pressure” available to move that current. Using the analogy of a water hose with an
adjustable nozzle, one can think of current as the water flow through the hose, and voltage is like the
amount of pressure available to spray the water when the nozzle lever is squeezed.
In the context of vehicle charging, the amount of power (rate of energy) applied is determined by both
the power rating of the charger as well as the battery system that it is charging. The charger must match
the battery pack’s voltage, and the current is set according to the battery’s ability to accept power. The
battery pack and charger are in constant communication during charging and the battery pack will limit
the current from the charger based on the battery’s capability. For this reason, simply dividing the
battery capacity by the charger’s power rating will not correctly predict charging times.

Zero‐Emission Transition Report
Appendix B

Attachment: Attachment F - King County Metro Zero Emission Bus Fleet Transition Plan (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

However, power can also be used to describe the rate of energy being applied by the charger as an input
into the battery to replenish it. When power is used to describe the input, the conventional equivalent is
how fast a diesel pump can fill a tank (e.g. gallons/minute).

27
Packet Pg. 131

Pace’s Transition to
Zero Emissions

1.4.D

Fact Sheet
In 2021, Pace’s Board of Directors
adopted Driving Innovation, an
ambitious strategic vision plan that
commits the agency to operating a zero
emission fleet by 2040.

Why electric?

This transition begins in 2022 with an order of
20 battery-electric buses and their charging
equipment. The first six of these buses will be
placed at Pace’s North Division Garage in
Waukegan.

Long-term savings. While implementing new
technology and installing charging infrastructure is
costly up front, in the long-run, zero emission vehicles
will save Pace money as equipment prices decrease
and the energy market changes.

Concurrently, Pace is preparing a zero emission
transition plan and facility plan, which include:

Pace will continue to study emerging alternative fuels,
such as hydrogen and renewable natural gas, to
maintain our goal of zero emissions, and to study how
CNG buses can be converted to run on hydrogen.

● A detailed route analysis to assess

charging requirements.

● An assessment of current and proposed

bus maintenance and storage facilities for
electrification.

● An evaluation of current fleet capacity,

proposed growth over time, and plans for
fleet replacement.

● A review of costs associated with the

conversion.

This initial order will help Pace determine how
to move forward at scale, building hundreds of
new vehicles, converting more than a dozen
facilities, redesigning routes when necessary
and working with vendors and partners across
our large region to upgrade equipment and
install community- based charging
infrastructure to recharge buses that are on
the road all day.

Pace has been a leader in new
technology, deploying hybrid and CNG
buses years ago. We are excited to take
this next step towards zero emissions.

Climate change. It will take all hands on deck to avoid
catastrophic effects from climate change.
Clean air. Pollution from gas-powered vehicles causes
health and environmental problems.

Why 2040?

This aligns with goals set by the state and U.S. as well
as scientific projections. While 2040 might seem like a
long way off, 18 years is just enough time to:
Secure hundreds of millions in funding
Replace over 700 buses
Finalize vehicle plan & facilities plan (by July)
Ensure electric grid will accommodate vehicles
Convert Pace garages
Build charging infrastructure
Work through implementation issues.

Current Status | March 2022
●

Just placed first order of 20 electric buses.

●

Now preparing fleet transition and
facilities plans due out July.

To learn more, visit PaceBus.com/Budgets or
PaceBus.com/Driving-Innovation.

1.4.D.h

On Earth Day, Governor Hochul Announces MTA to Expand Next Wave Deployment of
Zero-Emission Buses to Six Depots

Share
Prioritizing Equity, First Electric Buses to be Deployed to Historically Underserved Communities
With the New Depots, MTA Will Have Electric Bus Depots Serving all Five Boroughs
New Zero-Emission Bus Fleet Will Deepen the MTA's Commitment to Sustainability and Environmental Justice
Traducción al español
Governor Kathy Hochul today announced the Metropolitan Transportation Authority will deploy 60 zero-emission electric buses at six bus depots serving all five
boroughs. This deployment deepens the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's commitment to equity and environmental justice by prioritizing communities
with high asthma and air pollution rates. In New York City, approximately 75 percent of Metropolitan Transportation Authority bus depots are located in
low/moderate-income communities, and transit bus routes run disproportionately through these neighborhoods.
"My administration is laser focused on speeding up our transition to clean energy," Governor Hochul said. "Public transportation has always been critical to
reducing emissions and this deployment is a major step toward the MTA's commitment to a zero-emission bus fleet by 2040. New York's progress in modernizing
our transportation infrastructure has far-reaching impacts that help address social equity and continue to cement our status as a national leader in the fight
against climate change."
https://www.youtube.com/embed/SzrCdQAnFFo
The announcement represents a major step towards the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's (MTA) 2018 commitment of deploying a zero-emission bus fleet
by 2040, which will avoid 520,000 metric tons of carbon emissions annually. The first of these new electric buses will begin arriving at depots in the second half of
2022 and will be at all six locations in 2023. The Authority currently operates 15 zero-emission electric buses, and the historic $51.5 Billion MTA 2020-2024
Capital Program includes $1.1 billion in funding to buy another 500.
These buses will provide service among numerous routes at the following depots:
Grand Ave, Queens: servicing the B24, B32, B39, B47, B48, B57, B60, B62, Q59
Charleston, Staten Island: servicing the S55, S56, S74, S78, S84
East New York, Brooklyn: servicing the B12, B14, B15, B17, B25, B42, B45, B65, B82, B83, B84, Q24, Q56
Kingsbridge, Manhattan: servicing the Bx3, Bx7, Bx10, Bx13, Bx18, Bx20, M100
Michael J. Quill, Manhattan: servicing the M8, M9, M12, M20, M21, M22, M42, M50, M55, M57, M66, M72
Jamaica, Queens: servicing the Q3, Q4, Q5, Q17, Q30, Q42, Q77, Q84, Q85
In addition, five of these bus depots will be equipped with new state-of-the-art charging infrastructure to support the MTA's growing electric bus fleet starting in
the second half of 2022: Grand Ave, Charleston, East New York, Jamaica, and Kingsbridge. The on-route charger at Williamsburg Bridge Plaza will also receive
updates. All infrastructure upgrades will be completed in advance of bus arrivals at each depot.
Metropolitan Transportation Authority Chair and CEO Janno Lieber said, "I can think of no better way to celebrate Earth Day than to announce this
significant deployment of electric buses. We know that buses are engines of equity, and it is an MTA priority to bring electric buses to environmental justice
communities most impacted by climate change and pollution. Any New Yorker can join the fight against climate change by riding with the MTA, and these electric
buses will only further reduce carbon emissions in our region."
New York City Transit Interim President Craig Cipriano said, "The MTA is committed to a zero-emissions bus fleet to protect our city from the harmful
effects of fossil fuels, and this deployment is a big step towards making environmentally friendly mass transit even greener. This deployment will greatly expand
the presence of zero-emissions electric buses on New York City's streets in all five boroughs and represents significant progress towards a fully zero-emissions bus
fleet."
New York State Energy Research and Development Authority President and CEO Doreen M. Harris said, "On this Earth Day, it's a pleasure to
join MTA in this celebration of their significant step forward in electrifying their fleet as we continue to work together to combat climate change and pivot towards
our clean energy future. Zero-emission buses play a key role in reducing air pollution in our communities while providing essential transportation services in
connecting New Yorkers to jobs, activities and amenities across the New York City area."
Public transportation has always been critical to reducing emissions and this deployment is a major step toward the MTA's commitment to a zero-emission bus
fleet by 2040.
Governor Kathy Hochul
New York Power Authority Interim President and CEO Justin E. Driscoll said, "The MTA is setting a high bar when it comes to leading a full-scale
transition to clean public transit and the New York Power Authority is proud of its role in making this all-electric bus fleet a reality. We are finalizing design for
the modern overhead charging infrastructure in four depots and will move into construction in the coming months. This partnership is bringing us closer to a city
transportation system that will help protect the communities' health and promise a more sustainable future for all of New York City."
This deployment contains several major milestones for the MTA's bus fleet, including the first agency-owned standard 40-foot electric buses, the first in-depot
overhead pantograph chargers, the first partnership with the New York Power Authority to manage charger installation, and the first partnership with a power
company to install high-tension service and construction of a sub-station to supply electric buses. The initiative prioritizes environmental justice communities,
putting green buses on the roads of neighborhoods that will most benefit from them, and will accelerate the Authority's progress in further cutting carbon
emissions in its bus fleet. The MTA presently has over 1,300 low-emissions hybrid buses in its fleet, including 399 2nd generation hybrid buses which run on
battery-only EV mode a portion of the time, greatly reducing fossil fuel usage.

Attachment: Attachment H - MTA to Expand Next Wave Deployment of Zero Emission Buses (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

On Earth Day, Governor Hochul Announces MTA to Expand Next Wave Deployment of Zero-Emission Buses to Six Depots

The MTA is also commemorating Earth Day this year by reminding New Yorkers that the best way to fight climate change is to take public transit. Every year, the
MTA's environmentally sustainable transit system allows the New York metropolitan region to avoid more than 17 million metric tons of greenhouse gas
emissions annually — or more than three times the annual greenhouse gas emissions of San Francisco. It also means New York State has the lowest per capita
energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions in the United States. The commitment to an all zero-emission bus fleet by 2040 will make what is already the
most sustainable way to get around the New York region even greener.
New York City Mayor Eric Adams said, "We know that environmental justice begins on the ground, starting with the communities most impacted by climate

Packet Pg. 133

1.4.D.h
change. Public transit is a critical piece of this work to build a greener city and more zero-emission buses will supercharge that effort, getting New Yorkers where
they need to go while reducing harmful air pollution. I thank Governor Hochul for prioritizing environmental justice, centering the communities hit hardest by
climate change, and helping move our city forward."

State Senator Leroy Comrie said, "I welcome this announcement of additional green buses and their presence in all five boroughs. Zero-emission buses are a
step forward for our transit system, for our neighborhoods, and for our environment. As we transition toward an all zero-emission bus fleet, it is important to keep
environmental justice in mind and ensure that we continue to prioritize inclusion alongside sustainability."State Senator Roxanne J. Persaud said, "As we
celebrate Earth Day 2022, it is fitting that this announcement is being made. The sixty new all-electric buses will help reduce emissions across MTA's bus fleet,
particularly along some routes serving Senate District 19. I applaud the MTA's commitment to moving toward a 100% zero-emissions fleet by 2040."

Manhattan Borough President Mark Levine said, "It is exciting to see the MTA move more expeditiously in its transition to a fully-electric bus fleet. Our
fight against climate change can be led not only by offering people fast, reliable, and efficient transit service but also by ensuring the vehicles moving people are
fully electric. I look forward to riding these electric buses as they hit Manhattan's streets."
Queens Borough President Donovan Richards Jr said, "For generations, unchecked fossil fuel consumption and emission production has had dangerous
and disparate consequences for many of our historically underserved communities across Queens, from Astoria's "Asthma Alley" to Jamaica and beyond. With
today's announcement, that tide begins to turn. Fully electrifying our bus fleet is a critical step forward to preserving our environment and protecting our families,
and I am grateful to the MTA for its commitment to rolling out more electric buses in Queensthis fall. I look forward to working with the MTA to further expedite
this process as climate change continues to bear down on our borough."
New York City Council Member Selvena N. Brooks-Powers said, "New York City has been plagued by disinvestment for years, causing black and brown
communities to lack reliable access to transportation. I applaud Governor Kathy Hochul and MTA Chairman Janno Lieber for prioritizing equitable access to
green transportation to ensure under-resourced communities have access to reliable, safe, affordable and accessible transportation. Deployment of 60 zeroemission electric buses - like the Q5, that services Laurelton and Rosedale - will ensure New Yorkers have access to transportation, while not contributing to
increases in asthma rates and air pollution."
New York City Council Member Eric Dinowitz said, "With what we know now about the unnerving acceleration of climate change, it is welcomed news
that the MTA is looking to do their part with the deployment of 60 new electric buses. This is just a first step towards an 100% zero emissions fleet by 2040, but a
critical one. We are at a time where rates of asthma are soaring in The Bronx, and scientists across the globe are pleading with governments and private industry
to take these steps to protect the livability of our earth. I am appreciative that our agencies here in New York are listening and taking action."
New York City Council Member Sandy Nurse said, "Today's announcement by the MTA of the rollout of a number of all-electric buses is a necessary step
toward reducing our transit system's emissions and their negative health impacts on our communities. As the MTA continues to make progress toward a 100%
zero-emissions fleet, we must continue to ensure we prioritize environmental justice communities like East New York, which have too often been made to bear the
burden of polluting infrastructure."
New York City Council Member Robert Holden said, "Our environment is precious, and we should leave this world better than we found it. On this Earth
Day, and every day, we should make every effort to reduce our emissions and improve our climate."
President of the New York League of Conservation Voters Julie Tighe said, "We can't tackle the climate crisis without tackling transportation pollution
and investing in mass transit. There's no better progress for the environment and public health in New York to celebrate on Earth Day than the MTA following
through on its commitment to deploy 60 zero-emissions electric buses on its way to a fully electric fleet. With asthma the leading cause of school absences,
reducing air pollution in communities that house bus depots is critical to improve the public health of our neighbors, and keep kids in class. The New York League
of Conservation Voters thanks the Governor, the MTA, and the collaboration among our leaders to make this possible."
Customer Energy Solutions Senior Vice President Lenny Singh said, "Con Edison is proud to be a partner with the MTA in its significant shift to
electric buses. As more electric vehicles hit the streets, it's critical there's a robust charging network in place. That's where we come in: by investing to ensure the
reliability of the electric grid, and by committing to New York State's goals for a clean energy future."
Tradiksyon kreyòl ayisyen

Attachment: Attachment H - MTA to Expand Next Wave Deployment of Zero Emission Buses (4728 : Zero Emission Policy)

Representative Jamaal Bowman said, "Addressing climate change is critical for all of our communities. Electrifying our transportation system is an essential
part of that fight to protect people and our planet, and I believe that public transit should lead the way. I am happy to see the MTA taking concrete steps towards
reducing greenhouse gasses while providing reliable transportation for neighbors here in New York's 16th Congressional District. I look forward to supporting the
agency in accelerating its transition to clean energy, and bringing not only our district but the nation into a more sustainable future."

Packet Pg. 134

1.5.1.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Monthly Government Relations Report – November 2022

Committee Meeting Date:
November 10, 2022

STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer
PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes
BACKGROUND
Pursuant to the Board-adopted 2022 Legislative Program, the agency developed a Legislative Program
that serves as a guiding document for staff to pursue goals related to legislative and policy matters. A
Legislative Program serves as a living document that can be adjusted throughout a legislative session to
provide an avenue for Board adopted policy positions to be communicated and pursued by agency staff.
In line with the agency’s mission and vision established in the Strategic Plan, the development and
inclusion of the goals and actions contained in the Legislative Program are designed to make lives better
through connections.
It is important that RTD serve as a trusted partner to the region’s local, state, and federal elected
officials. To achieve these goals, RTD must be proactive in educating and informing the District’s elected
officials of the challenges and opportunities available to advance shared goals.
In furtherance of the program, the agency’s Government Relations Officer coordinates and develops
strategic communications to advance the agency’s legislative priorities and serve as a point of contact
for elected officials in the Denver metro region.
DISCUSSION
Included herein are notable Government Relations highlights at the federal, state and local levels since
the last Executive Committee meeting held on October 20, 2022. This report was prepared on October
27, 2022 and will be updated verbally as needed during the Executive Committee meeting scheduled for
Thursday, November 10, 2022.
Federal
As reported in October 2022, Congress passed, and the President signed, a Continuing Resolution to
fund federal programs through December 16, 2022. Congress will likely continue negotiations on a fullyear appropriations bill in late November and early December 2022.

Packet Pg. 135

1.5.1.1

State
At the state level, RTD continues to work with the Colorado Energy Office to prepare a final report on
Zero Fare for Better Air Initiative, which concluded on August 31, 2022. As outlined in the grant terms,
the final report is due no later than December 1, 2022. Included in the report will be a comparison of
ridership from July, August, and September 2022. Additionally, the report will include data analytics
from security incidents, results from customer surveys and intercepts, employee feedback from focus
groups, as well as lessons learned.
Lastly, RTD worked with the Colorado Secretary of State and County Clerks and Recorders to implement
a Zero Fare to Vote Initiative for National Vote Early Day, October 28, 2022 and General Election Day on
November 8, 2022. A press conference was held at the I-25•Broadway Station on October 27, 2022.
Local
At the local level, RTD is working to set up the initial meetings of the Subregional Service Councils
(SSCs). These kick-off meetings are scheduled for the first weeks of November 2022. In the meantime,
staff continues to communicate with cities, counties, and other stakeholders to confirm participation on
the SSCs.

Prepared by:
Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 136

2.16.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
2023 Proposed Budget

Committee Meeting Date:
November 1, 2022
Board Meeting Date:
November 15, 2022

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to adopt Resolution No. ___, Series of 2022 for the adoption of the 2023
Budget, Resolution No. ___, Series of 2022 for the 2023 Budget appropriation and Resolution No. ___,
Series of 2022 for the appropriation of 2023 previously appropriated capital.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer
Todd Nikkel, Senior Manager, Budget
PRESENTATION LENGTH
15 minutes
BACKGROUND
Adoption of the 2023 Proposed Budget meets the statutory deadline requiring appropriation by the
governing body prior to the commencement of the fiscal year. The 2023 Budget may be amended, as
necessary at any time with Board approval.
Pursuant to §§ 29-1-105 and 29-1-106, Colorado Revised Statutes, RTD posted the 2023 Proposed
Budget for public review by October 15, 2022. Staff presented the 2023 Proposed Budget as a
discussion item to the Board of Directors at the Finance and Planning Committee meeting on October
11, 2022, as well as to the full Board on October 25, 2022.
A public hearing to solicit formal public comment for the 2023 Proposed Budget is scheduled for the
November 15, 2022, Board meeting.
DISCUSSION
Staff has developed the 2023 Proposed Budget in alignment with the agency’s 2021-2026 Strategic
Plan as well as conformance with RTD’s 2023 Fiscal Policy directives.
The 2023 Proposed Budget document describes the financial assumptions and alignment with RTD’s
Strategic Plan. In addition, tables, charts and comments are included for evaluation of the considerations
included therein.
Adoption of these resolutions by the Board appropriates the 2023 Proposed Budget funding for Fiscal
Year 2023, which runs from January 1 through December 31, 2023.

Packet Pg. 137

2.16.A

Previously approved capital carry-forward represents projects that were approved in prior years,
including asset management projects. Prior year funding will be carried forward including grant
apportionments, restricted reserve funds and debt proceeds.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The 2023 Proposed Budget includes the following items totaling $2.2 billion.

2023 Budget
$000s
Operating expense (excluding depreciation)
Debt interest payments
Debt principal payments
New capital expenditures
FasTracks Internal Savings Account
Board Appropriated Fund
Capital Replacement Fund
Operating Reserve
Unrestricted Fund
Total

$

816,438
140,933
84,827
75,868
168,907
51,616
34,915
204,000
56,931

$ 1,634,435

Previously approved capital (carry-forward)
Total District-wide appropriation

$

567,961

$ 2,202,396

ATTACHMENTS:
•

2. Board Resolutions - 2023 Proposed Budget

•

3. 2023 Proposed Budget Presentation

(PPTX)

•

4. FY2023 Proposed Budget Document

(PDF)

•

5. Opex by Department

•

6. 2023 New Capital

•

7. 2023 Capital Carryforward

(DOCX)

(PDF)

(PDF)
(PDF)

Prepared by:
Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer
Todd Nikkel, Senior Manager, Budget
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 138

2.16.A

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 139

2.16.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

RESOLUTION NO. ____, SERIES OF 2022

A RESOLUTION SUMMARIZING EXPENDITURES AND REVENUES AND ADOPTING A
BUDGET FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT, FOR THE CALENDAR YEAR
BEGINNING ON THE FIRST DAY OF JANUARY 2023 AND ENDING ON THE LAST DAY OF
DECEMBER 2023.
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Regional Transportation District has appointed the
General Manager and CEO to prepare and submit a proposed budget to said governing body
at the proper time; and
WHEREAS, the General Manager and CEO has submitted a proposed budget to this
governing body on October 25, 2022, for its consideration; and
WHEREAS, upon due and proper notice, published and posted in accordance with the law,
said proposed budget was open for inspection by the public at a designated place, a public
hearing was held on November 15, 2022, and interested taxpayers were given the
opportunity to file or register any objections to said proposed budget; and
WHEREAS, whatever increases that have been made in expenditures, like increases were
added to revenues so that the budget remains balanced, as required by law.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE REGIONAL
TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT:
Section 1. That the budget as submitted herein above is approved and adopted as the
budget of the Regional Transportation District for the year stated above.
Section 2. That the budget hereby approved and adopted shall be signed by the Chair and
the Secretary of the Board of Directors and made part of the public records of the District.
ADOPTED, this fifteenth day of November 2022.

Vince Buzek, Chair

Attachment: 2. Board Resolutions - 2023 Proposed Budget (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

(2023 Budget Adoption)

Marjorie Sloan, Secretary

Packet Pg. 140

2.16.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

RESOLUTION NO. ____, SERIES OF 2022

BE IT RESOLVED that the following sums of money or as much thereof as may be
needed or deemed necessary to defray all expenses and liabilities of the Regional
Transportation District be, and the same, are hereby appropriated for the corporate purposes
and objectives of the District hereinafter specified for the fiscal year commencing on the
first day of January 2023 and ending on the last day of December 2023.
BE IT RESOLVED that the appropriations made in this resolution shall become
available on the first day of January 2023, and if any multi-year appropriated capital project
is not completed within the calendar year, previously appropriated funds shall remain until
completion of the capital projects for which the funds are appropriated or for a period of
three years, whichever comes first, at which time unexpended locally funded balances shall
revert to the unrestricted fund balance. Federally funded capital projects in this context
imply those discrete multi-year activities or tasks which are components of those capital
programs that comprise the annual budget. Authority for the roll forward of the capital
project shall be subject to the approval of the Board of Directors.

Passed and adopted by the Board of Directors of the Regional Transportation District on the
fifteenth day of November 2022.
2023 Budget
$000s
Operating expense (excluding depreciation)
Debt interest payments
Debt principal payments
New capital expenditures
FasTracks Internal Savings Account
Board Appropriated Fund
Capital Replacement Fund
Operating Reserve
Unrestricted Fund

$

816,438
140,933
84,827
75,868
168,907
51,616
34,915
204,000
56,931

Total

$ 1,634,435

Vince Buzek, Chair

Marjorie Sloan, Secretary

Attachment: 2. Board Resolutions - 2023 Proposed Budget (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

(2023 Budget Appropriation)

Packet Pg. 141

2.16.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

RESOLUTION NO. ____, SERIES OF 2022

BE IT RESOLVED that the following sums of money or as much thereof as may be
needed or deemed necessary to defray all expenses and liabilities of the Regional
Transportation District be, and the same, are hereby appropriated for the corporate purposes
and objectives of the District hereinafter specified for the fiscal year commencing on the
first day of January 2023 and ending on the last day of December 2023.
BE IT RESOLVED that for multi-year appropriated capital projects not completed
within the calendar year, previously appropriated funds shall remain until completion of the
capital projects for which the funds are appropriated or for a period of three years, whichever
comes first, at which time unexpended locally funded balances shall revert to the
unrestricted fund balance. Federally funded capital projects in this context imply those
discrete multi-year activities or tasks which are components of those capital programs that
comprise the annual budget. Authority for the roll forward of the capital project shall be
subject to the approval of the Board of Directors.

2023 Budget
$000s
Previously approved capital (carry-forward)

$

567,961

Passed and adopted by the Board of Directors of the Regional Transportation District
on the fifteenth day of November 2022.

Vince Buzek, Chair

Attachment: 2. Board Resolutions - 2023 Proposed Budget (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

(2023 Previously Appropriated Capital)

Marjorie Sloan, Secretary

Packet Pg. 142

We Make Lives Better
Through Connections.

2023 Proposed Budget
Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer
Todd Nikkel, Senior Manager, Budget

November 1, 2022

Attachment: 3. 2023 Proposed Budget Presentation (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

2.16.A.b

Packet Pg. 143

2023 Proposed Budget Development

§2023-2028 Mid-term Financial Plan (MTFP)
§Draft 2023 Proposed Budget
§Final 2023 Proposed Budget

November 1, 2022

2

Attachment: 3. 2023 Proposed Budget Presentation (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

2.16.A.b

Packet Pg. 144

Changes Since Draft 2023 Proposed Budget

§2022 capital carry-forward
§2022 project expense carry-forward
§Additional investment income
§Reserve reconciliation

November 1, 2022

3

Attachment: 3. 2023 Proposed Budget Presentation (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

2.16.A.b

Packet Pg. 145

2023 Proposed Budget Appropriation
2023 Budget
$000s
Operating expense (excluding depreciation)
Debt interest payments
Debt principal payments
New capital expenditures
FasTracks Internal Savings Account
Board Appropriated Fund
Capital Replacement Fund
Operating Reserve
Unrestricted Fund
Total
Previously approved capital (carry-forward)
Total District-wide appropriation
November 1, 2022

$

816,438
140,933
84,827
75,868
168,907
51,616
34,915
204,000
56,931

$ 1,634,435
$

567,961

$ 2,202,396
4

Attachment: 3. 2023 Proposed Budget Presentation (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

2.16.A.b

Packet Pg. 146

2023 Proposed Budget Cash Flows ($ in thousands)
2022
Amended
Budget
1
2
3
4
5

Fares
Sales and use taxes
Grant revenue and other income
COVID-19 relief grants

98,180
799,069
116,435
101,412

$

89,515
852,827
176,104
-

Change
$

% Change

(8,665)
53,758
59,669
(101,412)

-8.8%
6.7%
51.2%
-100.0%

Total revenue

1,115,096

1,118,446

3,350

0.3%

6 Salaries and benefits
7 Materials and supplies
8 Outside services
9 Utilities
10 Leases and rentals
11 Other expenses
12 Insurance
13 Purchased transportation

319,700
55,562
146,574
19,729
4,555
8,773
13,120
207,773

350,927
53,446
140,425
19,432
3,356
10,455
14,700
223,696

31,227
(2,116)
(6,149)
(297)
(1,199)
1,682
1,580
15,923

9.8%
-3.8%
-4.2%
-1.5%
-26.3%
19.2%
12.0%
7.7%

14

775,786

816,438

40,652

5.2%

15 Debt service
16 Capital expenditures

235,168
152,871

225,760
75,868

(9,408)
(77,003)

-4.0%
-50.4%

17

388,039

301,628

(86,411)

-22.3%

-

32,054

32,054

0.0%

$ (48,729)

$ (31,674)

17,055

-35.0%

Total operating expenses

Total non-operating expenditures

18 Contribution to reserves
November 1, 2022

$

2023
Proposed
Budget

19

Net Cash Flow

$

5

Attachment: 3. 2023 Proposed Budget Presentation (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

2.16.A.b

Packet Pg. 147

2023 Proposed Budget Reserves ($ in thousands)
Reserves
2022
Amended
Budget
FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA)
Board appropriated fund
Capital replacement fund
Operating reserve
Unrestricted fund

$

Months of operating expenses

Total reserves

November 1, 2022

148,293
51,616
12,915
193,946
50,663

2023
Proposed
Budget
$

3.0

$

457,433

168,907
51,616
34,915
204,000
56,931

Change
$

3.0

$

516,369

%
Change

20,614
22,000
10,054
6,268

13.9%
0.0%
170.3%
5.2%
12.4%

-

$

58,936

12.9%

6

Attachment: 3. 2023 Proposed Budget Presentation (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

2.16.A.b

Packet Pg. 148

Questions?

November 1, 2022

Attachment: 3. 2023 Proposed Budget Presentation (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

2.16.A.b

Packet Pg. 149

We Make Lives Better
Through Connections.

rtd-denver.com
Attachment: 3. 2023 Proposed Budget Presentation (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

2.16.A.b

Packet Pg. 150

November 1, 2022

2023 Proposed Budget

Attachment: 4. FY2023 Proposed Budget Document (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

2.16.A.c

Finance Contacts
Todd Nikkel
Senior Manager, Budget
h.todd.nikkel@rtd-denver.com
(303) 299-2418

Doug MacLeod
Chief Financial Officer
douglas.macleod@rtd-denver.com
(303) 299-3036

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 151

2.16.A.c

Table of Contents
Page

Message from GM/CEO

3

Introduction

5

Perspective

5

Strategic Plan Alignment

6

Fiscal and Budgetary Policies

6

Financial Discussion and Analysis

7

-

Revenues

7

-

Expenditures

9

-

Asset Management Plan

14

Headcount

15

Comparative Cash Flow Information

16

Financial Position and Key Metrics

17

Attachment: 4. FY2023 Proposed Budget Document (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

Section

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 152

BUDGET MESSAGE FROM THE GENERAL MANAGER AND CEO
I am pleased to introduce RTD’s Fiscal Year 2023 budget.
The FY 2023 Budget represents a financial plan for what’s next for the agency in the
coming year. Among the highlights:
• Continuation of the 2021-2026 Strategic Plan implementation framework,
aligning objective, measurable inputs with established strategic priorities and a
laser-like focus on employees’ efforts on metrics that matter to RTD’s overall
success outcomes

DEBRA A. JOHNSON

• Completion of the Systemwide Fare Study and Equity Analysis to evaluate potential changes to the
fare structure and pass programs and develop recommendations to be considered for adoption by the
Board
• Implementation of the System Optimization Plan (SOP) with the January 2023 service change. Essentially,
the SOP sets the stage for the agency’s optimization of service delivery through the short-term component
of the Reimagine RTD effort, the agency’s Comprehensive Operations Analysis. The SOP is geared toward:
- Aligning service levels with workforce availability
- Increasing the agency’s focus on providing a high-quality, regional backbone network
- Sustaining the overall integrity of the transit network, and
- Maintaining assets in a state of good repair
RTD’s revenues, the funding that allows the agency to strive to deliver high-quality transit services, are derived
primarily from three main sources: sales and use taxes collected on goods and services purchased within RTD’s
service area; federal grants, which supplement not only RTD’s revenues but those of many transit agencies
across the country; and farebox revenues, the fares customers pay to utilize the agency’s services.

Attachment: 4. FY2023 Proposed Budget Document (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

2.16.A.c

RTD, like most transit agencies across the country, was drastically impacted in the early days of the COVID-19
pandemic, as boardings plummeted and sales and use revenues declined as individuals, businesses, and
government entities went into lockdown. Federal rescue and relief funding provided a lifeline during difficult

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 153

BUDGET MESSAGE FROM THE GENERAL MANAGER AND CEO

2.16.A.c

(cont’d from page 3)

As the agency and the region continue to recover and stabilize from the pandemic’s impacts, we are
collectively finding new norms. Ridership is significantly lower now than in previous years. In fact, industry
analysts estimate that public transit agencies across the country will experience a permanent 15-20% decline
in ridership. Remote work shifts in the composition of the workforce, and competition from third parties such
as Uber and Lyft are just a few of the factors driving this change.
Public transit is among many industry sectors facing significant challenges, not least of which are critical
worker shortages, what I call people power problems, due to the Great Resignation that has taken place over
the past two years. I firmly believe that from that Great Resignation will follow a Great Reset, wherein
governments, industries, and individuals across the nation and the globe will have the opportunity forge a
new, sustainable path forward in a post-pandemic landscape; those with the foresight and determination to
seize this opportunity will reap great rewards. It is in this vein that transit industries have the chance to rewrite
old narratives about the purpose of public transit; no longer will transit agencies be measured solely by the
number of customers they can transport but rather by the value they deliver to the communities they serve.
This exciting and important discussion of “value over volume” continues to unfold across the agency at
agencies large and small.
Although we must recognize and account for many challenges, they are not what defines this agency.
I recognize, appreciate, and honor the collaborative efforts exhibited by all of the agency’s employees
and agency leaders, as well as the Board of Directors and our union and contractor partners during
these challenging times. I thank each of you for being one of the people who move people in the
Denver metro region.
Moreover, I extend my sincere thanks and appreciation for the contributions in the timely preparation of the
FY 2023 Budget to Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer; Todd Nickel, Senior Manager, Budget; Heidi
Wagner, Senior Manager, Finance; the Budget Analysts, and the Leadership Team.
As we look toward the upcoming year and reflect on the various changes and challenges we have
collectively endured, I am proud to reaffirm our commitment to the agency’s mission: “We make lives
better through connections.”

Attachment: 4. FY2023 Proposed Budget Document (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

financial times, and the agency has put those funds to good use by focusing on bolstering people power;
aligning wages, salaries, and benefits with those of comparable positions in the market and sustaining transit
operations at a time when individuals in our communities relied upon RTD for access to critical services.

Sincerely,

Debra A. Johnson
General Manager and CEO

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 154

We make lives better
through connections.

2.16.A.c

Introduction

This Budget demonstrates RTD’s financial capacity to address the agency’s strategic priorities based on
current information. The development of the Budget is a cross-departmental collaborative effort; hence
the proposed budget for the Board’s consideration is a collective staff recommendation.
For FY2023, the operating expense budget is $816.4 million, of which $28.9 million is carryforward from
2022 into 2023. New capital is $75.9 million and capital carry forward of $568.0 million for a total capital
budget of $643.9 million. Debt service is $225.8M and reserves are $516.4 million for a total appropriation
of $2,202 million.

Perspective
The 2023 Proposed Budget focuses on the Strategic Priorities of the Board-adopted 2021-2026 Strategic
Plan. As a result, funding appropriations are aligned in a manner to direct efforts towards achieving the
desired success outcomes as measured by specific metrics.
As society emerges from the most significant impacts from COVID-19, additional clarity has and is being
realized regarding the future state of public transit services in general, as well as RTD’s specific
experiences. In light of this, a System Optimization Plan (SOP) approved by the Board is incorporated
within this budget. Additionally, RTD has positioned itself to meet the financial needs to remediate
backlogs in project completion and ensure that assets are maintained in a state of good repair.
While RTD’s current financial position is strong and funding capacity is available to fund initiatives and
programs within the Strategic Priorities, it is expected that the agency will continue to be challenged with
accessing adequate non-financial resources as a result of the difficult labor market environment, supply
chain issues and inflation.
Economic conditions indicate that there is a potential for recession which historically has impacted RTD’s
largest source of revenue, sales and use taxes. Despite these economic headwinds, these tax collections
are still expected to grow modestly in 2023 as a result of high employment and projected gross domestic
product (GDP) growth within the District. Furthermore, RTD’s reserves remain in a strong position to
moderate financial impacts resulting from unexpected volatility.

Attachment: 4. FY2023 Proposed Budget Document (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

The Regional Transportation District’s (RTD) 2023 Proposed Budget (Budget) represents the expected
revenues, expenditures and financial position anticipated for the fiscal year January 1 through December
31, 2023. The RTD Board of Directors appropriates funding by fiscal year which allows RTD to continue its
mission to make lives better through connections. The expenditures set forth herein align the Budget with
RTD’s Strategic Plan Priorities within the projected financial constraints.

Although challenging circumstances exist in the economy, beneficial opportunities exist. The higher
interest rate environment negates the opportunities for additional interest savings from debt refinancings,
however, RTD will benefit from higher investment returns. In addition, impacts from the high inflation
rate environment will be tempered somewhat by RTD’s debt instruments all being issued at fixed rates in
addition to many annual contractual increases already being fixed.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 155

2.16.A.c

Subject: 2023 Proposed Budget
Page
6
This 2023 Budget request sets a financial course that is prudent and strategic while providing the
foundation for financial sustainability.

Strategic Plan Alignment
The Budget has been developed to direct resources to support the Strategic Plan Priorities:
•
•
•
•

Customer Excellence
Community Value
Employee Ownership
Financial Success

Fiscal and Budgetary Policies
Annually, the Board approves the RTD Fiscal Policy for the following fiscal year. Development of the Budget
adheres to this Fiscal Policy. The Board approved the 2023 Fiscal Policy at the October 25, 2022 meeting.
The 2023 Budget Policy from within the 2023 Fiscal Policy is summarized below.

Summarized Budget Policies
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

RTD shall comply with Colorado Local Government Budget Law
The Board will review and adopt the RTD Fiscal Policy
There shall be a budgetary monitoring system that charges expenditures against approved
appropriations
The Budget shall be summarized for adoption purposes
Budget preparation shall follow Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)
A balanced budget is required in which revenues plus reserves are greater than or equal to
expenditures
Procedures that postpone funding of necessary expenditures, such as preventive maintenance or
equipment replacement, will be avoided
Conservative revenue estimates that are reasonable shall be used
RTD will monitor the Budget and adjust as necessary
RTD shall prepare a six-year Mid-term Financial Plan (MTFP) forecast
Budgets shall support the goals and objectives of RTD

Attachment: 4. FY2023 Proposed Budget Document (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

The underpinnings of these requested appropriations are to provide a level of service commensurate with
available resources that best meets the needs of RTD customers and communities as well as a focus on
RTD’s fiduciary duty to maintain its assets in a state of good repair.

The 2023 Proposed Budget meets these policies.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 156

2.16.A.c

Subject: 2023 Proposed Budget
Page
7

Financial Discussion and Analysis

Revenues
Revenue sources are generally either recurring or finite. RTD’s Fiscal Policy establishes that one-time
revenues be used for one-time expenditures while recurring revenues provide a sustainable source to fund
ongoing needs. Because one-time revenues have a finite term, commitments for recurring expenditures
require an alternative source once the one-time revenues are exhausted.
RTD’s sources of recurring revenue, in descending order of size, are sales and use taxes, fares, federal
operating grants and miscellaneous revenue from advertising, investment income and rent. Historically,
RTD has also been the recipient of one-time revenues from federal capital grants, federal COVID-19 relief
funding, local contributions and land sales. RTD does not budget or forecast one-time revenues unless
certainty exists.
Revenue assumptions for the Budget include the following:
•

Fare revenue has been adjusted downward from 2022 expectations due to lower ridership. The
2022 Budget anticipated a gradual, modest return of ridership due to increased in-person
participation at universities and anticipated return-to-work requirements during the emergence
from the COVID Pandemic. While ridership has recovered from its nadir of 30% of pre-COVID
levels to approximately 60% currently, it has fallen short of the 2022 expectations of a gradual
return to 85% of pre-COVID levels. As a result, the 2023 Budget reflects a 1.4% increase in
ridership in 2023 that will drive fare revenue. In a September 2022 report, Standard and Poor’s
predicts that public transportation ridership will only return to 75% of pre-pandemic levels by 2025.

•

Sales and use tax projections were provided by the University of Colorado Leeds School of Business
(CU Leeds) in August 2022 and presented to the RTD Board in September 2022. Based on Moody’s
economic forecasts, the CU Leeds forecast model predicts that tax collections will increase 2.2% in
2023 vs. 2022 primarily driven by continued high employment, population growth and real GDP
growth in the Denver metro area. In addition, inflation is pushing prices upward resulting in
growing tax collections which is somewhat tempered by an expected modest decrease in spending.
The RTD forecast aligns with the statewide expectations from the Colorado Legislative Council
(CLC) and Office of State Budgeting and Planning (OSPB).

•

Operating grants of $141.7 million, primarily from the Federal Transit Administration (FTA), are a
recurring revenue stream to RTD. These grant apportionments are based upon financial and
statistical data that RTD submits to the National Transit Database (NTD). The FTA has agreed to
apportion amounts based on prior year NTD submissions excluding COVID-19 impacts and the

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

Attachment: 4. FY2023 Proposed Budget Document (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

The financial aspects of a budget consist of three primary categories: revenues, expenditures and reserves.
Revenues and expenditures provide the cash inflows and outflows while reserves provide the financial
balance to smooth cash flow volatility and supply the financial relief necessary for unforeseen
circumstances that inevitably arise.

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 157

2.16.A.c

Subject: 2023 Proposed Budget
Page
8

•

COVID-19 relief grants are anticipated to be fully drawn by the end of 2022. This additional grant
funding combined with strong sales and use taxes has contributed to an unprecedented balance
of over $1 billion in cash and investments as well as substantial reserves which, along with higher
interest rates, will generate additional investment income in 2023. These significant cash and
investment balances are earmarked for state of good repair needs and maintaining fund balances
in accordance with the RTD Fiscal Policy.

•

Other revenue includes recurring revenue of $16 million which consists primarily of a federal Build
America Bonds (BAB) interest rate subsidy and advertising revenues.

•

Interest income of $10 million is planned for 2023 with higher interest yields on higher reserve
balances.

RTD’s 2023 budgeted revenues are depicted below:

Revenues
Other revenue
2%
Operating
grants/3rd party
contributions
14%

Fares
8%

Sales and use
taxes
76%

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

Attachment: 4. FY2023 Proposed Budget Document (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA)/Bipartisan Infrastructure Law (BIL) increases the
annual apportionment to RTD approximately 30% in 2023 which is the equivalent of $27 million.
These increased apportionments are scheduled to continue through 2026.

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 158

2.16.A.c

Subject: 2023 Proposed Budget
Page
9

RTD’s total revenue trends by year are depicted below:

Revenues (in thousands)

$1,100,000
$1,000,000
$900,000
$800,000

Revenue

COVID relief grants

Expenditures
Expenditures consist of both recurring expenses, such as operating expenses, as well as occasional outlays
such as projects, debt service and capital expenditures.
RTD’s largest expenditure is core business service delivery. These costs include compensation, materials
and supplies, contracted services, insurance, utilities and other such expenses.
RTD also has a significant debt burden primarily from capital expansion projects as well as obligations
issued to finance the purchase of rolling stock. RTD has completed two refinancings in the past year to
realize interest savings and reduce the debt burden. As interest rates have risen recently, RTD does not
anticipate performing additional refinancings during 2023.
Furthermore, RTD has ongoing asset management needs that average approximately $120 million
annually. Asset management needs can fluctuate significantly by year when, for example, a single year
includes a large purchase such as fleet replacements. The 2023 Proposed Budget contemplates these
periodic needs through building Capital Replacement Fund reserves until needed. RTD has the ability to
fund these purchases with cash, rather than more expensive lease-purchases that have been utilized in
the past, and has budgeted and forecasted accordingly.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

Attachment: 4. FY2023 Proposed Budget Document (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

$1,200,000

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 159

2.16.A.c

Subject: 2023 Proposed Budget
Page
10

•

Salaries and wages assume full staffing to provide service levels in accordance with the System
Optimization Plan (SOP). While it is anticipated that the job market will remain competitive and will
prolong RTD’s ability to attract and maintain full staffing levels, funding has been made available
in these appropriations. In addition, the Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) includes wage
increases with provisions for incentive pay for represented employees until such time that adequate
staffing levels are achieved. The compensation increases in 2023 shown below are primarily driven
by annual increases and additional RTD police officers, which is partially offset by the decrease in
contracted security services included in Outside Services

•

Benefits include the following:
o A $1 million increase for represented employee health and welfare benefit increases
o A $3 million increase for non-represented health benefits due to an 8% premium increase
as well as realignment of the plan to provide a more attractive second option based on
benefits survey feedback from employees. The second option had shifted significant
premium costs from RTD to employees during the prior three years resulting in employee
dissatisfaction. While this increase is relatively immaterial, it follows no net increase in nonrepresented health and welfare costs in 2022 while also contributing to an increase in
employee satisfaction
o Dental and vision plans for employees remain largely unchanged for 2023, however, the
non-represented vision plan will shift to a new provider with no material change in cost
while also providing more options and flexibility for employees. This change resulted from
feedback received from employees through a benefits survey
o Represented employee retirement plans include RTD contributions to the defined benefit
pension of 15% with employee contributions remaining at 5% per the CBA. This plan will
be closed to new entrants in 2023. In addition, provisions have been included to fund the
new defined contribution plan at 9% with up to a 5% match for new employees beginning
January 1, 2023. The defined benefit pension plan is 82% funded, up from 53% funded in
2022, due to the 2022 one-time cash infusion of $160 million, and 2023 contributions are
not anticipated to change materially from 2022 while also maintaining adequate funding
levels
o The non-represented employee defined benefit pension plan is funded with a $15 million
contribution based on the unanimous recommendation from the Plan Trustees. The
actuarial recommended contribution for 2023 is $8.5 million, however, the Trustees
recognized the need to fund ongoing annual benefits of $10 million plus $5 million
representing the average annual lump sum withdrawals in order to avoid selling securities
in the existing down markets. This plan is 82% funded, up from 78% funded in 2022, and
currently has 143 active participants. This plan has been closed to new employees since
January 1, 2008 and funding requirements will tail off over the next several years
o The non-represented employee defined contribution plan assumes RTD funding of 9% of
wages which is the same amount contributed in 2022. Board policy is to contribute 7-9%
of wages each year. Only non-represented employees hired January 1, 2008 and thereafter
participate in this retirement plan
o RTD will continue to offer the 457(b) retirement plan to all employees except represented
employees hired in 2023 since they may contribute to the new defined contribution plan.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

Attachment: 4. FY2023 Proposed Budget Document (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

Expenditure assumptions for the Budget include:

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 160

2.16.A.c

Subject: 2023 Proposed Budget
Page
11

•

Materials and supplies consist of consumable items such as fuel, fluids and parts. Diesel fuel
purchases have been contracted at $2.94 per gallon for 7 million gallons, up from $2.30 per gallon
in 2022. Contracting fuel purchases provides budget certainty, particularly in the volatile fuel pricing
environment. Diesel and gasoline expenses typically account for 2% of operating expenses and the
increases will add approximately $4.5 million to these costs in 2023. This increase in cost is offset
by lower fuel usage cost savings in 2022 that will fall to the fund balance as well as a decrease in
budgeted parts costs resulting from lower trends, supply chain constraints and increased focus on
utilization of parts inventory

•

Services consist of contracted specialties within IT, legal and the security realm. Additionally, these
expenses contain inflationary increases which are offset by reductions resulting in a $6.1 million
decrease in 2023. The majority of the decrease is due to lower anticipated project activity as well
as a reduction in contracted security needs which will be replaced with RTD police officers. Project
activity is expected to be lower in alignment with current experience as well as people power and
supply chain challenges

•

Insurance costs have decreased over past years due to effective claims management. The 2023
budgeted costs include additional funding for commuter rail liability insurance coverage. While this
appears to be a net increase from 2021, insurance costs are relatively flat over an extended period
since 2022 commuter rail insurance was funded with a 15-month appropriation from 2021

•

Other expenses primarily contain expenditures for utilities and purchased transportation and, to a
lesser degree, various minor business expenses
o Utilities include projected amounts for traction power commensurate with planned rail
service levels and in alignment with 2022 usage
o Purchased transportation includes contractual increases and are aligned with expected
revenue service hours and contract amendments resulting from higher wages
o Outside Services includes $2m for design and project support for a battery electric bus
facility
o Travel and training and budgets have been maintained from 2022 to 2023 to contribute to
employee development and industry participation after elimination in 2020 and 2021.
Expenses for each Board Director have been budgeted at $10,000 per individual for travel
and $1,680 for telephone
o Funding for an on-call (“bench”) contract is included to address specialty consulting
engagements, if necessary
o A budget of $250,000 is available for employee engagement to be used for outreach and
recognition programs. All other discretionary spending will continue to be limited

•

Debt service represents a significant portion of RTD’s annual expenditures. Debt service consists
of principal and interest payments on bonds, certificates of participation (COPs) and lease-purchase
agreements. Debt service payments for 2023 will total $225.8 million, down from $235.2 million in
2022 as a result of refinancings for interest savings. The Base System bond payments will expire
in 2024, at which point, the Base System will be subject to the Taxpayer Bill of Rights (TABOR)

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

Attachment: 4. FY2023 Proposed Budget Document (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

This is a voluntary plan for which only employee, and no RTD, contributions may be made
up to Internal Revenue Service annual limits. RTD will continue to fund the administrative
costs

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 161

2.16.A.c

Subject: 2023 Proposed Budget
Page
12
restrictions. The Board TABOR Ad Hoc Committee will resume meeting in January 2023 to continue
to investigate options to mitigate these impacts
RTD’s 2023 budgeted expenditures by category are depicted below:

Debt service
20%

Operating
expenses
73%

RTD’s 2023 budgeted operating expenses by department are depicted below:

Executive Office, $1.4,
0%

Expenses by Department
$16.2,
Board Office, $1.4, 0%
(in millions) Communications,
2%

Capital Programs and
Facilities,$96.8, 12%
Planning, $11.7, 1%

Non-Departmental, $9.1,
1%
General Counsel, $20.0,
3%
Transit Police, $27.9, 3%
Administration, $60.7,
8%

Finance, $17.7, 2%

Bus Operations, $365.1,
45%

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

Attachment: 4. FY2023 Proposed Budget Document (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

Expenditures
Capital
expenditures
7%

Rail Operations, $188.5,
23%

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 162

2.16.A.c

Subject: 2023 Proposed Budget
Page
13

RTD’s 2023 budgeted operating expenses by category are depicted below:

Expenses by Category
(in millions)
Purchased transportation,
$223.7 , 28%

Insurance, $14.7 , 2%
Other expenses, $10.5,
1%
Leases and rentals, $3.4 ,
Utilities, $19.4 , 2%
0%

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

Outside services, $140.4 ,
17%

Materials and supplies,
$53.4 , 7%

Attachment: 4. FY2023 Proposed Budget Document (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

Salaries and benefits,
$350.9 , 43%

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 163

2.16.A.c

Subject: 2023 Proposed Budget
Page
14

Asset Management Plan

Department/Division
Bus
Bus
Facilities
Facilities
Facilities
Information Technology
Information Technology
Information Technology
Intelligent Transport Systems
Light Rail Infrastructure
Light Rail Infrastructure
Public Facilities
Public Facilities
Public Facilities
SCADA
Support Fleet
Support Fleet
Treasury

Description
Transit Buses - 40 ft
Transit Buses - 30 ft
Hoist Replacement
HVAC Replacement - Elati, Security Command Center, Navajo
Roof Repair
Network
Telecom
Server Replacement
Mobile Data Terminal Replacement
Rail Replacements - Central Corridor
Grade Crossing Replacement
Parking Structure Repair
Bridge Repair
Parking Structure PM Program
SCADA Equipment
Unleaded Vehicles
Diesel Vehicles
Currency Counter Replacement

Location
District-wide
District-wide
District Shops – Operations Center
Elati Light Rail DivisionSafety and Security Navajo
Mariposa
District-wide
District-wide
District-wide
District-wide
Central Rail Line
Central Platte Valley (CPV) Rail Line
District-wide
I-225 Rail Line/Southeast Rail Line
District-wide
District-wide
District-wide
District-wide
District-wide

(in thousands)
12,283
6,766
4,000
1,364
399
664
55
364
1,827
400
400
800
370
353
80
276
66
80
30,546

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

Attachment: 4. FY2023 Proposed Budget Document (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

RTD’s 2023 asset management plan expenditures are shown below:

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 164

2.16.A.c

Subject: 2023 Proposed Budget
Page
15

Headcount

Headcount

Represented
Employees

NonRepresented
Employees

Administration
Board Office
Capital Programs
Communications
Executive Office
Finance
General Counsel
Operations
Transit Police
Planning

34
150
52
44
1,980
-

220
4
96
67
4
68
25
436
122
13

254
4
246
119
4
112
25
2,416
122
13

Total

2,260

1,055

3,315

Department

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

Total

Attachment: 4. FY2023 Proposed Budget Document (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

The following table includes the budgeted headcounts. Comparable data from prior years is not available
due to reductions in force, attrition and change in service levels. New and vacant positions contained
herein only include those that directly contribute to RTD’s core mission, transit service delivery. Contracted
service providers employ approximately 1,300 individuals not reflected below.

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 165

2.16.A.c

Subject: 2023 Proposed Budget
Page
16

2022
Amended
Budget
1
2
3
4
5

Fares
Sales and use taxes
Grant revenue and other income
COVID-19 relief grants

$

2023
Proposed
Budget

98,180
799,069
116,435
101,412

$

89,515
852,827
176,104
-

Change
$

% Change

(8,665)
53,758
59,669
(101,412)

-8.8%
6.7%
51.2%
-100.0%

Total revenue

1,115,096

1,118,446

3,350

0.3%

6 Salaries and benefits
7 Materials and supplies
8 Outside services
9 Utilities
10 Leases and rentals
11 Other expenses
12 Insurance
13 Purchased transportation

319,700
55,562
146,574
19,729
4,555
8,773
13,120
207,773

350,927
53,446
140,425
19,432
3,356
10,455
14,700
223,696

31,227
(2,116)
(6,149)
(297)
(1,199)
1,682
1,580
15,923

9.8%
-3.8%
-4.2%
-1.5%
-26.3%
19.2%
12.0%
7.7%

14

775,786

816,438

40,652

5.2%

15 Debt service
16 Capital expenditures

235,168
152,871

225,760
75,868

(9,408)
(77,003)

-4.0%
-50.4%

17

388,039

301,628

(86,411)

-22.3%

-

32,054

32,054

0.0%

$ (48,729)

$ (31,674)

17,055

-35.0%

Total operating expenses

Total non-operating expenditures

18 Contribution to reserves
19

Net Cash Flow

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

$

Attachment: 4. FY2023 Proposed Budget Document (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

Comparative Cash Flow Information

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 166

2.16.A.c

Subject: 2023 Proposed Budget
Page
17

Financial Position and Key Metrics

Not reflected in the above cash flows are the following which will be paid from reserves:
•
•
•

$15 million to the City and County of Denver (CCD) to return remaining Eagle P3 project
contingency that was advanced to RTD through an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA)
50% of the Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Financing (RRIF) loan credit risk premium, or
$15.3 million, to CCD, less withholding for Denver Union Station enhancements
Potential legal settlements
Reserves
2022
Amended
Budget

FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA)
Board appropriated fund
Capital replacement fund
Operating reserve
Unrestricted fund

$

Months of operating expenses

Total reserves

148,293
51,616
12,915
193,946
50,663

2023
Proposed
Budget
$

3.0

$

457,433

168,907
51,616
34,915
204,000
56,931

Change
$

20,614
22,000
10,054
6,268

3.0

$

516,369

%
Change
13.9%
0.0%
170.3%
5.2%
12.4%

-

$

58,936

12.9%

Debt Service Coverage Ratio (target 1.2X)
2022
Amended
Budget

2023
Proposed
Budget

$ 1,115,096
775,786

$ 1,118,446
814,438

Available

339,310

Debt service

Revenues
Less operating expenses

Debt service coverage ratio

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

Change
$

%
Change

3,350
38,652

0.3%
5.0%

304,008

(35,302)

-10.4%

235,168

225,760

(9,408)

-4.0%

1.44

1.35

Attachment: 4. FY2023 Proposed Budget Document (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

Fund balances (reserves) and debt service coverage ratios meet the 2023 Fiscal Policy targets. The
Unrestricted Fund will change subsequent to the financial close-out of 2022 and completion of the financial
audit.

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 167

2.16.A.d

We make lives better through connections

Regional Transportation District
2023 Proposed Budget
Operating Expense
2023
Proposed
Budget

$ Change

% Change

Executive Office
Salary and Benefits
Materials and Supplies
Services
Other Expenses
Total

1,218,110
2,600
152,000
14,500
1,387,210

1,363,942
1,500
15,000
5,000
1,385,442

145,832
(1,100)
(137,000)
(9,500)
(1,768)

12.0%
-42.3%
-90.1%
-65.5%
-0.1%

Board Office
Salary and Benefits
Materials and Supplies
Services
Utilities
Other Expenses
Total

562,870
3,250
105,000
24,220
236,000
931,340

824,646
0
394,000
25,700
190,500
1,434,846

261,776
(3,250)
289,000
1,480
(45,500)
503,506

46.5%
-100.0%
275.2%
6.1%
-19.3%
54.1%

Communications
Salary and Benefits
Materials and Supplies
Services
Utilities
Leases and Rentals
Other Expenses
Total

11,251,612
233,200
4,272,500
12,600
9,600
146,000
15,925,512

12,227,928
181,720
3,721,125
9,602
0
50,325
16,190,700

976,316
(51,480)
(551,375)
(2,998)
(9,600)
(95,675)
265,188

8.7%
-22.1%
-12.9%
-23.8%
-100.0%
-65.5%
1.7%

Non-Departmental
Salary and Benefits
Services
Leases and Rentals
Other Expenses
Total

(5,689,996)
2,569,888
3,403,880
7,495,108
7,778,880

0
2,665,074
832,301
5,615,000
9,112,375

5,689,996
95,186
(2,571,579)
(1,880,108)
1,333,495

-100.0%
3.7%
-75.5%
-25.1%
17.1%

General Counsel
Salary and Benefits
Materials and Supplies
Services
Other Expenses
Insurance
Total

3,586,961
1,500
715,452
135,000
13,970,000
18,408,913

4,367,145
1,500
780,000
140,000
14,700,000
19,988,645

780,184
0
64,548
5,000
730,000
1,579,732

21.8%
0.0%
9.0%
3.7%
5.2%
8.6%

Attachment: 5. Opex by Department (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

Department

2022
Amended
Budget

Packet Pg. 168

2.16.A.d

We make lives better through connections

Regional Transportation District
2023 Proposed Budget
Operating Expense

Department

2022
Amended
Budget

2023
Proposed
Budget

$ Change

Transit Police
Salary and Benefits
Materials and Supplies
Services
Utilities
Other Expenses
Total

6,436,315
111,000
22,363,701
5,280
55,000
28,971,296

12,244,140
837,000
14,605,603
5,280
225,000
27,917,023

5,807,825
726,000
(7,758,098)
0
170,000
(1,054,273)

90.2%
654.1%
-34.7%
0.0%
309.1%
-3.6%

Administration
Salary and Benefits
Materials and Supplies
Services
Utilities
Leases and Rentals
Other Expenses
Total

30,381,754
2,343,205
24,923,233
1,735,780
100,000
1,340,900
60,824,872

33,833,464
1,677,150
22,178,938
1,291,224
70,000
1,685,120
60,735,896

3,451,710
(666,055)
(2,744,295)
(444,556)
(30,000)
344,220
(88,976)

11.4%
-28.4%
-11.0%
-25.6%
-30.0%
25.7%
-0.1%

Finance
Salary and Benefits
Materials and Supplies
Services
Utilities
Leases and Rentals
Other Expenses
Total

10,818,849
888,060
4,113,734
25,680
0
4,310
15,850,633

13,721,477
574,800
3,336,935
24,000
10,000
12,100
17,679,312

2,902,628
(313,260)
(776,799)
(1,680)
10,000
7,790
1,828,679

26.8%
-35.3%
-18.9%
-6.5%
180.7%
11.5%

Rail Operations
Salary and Benefits
Materials and Supplies
Services
Utilities
Leases and Rentals
Other Expenses
Purchased Transportation
Total

68,188,607
12,635,478
20,483,052
11,040,369
72,600
546,624
61,638,003
174,604,733

76,210,279
7,404,527
20,264,174
10,896,300
74,800
237,454
73,383,277
188,470,811

8,021,672
(5,230,951)
(218,878)
(144,069)
2,200
(309,170)
11,745,274
13,866,078

11.8%
-41.4%
-1.1%
-1.3%
3.0%
-56.6%
19.1%
7.9%

Attachment: 5. Opex by Department (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

% Change

Packet Pg. 169

2.16.A.d

We make lives better through connections

Regional Transportation District
2023 Proposed Budget
Operating Expense

Department

2022
Amended
Budget

2023
Proposed
Budget

$ Change

Bus Operations
Salary and Benefits
Materials and Supplies
Services
Utilities
Other Expenses
Purchased Transportation
Total

166,770,083
34,682,816
10,038,293
217,360
188,950
140,161,959
352,059,461

165,598,457
40,794,675
7,965,905
196,800
199,850
150,313,138
365,068,825

(1,171,626)
6,111,859
(2,072,388)
(20,560)
10,900
10,151,179
13,009,364

-0.7%
17.6%
-20.6%
-9.5%
5.8%
7.2%
3.7%

Planning
Salary and Benefits
Materials and Supplies
Services
Utilities
Other Expenses
Total

1,956,267
33,000
6,567,278
2,116
3,500
8,562,161

2,259,233
63,000
9,346,213
2,116
500
11,671,062

302,966
30,000
2,778,935
0
(3,000)
3,108,901

15.5%
90.9%
42.3%
0.0%
-85.7%
36.3%

Capital Programs and Facilities
Salary and Benefits
Materials and Supplies
Services
Utilities
Leases and Rentals
Other Expenses
Total

25,142,363
2,089,143
54,846,577
6,970,807
969,300
94,200
90,112,390

28,276,093
1,909,945
55,152,242
6,981,170
2,369,300
96,000
94,784,750

3,133,730
(179,198)
305,665
10,363
1,400,000
1,800
4,672,360

12.5%
-8.6%
0.6%
0.1%
144.4%
1.9%
5.2%

RTD
Salary and Benefits
Materials and Supplies
Services
Utilities
Leases and Rentals
Other Expenses
Insurance
Purchased Transportation
Total

320,623,795
53,023,252
151,150,708
20,034,212
4,555,380
10,260,092
13,970,000
201,799,962
775,417,400

350,926,804
53,445,817
140,425,209
19,432,192
3,356,401
10,454,849
14,700,000
223,696,415
816,437,687

30,303,009
422,565
(10,725,499)
(602,020)
(1,198,979)
194,757
730,000
21,896,453
41,020,287

9.5%
0.8%
-7.1%
-3.0%
-26.3%
1.9%
5.2%
10.9%
5.3%

Attachment: 5. Opex by Department (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

% Change

Packet Pg. 170

2.16.A.e

We make lives better through connections

2023 Proposed Budget
New Capital Projects
PROJECT
Base System

$

Rapid Transit Development
SH119 BRT

4,000,000

28,000,000

LRT Construction
CENTRAL LINE RAIL REPLACEMENT
SCADA EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT
SOUTHEAST RAIL BRIDGE REPAIR
CENTRAL PLATTE VALLEY (CPV) GRADE CROSSING REPLACEMENT

400,000
80,300
370,000
400,000

Fleet Modernization & Expansion
DIESEL BUSES 40' 30'

21,614,079

Capital Support & Equipment: Operations
ACCOUNT-BASED FARE COLLECTION SYSTEM
ABT HARDWARE SUPPORT & SERVICES
ABT MYRIDE MERCHANDISING AND RETAIL NETWORK
NMCR CAPITAL MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT
ORACLE ERP UPGRADE IMPLEMENTATION
SERVER EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT
WRECKER VEHICLE PURCHASE - CBA REQUIREMENT
NETWORK EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT
HVAC REPLACEMENT
BURNHAM YARD ACQUISITION
MCCASLIN LANDSCAPE REPLACEMENT - MARSHALL FIRE
TELECOM EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT
MOBILE DATA TERMINAL REPLACEMENT
UNIVERSITY OF DENVER BIKE SHELTER
SUPPORT VEHICLES
BLANK OUT SCREENS - WELTON STREET
CURRENCY SORTER REPLACEMENT

1,000,000
125,000
250,000
1,800,000
3,750,000
364,000
350,000
664,000
1,364,000
6,877,320
350,000
55,100
1,827,000
150,000
341,700
1,656,000
80,000

Total Base System

$

75,868,499

Attachment: 6. 2023 New Capital (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

Facilities Construction & Maintenance
HOIST AT DISTRICT SHOPS

Packet Pg. 171

2.16.A.f
We make lives better through connections

2023 Proposed Budget
Capital Carry-Forward Expenditures
Description

FACILITIES CONSTRUCTION & MAINTENANCE
ELEVATORS (3) REPLACEMENT
ENGINE STAND
HVAC 601 REPLACEMENT IN UPHOLSTRY SHOP
WATER JET CUTTER
DISTRICT SHOPS SUPPORT VEHICLE MAINTENANCE LIFT
BUS WASH
TRIPLE PIT
SIDE LIFT AND JIB CRANE FOR ELECTRIC BUSES
LIFTS/HOISTS
EAST METRO ROOF
BUS OPERATIONS WHEEL HOISTS
EAST METRO HOIST REPLACEMENT
CHARGING INFRASTRUCTURE FOR ELECTRIC BUSES
9-MILE DRIVER RELIEF STATION
FIRE PROTECTION UPGRADES - ALARM PANEL
PARTICULATE SENSORS REPLACEMENT WITH CO NO2 SENSORS
ROOF REPLACEMENT@PLATTE
ROOF REPLACEMENT@EAST METRO
CASCADING OP BLDGS DUS/FED STN
BLAKE ENTRYWAY REMODEL
FIRE PROTECTION FOR ZEE & SCC FACILITIES
HVAC UNIT REPLACEMENT - SCC FACILITIES
MEZZANINE ADDITION FOR OPERATOR TRAINING - ELATI
TOTAL FACILITIES CONSTRUCTION & MAINTENANCE
TRANSFER STATIONS
CIVIC CENTER STATION REBUILD
TOTAL TRANSFER STATIONS

$

105,225
39,689
41,104
23,401
243,535
1,700,000
3,000,000
350,000
2,979,052
3,963,690
590,000
1,500,000
1,210,790
143,080
39,375
205,522
129,609
1,646,551
129,850
36,423
10,940
270,262
1,701,150
20,059,247

11,175
11,175

PARK - N - RIDES
HWY 287 & NIWOT RD
THORNTON PNR PLAZA UPGRADES
LAFAYETTE PNR RECONSTRUCTION
WESTMINSTER CENTER PNR SOUTHSIDE
TOTAL PARK - N - RIDES

72,930
604,910
1,731,100
1,915,717
4,324,656

CAPITAL SUPPORT PROJECTS
16TH STREET MALL PAVER REPAIR
BLANK OUT SCREENS - WELTON STREET
COLFAX AVE./TRANSIT PRIORITY PROJ. FTA LOP
SH119 BUS RAPID TRANSIT (BRT)
SH119 BUS RAPID TRANSIT - ENVIRONMENTAL
TOTAL CAPITAL SUPPORT PROJECTS

12,321,579
3,816,737
599,904
5,052,618
485,668
22,276,507

LRT CONSTRUCTION
DOWNTOWN TRACK & SWITCHES REPLACEMENT
CENTRAL LINE TRACK REPLACEMENT
OCS WIRE REPLACEMENT ON CENTRAL RAIL LINE
RAIL REPLACEMENT @ CENTRAL CORRIDOR
TOTAL LRT CONSTRUCTION

625,814
2,500,000
385,354
438,463
3,949,632

Attachment: 7. 2023 Capital Carryforward (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

BASE SYSTEM

Packet Pg. 172

2.16.A.f
We make lives better through connections

2023 Proposed Budget
Capital Carry-Forward Expenditures

RAIL TRANSIT
CAB SIGNALING ON LRVS
HEAVY EQUIPMENT FOR LR MAINTENANCE
LRV PURCHASE OF 27 VEHICLES
PENTA PA/VMS UPGRADES
POWER SWITCHING ON EMERGENCY CROSSOVERS
SUBSTATION PLC UPGRADE
YARD ELECTRIC SWITCH HEATERS MARIPOSA
TOTAL RAIL TRANSIT

3,015,588
265,858
16,687,414
54,232
479,196
39,001
32,630
20,573,920

FLEET MODERNIZATION & EXPANSION
ACCESS-a-RIDE & FLEXRIDE BUSES
ELECTRIC BUSES
HOP BUSES
TRANSIT BUSES 40 FT
TOTAL FLEET MODERNIZATION & EXPANSION

6,279,089
20,376,000
482,140
64,378,122
91,515,351

CAPITAL SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
ADMIN/POOL/SUPERVISOR VEHICLES - Bus
FRAME PULLING MACHINE
INFORMATION SECURITY TECH-SUPERVISORY CONTROLS ENV
TSP DATA SHARING/MGMT PROJECT
TSP CONDITIONALITY PROJECT
STAND SECURITY ARCHITECTURE FOR SUPERVISORY CONTROLS (SC ssa)
ACCOUNT-BASED FARE COLLECTION SYSTEM
PARATRANSIT SOFTWARE SYSTEM
CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LR
STAMP VALIDATOR REPLACEMENT
CAMERA REPLACEMENT - SEC
BOARDROOM VIDEO UPGRADE
MISC CP EQUIPMENT PURCHASES
TVM REPLACEMENT (ST80) FOR PCI NON-COMPLIANCE
TELECOM EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT
NETWORK EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT
SERVER EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT
SOFTWARE ARCHIT DEVELPT EQUIP
SCHEDULING AND RUN CUTTING SOFTWARE
DUS BUILDING RENOVATIONS
RISK MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM UPGRADE
AURORA/EAST BIKE SHELTERS
AUTOMATED PASSENGER COUNTERS
BI INITIATIVES
AUTOMATED SOFTWARE/INTEGRATION TESTING TOOL
CYBERSECURITY
DISASTER RECOVERY
BUS AUDIO/VISUAL PROJECT
ENTERPRISE CONTENT MANAGEMENT
ENTERPRISE CRM STUDY/REPLACEMENT
GARAGE CONCENTRATORS
BACKUP SOLUTION FOR IT
IN PLANT VEHICLES & EQUIP (BUS)
INCORPORATE MoD SERVICE INTO OPEN TRIP PLANNER
INTEGRATION OF NEW PLANNING/SCHEDULING SOFTWARE
INVENTORY PLANNING/FORECASTING
LAW PRACTICE MANAGEMENT INTEGRITY SYSTEMS
MOBILE TICKETING
NETWORK SYSTEMS
ORACLE BI
ORACLE ENGINEERED SYSTEMS END OF LIFE REPLACEMENT

432,031
166,749
153,834
530,000
200,000
179,472
1,281,866
3,062,690
19,903
595,000
1,980,000
153,700
19,416
1,435,780
184,200
3,013,700
6,483,500
5,656,400
4,958
200,000
7,339
362,364
1,917
9,423
107,190
69,984
265,770
2,416,000
739,626
444,463
274,982
178,718
211,978
250,193
14,998
1,443,929
26,732
110,000
168,665
13,902
168,008

Attachment: 7. 2023 Capital Carryforward (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

Description

Packet Pg. 173

2.16.A.f
We make lives better through connections

2023 Proposed Budget
Capital Carry-Forward Expenditures
ORACLE ERP UPGRADE AND/OR ALTERNATIVE SYSTEM
PASSENGER INFORMATION DISPLAYS
PIDS PROGRAM INFRASTRUCTURE SUPPORT
QUOGNIFY VMS SERVER REPLACEMENTS
RADIO SYSTEMS/SOFTWARE - CAD/AVL
SHERIDAN/BRMFLD BIKE SHELTERS
SIGN SHOP MACHINERY
SMS SOFTWARE SOLUTION
SUPPORT /SERVICE VEHICLES
SUPPORT VEHICLES
SUPPORT/SERVICE VEHICLES
ACCELERATING INNOVATIVE MOBILITY
THERMAL PRINTERS FOR BUS
TIME AND ATTENDANCE
TIS/RTPI + 2 FTE
TRIP PLANNER ENHANCEMENTS
TVMS - SE CORRIDOR
UNIVERSITY SCC
TOTAL CAPITAL SUPPORT EQUIPMENT

4,680,374
149,953
359,459
20
1,959,783
100,683
151,358
36,453
98,448
2,611,400
152,104
665,580
11,664
124,455
204,656
18,229
281,062
168,878
44,813,937

TOTAL BASE SYSTEM

207,524,425

FASTRACKS
FASTRACKS ADMIN PROJECTS
COMMUTER RAIL MAINTENANCE FACILITY
WEST FEDERAL PROJECT
NORTHWEST RAIL
U.S. 36 B.R.T. PHASE 2
EAST CORRIDOR
GOLD LINE
NORTH METRO
I-225 CORRIDOR
DUS TO CRMF CORRIDOR
P.P.P. PREPARATION
WEST PARKING GARAGE
CRMF TO PECOS
DUS ELECTRIFICATION
DUS SYSTEMS-EAGLE
LONGMONT STATION
NORTH METRO NON COP
NORTH METRO COP
NORTH METRO O&M INTERFACE
NORTH METRO MOBILIZATION
FLATIRON FLYER POST-OPENING VEHICLE

6,027,193
7,750,586
56,808,604
9,867,248
5,895,831
109,955,093
35,184,688
1,821,825
6,751,243
2,880,811
250,000
1,460,529
73,663
12,241,389
129
16,402,511
25,702,546
50,098,331
1,540,130
9,300,009
423,991

TOTAL FASTRACKS

360,436,349

TOTAL BASE SYSTEM
TOTAL FASTRACKS

207,524,425
360,436,349

TOTAL CAPITAL CARRYFORWARD FOR THE 2023 PROPOSED BUDGET

$

Attachment: 7. 2023 Capital Carryforward (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

Description

567,960,774

Packet Pg. 174

2.16.A.f
We make lives better through connections

2023 Proposed Budget
Capital Carry-Forward Expenditures
Description

Summary of Changes
$

Net Change

2023 PROPOSED BUDGET FASTRACKS CAPITAL CARRYFORWARD
2022 AMENDED BUDGET FASTRACKS CAPITAL CARRYFORWARD

360,436,349
382,994,707
(22,558,358)

Net Change

2023 PROPOSED BUDGET TOTAL CAPITAL CARRYFORWARD
2022 AMENDED BUDGET TOTAL CAPITAL CARRYFORWARD
Net Change

207,524,425
107,689,503
99,834,922

$

567,960,774
490,684,209
77,276,565

Attachment: 7. 2023 Capital Carryforward (4722 : 2023 Proposed Budget)

2023 PROPOSED BUDGET BASE SYSTEM CAPITAL CARRYFORWARD
2022 AMENDED BUDGET BASE SYSTEM CAPITAL CARRYFORWARD

Packet Pg. 175

2.17.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
38th•Blake Development Negotiation

Committee Meeting Date:
November 1, 2022
Board Meeting Date:
November 15, 2022

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and/or her delegate to negotiate and
execute an Exclusive Negotiation Agreement (ENA) with Portman Holdings for the future lease and
development of the real property located at 3800 Wynkoop Street, Denver, Colorado (the Property).
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Chessy Brady, Transit-Oriented Development Manager, Planning
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 minutes
BACKGROUND
RTD acquired the Property located at the corner of 38th Street and Wynkoop Street to serve as a Parkn-Ride (PnR) for the 38th•Blake Station on the A Line. The 4.5-acre Property is currently a 188-space
PnR, a large drainage facility, and a vacant, grass area. The Property is part of RTD’s parking
management system and is maintained by Denver Transit Operators (DTO) through the Concession
Agreement.
In 2010, the Board adopted the Strategic Plan for TOD to create a more focused policy that guides
RTD’s role in encouraging the creation of mixed-income communities near transit. In 2015, the Board
approved the Unsolicited Proposal Policy for Real Property, which guides the Unsolicited Proposal
Procedure (UPP) that developers must follow to pursue development on RTD property. Portman Holdings
submitted Step 1 of the UPP in April 2019, kicking off a conversation between the developer and
planning staff. Portman then submitted the second step of the UPP, the Technical Review, in July 2019.
A committee of Operations, Capital Programs, Safety, Security, and Planning staff found no fatal flaws
in the project and allowed the project to proceed. Portman soon submitted for Concept Review with the
City and County of Denver, receiving approvals in May 2021.
In August 2021, Portman submitted RTD’s formal Unsolicited Proposal for Joint Development. The multidepartmental committee reconvened and determined that Portman’s proposal had legal, financial, and
technical merit. Step 4 of the UPP requires RTD to release a Request for Alternative Proposals, which
staff did in the form of a Request for Qualifications (RFQ). RTD led the RFQ process with input from the
City and County of Denver. After a 90-day bid period, several weeks of deliberations and interviews, the
selection committee chose Portman Holdings based on their extensive development experience, access
to financial resources, and intent to provide greater affordability than required by local ordinance. To
continue to the next step in the UPP, RTD must execute an ENA with Portman Holdings.

Packet Pg. 176

2.17.B

DISCUSSION
This action authorizes the General Manager and/or her delegate to enter into an ENA with Portman
Holdings. In adopting this recommended action, the agency furthers the 2021-2026 Strategic Plan
priorities of Community Value, Customer Excellence, and Financial Success by creating much-needed
housing near transit, improving transit access, and generative revenues for RTD. The ENA will address,
among other items:
• Negotiation and design schedule
• Project financing
• Development plan (density, use, affordability)
• RTD Requirements
o Maintenance and operations
o Parking replacement
The ENA will permit a 24-month negotiation period, commencing on the effective date of the ENA.
However, RTD may extend the term of the ENA at its sole discretion.
Board authorization through a future action will be required to lease the Property to Portman Holdings
and begin construction. If RTD and Portman Holdings fail to execute the ENA, fail to successfully
negotiate a ground lease and any other necessary agreements, or if the Board does not authorize
disposition of the Property through a future action, RTD will remain the property owner and any
subsequent decisions about the Property would be subject to Board approval. RTD staff will keep the
Board apprised of the development process.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Approval of the ENA will have no financial impact to RTD.

ATTACHMENTS:
•

38th and Blake Dev. Negotiation Recommended Action 11.1.22

(PPTX)

Prepared by:
Chessy Brady, Manager, Transit-Oriented Development
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 177

2.17.B

Packet Pg. 178

38th•Blake
Development Negotiation
Chessy Brady, Transit-Oriented Development Manager, Planning

November 1, 2022

Attachment: 38th and Blake Dev. Negotiation Recommended Action 11.1.22 (4716 : 38th•Blake

2.17.B.a

Packet Pg. 179

38th•Blake Park-n-Ride (PnR)
§ ~4.5-acre PnR, drainage, and vacant land
§ Valued at $47M (appraised March 2022)
§ Process thus far:
• April 2019 – Portman Holdings commenced RTD’s

Future
Development
(Carmel)
Future
Development

Bus Stop

RTD
Vacant
Land

RTD
Park-n-Ride
(188 spaces)

Unsolicited Proposal Procedure for Joint
Development

• August 2021 – Portman submitted formal

unsolicited proposal to lease and develop PnR

• April-August 2022 – RTD requested and reviewed
alternate proposals

• September 2022 – Staff selected Portman and
team

November 1, 2022

38th•Blake Station

2

Attachment: 38th and Blake Dev. Negotiation Recommended Action 11.1.22 (4716 : 38th•Blake

2.17.B.a

Packet Pg. 180

Development
Under
Construction

Portman Holdings Proposal

Future
Development

§ Ground lease PnR to construct office

building and multifamily rental project

§ Surpass Denver requirement for affordable
rental units

Bus Stop

§ Improve pedestrian/bike transit access
§ Replace existing transit parking spaces in
structure

§ Meet operations and maintenance
requirements

38th•Blake Station

November 1, 2022

3

Attachment: 38th and Blake Dev. Negotiation Recommended Action 11.1.22 (4716 : 38th•Blake

2.17.B.a

Packet Pg. 181

Unsolicited Proposal Procedure – Real Property
Joint Development

Nov. 2021

November 1, 2022

11/1/22
11/15/22

~2024

4

Attachment: 38th and Blake Dev. Negotiation Recommended Action 11.1.22 (4716 : 38th•Blake

2.17.B.a

Packet Pg. 182

38th•Blake Joint Development Process
§ November 2022 – Board considers entering into
Exclusive Negotiation Agreement (ENA)

§ 2023 – ENA finalized and ENA Period begins: advance

design, negotiate ground lease and other agreements,
involve Denver Transit Operators

§ 2024 – Board considers lease terms
§ 2024/2025 – If Board approves lease terms, parties
close, construction begins

Portman Holdings
November 1, 2022

5

Attachment: 38th and Blake Dev. Negotiation Recommended Action 11.1.22 (4716 : 38th•Blake

2.17.B.a

Packet Pg. 183

2021-2026 Strategic Plan – TOD Tactic
§ Transit-oriented development (TOD) aligns with mission, vision, and strategic priorities
MISSION AND VISION

STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
AND OUTCOMES

We make lives better
through connections.

Community Value

To be the trusted leader in
mobility, delivering
excellence and value to
our customers and
community.

Customer Excellence

Employee Ownership

PLANNING DEPARTMENT
SCORECARD

Increase revenue from
transit-oriented
development and
joint development on
RTD-owned land

Financial Success
6

Attachment: 38th and Blake Dev. Negotiation Recommended Action 11.1.22 (4716 : 38th•Blake

2.17.B.a

Packet Pg. 184

TOD Evaluation Guidelines – Applied to 38th•Blake
§ Project complies with principles and factors approved by 2018 Board to guide proposed
TOD project evaluation

Principles

Factors

Project must:

Project is evaluated based on:

§ Be budget neutral or positive
§ Increase ridership
§ Prioritize ground lease over sale
§ Abide by parking rules
§ Maintain safety and security
§ Have jurisdiction’s support
November 1, 2022

ü
ü
ü
ü
ü
ü

§ Revenue
§ Ridership
§ Operations and maintenance impacts
§ Amenities/access improvements
§ Community facilities/affordable housing
§ Benefits to RTD brand image

+++
+
+
+
+
++

7

Attachment: 38th and Blake Dev. Negotiation Recommended Action 11.1.22 (4716 : 38th•Blake

2.17.B.a

Packet Pg. 185

Exclusive Negotiating Agreement (ENA) Terms
§ RTD will negotiate with Portman Holdings, to the exclusion of other developers
§ ENA will address
• Negotiation and design schedule
• Project financing
• Development plan (density, use, affordability)
• RTD requirements
•Maintenance and operations
•Parking replacement

November 1, 2022

8

Attachment: 38th and Blake Dev. Negotiation Recommended Action 11.1.22 (4716 : 38th•Blake

2.17.B.a

Packet Pg. 186

Thank you.

rtd-denver.com
Attachment: 38th and Blake Dev. Negotiation Recommended Action 11.1.22 (4716 : 38th•Blake

2.17.B.a

Packet Pg. 187

2.17.C

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
IT Work Order Contract

Committee Meeting Date:
November 1, 2022
Board Meeting Date:
November 15, 2022

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her designee, to execute all
documents necessary to award a contract to DatamanUSA for Information Technology (IT) Work Order
Services in an amount not exceed $10 million over five years nor $2 million in any single year.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Leah Riley, Chief Administrative Officer
Eric Farrington, Sr. Project Manager
PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes
BACKGROUND
The IT Division utilizes an on-call contractor to perform work in support of initiatives related to IT. The
contractor provides technical support of the agency’s broad range of technologies and applications.
DISCUSSION
In adopting this recommended action, the agency is striving to meet the 2021-2026 Strategic Plan
priority of Financial Success by providing a contract vehicle for federal grant funds, as well as the
strategic priority of Employee Ownership by virtue of support for staff in completing necessary work.
The IT Work Order contract is expected to provide a wide range of support for the IT Division. The types
of work orders implemented will depend upon the changing needs of the IT Division over the next five
years. Types of work anticipated include tasks related to:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

IT hardware
Software and databases
Systems engineering and planning
IT administration and analysis
Communications
Smart vehicle technology
Traveler information
Emerging technologies
Design, planning and management
Quality assurance and testing
Procurement and project initiation

The contract with DatamanUSA is the successor to the previous five-year, $10 million IT work order
contract with a separate contractor, which the Board approved in September 2017.

Packet Pg. 188

2.17.C

FINANCIAL IMPACT
The contract authority shall not exceed $10 million over five years nor $2 million in any single year.
Funding for work orders will be included in the budgets of the projects for which the work is performed,
and the funding source will vary by project.

Prepared by:
Eric Farrington, Program Manager, IT
Leah Riley, Chief Administrative Officer
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 189

2.17.D

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Access-on-Demand

Committee Meeting Date:
November 1, 2022
Board Meeting Date:
November 15, 2022

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to execute
contracts with Lyft, Metro Transportation, Uber Transit and zTrip for the provision of Access-on-Demand
services. These contracts are for a duration of three years, at a not-to-exceed cost of $9,344,175.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer
Paul Hamilton, Senior Manager, Paratransit Services
PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes
BACKGROUND
RTD has provided on-demand opt-in service through taxi companies since 2005; this service was
branded as Access-a-Cab. While this service presents an affordable alternative for paratransit customers,
the taxi industry has been unable to consistently provide a supply of resources to meet demand,
particularly for customers using wheelchairs or other similar mobility devices.
In October 2020, the paratransit department piloted an expansion of Access-a-Cab using transportation
network companies (TNC). This service allowed for an expanded service supply and a more responsive
service platform for paratransit customers opting in to RTD’s on-demand services.
In January 2022, the Uber pilot service area was expanded to the entire District to parallel the Access-aCab service area. These services provide a more convenient same-day alternative, which is more
affordable to customers and more cost-efficient for RTD and is responsive to all customers regardless of
their mobility aids.
DISCUSSION
On June 28, 2022, RTD issued a request for qualifications (RFQ) soliciting proposals for the provision of
Access-on-Demand services by taxi companies and TNCs. On October 17, 2022, four proposals meeting
the terms of the RFQ scope were received from Lyft, Metro Transportation, Uber Transit and zTrip. A
staff evaluation panel reviewed submittals to determine whether prospective service providers met predetermined objective qualifications outlined in the RFQ, including confirmation of good standing with the
Colorado Public Utilities Commission and compliance with insurance requirements. Based upon the
overall proposal evaluations, the panel recommends that contracts be awarded to Lyft, Metro
Transportation, Uber Transit and zTrip, in an amount not to exceed $9,344,175 over three years, for the
provision of Access-on-Demand service,

Packet Pg. 190

2.17.D

FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funding for the provision of Access-on-Demand services effective January 1, 2023, is included in the
2023 Proposed Budget. Funding for future contract years is included in the 2023-2028 Mid-Term
Financial Plan and will be considered annually within each subsequent fiscal year’s respective budget.

Prepared by:
Paul Hamilton, Senior Manager, Paratransit Services
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 191

2.17.E

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Access-a-Ride/FlexRide Contract Extensions

Committee Meeting Date:
November 2, 2022
Board Meeting Date:
November 15, 2022

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to enter into a sixmonth contract extension with MV Transportation, Via Mobility Services, Transdev and Transdev on
Demand from January 1 through June 30, 2023, for the provision of Access-a-Ride and FlexRide
services. The not-to-exceed amount for the contracted services is $23,554,323. Additionally, the notto-exceed amount for fuel is $2,086,688. The total six-month not-to-exceed amount for the contracted
services with fuel is $25,641,011.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Michael Ford, Chief Operating Officer
Paul Hamilton, Senior Manager, Paratransit Services
PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes
BACKGROUND
The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) requires public entities operating a fixed route system to also
provide paratransit service to individuals with disabilities which is comparable to the level of service
provided to individuals without disabilities. RTD’s paratransit services are currently provided by four
service providers: MV Transportation, Via Mobility Services, Transdev and Transdev On-Demand.
RTD also operates FlexRide service in 23 service areas within the District, providing first-and-last mile
connections along with access to essential locations such as grocery stores, hospitals, medical facilities,
employment sites and schools. These services are currently provided by two service providers: MV
Transportation and Via Mobility Services.
Currently, approximately 65% of RTD’s paratransit customer base regularly uses the agency’s services,
and FlexRide ridership has been steadily increasing.
Considering that current contract extensions are set to expire December 31, 2022, RTD solicited
proposals for Access-a-Ride and FlexRide services, which were received on August 10, 2022. In
conference with Civil Rights, Procurement and Legal staff, it was determined that one of the proposers
was deemed non-responsive for their DBE plan and has subsequently filed an appeal with RTD. Given the
timeline of the appeal process, staff anticipates a need to extend agreements with current service
providers.
DISCUSSION

Packet Pg. 192

2.17.E

In adopting this recommended action, RTD seeks to meet the 2021-2026 Strategic Plan priorities of
Community Value and Financial Success. In October 2022, RTD requested cost proposals from current
service providers to continue service through June 30, 2023.
Cost Analysis
An internal financial analysis indicated that the six-month estimated cost for RTD to provide similar
services internally would be $27,358,616, which is $1,717,605 higher than the six-month cost
proposed by the agency’s current service providers.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funding for the provision of Access-a-Ride and FlexRide services effective, January 1 through June 30,
2023, is included in the 2023 Budget.

Prepared by:
Paul Hamilton, Senior Manager, Paratransit Services
Erin Vallejos, Senior Manager of Contracted Services
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 193

2.17.F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Contract Award for Welton Safety Improvements

Committee Meeting Date:
November 2, 2022
Board Meeting Date:
November 15, 2022

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her designee, the authority to
negotiate and execute all documents necessary to award contract No. 322FH0027 to Krische
Construction, Inc. (KCI), for an amount of $4,395,002 for Welton Street Safety Improvements.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Henry J. Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager, Capital Programs
PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes
BACKGROUND
The Welton Corridor portion of the Central Corridor (the L Line) in Denver opened for revenue service in
1994. The segment from 21st Street to 30th Street and Downing Street has experienced the highest
number of accidents of any corridor in the light rail system, with 63 accidents occurring between 2012
to 2021.
Blank-out signs are traffic signals designed to alert motorists or pedestrians to changing traffic patterns
in areas such as those located along light rail corridors running parallel to surface streets. To enhance
existing safety measures along the Welton Corridor, staff is engaging in a project to replace existing
blank-out signs and add new blank-out signs. The project also updates existing static signage, warning
devices, and associated train signaling system equipment that has not been updated since the opening
of the L Line in 1994. The equipment being replaced is past its useful life and is no longer serviceable,
with spare parts being difficult to obtain or no longer available. Due to compatibility issues, the existing,
outdated light rail relay-based signal system will be converted to a new microprocessor-based system
consistent with the new signal systems equipment being used throughout the light rail system.
Staff previously solicited requests for proposals for this project in Q3 2020. An engineer’s estimate for
the construction of this project was approximately $2.7 million. KCI was the only contractor to respond
to the request for proposals, with a proposed project cost of approximately $4.8 million. Negotiations
with the contractor were unsuccessful in closing the gap between the engineer’s estimate and the bid.
In discussions with the contractor, the major causes for the differences between the engineer’s estimate
and the bid was the risk associated with utilizing conduit systems that had been installed as part of the
original construction almost 30 years ago and the schedule impacts of working with the trains still
running.
To reduce project risk, an electrical contractor was retained by RTD to investigate the existing conduit
system. The existing conduits were determined to be available for this construction, and a shut-down of
the rail service was arranged.
The project was advertised for a second time as an invitation for bids on August 5, 2022. A single bid
was received from KCI and is valid for 60 days.

Packet Pg. 194

2.17.F

DISCUSSION
Adopting this recommended action aligns the agency with the 2021-2026 Strategic Plan priorities of
Community Value and Customer Excellence. The blank-out signs and static signage will better warn
motorists of train movements, reducing the potential of accidents and maintaining service schedules.
KCI has worked on several rail replacements and other projects for RTD previously. This project has
equipment and material needs with long lead times. The project has stakeholder support and
coordination in place. Denver has agreed to waive permit fees for the project. A shut down of the
service is planned for eight weeks in Q2 2023 to complete the work. As alternate bus service is
available on this route, no bus bridges are planned.
This project also requires specialty consultant support through construction and integration testing,
which will be procured separately.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The total cost of the project, including contract award, specialty consultant services, and project
contingencies is $5,274,397, for which funding is allocated in the 2022 Budget.
The Colorado Public Utilities Commission was instrumental in securing Federal Highway Administration
Section 130 Rail Highway Crossings grant funds in the amount of $1.5 million for safety enhancements,
which funding will be utilized for this project.

Prepared by:
Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Chief Engineer
Paul von Fay, Manager, Engineering Design
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 195

2.18.G

DIRECTOR REQUESTED AGENDA ITEM
Bylaws Amendment — Director Informal Meeting Process

Committee Meeting Date:
September 22, 2022
Board Meeting Date:
November 15, 2022

Added to Committee Agenda as a Director initiated request pursuant to RTD Board Bylaws Art. V,
Section 3(b). Requires formal motion and second at Committee meeting.
MOTION
It is recommended by RTD Directors Dishell, Guissinger, and Sloan that the Board of Directors amend
Article IV of the Bylaws of the Regional Transportation District to establish a procedure for informal
meetings to engage in discussions of public business with three or more Board members in addition to
regular Board, special Board, Standing committee, and Ad Hoc Committee meetings.
REPRESENTATIVE
Directors Dishell, Guissinger, and Sloan
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 minutes
BACKGROUND
The proposal is intended to complement the regular structure of Board meetings by affording Directors
an option to schedule flexible and adaptable meetings when three or more members consider them to be
necessary or desirable. The purposes of such meetings include preparing a matter to bring to the Board,
discussing working relationships with stakeholders and constituents, or considering other matters related
to agency business. The scheduling Directors must provide the meeting agenda, including any materials,
the time, and location of the meeting to the Executive Manager of the Board Office and the Board Chair
at least forty-eight hours prior to the meeting. Notice of the meetings will be posted on the Board’s
online two-week calendar. Written minutes shall be recorded.
Like all Board meetings, the informal meetings will comply with applicable laws, particularly the Colorado
Open Meetings Law and the Americans with Disabilities Act. Board Office staff may not be present and
informal meetings will not be broadcasted via Zoom or video recorded, nor will a written transcript be
prepared.
DISCUSSION
The proposal can encourage useful discussion of nascent issues as well as improve the presently
cumbersome and inefficient process for more-than-three-Director initiatives. If the Bylaw amendments
are adopted, Directors will be authorized to develop agendas and choose locations suitable to the
discussion topic. Blake Street will remain as a location available to Directors who wish to utilize RTD's IT
expertise, security advantages, and meeting spaces. Others may select an alternative venue
commensurate with their anticipation of meeting requirements.

Packet Pg. 196

2.18.G

The proposed Bylaw amendments add a new Article IV, Section 4, stating:
INFORMAL DIRECTOR MEETINGS
Informal Meetings may be called to engage in discussions of public business by three or more Directors.
The purposes of such meetings may include discussion of a matter to bring to the Board, relationships
with stakeholders and constituents, or other matters related to agency business. No formal action may
be taken. The Directors calling the meeting may set the location and agenda as appropriate to the topic
of the meeting. Written minutes shall be recorded.
Additionally, a new subsection is to be added to Section 8(c): Notice of Meetings.
NOTICE OF MEETINGS
c) The scheduling Directors must provide the meeting agenda, including any materials, the time, and
location of the meeting to the Executive Manager of the Board Office and the Board Chair at least fortyeight hours prior to the meeting.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
No financial impact is expected.

ATTACHMENTS:
•

2022-09-28 Bylaws Amendment - Informal Director Meetings - Three Signatures Page

•

2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC)

•

2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (DOCX)

•

2022-09-22 Director Comments to Proposed Amended Bylaws

(PDF)
(DOCX)

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Marjorie Sloan, Director, District M
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 197

2.18.G.a
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Vince Buzek, District J
First Vice Chair – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Second Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Secretary – Marjorie Sloan, District M
Treasurer – Troy Whitmore, District K
Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Shelley Cook, District L
Erik Davidson, District I
Bobby Dishell, District D

Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Rosenthal, District E
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

WRITTEN NOTIFICATION
This Written Notification is provided to the RTD Board Chair and to the RTD Board
Office Executive Manager pursuant to and consistent with Article V, Section 3(b) of the
RTD Bylaws that the below-named RTD Directors hereby request that the following Action
Item be added to the Agenda for the Executive Committee to be held on September 22,
2022, to wit:
MOTION
It is recommended by RTD Directors Dishell, Guissinger, and Sloan that the Board of
Directors amend Article IV of the Bylaws of the Regional Transportation District to
establish a procedure for informal meetings to engage in discussions of public business
with three or more Board members in addition to regular Board, special Board, Standing
committee, and Ad Hoc Committee meetings.

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Bylaws Amendment - Informal Director Meetings - Three Signatures Page (4680 : Bylaws Amendment — Director

Regional Transportation District

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 198

BYLAWS
OF THE
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
ADOPTED JANUARY 15, 1970
AMENDED THROUGH JULY, 2004
AMENDED THROUGH FEBRUARY, 2005
AMENDED THROUGH FEBRUARY, 2007
AMENDED THROUGH FEBRUARY, 2008
AMENDED THROUGH FEBRUARY, 2010
AMENDED THROUGH AUGUST, 2012
AMENDED THROUGH NOVEMBER 29, 2016
AMENDED THROUGH FEBRUARY 26, 2019
AMENDED THROUGH MARCH 26, 2019
AMENDED THROUGH DECEMBER 7, 2021
AMENDED THROUGH SEPTEMBER 28, 2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 199

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
PREAMBLE .................................................................................................... 5
ARTICLE I – DEFINITIONS ............................................................................... 6
ARTICLE II – BOARD OF DIRECTORS ............................................................... 6
ARTICLE III – OFFICE ..................................................................................... 6
ARTICLE IV – MEETINGS ................................................................................ 7
Section 1. Regular Board Meetings ......................................................... 7
Section 2. Standing Committee Meetings ............................................... 7
Section 3. Special Board Meetings ......................................................... 7
Section 4. Informal Director Meetings .................................................... 8
Section 5. Annual Board Planning Meeting .............................................. 8
Section 6. Study Sessions .................................................................... 8
Section 7. Public Meeting and Executive Sessions ................................... 9
Section 8. Notice of Meetings ............................................................... 9
Section 9. Recesses and Adjournments ................................................ 11
Section 10 Waiver of Notice ................................................................ 11
ARTICLE V – CONDUCT OF BUSINESS .......................................................... 11
Section 1. Quorum ............................................................................. 11
Section 2. Voting Requirements ........................................................... 12
Section 3. The Regular Board Meeting Agenda ..................................... 12
Section 4. Order of Business ............................................................... 13
Section 5. Resolutions and Actions – Vote Recorded.............................. 15
Section 6. Records ............................................................................. 16
ARTICLE VI – COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD .................................................. 17
Section 1. Standing Committees .......................................................... 17
Section 2. Independent Audit Committee .............................................. 20
Section 3. Other Committees .............................................................. 20
ARTICLE VII – OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL .................................................... 20
Section 1. Qualifications ..................................................................... 20
Section 2. Process for Announcing Intentions to Run for Board Office…….21
Section 3. Terms of Office .................................................................. 21
Section 4. Election of Officers ............................................................. 21
Section 5. The Chair .......................................................................... 22

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 200

Section 6. The First Vice-Chair/Second Vice-Chair ................................. 22
Section 7. The Secretary .................................................................... 23
Section 8. The Treasurer ................................................................... 23
Section 9. Vacancies......................................................................... 24
Section 10. Removal of Officers .......................................................... 24
Section 11. Additional Duties .............................................................. 24
Section 12. The General Manager ........................................................ 25
Section 13. Oath of Office .................................................................. 26
Section 14. Indemnification ................................................................. 28
Section 15. Fidelity Bond .................................................................... 28
Section 16. Compensation of Directors………………………………………….29
ARTICLE VIII – BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION .................................................. 29
Section 1. Fiscal Year ....................................................................... 29
Section 2. Budget Process ................................................................. 29
Section 3. Preliminary Budget ............................................................. 29
Section 4. Public Hearing on Budget.................................................... 30
Section 5. Adoption of Annual Budget................................................. 30
Section 6. Quasi-Annual Budget ......................................................... 31
Section 7. Amendment of Annual Budget ............................................ 31
Section 8. Appropriating Resolution .................................................... 31
Section 9. Failure to Make Appropriation ............................................. 32
Section 10. No Contract to Exceed Appropriation ................................... 33
Section 11. Contingencies ................................................................... 33
Section 12. Audits ............................................................................. 34
Section 13. Legal Counsel................................................................... 34
Section 14. Consultant/Contractor Selection and Tenure......................... 35
ARTICLE IX – OFFICIAL NEWSPAPERS .......................................................... 35
Section 1. Official Newspapers ........................................................... 36
Section 2. Additional Newspapers ...................................................... 36
ARTICLE X – CORPORATE SEAL ................................................................... 36
ARTICLE XI – POTENTIAL CONFLICT OF INTEREST ......................................... 37
Section 1. Refrain from Participation ................................................... 37
Section 2. Official Interest Only .......................................................... 37
ARTICLE XII – POWERS OF THE DISTRICT ..................................................... 38
ARTICLE XIII – PARLIAMENTARY AUTHORITY ............................................... 39
ARTICLE XIV – PRIVATIZATION AND EMPLOYEE LAYOFFS ............................. 39

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 201

ARTICLE XV – MODIFICATION OF BYLAWS ................................................... 39

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 202

PREAMBLE

The Regional Transportation District (“RTD” or the “District”) was created
by the Regional Transportation District Act, § 32-9-101 et seq., C.R.S. (the “RTD
Act”) (Senate Bill 309, Sessions Law of Colorado, 47th General Assembly, First
Regular Session, 1969). The District is a

political subdivision of the State of

Colorado, with those powers specifically granted and those reasonably implied from
the RTD Act and necessary or proper to carry out the objects and purposes of the
District.

The authority of the Board of Directors to adopt these Bylaws is expressly
conferred by the RTD Act, at § 32-9-114 (1) (b), C.R.S. Some rules governing the
internal affairs of the Board of Directors are contained in the RTD Act, while others
are contained in other laws and others, by delegation, are to be established by the
Board. For convenience of reference, those that are contained in the RTD Act or
other laws, together with those that are adopted under delegated authority, are
combined in these Bylaws. Nothing contained in these Bylaws, nor any omission from
them, shall be construed as an alteration or deviation from any grant of power, duty,
or responsibility to, or any limitation or restriction imposed upon the Board under the
RTD Act or other applicable laws as they now exist or may be amended.

Revised Board Bylaws

5

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 203

ARTICLE I
DEFINITIONS
The

terms

“district,”

“board,”

“director,”

“publication,”

“mass

transportation system,” and other terms defined in the RTD Act, and used in
these Bylaws, shall have the same meaning as in the RTD Act unless the
context clearly indicates a different meaning. “State Audit” as used in these
Bylaws means the performance audit conducted by the Office of the State
Auditor in 2009 and 2010 and reported to the state Legislative Audit
Committee in March 2010.

ARTICLE II
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
All powers, privileges, and duties vested in or imposed upon the District
shall be exercised and performed by and through the Board, whether set forth
specifically or implied in these Bylaws. The Board may delegate to officers and
employees of the District any or all executive, administrative, and ministerial
powers.

ARTICLE III
OFFICE
The Board may designate, locate and relocate its executive and
Revised Board Bylaws

6

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 204

business office and such other offices or divisions as in its judgment are
needed to conduct the business of the District. The office of the Board shall
be located within the RTD District.

ARTICLE IV
MEETINGS
Section 1.

REGULAR BOARD MEETINGS. Regular Board meetings shall

be held on the fourth Tuesday of each month, at 5:30 p.m. Unless necessary
to meet the agency’s business needs, no Board or standing committee meetings
will be scheduled in August or December of each year.

Section 2.

STANDING COMMITTEE MEETINGS.

The Finance and

Planning Committee and the Operations and Safety Committee will be held on
the second Tuesday and the Wednesday immediately following of each month
at 5:30 p.m. Executive Committee meetings will be held at noon on the third
Thursday of each month. Performance Committee and Internal Audit
Committee meetings will be scheduled as necessary to fulfill the committees’
responsibilities.

Section 3:

SPECIAL BOARD MEETINGS. Special Board meetings may

be called by the Chair of the Board whenever, in the Chair’s opinion, such a
meeting is necessary or desirable, or whenever the same is requested in writing
Revised Board Bylaws

7

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 205

to the Chair by three or more members of the Board.

Section 4:

INFORMAL DIRECTOR MEETINGS. Informal Meetings may be

called to engage in discussions of public business by three or more Directors.
The purposes of such meetings may include discussion of a matter to bring to
the Board, relationships with stakeholders and constituents, or other matters
related to agency business. No formal action may be taken. The Directors calling
the meeting may set the location and agenda as appropriate to the topic of the
meeting. Written minutes shall be recorded.

Section 5. ANNUAL BOARD PLANNING MEETING. At the beginning of
each year, the Board will schedule an annual Board Planning Meeting lasting
one or two days for the purposes of strategic planning, establishing annual
Board priorities, and providing the General Manager’s strategic goals for the
agency and the annual performance evaluation as set forth in the State Audit.
The schedule for the annual Board Planning Meeting will provide sufficient
time to incorporate the meeting outcomes into initial phases of the District’s
budget planning cycle.

Section 6. STUDY SESSIONS. At the beginning of each year, the Board
will schedule Study Sessions on certain Tuesdays not otherwise scheduled as
Board Meetings or Committee Meetings, for the purpose of in-depth study of
Revised Board Bylaws

8

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 206

subjects or additional relevant training for the Board. At the District’s primary
business office unless otherwise set by the Board. There shall be no votes
taken or business transacted at Study Sessions.

Section 7. PUBLIC MEETINGS AND EXECUTIVE SESSIONS
a)

All meetings of the Board, its Committees and other meetings of
Directors shall be conducted in accordance with the Colorado Open
Meetings Law, § 24-6-401 et seq., C.R.S. The Board or any committee
of the Board may meet virtually.

b)

The Board, or a Committee, may meet in executive session to
consider

matters for which executive session is authorized under

Colorado law, and in accordance with the requirements of the Colorado
Open Meetings Law. No vote or other formal action shall be taken in
Executive session. An executive session may only be convened by the
affirmative vote of ten (10) or more for a Board meeting, a vote of five
(5) or more for the Performance Committee, and a vote of four (4) for
the Executive Committee.

Section 8.
a)

NOTICE OF MEETINGS.

Notice of regular Board meetings shall be in writing and shall be
delivered, faxed, emailed or provided by other electronic means, or sent

Revised Board Bylaws

9

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 207

by first class mail, postage prepaid, to each Director at the Director’s
last known address as shown by the records of the District. Such
notices shall be delivered, faxed, emailed or provided by other electronic
means to the Directors or be deposited in the United States mails at
least four days prior to the day of the regular meeting.

b)

Notice of special Board meetings shall be given to each Director at least
twenty-four hours before the meeting. Notice shall be either oral or
written. Oral notice shall be given face-to-face or by telephone. Written
notice may be given by mail, fax, email or other electronic means or
personal delivery.

c)

Notice of informal Board meetings shall be given to each Director at least
one business day before the meeting. Notice shall be either oral or
written, by mail, fax, email, other electronic means, or personal delivery.
The scheduling Directors must provide the meeting agenda, including
any materials, the time, and location of the meeting to the Executive
Manager of the Board Office and the Board Chair at least two business
days prior to the meeting.

d)

Notice of all meetings shall be posted at least twenty-four hours prior
to the holding of a meeting in the public place designated annually by
the Board for the posting of notices as set forth by Resolution in the
first meeting of the year and in the Two Week Calendar posted on the

Revised Board Bylaws

10

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 208

RTD-Denver.com website The notice shall contain the following
information: 1) the date, time, and place of the meeting; and 2) the
agenda for the regular meeting, or the purpose or purposes for which
a special meeting is called. Special meetings of the full Board shall be
limited to the purpose or purposes set forth in the notice.

Section 9. RECESSES AND ADJOURNMENTS. Nothing in these Bylaws
shall be construed to prevent the recess or adjournment of a regular or special
meeting to any place within the District designated by the Board of Directors.

Section 10. WAIVER OF NOTICE. No notice to Directors shall be
required when all of the Directors waive notice or acknowledge receipt of a
notice and consent on the records of the meeting to the holding of such a
meeting. Such meeting shall be valid for all purposes and any action may be
taken.

ARTICLE V
CONDUCT OF BUSINESS
Section 1. QUORUM. A quorum shall consist of eight Directors for
regular and special Board meetings. No business of the Board of Directors
shall be transacted except at a regular or special Board meeting at which
a quorum is present, whether in person or virtually assembled. For standing
Revised Board Bylaws

11

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 209

committees of five members, a quorum shall consist of three Directors. For
standing committees of six or seven members, a quorum shall consist of four
Directors.

Section 2. VOTING REQUIREMENTS.
a)

The affirmative vote of at least eight Directors present and voting,
including by virtual means, shall be required for any action of the
Board, except as provided in these Bylaws or as required by law. The
affirmative vote of a majority of the standing committee members shall
be required.

b)

In the absence of a quorum, the Directors in attendance may adjourn from
time to time and may compel the attendance of absent members
in such manner and under such penalties as the Board of Directors, by
resolution, may provide.

Section 3. THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING AGENDA.
a)

All Board agenda requests shall be channeled through the Executive
Manager of the Board Office, who shall keep track of the date and time
that requests are received.

b)

All agenda items require approval from one of the Standing Committees
as well as the Executive Committee, provided, however, that at least

Revised Board Bylaws

12

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 210

three Board members may add an update or action item to the agenda
by providing written notification to

the Chair and the Executive

Manager of the Board Office, such notifications to be received prior to
noon on the Wednesday preceding the regular Tuesday night Board
meeting so as to be included in the Thursday Board packet, and subject
to the provisions of Article XV for any proposed Bylaw amendments.
To promote transparency and advance notice to the public, an item
submitted by three or more Board members should normally be
submitted first to a standing committee for discussion and vote; and if
not so submitted, the Board may refer the item to a standing committee
or otherwise postpone consideration. Should items of an emergency
nature

arise after the meeting of the Executive Committee, the

placement of those items will be at the Chair’s discretion.

c)

Recommended action agenda items will be listed in the following order:
1)

Items from the General Manager

2)

Items that were held over or tabled from a previous meeting

3)

Items from committees (including items first submitted to
Standing committees by three or more Board members)

4)

Items from three or more Board members in the order they were
received.

Section 4. ORDER OF BUSINESS.
a)

The business of all regular meetings of the Board shall be transacted as

Revised Board Bylaws

13

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 211

far as practicable in the following order, with the provision that the
Chair may, in the Chair’s discretion, permit comments and questions
from the public out of order at any time:

b)

1)

Call to order

2)

Safety Moment

3)

Roll call of members and determination of quorum

4)

Comments and questions from the public

5)

Approval of meeting minutes from previous meeting(s)

6)

Chair’s report

7)

General Manager’s report

8)

Unanimous consent agenda

9)

Recommended actions

10)

Old business

11)

New business

12)

Executive Session

13)

Adjournment

At any meeting where reports are entered into the record, such reports
entered into the record shall be deemed to be accepted by the Board of
Directors.

c)

At any meeting where officers are to be elected or a new member is to

Revised Board Bylaws

14

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 212

qualify, such matters shall be considered immediately following the roll
call and determination of quorum.

d)

The order of business shall adhere to the items set forth in the agenda,
unless modified by the Chair if there is no objection from a majority of
those Directors present and voting, including by virtual means, or by a
two-thirds majority of Directors present and voting, including by virtual
means.

Section 5. RESOLUTIONS AND ACTIONS – VOTE RECORDED
a)

Each and every legislative act of the Board of a general or permanent
nature shall be by the passage of a resolution or other Board action
upon a roll call or electronically recorded vote by the Executive Manager
of the Board Office with the ayes, nays and abstentions recorded.

b)

The title of any resolution appearing thereon shall not be deemed a part
of the resolution, and any resolution may pertain to more than one
subject.

c)

All resolutions submitted to the Board of Directors shall be read in full
before a vote is called for, except that whenever a draft resolution has
been circulated among the members of the Board of Directors prior to
any regular or special meeting, the reading of such draft resolution may
be waived. If any Director requests that all or any part of the draft

Revised Board Bylaws

15

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 213

resolution be read, the Chair shall so order.

d)

The reading of the introductory “recommended action” paragraph in a
Board of Directors Report circulated among the members of the Board
of Directors prior to any regular or special meeting shall be read either
in full or to such extent as the Chair shall determine. If any Director
requests that all or any part of the paragraph be read, the Chair shall so
order.

e)

All other action by the Board may be taken by motion adopted by voice
vote, show of hands, electronic vote or rising, as determined by the
Chair. However, any member may demand a roll call on any vote.

Section 6. RECORDS. All resolutions, as soon as practicable after their
passage, shall be recorded in a book kept for that purpose and authenticated
by the signature of the Chair presiding at their passage or the Chair Pro Tem
present at their passage and attested by the Secretary. A record shall also be
made of all other proceedings of the Board including Board Actions, minutes
of the meetings, audio recordings, video recordings, reports entered into the
record, certificates, contracts, bonds given by officers, employees, and any
other agents of the District, and all corporate acts. The records shall be public
records and shall be open for inspection as required by law.

Revised Board Bylaws

16

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 214

ARTICLE VI
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD

Section 1. STANDING COMMITTEES.
a)

The committees named below are designated as “Standing Committees”
of the Board of Directors. Each year the newly elected Executive
Committee will appoint be twe e n fiv e a nd se v e n Directors to the
other standing committees based upon Directors’ stated interest in
serving on standing committees, and the Board will ratify the selections.
The Board Chair will preside over the Executive Committee.
The Chairs and Vice Chairs of the other standing committees
will be selected by t he members of the committee. The term
of each standing committee chair and vice chair will be one
year.

b)

Any Director is welcome to attend any standing committee meeting,
but only the Directors assigned to that committee will determine a
quorum and may vote. The business, scheduling, and notices of Board
committee meetings shall be transacted as far as practicable in the
same order and manner as for Board meetings, including compliance with
the Colorado Open Meetings Law; with the exceptions that there shall
be no Chair’s report, no General Manager and CEO’s report, and no
unanimous consent agenda. Public comment germane to the topics

Revised Board Bylaws

17

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 215

listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately
preceding month will be taken at the beginning of each committee
meeting. The Executive Manager of the Board Office will allow public
comment in advance, and any comments received will be incorporated
into the public record of the appropriate meeting. Agenda items for
Board Committees may be added by the General Manager and CEO,
Board Chair, the Committee Chair, or by having at least three Directors
request an item be added by following the procedures in Article V,
Section 3 (b). Directors may participate and vote in Board, special, and
committee meetings by virtual meeting platform, speakerphone, or other
similar electronic means by which all participants can hear and speak
with each other. The Board Committee Chair and Vice Chair may jointly
agree to cancel or postpone a scheduled Board, special, or committee
meeting. Matters not expressly assigned in these Bylaws to a specific
standing committee should be assigned to the most appropriate
standing committee.
c)

Executive Committee. The Executive Committee will consist of the five
Board officers, including the Chair, First Vice Chair (Chair Pro Tem),
Second Vice Chair, Secretary, and Treasurer. The Executive Committee
will review and establish the agenda for each regular meeting of the
Board, and address public affairs, external relations, legislation, and
ministerial matters affecting the Board.

Revised Board Bylaws

18

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 216

Any member of the Executive Committee is an authorized signatory for
agency-issued checks per the annually approved Bank Account
Signature Authorization Agreement, and in accordance with audit
standards. The Chair or any member of the Executive Committee is
authorized to review and approve the expense reimbursements and
travel requests for fellow Directors, in accordance with the Board of
Directors Expense and Travel Policy. The Chair or the Chair’s designee
who is also a member of the Executive Committee is responsible for
reviewing and approving the General Manager and CEO’s expenses
and time records, including but not limited to travel expenses and
time off.
d)

Finance and Planning Committee. The Finance and Planning Committee
is responsible for agency financial matters, including but not limited to
budget and monthly financial statement review, determination of the
fiscal impact of all Board actions, asset management, and long-range
planning and capital projects.

e)

Operations and Safety Committee.

The Operations and Safety

Committee is responsible for all operational matters, including all
contracted and non-contracted bus, rail, paratransit, and microtransit
services, as well as safety and security matters.
f)

Performance Committee. The Performance Committee is responsible

Revised Board Bylaws

19

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 217

for performance management of the General Manager and CEO and the
GM/CEO’s contract and annual comprehensive performance evaluation,
as well as monitoring metrics as to the agency’s performance related
to the Strategic Plan success outcomes.

Section 2.

INDEPENDENT AUDIT COMMITTEE. Consistent with the

International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing
published by the Institute of Internal Auditors (Standards), the Board will appoint
a separate, independent Audit Committee that will establish and oversee the
internal audit function consistent with the Standards.

Section 3. OTHER COMMITTEES. The Chair of the Board of Directors
may establish and appoint such other special or ad hoc committees as the Chair
deems appropriate, including designating the Chair of any such special or ad
hoc committees. All such special or ad hoc committees shall be evaluated
annually by the new Chair of the Board for update, change of committee
members or dissolution, as appropriate.

ARTICLE VII
OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
Section 1.

QUALIFICATIONS. Directors shall be electors who reside

within the District, and each Director shall reside within the Director District
Revised Board Bylaws

20

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 218

which the Director is elected or appointed to represent.

Section 2.

PROCESS FOR ANNOUNCING INTENTION TO RUN FOR A

BOARD OFFICER POSITION. Board members who are interested in running for
a Board Officer position will follow the process as defined and agreed upon by
the full Board for declaring their candidacy.

Section 3.

TERMS OF OFFICE. The terms of office of Directors shall

be for the periods set out in the RTD Act, or until their successors have been
chosen and qualified. CRS 32-9-111

Section 4.

ELECTION OF OFFICERS. At the first regular or special

meeting of the Board of Directors in January of each year, the Board shall elect
from its membership a Chair, a First Vice Chair (Chair Pro Tem), a Second Vice
Chair, a Secretary and a Treasurer. These Officers shall serve until their
successors have been elected, unless their term of office as a Director has
expired, or unless removed from Board office, pursuant to Article VII, Section
10. The Officers shall be elected by an affirmative vote of at least eight (8)
members of the Board. If two or more candidates are nominated for the office,
the vote shall be by secret ballot and the Chair shall appoint two Board
members who are not candidates for that office to count the votes and report
on the election results. In the case of a single nominee for an office, the vote
Revised Board Bylaws

21

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 219

may be by voice.

Section 5.

THE CHAIR. The Chair shall preside at all Board meetings.

Except as otherwise authorized by action of the Board or these Bylaws, the
Chair shall sign all contracts, deeds, notes, debentures, warrants, and other
instruments on behalf of the District. The Chair is the first point of contact to
the General Manager on matters related to the District’s business, personnel
matters or in the execution of his duties. The Chair will facilitate ongoing
meetings with the General Manager to ensure the Board is kept informed about
important issues in a timely manner. The Chair will work with the Performance
Committee to provide performance evaluation on an annual basis for the
General Manager. The Chair is the direct supervisor of the Executive Manager
to the Board and is authorized to give day-to-day direction to the Executive
Manager to the Board as needed. For purposes of the Executive Manager’s
annual performance evaluation, the Chair, following consultation with the
Executive Committee and the General Manager, shall designate an Assistant
General Manager or higher level employee to be responsible for the evaluation,
including soliciting input from all Directors.

Section 6.

THE FIRST VICE CHAIR (CHAIR PRO TEM) AND THE

SECOND VICE CHAIR). The First Vice Chair (Chair Pro Tem) shall preside at all
meetings and perform all other functions of the Chair, during the absence from
Revised Board Bylaws

22

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 220

the District of the Chair; and in the case of a vacancy in the office of Chair,
shall serve as Chair until such time as the Board shall elect a new Chair. The
Second Vice Chair (acting as Chair Pro Tem) shall preside at all meetings and
perform all other functions of the Chair, during the absence from the District of
both the Chair and the First Vice Chair (Chair Pro Tem); and in the case of a
vacancy in the offices of both the Chair and the First Vice Chair (Chair Pro Tem),
shall serve as Chair until such time as the Board shall elect a new Chair.

Section 7.

THE SECRETARY. The Secretary shall be responsible for

keeping the records of the District and for the recording of all votes; shall see
that the proceedings of the Board are recorded in a minute book kept for that
purpose, which shall be an official record of the Board; and shall perform all
other duties incident to that office and as required by the RTD Act. The
Secretary shall be custodian of the seal for the District and shall have power to
affix such seal to contracts and instruments authorized to be executed by the
District as may be required. The seal and official records shall be maintained in
the office of the District. Whenever the Secretary is absent from any meeting,
the Chair may appoint a Secretary Pro Tem for the meeting. The Board may
delegate such responsibilities and duties as deemed necessary or desirable to
one or more Board Office or other RTD Staff who need not be Directors.

Section 8.
Revised Board Bylaws

THE TREASURER. The Treasurer shall supervise the
23

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 221

financial records of the District and perform such other duties as are normally
performed by treasurers and those specifically assigned or delegated by the
Board of Directors. The Board may delegate such responsibilities and duties as
deemed necessary or desirable to one or more RTD staff who need not be
Directors.

Section 9.

VACANCIES. Any vacancy occurring in a Board-elected

office shall be filled for the un-expired term in the same manner as is provided
for the selection of full term officers.

Section 10. REMOVAL OF OFFICERS. Any Officer may be removed
from office by the Board upon the affirmative vote of ten (10) Directors. Such
action shall be initiated by a motion made at a regular meeting, but the vote
shall not be called for until the next regular Board meeting or at a special Board
meeting called for the purpose of considering such motion. The Secretary
shall cause to be delivered or shall mail a copy of the resolution to the affected
Director at least seven (7) days prior to the meeting at which the motion is to
be voted upon.

Section 11.

ADDITIONAL DUTIES. The Officers of the Board shall

perform such other duties and functions as may from time to time be required
by the Board, or by the Bylaws and rules and regulations of the District.
Revised Board Bylaws

24

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 222

Section 12.

THE GENERAL MANAGER. The Board shall appoint a

General Manager who shall serve for such term and upon such conditions,
including salary, as the Board of Directors, from time to time, may establish.
The Board shall enter into a written employment contract with such General
Manager which shall specify the terms and conditions of the General Manager’s
employment. The General Manager shall have the following powers, duties and
responsibilities:
a)

The active, general management of the business of the District serving
as the District’s Chief Executive Officer, consistent with the purposes
and the general policies of the District as expressed in the resolutions
and actions of the Board of Directors, and the law under which the
District is organized;

b)

Maintenance of financial records and books of account, and
preparation of a monthly financial statement;

c)

The hiring, discharge, supervision, and general superintendence and
direction of all employees of the District, consistent with the purposes
and the general policies of the District as expressed in the resolutions
and actions of the Board of Directors to the end that qualified individuals
are employed when and as needed and that their respective duties are
properly performed; provided, however, that the hiring and discharge of

Revised Board Bylaws

25

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 223

employees by the General Manager shall not be based on race, creed,
color, national origin, ancestry, religion, marital status,
orientation,

gender

identity

and

genetic

information,

sexual

being

a

disadvantaged person, or eligibility for veteran’s preference under
federal civil service laws or regulations, sex, age, or on political services
or affiliations, but shall be based upon their respective qualifications
and capabilities in accordance with affirmative action policies adopted
by the District and all applicable statutes, rules, and regulations relating
to equal opportunity in employment.

d)

Reporting to the monthly meeting on the operations and progress of the
projects of the District and upon all other matters within the General
Manager’s knowledge which may be of concern to the Board of
Directors of the District;

e)

Directing the work and reviewing all monthly progress estimates of all
consultants, contractors, and others doing business with the District;
and taking such action as is indicated, including approval for payment.

Section 13. OATH OF OFFICE. Each Director, before assuming the
responsibilities of the Director’s office, shall take and subscribe an oath of office
administered by such person or persons designated by the Board of Directors in
substantially the following form:
Revised Board Bylaws

26

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 224

OATH OF OFFICE
OF
DIRECTOR
I,

, do solemnly affirm/(optional)swear, that

I am an elector who resides at

, which is

within the Regional Transportation District and within Director District
,

County, from which I was elected/appointed;

that I will support the Constitutions of the United States and of the State of
Colorado; and that I will faithfully perform the duties of the office of Director
of the Regional Transportation District to which I have been elected/appointed.
STATE OF COLORADO

)
) ss.

_ ______AND COUNTY OF____________)

Subscribed
day of

and

,

sworn

to

before

me

this

.

My commission expires:
Revised Board Bylaws

27

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 225

Section 14.

INDEMNIFICATION. Each Director of the District, while

serving in the Director’s official capacity as a Director or Officer, or after
expiration of the Director’s official capacity, shall be indemnified by the
District through insurance against all costs and expenses actually and
necessarily incurred by the Director in connection with the defense of any
action, suit, or proceeding in which the Director may be involved or to which
the Director may be made a party by reason of the Director’s being or having
been such Director or Officer, except in relation to matters as to which the
Director shall be finally adjudged in such action, suit, or proceeding to be liable
for willful or wanton negligence or intentional misconduct in the performance
of the Director’s or Officer’s duty. A Director of the District, while serving in
the Director’s official capacity as a Director or Officer or after expiration of
the Director’s official term, may be indemnified for all costs of defense and
payments of settlements or judgments for claims of willful and wanton
conduct including punitive damage claims if the Board, by resolution adopted
at an open public meeting and as permitted by the Colorado Governmental
Immunity Act, C.R.S. § 24-10-101 et seq., determines it is in the public
interest and permitted by law to do so. The foregoing right of indemnification
shall not be exclusive of other rights to which the Director or Officer may be
entitled as a matter of law or agreement.

Section 15. FIDELITY BOND. Each Director shall have a fidelity bond
Revised Board Bylaws

28

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 226

purchased for the Director by the District in accordance with C.R.S. § 32-9113.

Section 16. COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS. Each Director shall
receive monthly, as compensation for the Director’s services, a monthly Director
fee of one-twelfth of the annual amount authorized by law.

ARTICLE VIII
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
Section 1.

FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year of the District shall

commence on January 1 and end on December 31 of each year.

Section 2.

BUDGET PROCESS. A committee shall be responsible for

development and recommendation to the Board of the annual budget of the
District and such other matters as may be assigned to it by the Chair or by
the Board of Directors.

Section 3.

PRELIMINARY BUDGET. The General Manager, with the

advice and counsel of the appropriate Committee, shall prepare annually a
preliminary budget, including therein operation and maintenance expenses, debt
service, and any provision for capital expenditures for the ensuing fiscal year.
In the preparation of each such preliminary budget and every annual budget
Revised Board Bylaws

29

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 227

the classifications and divisions into which such budget shall be divided
shall comply with the requirements of any relevant contract or as otherwise
provided by law. Any preliminary budget and any annual budget may set
forth such additional material as the Board of Directors may determine. Every
preliminary budget and every annual budget shall also set forth a statement
of the sources of funds to be available to defray such expenditures and
such other matters as required by the Local Government Budget Law of
Colorado, C.R.S. § 29-1-101 et seq., as amended.

Section 4.

PUBLIC HEARING ON BUDGET. The Board of Directors shall

hold a public hearing, at such time as shall be determined by contract or by
resolution, in accordance with the Colorado Local Government Budget Law. The
holder of any security issued by the District or an elector of the District may
appear in person or by agent or attorney and may present any objections the
holder or elector may have to the final adoption of the budget for such fiscal
year. Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be published at least
once in the official newspapers of the District at least ten (10) days before such
hearing in accordance with law, and copies thereof shall be served upon other
interested parties as shall be provided by law, contract, or any other action of
the Board of Directors.

Section 5.
Revised Board Bylaws

ADOPTION OF ANNUAL BUDGET. On or before the first
30

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 228

day of December preceding each fiscal year, the Board of Directors shall finally
adopt the annual budget for such next succeeding fiscal year. Copies of the
annual budget shall be filed in the office of the District and with the designated
State officials in accordance with law, and shall be furnished to any interested
party upon request, as may be required by contract, or as otherwise directed by
the Board of Directors.

Section 6.

QUASI-ANNUAL BUDGET. If for any reason the Board of

Directors shall not have adopted the annual budget on or before the first day
of December preceding any fiscal year, the preliminary budget for such year
(if approved in conformance with law and with any contract or formal action of
the Board or otherwise) or, in the absence of an approved preliminary budget
the budget for the preceding fiscal year, shall be deemed to be in effect for such
fiscal year until the annual budget for such fiscal year is adopted.

Section 7.

AMENDMENT OF ANNUAL BUDGET. The District may

adopt an amended annual budget when reasonable and necessary, subject to
any contractual conditions or requirements existing at the time the need for such
amendment arises.

Section 8.
a)

APPROPRIATING RESOLUTION.

At a regular meeting held on or before December 31, the Board of

Revised Board Bylaws

31

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 229

Directors shall enact a resolution making appropriations for the fiscal
year beginning January 1, next. The amounts appropriated for the
several offices, departments, and other spending agencies shall not
exceed the amounts fixed in the adopted/amended budget.

b)

The income of the District, as estimated in the budget and as provided
for in the tax levy resolution and other revenue and borrowing
resolutions, shall be allocated in the amounts and according to the funds
specified in the budget for the purpose of meeting the expenditures
authorized by the appropriation resolution.

c)

The Board of Directors may make an appropriation to and for a
contingent fund or funds to be used only in cases of emergency or other
unforeseen contingencies.

Section 9.

FAILURE TO MAKE APPROPRIATION. If at the termination

of any fiscal year, the appropriations necessary for the support of the District
for the ensuing fiscal year shall not have been made, then ninety percent of the
several amounts appropriated in the last appropriation resolution for the objects
and purposes therein specified, so far as the same shall relate to the operation
and maintenance expenses, shall be deemed to be appropriated for the several
objects and purposes specified in the last appropriation resolution, in accordance
with the Colorado Local Government Budget Law.
Revised Board Bylaws

32

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 230

Section 10.

NO CONTRACT TO EXCEED APPROPRIATION. Neither the

Board of Directors nor any officer or employee shall have authority to make any
contract, or otherwise bind or obligate the District to any liability to pay any
money for any of the purposes for which provision is made in the appropriation
resolution in excess of the amounts of such appropriations for any such fiscal
year. Any contract, verbal or written, contrary to the terms of this section shall
be void ab initio, and no District funds shall be expended in payments of such
contracts.

Section 11.

CONTINGENCIES. In cases of emergency caused by an act

of God or the public enemy or some contingency which could not reasonably
have been foreseen at the time of the adoption of the budget, the Board of
Directors may authorize the expenditure of funds in excess of the budget, by
resolution duly adopted by a two-thirds vote of the entire membership of the
Board of Directors. Such resolution shall set forth in full the facts concerning
the emergency. In any year which the budget has been filed with designated
State officials in compliance with Colorado law, a certified copy of the
emergency resolution shall be filed with the designated officials by the General
Manager.

Revised Board Bylaws

33

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 231

Section 12. AUDITS.
a)

Annual Audit. The Board of Directors shall cause an annual audit of the
District’s financial statements to be made in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards (GAAS) following the end of each fiscal
year. One certified copy of the annual audit shall be filed with the office
of the State Auditor. The annual audit shall be performed by an
independent Certified Public Accountant retained by the Board of
Directors at its sole discretion for this or any other purpose it deems
necessary. The auditor shall provide a signed auditor’s opinion as to
the fair presentation of the financial position of the District, the results
of the District’s operations, and changes in the District’s financial
position for the fiscal year ended.

b)

Other Audits. The Board of Directors may cause such other audits to
be made as it deems necessary, utilizing the Internal Audit staff or an
independent auditor as it alone shall determine.

Section 13.

LEGAL COUNSEL. The Board of Directors shall have the

authority to retain attorneys as legal counsel to the Board at its sole discretion
under whatever arrangement it sees fit to negotiate. Such legal counsel may be
called upon as needed by the Board to provide whatever counsel it deems
necessary in order to properly perform its duties.

Revised Board Bylaws

34

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 232

Section 14.
a)

CONSULTANT/CONTRACTOR SELECTION AND TENURE.

The selection of those consultants, contractors, accountants, attorneys
and professional agents of the District who are not employees of the
District by the Board, or any committee or officer designated so to do,
shall not be based on race, creed, color, national origin, ancestry,
religion, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity and genetic
information, being a disadvantaged person, or eligibility for veteran’s
preference under federal civil service laws or regulations, sex, age, or
on political services or affiliations, but shall be based upon their
respective qualifications and capabilities with policies adopted by the
District, such as but not limited to Affirmative Action Policies and
DBE/SBE Policies and all applicable statutes, rules, and regulations
relating to equal opportunity in employment.

b)

Those selected shall hold their offices during the pleasure of the Board,
but termination of investment bankers for convenience and not for
default shall occur only on the affirmative vote of at least 10 Board
members. Contracts for such services may be entered into on such
terms and conditions as to the Board may seem reasonable and proper.

ARTICLE IX
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPERS

Revised Board Bylaws

35

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 233

Section 1. OFFICIAL NEWSPAPERS. The Board shall periodically select
at least one (1) official newspaper of the District within each of the respective
Counties and Cities and Counties within which the District is situated, and
said newspapers shall be used for the official publications of the District.

Section 2. ADDITIONAL NEWSPAPERS. The Board may, if it deems it
to be in the public interest, direct the use of additional newspapers for official
publications, provided that such newspapers are published and circulated
within the District.
ARTICLE X
CORPORATE SEAL
The seal of the District shall be a circle containing the name of the
District, which shall be used in such manner as seals generally are used by
public and private corporations. The Secretary, through the Board Office shall
have official custody of the seal and shall be responsible for its safekeeping
and use.

Revised Board Bylaws

36

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 234

ARTICLE XI
POTENTIAL CONFLICT OF INTEREST
Section 1.

REFRAIN FROM PARTICIPATION. Any Director who is

present at a meeting at which any matter is discussed in which the Director
has, directly or indirectly, a private pecuniary or property interest shall declare
that he or she has a potential conflict and shall refrain from advocating for or
against the matter, and shall not vote in respect to such matter. If a Director
is aware of a conflict of interest as to a matter as it is defined by these Bylaws,
the RTD Code of Ethics, or State law, the Director shall recuse himself or
herself from all debate and voting concerning the matter, and shall be asked
to exclude himself or herself from any executive session in which the matter
is discussed.

Section 2. OFFICIAL INTEREST ONLY.
a)

No Director, nor any employee or agent of the District, shall be
interested in any contract or transaction with the District except in his
or her official representative capacity, or as provided in his or her
contract of employment with the District.

b)

Neither the holding of any office of employment in the government of
any municipality or other public body or the Federal Government, nor
the owning of any property within the State of Colorado, shall be
deemed a disqualification for Directorship or employment by the

Revised Board Bylaws

37

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 235

District, nor a disqualification for compensation for services as a
Director, or as an employee or agent for the District.

ARTICLE XII
POWERS OF THE DISTRICT
Without prejudice to the general powers conferred by law and by Article
II of these Bylaws, it is hereby expressly declared that the Directors shall have
the following powers and duties:

a)

From time to time to make and change rules and regulations, not
inconsistent with law or these Bylaws, for the management of the
business and affairs of the District and the conduct of Board,
Committee, and other District meetings.

b)

To determine and designate, except as otherwise provided by law or
these Bylaws, who shall be authorized to make purchases, negotiate
leases and contracts, and sign receipts, endorsements, checks,
releases, and other documents.

c)

To create standing or special committees and delegate such power and
authority thereto as the Board deems necessary and proper to the
performance of its functions and obligations.

d)

To create advisory committees made up of Directors, non-members of

Revised Board Bylaws

38

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 236

the Board of Directors, or both; and specifically to create an advisory
committee made up of former Directors who shall meet not less than
once a year.

e)

To prepare a certified annual financial report covering each year’s
activities. The report shall be submitted to the Board and made
available to the public on or before July 31 of the ensuing year.

ARTICLE XIII
PARLIAMENTARY AUTHORITY
The current edition of Robert’s Rules of Order, newly revised, shall
govern parliamentary procedure for the Board and its Committees except as
herein provided or as otherwise provided by law.

ARTICLE XIV
PRIVATIZATION AND EMPLOYEE LAYOFFS
The Board of Directors shall not recommend what is commonly known
as privatization except with the proviso that no individual employee shall be
deprived of employment at RTD as a consequence of such privatization.

ARTICLE XV
MODIFICATION OF BYLAWS
Revised Board Bylaws

39

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 237

These Bylaws may be amended by at least ten Directors present and
voting affirmative at any regular meeting of the Board of Directors or at any
special meeting of the Board called for that purpose, provided that in either
instance notice of proposed revisions or amendments has been delivered,
faxed or mailed to each Director not less than ten (10) days prior to the
meeting at which such revisions or amendments are considered.

Revised Board Bylaws

40

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 238

The foregoing are the official Bylaws of the Regional Transportation
District as of September 28, 2022.

_____________________________
Chair of the Board of Directors

Revised Board Bylaws

____________________________
Secretary

41
12

09/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Clean Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.b

Packet Pg. 239

BYLAWS
OF THE
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
ADOPTED JANUARY 15, 1970
AMENDED THROUGH JULY, 2004
AMENDED THROUGH FEBRUARY, 2005
AMENDED THROUGH FEBRUARY, 2007
AMENDED THROUGH FEBRUARY, 2008
AMENDED THROUGH FEBRUARY, 2010
AMENDED THROUGH AUGUST, 2012
AMENDED THROUGH NOVEMBER 29, 2016
AMENDED THROUGH FEBRUARY 26, 2019
AMENDED THROUGH MARCH 26, 2019
AMENDED THROUGH DECEMBER 7, 2021
AMENDED THROUGH SEPTEMBER 28, 2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 240

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
PREAMBLE .................................................................................................. 45
ARTICLE I – DEFINITIONS ............................................................................. 56
ARTICLE II – BOARD OF DIRECTORS ............................................................. 56
ARTICLE III – OFFICE ................................................................................... 56
ARTICLE IV – MEETINGS .............................................................................. 67
Section 1. Regular Board Meetings ....................................................... 67
Section 2. Standing Committee Meetings ............................................. 67
Section 3. Special Board Meetings ....................................................... 67
Section 4. Informal Director Meetings…………………………………………….8
Section 45. Annual Board Planning Meeting………….………………………...78
Section 56. Study Sessions……..…… ……………………………………………78
Section 67. Public Meeting and Executive Sessions ............................... 79
Section 78. Notice of Meetings ........................................................... 89
Section 89. Recesses and Adjournments ............................................ 910
Section 910.Waiver of Notice……………………………………………………..911
ARTICLE V – CONDUCT OF BUSINESS ...................................................... 1011
Section 1. Quorum ......................................................................... 1011
Section 2. Voting Requirements ....................................................... 1012
Section 3. The Regular Board Meeting Agenda ................................. 1112
Section 4. Order of Business ........................................................... 1213
Section 5. Resolutions and Actions – Vote Recorded.......................... 1315
Section 6. Records ......................................................................... 1416
ARTICLE VI – COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD .............................................. 1517
Section 1. Standing Committees ...................................................... 1517
Section 2. Independent Audit Committee .......................................... 1820
Section 3. Other Committees .......................................................... 1820
ARTICLE VII – OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL ................................................ 1920
Section 1. Qualifications ................................................................. 1920
Section 2. Process for Announcing Intentions to Run for Board Office…….1921
Section 3. Terms of Office .............................................................. 1921
Section 4. Election of Officers ......................................................... 1921
Section 5. The Chair ...................................................................... 2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 241

Section 6. The First Vice-Chair/Second Vice-Chair ............................. 2122
Section 7. The Secretary ................................................................. 2123
Section 8. The Treasurer ............................................................... 2223
Section 9. Vacancies..................................................................... 2224
Section 10. Removal of Officers ...................................................... 2224
Section 11. Additional Duties .......................................................... 2324
Section 12. The General Manager .................................................... 2325
Section 13. Oath of Office .............................................................. 2526
Section 14. Indemnification ............................................................. 2728
Section 15. Fidelity Bond ................................................................ 2728
Section 16. Compensation of Directors………………………………………2829
ARTICLE VIII – BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION .............................................. 2829
Section 1. Fiscal Year ................................................................... 2829
Section 2. Budget Process ............................................................. 2829
Section 3. Preliminary Budget ......................................................... 2829
Section 4. Public Hearing on Budget................................................ 2930
Section 5. Adoption of Annual Budget............................................. 2930
Section 6. Quasi-Annual Budget ..................................................... 3031
Section 7. Amendment of Annual Budget ........................................ 3031
Section 8. Appropriating Resolution ................................................ 3031
Section 9. Failure to Make Appropriation ......................................... 3132
Section 10. No Contract to Exceed Appropriation ............................... 3233
Section 11. Contingencies ............................................................... 3233
Section 12. Audits ......................................................................... 3334
Section 13. Legal Counsel............................................................... 3334
Section 14. Consultant/Contractor Selection and Tenure..................... 3435
ARTICLE IX – OFFICIAL NEWSPAPERS .......................................................... 35
Section 1. Official Newspapers ....................................................... 3536
Section 2. Additional Newspapers .................................................. 3536
ARTICLE X – CORPORATE SEAL ............................................................... 3536
ARTICLE XI – POTENTIAL CONFLICT OF INTEREST ..................................... 3637
Section 1. Refrain from Participation ............................................... 3637
Section 2. Official Interest Only ...................................................... 3637
ARTICLE XII – POWERS OF THE DISTRICT ................................................. 3738
ARTICLE XIII – PARLIAMENTARY AUTHORITY ........................................... 3839
ARTICLE XIV – PRIVATIZATION AND EMPLOYEE LAYOFFS ......................... 3839

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 242

ARTICLE XV – MODIFICATION OF BYLAWS ............................................... 3839

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 243

PREAMBLE

The Regional Transportation District (“RTD” or the “District”) was created
by the Regional Transportation District Act, § 32-9-101 et seq., C.R.S. (the “RTD
Act”) (Senate Bill 309, Sessions Law of Colorado, 47th General Assembly, First
Regular Session, 1969). The District is a

political subdivision of the State of

Colorado, with those powers specifically granted and those reasonably implied from
the RTD Act and necessary or proper to carry out the objects and purposes of the
District.

The authority of the Board of Directors to adopt these Bylaws is expressly
conferred by the RTD Act, at § 32-9-114 (1) (b), C.R.S. Some rules governing the
internal affairs of the Board of Directors are contained in the RTD Act, while others
are contained in other laws and others, by delegation, are to be established by the
Board. For convenience of reference, those that are contained in the RTD Act or
other laws, together with those that are adopted under delegated authority, are
combined in these Bylaws. Nothing contained in these Bylaws, nor any omission from
them, shall be construed as an alteration or deviation from any grant of power, duty,
or responsibility to, or any limitation or restriction imposed upon the Board under the
RTD Act or other applicable laws as they now exist or may be amended.

ARTICLE I
Revised Board Bylaws

5

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 244

DEFINITIONS
The

terms

“district,”

“board,”

“director,”

“publication,”

“mass

transportation system,” and other terms defined in the RTD Act, and used in
these Bylaws, shall have the same meaning as in the RTD Act unless the
context clearly indicates a different meaning. “State Audit” as used in these
Bylaws means the performance audit conducted by the Office of the State
Auditor in 2009 and 2010 and reported to the state Legislative Audit
Committee in March 2010.

ARTICLE II
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
All powers, privileges, and duties vested in or imposed upon the District
shall be exercised and performed by and through the Board, whether set forth
specifically or implied in these Bylaws. The Board may delegate to officers and
employees of the District any or all executive, administrative, and ministerial
powers.

ARTICLE III
OFFICE
The Board may designate, locate and relocate its executive and
business office and such other offices or divisions as in its judgment are
Revised Board Bylaws

6

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 245

needed to conduct the business of the District. The office of the Board shall
be located within the RTD District.

ARTICLE IV
MEETINGS
Section 1.

REGULAR BOARD MEETINGS. Regular Board meetings shall

be held on the fourth Tuesday of each month, at 5:30 p.m. Unless necessary
to meet the agency’s business needs, no Board or standing committee meetings
will be scheduled in August or December of each year.

Section 2.

STANDING COMMITTEE MEETINGS.

The Finance and

Planning Committee and the Operations and Safety Committee will be held on
the second Tuesday and the Wednesday immediately following of each month
at 5:30 p.m. Executive Committee meetings will be held at noon on the third
Thursday of each month. Performance Committee and Internal Audit
Committee meetings will be scheduled as necessary to fulfill the committees’
responsibilities.

Section 3:

SPECIAL BOARD MEETINGS. Special Board meetings may

be called by the Chair of the Board whenever, in the Chair’s opinion, such a
meeting is necessary or desirable, or whenever the same is requested in writing
to the Chair by three or more members of the Board.
Revised Board Bylaws

7

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 246

Section 4:

INFORMAL DIRECTOR MEETINGS. Informal Meetings may be

called to engage in discussions of public business by three or more Directors.
The purposes of such meetings may include discussion of a matter to bring to
the Board, relationships with stakeholders and constituents, or other matters
related to agency business. No formal action may be taken. The Directors calling
the meeting may set the location and agenda as appropriate to the topic of the
meeting. Written minutes shall be recorded.

Section 5. ANNUAL BOARD PLANNING MEETING. At the beginning of
each year, the Board will schedule an annual Board Planning Meeting lasting
one or two days for the purposes of strategic planning, establishing annual
Board priorities, and providing the General Manager’s strategic goals for the
agency and the annual performance evaluation as set forth in the State Audit.
The schedule for the annual Board Planning Meeting will provide sufficient
time to incorporate the meeting outcomes into initial phases of the District’s
budget planning cycle.

Section 56. STUDY SESSIONS. At the beginning of each year, the Board
will schedule Study Sessions on certain Tuesdays not otherwise scheduled as
Board Meetings or Committee Meetings, for the purpose of in-depth study of
subjects or additional relevant training for the Board. At the District’s primary
Revised Board Bylaws

8

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 247

business office unless otherwise set by the Board. There shall be no votes
taken or business transacted at Study Sessions.

Section 67. PUBLIC MEETINGS AND EXECUTIVE SESSIONS
a)

All meetings of the Board, its Committees and other meetings of
Directors shall be conducted in accordance with the Colorado Open
Meetings Law, § 24-6-401 et seq., C.R.S. The Board or any committee
of the Board may meet virtually.

b)

The Board, or a Committee, may meet in executive session to
consider

matters for which executive session is authorized under

Colorado law, and in accordance with the requirements of the Colorado
Open Meetings Law. No vote or other formal action shall be taken in
Executive session. An executive session may only be convened by the
affirmative vote of ten (10) or more for a Board meeting, a vote of five
(5) or more for the Performance Committee, and a vote of four (4) for
the Executive Committee.

Section 78. NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
a)

Notice of regular Board meetings shall be in writing and shall be
delivered, faxed, emailed or provided by other electronic means, or sent
by first class mail, postage prepaid, to each Director at the Director’s

Revised Board Bylaws

9

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 248

last known address as shown by the records of the District. Such
notices shall be delivered, faxed, emailed or provided by other electronic
means to the Directors or be deposited in the United States mails at
least four days prior to the day of the regular meeting.

b)

Notice of special Board meetings shall be given to each Director at least
twenty-four hours before the meeting. Notice shall be either oral or
written. Oral notice shall be given face-to-face or by telephone. Written
notice may be given by mail, fax, email or other electronic means or
personal delivery.

c)

Notice of informal Board meetings shall be given to each Director at
least one business day before the meeting. Notice shall be either oral or
written, by mail, fax, email, other electronic means, or personal
delivery. The scheduling Directors must provide the meeting agenda,
including any materials, the time, and location of the meeting to the
Executive Manager of the Board Office and the Board Chair at least two
business days prior to the meeting.

c)d)

Notice of all meetings shall be posted at least twenty-four hours prior
to the holding of a meeting in the public place designated annually by
the Board for the posting of notices as set forth by Resolution in the
first meeting of the year and in the Two Week Calendar posted on the

Revised Board Bylaws

10

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 249

RTD-Denver.com website The notice shall contain the following
information: 1) the date, time, and place of the meeting; and 2) the
agenda for the regular meeting, or the purpose or purposes for which
a special meeting is called. Special meetings of the full Board shall be
limited to the purpose or purposes set forth in the notice.

Section 89.

RECESSES AND ADJOURNMENTS. Nothing in these

Bylaws shall be construed to prevent the recess or adjournment of a regular or
special meeting to any place within the District designated by the Board of
Directors.

Section 910.

WAIVER OF NOTICE. No notice to Directors shall be

required when all of the Directors waive notice or acknowledge receipt of a
notice and consent on the records of the meeting to the holding of such a
meeting. Such meeting shall be valid for all purposes and any action may be
taken.

ARTICLE V
CONDUCT OF BUSINESS
Section 1. QUORUM. A quorum shall consist of eight Directors for
regular and special Board meetings. No business of the Board of Directors
shall be transacted except at a regular or special Board meeting at which
Revised Board Bylaws

11

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 250

a quorum is present, whether in person or virtually assembled. For standing
committees of five members, a quorum shall consist of three Directors. For
standing committees of six or seven members, a quorum shall consist of four
Directors.

Section 2. VOTING REQUIREMENTS.
a)

The affirmative vote of at least eight Directors present and voting,
including by virtual means, shall be required for any action of the
Board, except as provided in these Bylaws or as required by law. The
affirmative vote of a majority of the standing committee members shall
be required.

b)

In the absence of a quorum, the Directors in attendance may adjourn from
time to time and may compel the attendance of absent members
in such manner and under such penalties as the Board of Directors, by
resolution, may provide.

Section 3. THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING AGENDA.
a)

All Board agenda requests shall be channeled through the Executive
Manager of the Board Office, who shall keep track of the date and time
that requests are received.

b)

All agenda items require approval from one of the Standing Committees

Revised Board Bylaws

12

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 251

as well as the Executive Committee, provided, however, that at least
three Board members may add an update or action item to the agenda
by providing written notification to

the Chair and the Executive

Manager of the Board Office, such notifications to be received prior to
noon on the Wednesday preceding the regular Tuesday night Board
meeting so as to be included in the Thursday Board packet, and subject
to the provisions of Article XV for any proposed Bylaw amendments.
To promote transparency and advance notice to the public, an item
submitted by three or more Board members should normally be
submitted first to a standing committee for discussion and vote; and if
not so submitted, the Board may refer the item to a standing committee
or otherwise postpone consideration. Should items of an emergency
nature

arise after the meeting of the Executive Committee, the

placement of those items will be at the Chair’s discretion.

c)

Recommended action agenda items will be listed in the following order:
1)

Items from the General Manager

2)

Items that were held over or tabled from a previous meeting

3)

Items from committees (including items first submitted to
Standing committees by three or more Board members)

4)

Items from three or more Board members in the order they were
received.

Section 4. ORDER OF BUSINESS.
Revised Board Bylaws

13

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 252

a)

The business of all regular meetings of the Board shall be transacted as
far as practicable in the following order, with the provision that the
Chair may, in the Chair’s discretion, permit comments and questions
from the public out of order at any time:

b)

1)

Call to order

2)

Safety Moment

3)

Roll call of members and determination of quorum

4)

Comments and questions from the public

5)

Approval of meeting minutes from previous meeting(s)

6)

Chair’s report

7)

General Manager’s report

8)

Unanimous consent agenda

9)

Recommended actions

10)

Old business

11)

New business

12)

Executive Session

13)

Adjournment

At any meeting where reports are entered into the record, such reports
entered into the record shall be deemed to be accepted by the Board of
Directors.

c)

At any meeting where officers are to be elected or a new member is to

Revised Board Bylaws

14

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 253

qualify, such matters shall be considered immediately following the roll
call and determination of quorum.

d)

The order of business shall adhere to the items set forth in the agenda,
unless modified by the Chair if there is no objection from a majority of
those Directors present and voting, including by virtual means, or by a
two-thirds majority of Directors present and voting, including by virtual
means.

Section 5. RESOLUTIONS AND ACTIONS – VOTE RECORDED
a)

Each and every legislative act of the Board of a general or permanent
nature shall be by the passage of a resolution or other Board action
upon a roll call or electronically recorded vote by the Executive Manager
of the Board Office with the ayes, nays and abstentions recorded.

b)

The title of any resolution appearing thereon shall not be deemed a part
of the resolution, and any resolution may pertain to more than one
subject.

c)

All resolutions submitted to the Board of Directors shall be read in full
before a vote is called for, except that whenever a draft resolution has
been circulated among the members of the Board of Directors prior to
any regular or special meeting, the reading of such draft resolution may
be waived. If any Director requests that all or any part of the draft

Revised Board Bylaws

15

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 254

resolution be read, the Chair shall so order.

d)

The reading of the introductory “recommended action” paragraph in a
Board of Directors Report circulated among the members of the Board
of Directors prior to any regular or special meeting shall be read either
in full or to such extent as the Chair shall determine. If any Director
requests that all or any part of the paragraph be read, the Chair shall so
order.

e)

All other action by the Board may be taken by motion adopted by voice
vote, show of hands, electronic vote or rising, as determined by the
Chair. However, any member may demand a roll call on any vote.

Section 6. RECORDS. All resolutions, as soon as practicable after their
passage, shall be recorded in a book kept for that purpose and authenticated
by the signature of the Chair presiding at their passage or the Chair Pro Tem
present at their passage and attested by the Secretary. A record shall also be
made of all other proceedings of the Board including Board Actions, minutes
of the meetings, audio recordings, video recordings, reports entered into the
record, certificates, contracts, bonds given by officers, employees, and any
other agents of the District, and all corporate acts. The records shall be public
records and shall be open for inspection as required by law.

ARTICLE VI
Revised Board Bylaws

16

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 255

COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD

Section 1. STANDING COMMITTEES.
a)

The committees named below are designated as “Standing

Committees” of the Board of Directors. Each year the newly elected
Executive Committee will appoint be twe e n fiv e a nd se v e n Directors
to the other standing committees based upon Directors’ stated interest
in serving on standing committees, and the Board will ratify the
selections. The Board Chair will preside over the Executive
Committee. The Chairs and Vice Chairs of the other standing
committees

will

be

selected

by

the

members

of

the

committee. The term of each standing committee chair and
vice chair will be one year.

b)

Any Director is welcome to attend any standing committee meeting,
but only the Directors assigned to that committee will determine a
quorum and may vote. The business, scheduling, and notices of Board
committee meetings shall be transacted as far as practicable in the
same order and manner as for Board meetings, including compliance with
the Colorado Open Meetings Law; with the exceptions that there shall
be no Chair’s report, no General Manager and CEO’s report, and no
unanimous consent agenda. Public comment germane to the topics

Revised Board Bylaws

17

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 256

listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately
preceding month will be taken at the beginning of each committee
meeting. The Executive Manager of the Board Office will allow public
comment in advance, and any comments received will be incorporated
into the public record of the appropriate meeting. Agenda items for
Board Committees may be added by the General Manager and CEO,
Board Chair, the Committee Chair, or by having at least three Directors
request an item be added by following the procedures in Article V,
Section 3 (b). Directors may participate and vote in Board, special, and
committee meetings by virtual meeting platform, speakerphone, or other
similar electronic means by which all participants can hear and speak
with each other. The Board Committee Chair and Vice Chair may jointly
agree to cancel or postpone a scheduled Board, special, or committee
meeting. Matters not expressly assigned in these Bylaws to a specific
standing committee should be assigned to the most appropriate
standing committee.
c)

Executive Committee. The Executive Committee will consist of the five
Board officers, including the Chair, First Vice Chair (Chair Pro Tem),
Second Vice Chair, Secretary, and Treasurer. The Executive Committee
will review and establish the agenda for each regular meeting of the
Board, and address public affairs, external relations, legislation, and
ministerial matters affecting the Board.

Revised Board Bylaws

18

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 257

Any member of the Executive Committee is an authorized signatory for
agency-issued checks per the annually approved Bank Account
Signature Authorization Agreement, and in accordance with audit
standards. The Chair or any member of the Executive Committee is
authorized to review and approve the expense reimbursements and
travel requests for fellow Directors, in accordance with the Board of
Directors Expense and Travel Policy. The Chair or the Chair’s designee
who is also a member of the Executive Committee is responsible for
reviewing and approving the General Manager and CEO’s expenses
and time records, including but not limited to travel expenses and
time off.
d)

Finance and Planning Committee. The Finance and Planning Committee
is responsible for agency financial matters, including but not limited to
budget and monthly financial statement review, determination of the
fiscal impact of all Board actions, asset management, and long-range
planning and capital projects.

e)

Operations and Safety Committee.

The Operations and Safety

Committee is responsible for all operational matters, including all
contracted and non-contracted bus, rail, paratransit, and microtransit
services, as well as safety and security matters.
f)

Performance Committee. The Performance Committee is responsible

Revised Board Bylaws

19

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 258

for performance management of the General Manager and CEO and the
GM/CEO’s contract and annual comprehensive performance evaluation,
as well as monitoring metrics as to the agency’s performance related
to the Strategic Plan success outcomes.

Section 2.

INDEPENDENT AUDIT COMMITTEE. Consistent with the

International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing
published by the Institute of Internal Auditors (Standards), the Board will appoint
a separate, independent Audit Committee that will establish and oversee the
internal audit function consistent with the Standards.

Section 3. OTHER COMMITTEES. The Chair of the Board of Directors
may establish and appoint such other special or ad hoc committees as the Chair
deems appropriate, including designating the Chair of any such special or ad
hoc committees. All such special or ad hoc committees shall be evaluated
annually by the new Chair of the Board for update, change of committee
members or dissolution, as appropriate.

ARTICLE VII
OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
Section 1.

QUALIFICATIONS. Directors shall be electors who reside

within the District, and each Director shall reside within the Director District
Revised Board Bylaws

20

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 259

which the Director is elected or appointed to represent.

Section 2.

PROCESS FOR ANNOUNCING INTENTION TO RUN FOR A

BOARD OFFICER POSITION. Board members who are interested in running for
a Board Officer position will follow the process as defined and agreed upon by
the full Board for declaring their candidacy.

Section 3.

TERMS OF OFFICE. The terms of office of Directors shall

be for the periods set out in the RTD Act, or until their successors have been
chosen and qualified. CRS 32-9-111

Section 4.

ELECTION OF OFFICERS. At the first regular or special

meeting of the Board of Directors in January of each year, the Board shall elect
from its membership a Chair, a First Vice Chair (Chair Pro Tem), a Second Vice
Chair, a Secretary and a Treasurer. These Officers shall serve until their
successors have been elected, unless their term of office as a Director has
expired, or unless removed from Board office, pursuant to Article VII, Section
10. The Officers shall be elected by an affirmative vote of at least eight (8)
members of the Board. If two or more candidates are nominated for the office,
the vote shall be by secret ballot and the Chair shall appoint two Board
members who are not candidates for that office to count the votes and report
on the election results. In the case of a single nominee for an office, the vote
Revised Board Bylaws

21

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 260

may be by voice.

Section 5.

THE CHAIR. The Chair shall preside at all Board meetings.

Except as otherwise authorized by action of the Board or these Bylaws, the
Chair shall sign all contracts, deeds, notes, debentures, warrants, and other
instruments on behalf of the District. The Chair is the first point of contact to
the General Manager on matters related to the District’s business, personnel
matters or in the execution of his duties. The Chair will facilitate ongoing
meetings with the General Manager to ensure the Board is kept informed about
important issues in a timely manner. The Chair will work with the Performance
Committee to provide performance evaluation on an annual basis for the
General Manager. The Chair is the direct supervisor of the Executive Manager
to the Board and is authorized to give day-to-day direction to the Executive
Manager to the Board as needed. For purposes of the Executive Manager’s
annual performance evaluation, the Chair, following consultation with the
Executive Committee and the General Manager, shall designate an Assistant
General Manager or higher level employee to be responsible for the evaluation,
including soliciting input from all Directors.

Section 6.

THE FIRST VICE CHAIR (CHAIR PRO TEM) AND THE

SECOND VICE CHAIR). The First Vice Chair (Chair Pro Tem) shall preside at all
meetings and perform all other functions of the Chair, during the absence from
Revised Board Bylaws

22

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 261

the District of the Chair; and in the case of a vacancy in the office of Chair,
shall serve as Chair until such time as the Board shall elect a new Chair. The
Second Vice Chair (acting as Chair Pro Tem) shall preside at all meetings and
perform all other functions of the Chair, during the absence from the District of
both the Chair and the First Vice Chair (Chair Pro Tem); and in the case of a
vacancy in the offices of both the Chair and the First Vice Chair (Chair Pro Tem),
shall serve as Chair until such time as the Board shall elect a new Chair.

Section 7.

THE SECRETARY. The Secretary shall be responsible for

keeping the records of the District and for the recording of all votes; shall see
that the proceedings of the Board are recorded in a minute book kept for that
purpose, which shall be an official record of the Board; and shall perform all
other duties incident to that office and as required by the RTD Act. The
Secretary shall be custodian of the seal for the District and shall have power to
affix such seal to contracts and instruments authorized to be executed by the
District as may be required. The seal and official records shall be maintained in
the office of the District. Whenever the Secretary is absent from any meeting,
the Chair may appoint a Secretary Pro Tem for the meeting. The Board may
delegate such responsibilities and duties as deemed necessary or desirable to
one or more Board Office or other RTD Staff who need not be Directors.

Section 8.
Revised Board Bylaws

THE TREASURER. The Treasurer shall supervise the
23

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 262

financial records of the District and perform such other duties as are normally
performed by treasurers and those specifically assigned or delegated by the
Board of Directors. The Board may delegate such responsibilities and duties as
deemed necessary or desirable to one or more RTD staff who need not be
Directors.

Section 9.

VACANCIES. Any vacancy occurring in a Board-elected

office shall be filled for the un-expired term in the same manner as is provided
for the selection of full term officers.

Section 10. REMOVAL OF OFFICERS. Any Officer may be removed
from office by the Board upon the affirmative vote of ten (10) Directors. Such
action shall be initiated by a motion made at a regular meeting, but the vote
shall not be called for until the next regular Board meeting or at a special Board
meeting called for the purpose of considering such motion. The Secretary
shall cause to be delivered or shall mail a copy of the resolution to the affected
Director at least seven (7) days prior to the meeting at which the motion is to
be voted upon.

Section 11.

ADDITIONAL DUTIES. The Officers of the Board shall

perform such other duties and functions as may from time to time be required
by the Board, or by the Bylaws and rules and regulations of the District.
Revised Board Bylaws

24

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 263

Section 12.

THE GENERAL MANAGER. The Board shall appoint a

General Manager who shall serve for such term and upon such conditions,
including salary, as the Board of Directors, from time to time, may establish.
The Board shall enter into a written employment contract with such General
Manager which shall specify the terms and conditions of the General Manager’s
employment. The General Manager shall have the following powers, duties and
responsibilities:
a)

The active, general management of the business of the District serving
as the District’s Chief Executive Officer, consistent with the purposes
and the general policies of the District as expressed in the resolutions
and actions of the Board of Directors, and the law under which the
District is organized;

b)

Maintenance of financial records and books of account, and
preparation of a monthly financial statement;

c)

The hiring, discharge, supervision, and general superintendence and
direction of all employees of the District, consistent with the purposes
and the general policies of the District as expressed in the resolutions
and actions of the Board of Directors to the end that qualified individuals
are employed when and as needed and that their respective duties are
properly performed; provided, however, that the hiring and discharge of

Revised Board Bylaws

25

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 264

employees by the General Manager shall not be based on race, creed,
color, national origin, ancestry, religion, marital status,
orientation,

gender

identity

and

genetic

information,

sexual

being

a

disadvantaged person, or eligibility for veteran’s preference under
federal civil service laws or regulations, sex, age, or on political services
or affiliations, but shall be based upon their respective qualifications
and capabilities in accordance with affirmative action policies adopted
by the District and all applicable statutes, rules, and regulations relating
to equal opportunity in employment.

d)

Reporting to the monthly meeting on the operations and progress of the
projects of the District and upon all other matters within the General
Manager’s knowledge which may be of concern to the Board of
Directors of the District;

e)

Directing the work and reviewing all monthly progress estimates of all
consultants, contractors, and others doing business with the District;
and taking such action as is indicated, including approval for payment.

Section 13. OATH OF OFFICE. Each Director, before assuming the
responsibilities of the Director’s office, shall take and subscribe an oath of office
administered by such person or persons designated by the Board of Directors in
substantially the following form:
Revised Board Bylaws

26

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 265

OATH OF OFFICE
OF
DIRECTOR
I,

, do solemnly affirm/(optional)swear, that

I am an elector who resides at

, which is

within the Regional Transportation District and within Director District
,

County, from which I was elected/appointed;

that I will support the Constitutions of the United States and of the State of
Colorado; and that I will faithfully perform the duties of the office of Director
of the Regional Transportation District to which I have been elected/appointed.
STATE OF COLORADO

)
) ss.

_ ______AND COUNTY OF____________)

Subscribed
day of

and

,

sworn

to

before

me

this

.

My commission expires:
Revised Board Bylaws

27

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 266

Section 14.

INDEMNIFICATION. Each Director of the District, while

serving in the Director’s official capacity as a Director or Officer, or after
expiration of the Director’s official capacity, shall be indemnified by the
District through insurance against all costs and expenses actually and
necessarily incurred by the Director in connection with the defense of any
action, suit, or proceeding in which the Director may be involved or to which
the Director may be made a party by reason of the Director’s being or having
been such Director or Officer, except in relation to matters as to which the
Director shall be finally adjudged in such action, suit, or proceeding to be liable
for willful or wanton negligence or intentional misconduct in the performance
of the Director’s or Officer’s duty. A Director of the District, while serving in
the Director’s official capacity as a Director or Officer or after expiration of
the Director’s official term, may be indemnified for all costs of defense and
payments of settlements or judgments for claims of willful and wanton
conduct including punitive damage claims if the Board, by resolution adopted
at an open public meeting and as permitted by the Colorado Governmental
Immunity Act, C.R.S. § 24-10-101 et seq., determines it is in the public
interest and permitted by law to do so. The foregoing right of indemnification
shall not be exclusive of other rights to which the Director or Officer may be
entitled as a matter of law or agreement.

Section 15. FIDELITY BOND. Each Director shall have a fidelity bond
Revised Board Bylaws

28

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 267

purchased for the Director by the District in accordance with C.R.S. § 32-9113.

Section 16. COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS. Each Director shall
receive monthly, as compensation for the Director’s services, a monthly Director
fee of one-twelfth of the annual amount authorized by law.

ARTICLE VIII
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
Section 1.

FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year of the District shall

commence on January 1 and end on December 31 of each year.

Section 2.

BUDGET PROCESS. A committee shall be responsible for

development and recommendation to the Board of the annual budget of the
District and such other matters as may be assigned to it by the Chair or by
the Board of Directors.

Section 3.

PRELIMINARY BUDGET. The General Manager, with the

advice and counsel of the appropriate Committee, shall prepare annually a
preliminary budget, including therein operation and maintenance expenses, debt
service, and any provision for capital expenditures for the ensuing fiscal year.
In the preparation of each such preliminary budget and every annual budget
Revised Board Bylaws

29

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 268

the classifications and divisions into which such budget shall be divided
shall comply with the requirements of any relevant contract or as otherwise
provided by law. Any preliminary budget and any annual budget may set
forth such additional material as the Board of Directors may determine. Every
preliminary budget and every annual budget shall also set forth a statement
of the sources of funds to be available to defray such expenditures and
such other matters as required by the Local Government Budget Law of
Colorado, C.R.S. § 29-1-101 et seq., as amended.

Section 4.

PUBLIC HEARING ON BUDGET. The Board of Directors shall

hold a public hearing, at such time as shall be determined by contract or by
resolution, in accordance with the Colorado Local Government Budget Law. The
holder of any security issued by the District or an elector of the District may
appear in person or by agent or attorney and may present any objections the
holder or elector may have to the final adoption of the budget for such fiscal
year. Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be published at least
once in the official newspapers of the District at least ten (10) days before such
hearing in accordance with law, and copies thereof shall be served upon other
interested parties as shall be provided by law, contract, or any other action of
the Board of Directors.

Section 5.
Revised Board Bylaws

ADOPTION OF ANNUAL BUDGET. On or before the first
30

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 269

day of December preceding each fiscal year, the Board of Directors shall finally
adopt the annual budget for such next succeeding fiscal year. Copies of the
annual budget shall be filed in the office of the District and with the designated
State officials in accordance with law, and shall be furnished to any interested
party upon request, as may be required by contract, or as otherwise directed by
the Board of Directors.

Section 6.

QUASI-ANNUAL BUDGET. If for any reason the Board of

Directors shall not have adopted the annual budget on or before the first day
of December preceding any fiscal year, the preliminary budget for such year
(if approved in conformance with law and with any contract or formal action of
the Board or otherwise) or, in the absence of an approved preliminary budget
the budget for the preceding fiscal year, shall be deemed to be in effect for such
fiscal year until the annual budget for such fiscal year is adopted.

Section 7.

AMENDMENT OF ANNUAL BUDGET. The District may

adopt an amended annual budget when reasonable and necessary, subject to
any contractual conditions or requirements existing at the time the need for such
amendment arises.

Section 8.
a)

APPROPRIATING RESOLUTION.

At a regular meeting held on or before December 31, the Board of

Revised Board Bylaws

31

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 270

Directors shall enact a resolution making appropriations for the fiscal
year beginning January 1, next. The amounts appropriated for the
several offices, departments, and other spending agencies shall not
exceed the amounts fixed in the adopted/amended budget.

b)

The income of the District, as estimated in the budget and as provided
for in the tax levy resolution and other revenue and borrowing
resolutions, shall be allocated in the amounts and according to the funds
specified in the budget for the purpose of meeting the expenditures
authorized by the appropriation resolution.

c)

The Board of Directors may make an appropriation to and for a
contingent fund or funds to be used only in cases of emergency or other
unforeseen contingencies.

Section 9.

FAILURE TO MAKE APPROPRIATION. If at the termination

of any fiscal year, the appropriations necessary for the support of the District
for the ensuing fiscal year shall not have been made, then ninety percent of the
several amounts appropriated in the last appropriation resolution for the objects
and purposes therein specified, so far as the same shall relate to the operation
and maintenance expenses, shall be deemed to be appropriated for the several
objects and purposes specified in the last appropriation resolution, in accordance
with the Colorado Local Government Budget Law.
Revised Board Bylaws

32

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 271

Section 10.

NO CONTRACT TO EXCEED APPROPRIATION. Neither the

Board of Directors nor any officer or employee shall have authority to make any
contract, or otherwise bind or obligate the District to any liability to pay any
money for any of the purposes for which provision is made in the appropriation
resolution in excess of the amounts of such appropriations for any such fiscal
year. Any contract, verbal or written, contrary to the terms of this section shall
be void ab initio, and no District funds shall be expended in payments of such
contracts.

Section 11.

CONTINGENCIES. In cases of emergency caused by an act

of God or the public enemy or some contingency which could not reasonably
have been foreseen at the time of the adoption of the budget, the Board of
Directors may authorize the expenditure of funds in excess of the budget, by
resolution duly adopted by a two-thirds vote of the entire membership of the
Board of Directors. Such resolution shall set forth in full the facts concerning
the emergency. In any year which the budget has been filed with designated
State officials in compliance with Colorado law, a certified copy of the
emergency resolution shall be filed with the designated officials by the General
Manager.

Section 12. AUDITS.
Revised Board Bylaws

33

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 272

a)

Annual Audit. The Board of Directors shall cause an annual audit of the
District’s financial statements to be made in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards (GAAS) following the end of each fiscal
year. One certified copy of the annual audit shall be filed with the office
of the State Auditor. The annual audit shall be performed by an
independent Certified Public Accountant retained by the Board of
Directors at its sole discretion for this or any other purpose it deems
necessary. The auditor shall provide a signed auditor’s opinion as to
the fair presentation of the financial position of the District, the results
of the District’s operations, and changes in the District’s financial
position for the fiscal year ended.

b)

Other Audits. The Board of Directors may cause such other audits to
be made as it deems necessary, utilizing the Internal Audit staff or an
independent auditor as it alone shall determine.

Section 13.

LEGAL COUNSEL. The Board of Directors shall have the

authority to retain attorneys as legal counsel to the Board at its sole discretion
under whatever arrangement it sees fit to negotiate. Such legal counsel may be
called upon as needed by the Board to provide whatever counsel it deems
necessary in order to properly perform its duties.

Section 14.
Revised Board Bylaws

CONSULTANT/CONTRACTOR SELECTION AND TENURE.
34

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 273

a)

The selection of those consultants, contractors, accountants, attorneys
and professional agents of the District who are not employees of the
District by the Board, or any committee or officer designated so to do,
shall not be based on race, creed, color, national origin, ancestry,
religion, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity and genetic
information, being a disadvantaged person, or eligibility for veteran’s
preference under federal civil service laws or regulations, sex, age, or
on political services or affiliations, but shall be based upon their
respective qualifications and capabilities with policies adopted by the
District, such as but not limited to Affirmative Action Policies and
DBE/SBE Policies and all applicable statutes, rules, and regulations
relating to equal opportunity in employment.

b)

Those selected shall hold their offices during the pleasure of the Board,
but termination of investment bankers for convenience and not for
default shall occur only on the affirmative vote of at least 10 Board
members. Contracts for such services may be entered into on such
terms and conditions as to the Board may seem reasonable and proper.

ARTICLE IX
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPERS
Section 1. OFFICIAL NEWSPAPERS. The Board shall periodically select
Revised Board Bylaws

35

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 274

at least one (1) official newspaper of the District within each of the respective
Counties and Cities and Counties within which the District is situated, and
said newspapers shall be used for the official publications of the District.

Section 2. ADDITIONAL NEWSPAPERS. The Board may, if it deems it
to be in the public interest, direct the use of additional newspapers for official
publications, provided that such newspapers are published and circulated
within the District.
ARTICLE X
CORPORATE SEAL
The seal of the District shall be a circle containing the name of the
District, which shall be used in such manner as seals generally are used by
public and private corporations. The Secretary, through the Board Office shall
have official custody of the seal and shall be responsible for its safekeeping
and use.

Revised Board Bylaws

36

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 275

ARTICLE XI
POTENTIAL CONFLICT OF INTEREST
Section 1.

REFRAIN FROM PARTICIPATION. Any Director who is

present at a meeting at which any matter is discussed in which the Director
has, directly or indirectly, a private pecuniary or property interest shall declare
that he or she has a potential conflict and shall refrain from advocating for or
against the matter, and shall not vote in respect to such matter. If a Director
is aware of a conflict of interest as to a matter as it is defined by these Bylaws,
the RTD Code of Ethics, or State law, the Director shall recuse himself or
herself from all debate and voting concerning the matter, and shall be asked
to exclude himself or herself from any executive session in which the matter
is discussed.

Section 2. OFFICIAL INTEREST ONLY.
a)

No Director, nor any employee or agent of the District, shall be
interested in any contract or transaction with the District except in his
or her official representative capacity, or as provided in his or her
contract of employment with the District.

b)

Neither the holding of any office of employment in the government of
any municipality or other public body or the Federal Government, nor
the owning of any property within the State of Colorado, shall be
deemed a disqualification for Directorship or employment by the

Revised Board Bylaws

37

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 276

District, nor a disqualification for compensation for services as a
Director, or as an employee or agent for the District.

ARTICLE XII
POWERS OF THE DISTRICT
Without prejudice to the general powers conferred by law and by Article
II of these Bylaws, it is hereby expressly declared that the Directors shall have
the following powers and duties:

a)

From time to time to make and change rules and regulations, not
inconsistent with law or these Bylaws, for the management of the
business and affairs of the District and the conduct of Board,
Committee, and other District meetings.

b)

To determine and designate, except as otherwise provided by law or
these Bylaws, who shall be authorized to make purchases, negotiate
leases and contracts, and sign receipts, endorsements, checks,
releases, and other documents.

c)

To create standing or special committees and delegate such power and
authority thereto as the Board deems necessary and proper to the
performance of its functions and obligations.

d)

To create advisory committees made up of Directors, non-members of

Revised Board Bylaws

38

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 277

the Board of Directors, or both; and specifically to create an advisory
committee made up of former Directors who shall meet not less than
once a year.

e)

To prepare a certified annual financial report covering each year’s
activities. The report shall be submitted to the Board and made
available to the public on or before July 31 of the ensuing year.

ARTICLE XIII
PARLIAMENTARY AUTHORITY
The current edition of Robert’s Rules of Order, newly revised, shall
govern parliamentary procedure for the Board and its Committees except as
herein provided or as otherwise provided by law.

ARTICLE XIV
PRIVATIZATION AND EMPLOYEE LAYOFFS
The Board of Directors shall not recommend what is commonly known
as privatization except with the proviso that no individual employee shall be
deprived of employment at RTD as a consequence of such privatization.

ARTICLE XV
MODIFICATION OF BYLAWS
Revised Board Bylaws

39

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 278

These Bylaws may be amended by at least ten Directors present and
voting affirmative at any regular meeting of the Board of Directors or at any
special meeting of the Board called for that purpose, provided that in either
instance notice of proposed revisions or amendments has been delivered,
faxed or mailed to each Director not less than ten (10) days prior to the
meeting at which such revisions or amendments are considered.

Revised Board Bylaws

40

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 279

The foregoing are the official Bylaws of the Regional Transportation
District as of December 7, 2021September 28, 2022.

_____________________________
Chair of the Board of Directors

Revised Board Bylaws

____________________________
Secretary

41
12

12/7/202109/28/2022

Attachment: 2022-09-28 Redlined Proposed Amended Bylaws - Informal Director Meetings (as amended by EXC) (4680 : Bylaws Amendment —

2.18.G.c

Packet Pg. 280

2.18.G.d

September 22, 2022
Director Comments to Proposed Amended Bylaws – Director Informal Meeting Process
Director Dishell
•

Last sentence of page 1 of the redline should be revised, “Board Office staff may not be present and as a
result, informal meetings may not be broadcasted via Zoom or video recorded, and a written transcript may
not be prepared.”

•

I don’t want to unintentionally restrict Directors from broadcasting via platforms of their choosing or
recording on Zoom. However, I also do not want to put that burden on staff. It seems to me that it would
make sense if the videos are recorded and provided to staff, which anyone with a Zoom license can do,
they should be uploaded. However, staff should not be required to attend, broadcast, or transcribe the
meetings.

•

Page 10 of bylaws – change must to shall for consistency with rest of bylaws choice of using shall instead
of must.

•

Across the board, instead of 48 hours, two business days for notice.

Director Rivera-Malpiede
•

After reviewing the proposed informal director meetings resolution, I am opposed for the following reasons
1. Logistics: If it is only 24-48 hour notice, will that be enough time for our staff to post the meeting?
2. Since there will be no staff support, will there be a check list to ensure that the location meets the
requirements of an elected official public meeting including is the location ADA compliant, does it have
the capability to have translation and TTY services and can folks listen in other than being there such as
zoom?
3. Will there be a designated board member who will oversee the logistics? Will they do all the leg work
in terms of finding the location, sending out the invitations and the agenda?
4. I am concerned about the sunshine law.
5. I am concerned that some may see this action as a private gathering and not transparent. This will be
a red flag for the media.
6. I fear for the safety as an elected official particularly if meetings are not held at a public facility.
7. What will be the timeline of when the minutes will be presented to the board office? The minutes must
be transparent, accurate and not up for interpretation. Validity of minutes is essential. Random minutes
puts me in a place of concern.
8. I am concerned about what additional staff time might be following up as the custodian of record.
9. What criteria will be used to determine whether or not it is an appropriate subject matter to have in a
meeting such as this?

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

Attachment: 2022-09-22 Director Comments to Proposed Amended Bylaws (4680 : Bylaws Amendment — Director Informal Meeting Process)

We make lives better
through connections.

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 281

2.18.G.d

Director Rosenthal
•

The bylaw changes are fine.

Director Whitmore
•

While I applaud the effort and intent of this proposal, I am a bit uncomfortable with moving it forward. I am
very concerned with the media, public relations fall‐out if these gatherings are reported as private meetings
(even though they are not). We work so hard to acquire positive public relations and positive reporting on
our accomplishments, so I fear this action could easily be misconstrued as private meetings or abuse of
Colorado’s sunshine law.

•

Logistically I am concerned with numerous items such as ADA compliance, security, minute‐taking that
meets appropriate levels and board privacy of personal addresses.

•

While I’m not a “hard no” at this point, I am leaning that way.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

Attachment: 2022-09-22 Director Comments to Proposed Amended Bylaws (4680 : Bylaws Amendment — Director Informal Meeting Process)

Subject: Director Comments to Proposed Amended Bylaws – Director Informal Meeting Process
Page 2

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 282

2.18.H

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the Future

Committee Meeting Date:
November 1, 2022
Board Meeting Date:
November 15, 2022

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to endorse the Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the Future (MPFF). Consistent
with the System Optimization Plan (SOP), the MPFF will be reviewed and updated with Board approval
periodically on a no-less-than triennial basis to provide for a consistent and effective coordinated policy
and vision for service.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Debra A. Johnson, General Manager and CEO
Brian T. Welch, AICP, Acting General Manager, Planning
Bill Sirois, Senior Manager, Transit Oriented Communities
PRESENTATION LENGTH
30 minutes
BACKGROUND
In 2018, RTD recognized that the landscape of surface transportation was in a state of flux and put in
motion several complementary efforts and initiatives. These efforts were collectively referred to as
“Transportation Transformation,” and included the following vision:
•
•
•

Transit systems need to make themselves more competitive now
It is time for a public transportation renaissance
The future of mobility depends on public transportation: practical, sustainable solutions that meet
the needs of everyone in the Denver metro area

The signature Transportation Transformation initiative became the Reimagine RTD project, and work
began in late 2019 to develop the MPFF and SOP. The COVID-19 pandemic had a significant impact on
the completion of Reimagine RTD. While the original schedule called for completion by August 2021, the
project was paused mid-2020 in response to the global pandemic, and work resumed in January 2021.
In April 2021, the Board of Directors adopted the Reimagine RTD Guiding Principles. These principles are
guideposts, along with the Board-adopted Strategic Plan, for the MPFF.
A Technical Working Group (TWG) and Advisory Committee (AC) were formed at the start of the study
effort to provide input and guidance to staff and the consultant team throughout the study process.
Their contributions are reflected throughout the MPFF. The Board was also engaged throughout the
project effort and significant public input was gathered through in-person and virtual events.

Packet Pg. 283

2.18.H

Despite the global pandemic, the MPFF has adhered to the vision identified in 2018: RTD must be a
relevant part of the region’s mobility solutions, and the agency must address industry advancements and
societal shifts that are substantially altering how and when people travel, how cities function, and how
mobility options are factored into broader visions and goals.
DISCUSSION
The completed work products identify comprehensive, forward-thinking strategies to better connect
people to the places they want and need to go. The MPFF has been successful in addressing RTD’s
primary goals for the project and is fully aligned with the agency’s Strategic Priorities of Community
Value, Customer Excellence, Employee Ownership, and Financial Success:
•
•
•
•

Understand and document RTD’s long-range financial capacity
Identify RTD’s role in responding to 2050 travel demands
Clarify investment priorities
Engage and build consensus with stakeholders and partners

The MPFF work products include the following and should be considered together as the MPFF:
•

•
•

A printed Executive Summary, in 8.5x11 bound format, that will be distributed to the Board and
other interested parties (this is also available in digital format: http://slides.com/fhueng/reimaginertd/fullscreen#/lead-mobility-plan)
Attachment A to this report, which reflects the content of the Executive Summary, in a format
more compatible with Board packet distribution
An extensive online resource library, providing links to numerous MPFF deliverables

The online resource library includes in-depth documentation of MPFF work products, including those
cited herein, which can be found at the following address: http://slides.com/fhueng/reimaginertd/fullscreen#/home
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Fiscal and Financial Scenarios
Scenario Planning
Zero Emission Conversion
Maintenance Facilities
Mobility as a Service and Mobility on Demand
Partnerships
Workforce
District Boundaries

The overarching aspiration for Reimagine RTD is: “Moving everyone forward with solutions.” Key
highlights of the MPFF are presented by four opportunities, which are also aligned with the Strategic
Plan, describing RTD as follows:

Packet Pg. 284

2.18.H

•
•
•
•

Access: A mobility integrator that provides a regional transit backbone and partners with
stakeholders
Equity: A mobility provider prioritizing service to those most in need
Sustainability: A mobility leader that defines and evolves transit’s role through innovation and
collaboration
Financial: A mobility agency that is well-funded, financially stable and serves as a good steward
of taxpayer dollars while supporting regional access, equity, and sustainability

The presentation also includes an implementation plan, which is linked to Strategic Plan tactics and is
organized on a temporal and financial basis. Key implementation steps include:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Implement a partnership program
Collaborate with Colorado Department of Transportation/local partners to implement regional bus
rapid transit service
Develop a zero-emission fleet transition plan
Integrate services and modes through development of a trip planning and payment platform
Continue to foster a dynamic, diverse workforce that attracts and retains valued people
Continue to seek opportunities to enhance transit safety
Initiate a formal effort to collaborate with state and local partners to increase transit funding in
the region

The MPFF articulates tactical, strategic, and policy initiatives that require subsequent action by the
Board and staff. Currently, the MPFF serves as the roadmap for those purposes but is not the vehicle for
immediate decision and action. It is therefore appropriate for Board action to endorse the MPFF and to
subsequently adopt specific actions.
The SOP Recommended Action included the following language related to future SOP updates: “with
such process to be informed and guided by any Board-adopted Mobility Plan for the Future (MPFF),
which SOP and MPFF will together be reviewed and updated with Board approval periodically on a noless-than triennial basis to provide for a consistent and effective coordinated policy and vision for
service.”
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no financial impact associated with the Board’s endorsement of the MPFF.

ATTACHMENTS:
•

Reimagine RTD MPFF_V3

(PPTX)

Prepared by:
Brian Welch, Acting AGM, Planning
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 285

2.18.H

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 286

We Make Lives Better
Through Connections.

Reimagine RTD

Mobility Plan for the Future
Debra A. Johnson, General Manager and CEO
Brian T. Welch, AICP, Acting Assistant General Manager, Planning
Bill Sirois, Senior Manager, Transit Oriented Communities

Attachment: Reimagine RTD MPFF_V3 (4717 : Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the Future)

2.18.H.a

Packet Pg. 287

Overview

§ Background and Goals
§ Analysis
§ Public Input
§ Recommendations

2

Attachment: Reimagine RTD MPFF_V3 (4717 : Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the Future)

2.18.H.a

Packet Pg. 288

Background and Goals

3

Attachment: Reimagine RTD MPFF_V3 (4717 : Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the Future)

2.18.H.a

Packet Pg. 289

RTD’s Mobility Plan for the
Future (MPFF) is a
comprehensive, forwardthinking plan that identifies
strategies to address the
future mobility needs of the
region.

4

Attachment: Reimagine RTD MPFF_V3 (4717 : Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the Future)

2.18.H.a

Packet Pg. 290

Why did RTD Conduct the MPFF?
§ To address industry advancements and societal shifts that are substantially altering:
§ How and when people travel
§ How cities function
§ How mobility options are factored into broader visions and goals

Attachment: Reimagine RTD MPFF_V3 (4717 : Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the Future)

2.18.H.a

Packet Pg. 291

What were RTD’s goals?

Understand RTD’s
financial capacity

Determine travel
demands and needs
in 2050

Identify RTD’s role in
responding to travel
demand needs in
2050

Clarify investment
priorities and guide
long-term decision
making

Engage and build
consensus with
stakeholders and
partner

6

Attachment: Reimagine RTD MPFF_V3 (4717 : Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the Future)

2.18.H.a

Packet Pg. 292

What process did RTD follow?

7

Attachment: Reimagine RTD MPFF_V3 (4717 : Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the Future)

2.18.H.a

Packet Pg. 293

What will the Mobility Plan for the Future Accomplish?

§ Focuses RTD’s resources on regional services that would be difficult for local
agencies to provide

§ Increases involvement of local agencies in the provision of community-based
services

§ Puts RTD in the lead of developing a customer-focused, regional trip planning and
payment integration platform

§ Better defines RTD’s service priorities by focusing resources on high-demand
corridors and customers in need of service

§ Encourages RTD to lead mobility and climate action initiatives
§ Aligns RTD’s expenditures with anticipated resources

Attachment: Reimagine RTD MPFF_V3 (4717 : Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the Future)

2.18.H.a

Packet Pg. 294

Analysis

9

Attachment: Reimagine RTD MPFF_V3 (4717 : Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the Future)

2.18.H.a

Packet Pg. 295

Market and Demand Analysis
INDUSTRY DRIVING FORCES

10

Attachment: Reimagine RTD MPFF_V3 (4717 : Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the Future)

2.18.H.a

Packet Pg. 296

Fiscal and Financial Analysis

11

Attachment: Reimagine RTD MPFF_V3 (4717 : Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the Future)

2.18.H.a

Packet Pg. 297

Future Needs and Opportunities
Mobility as a service and mobility
integration

Facility upgrades

New modes and mobility on demand

District boundary

Partnerships

Workforce retention and attraction

Zero emission bus transition

Parking and parking policy

12

Attachment: Reimagine RTD MPFF_V3 (4717 : Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the Future)

2.18.H.a

Packet Pg. 298

Public Input

13

Attachment: Reimagine RTD MPFF_V3 (4717 : Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the Future)

2.18.H.a

Packet Pg. 299

Stakeholder and Public Outreach

14

Attachment: Reimagine RTD MPFF_V3 (4717 : Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the Future)

2.18.H.a

Packet Pg. 300

Public and Stakeholder Comment Summary

§ Desire for RTD to add additional service overall
§ Strong support to prioritize service to those in need
§ Concerns related to the reliability and safety of RTD's existing services
§ Preference for RTD to integrate and partner with other mobility providers but
not look to operate all services such as scooters, bike share, etc.

§ Support for RTD developing partnerships and further utilizing alternative
service delivery options

§ Need to provide some level of service to all areas of the District that pay sales
and use tax

§ Support for RTD focusing on regional, cross-jurisdictional services and
exploring community partnerships to provide local service

15

Attachment: Reimagine RTD MPFF_V3 (4717 : Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the Future)

2.18.H.a

Packet Pg. 301

Recommendations

16
Attachment: Reimagine RTD MPFF_V3 (4717 : Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the Future)

2.18.H.a

Packet Pg. 302

Attachment: Reimagine RTD MPFF_V3 (4717 : Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the Future)

2.18.H.a

Packet Pg. 303

Access
Mobility integrator that
provides regional transit
backbone and partners
with stakeholders

Success Metric: Increasing
number of transit trips
linked to multimodal
connections and services

18

Attachment: Reimagine RTD MPFF_V3 (4717 : Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the Future)

2.18.H.a

Packet Pg. 304

Access Funding
Opportunities

§ Current funding sources
§ Focus operating budget on high-

quality regional transit backbone
§ Implement partnership program
§ Develop integrated trip planning
and payment platform
§ Foster a dynamic, diverse
workforce
§ Enhance transit security
§ Promote development of mobility
hubs and transit supportive
development

§ Increased funding sources
§ Implement Bus Rapid Transit system
§ Increase bus and rail system capacity

19

Attachment: Reimagine RTD MPFF_V3 (4717 : Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the Future)

2.18.H.a

Packet Pg. 305

Equity
Mobility provider prioritizing service
to those most in need

Success Metrics:
Increasing portion of social equity
populations served with high-frequency
transit service
Increase social equity groups satisfaction

20

Attachment: Reimagine RTD MPFF_V3 (4717 : Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the Future)

2.18.H.a

Packet Pg. 306

Equity Funding
Opportunities

§ Current funding sources
§ Prioritize partnership program

investments
§ Connect communities to key
destinations
§ Develop innovative fare
programs
§ Evaluate and enhance access to
service

§ Increased funding sources
§ Improve bus and rail accessibility for
all

21

Attachment: Reimagine RTD MPFF_V3 (4717 : Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the Future)

2.18.H.a

Packet Pg. 307

Sustainability
Mobility leader that
defines and evolves
transit’s role through
proactive collaboration

Success Metrics:
Increasing number of
person miles traveled on
transit per capita

22

Attachment: Reimagine RTD MPFF_V3 (4717 : Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the Future)

2.18.H.a

Packet Pg. 308

Sustainability Funding
Opportunities

§ Current funding sources
§ Test emerging technologies
§ Provide technical support
§ Lead transit-focused mobility and

§ Increased funding sources
§ Transition to zero-emission fleet
§ Follow LEED best practices

climate action initiatives

23

Attachment: Reimagine RTD MPFF_V3 (4717 : Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the Future)

2.18.H.a

Packet Pg. 309

Financial
Mobility agency that is well-funded,
financially stable, and serves as a good
steward of taxpayer dollars while
supporting regional access, equity, and
sustainability

2050 REVENUE: ~$2.7 Billion
2050 EXPENSES: ~$5 Billion

Success Metrics:
Resources sufficient to address region’s
transit needs and priorities

24

Attachment: Reimagine RTD MPFF_V3 (4717 : Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the Future)

2.18.H.a

Packet Pg. 310

Financial Opportunities
§ Current funding sources
§ Prioritize state of good repair
§ Operate within fiscal capacity
§ Remove TABOR revenue limits
§ Seek additional funds in collaboration

§ Increased funding sources
§ Increase partnership program

dedicated funding
§ Expand services through operating
and infrastructure enhancements

with stakeholders
§ Reassess FasTracks corridors
§ Implement demand-based parking
pricing
§ Identify long-range needs and
priorities
§ Assess network annually and
prioritize regional backbone

25

Attachment: Reimagine RTD MPFF_V3 (4717 : Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the Future)

2.18.H.a

Packet Pg. 311

What will the Mobility Plan for the Future
Accomplish?

§ Focuses RTD’s resources on regional services that would be difficult for
local agencies to provide

§ Increases involvement of local agencies in the provision of community-based
services

§ Puts RTD in the lead of developing a customer-focused, regional trip planning and
payment integration platform

§ Better defines RTD’s service priorities by focusing resources on high-demand
corridors and customers in need of service

§ Encourages RTD to lead mobility and climate action initiatives
§ Aligns RTD’s expenditures with anticipated resources

Attachment: Reimagine RTD MPFF_V3 (4717 : Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the Future)

2.18.H.a

Packet Pg. 312

Implementation

27
Attachment: Reimagine RTD MPFF_V3 (4717 : Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the Future)

2.18.H.a

Packet Pg. 313

Implementation
Access

§ Focus operating resources on high-quality/high-

Improves customer
experience

capacity backbone through System Optimization
Plan implementation

§ Implement partnership program
§ Integrate services and modes through development
of trip planning and payment platform

Increases reliability
and ridership

§ Collaborate with CDOT/local partners to implement
regional BRT service

Increases involvement
of local agencies
28

Attachment: Reimagine RTD MPFF_V3 (4717 : Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the Future)

2.18.H.a

Packet Pg. 314

Implementation
Equity

§ Prioritize partnership program investments in social

Provides access to
opportunity

equity communities

§ Enhance bus accessibility in equity communities
through station and stop upgrades

Sustainability

§ Develop zero emission fleet transition plan
Financial

§ Prioritize state of good repair
§ Remove TABOR revenue limits
§ Initiate effort to collaborate with state and local

partners to increase transit funding to the region

§ Reevaluate FasTracks corridors

Supports state and
regional climate
initiatives
Improves financial
stability
29

Attachment: Reimagine RTD MPFF_V3 (4717 : Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the Future)

2.18.H.a

Packet Pg. 315

Thank you.

rtd-denver.com
30
Attachment: Reimagine RTD MPFF_V3 (4717 : Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the Future)

2.18.H.a

Packet Pg. 316

