2022-11-10
Executive Committee Meeting
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks so much. The Executive Committee will now come to order. We're convened as
of 12:03 PM, November 10, 2022. As Kate Williams will attest, it as the Marine Corps birthday. I will
respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourselves unless you are recognized to speak.
I'll now call the roll. First Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Second Vice Chair Catlin.
KATE WILLIAMS: Dr. Catlin says she's attempting to get on and will join us momentarily.
VINCE BUZEK: She's calling me right now. [CHUCKLES] Secretary Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Treasurer Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: And I'm here, [AUDIO OUT].
KATE WILLIAMS: As always, we do the best we can do with technology and remote meetings in the
interest of public health, safety, and welfare, and mental acuity.
VINCE BUZEK: Sorry about that. If Ms. McManus or Ms. Parish could text to Director Catlin the
telephoning instructions to get into the meeting, she's having trouble getting on. So we have everybody
here except Director Catlin, who's not present.
We do have a quorum. We have other Directors in attendance, as well. We have Director Bouquet,
Director Dishell, and I think that's all the other Directors. Is that right? If there's anybody I've missed,
please—
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, hello.
VINCE BUZEK: Oh, wait a minute. Who's that? I hear a voice. [LAUGHS] Ah, Director Williams. It's going
to be one of these days. Sorry, everyone. I'd like to open the public comment session to anyone who
would like to address this committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the
current and immediately preceding month.
If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on
your phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you are dialed in, press star 6 to toggle
your mute settings.

Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments will need to be submitted in writing. If any speaker has documentation or
reference materials for the committee or if any member of the public would like to submit written
comments, please email those materials to the Board Office at the following address-rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
During public comment, the Committee will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may
contact speakers following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow-up.
Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names, and each speaker will have three minutes to
speak. Ms. Parish, do we have any speakers in the queue?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: I do not see any hands raised at this time.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. And were any emailed comments received for today's meeting?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: No. There were no emails.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. With no participants in the queue or no emails, we're going to close the public
comment period at this time. I'm going to make a slight change to the order of the agenda and move to
Recommended Action next before the November Agenda Review so that if those items pass committee,
that can then be added to the November Board Agenda.
So we have four recommended action items on the agenda this afternoon, at least as of right now.
[CHUCKLES] Let's start with our first one. That is the federal lobbying contract extension. I'm looking for a
motion for the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to execute
an amendment to exercise the option to extend the current federal lobbying services contract with Squire
Patton Boggs, LLP for two additional years through, and including, December 31, 2024. Do I have a
motion?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: I have Whitmore and Sloan, first and second. Any discussion on this action item? OK,
good. The materials were provided in the packet, so you can see what's going on. It's just an extension
of-- exercising an option that's in the contract. So do we have any no votes on this action item? Seeing
none, this passes four to zero.
Next, we're going to move on to the 2023 legislative program. And I am looking for a motion for the Board
of Directors to adopt the 2023 legislative program. Is there a motion? Director Catlin, are you making the
motion? You're on mute.
PEGGY CATLIN: I did not log in on time to hear what the motion was.
VINCE BUZEK: The motion is for the Board of Directors to adopt the 2023 legislative program.
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: OK.

TROY WHITMORE: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: Is there a second?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Whitmore, then. Do we have any discussion or presentation from anyone on staff?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, this is Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO. Mr. Davies, our
operations officer will be making a brief presentation outlining the elements of the legislative program for
calendar year 2023.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Mr, Davies, please go ahead.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Thank you, Chair, members of the Committee. I'm Michael Davies, Government
Relations Officer. I'll just briefly outline the written Board report. So as you all know, in 2002, the Board
adopted a legislative program. I'm back again to seek approval of a 2023 legislative program.
The legislative program serves as a guiding document for government relations staff and external
advocates to pursue goals related to legislation and policy matters. And just want to note a few things in
the actual-- in the attachment A. On the federal side, we removed the credit risk premium return because
that item was resolved. And so that is one of the changes in the federal sections.
Moving down to the state section, the one addition is-- and this is in partnership with RTD's Union, ATU
1001 and worked closely with them on this item. Also worked with APTA to identify other states-- that's
the American Public Transportation Association-- and worked with them to identify other states that are
addressing this item, as well. And that is item number D under the state section.
And that's really to seek legislation to enhance penalties related to assaults on RTD employees. And
that's not just operators. We seek to cover a wide range of RTD employees. And that's going in the same
direction as other states.
PEGGY CATLIN: [COUGHING]
MICHAEL DAVIES: The state of New York passed legislation earlier this year, I believe in June, that
addressed this. The state of Missouri already has a legislation in place that seeks increased penalties if
you assault a transit worker.
And then representatives from APTA, members, also chimed in when I met with APTA folks on this. And
folks from Kansas and California expressed that they were looking to do similar things in their states on
state legislation.
So that covers the one change in the state section there. And then moving down to the local section, the
one addition is the subregional service councils and addresses the work and implementation that we've
done around that. And that concludes my report. And happy to answer any questions. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for that report. Are there any questions for Mr. Davies? Great. Thanks very
much, Michael. Are there any no votes on this action item? Seeing none, that passes unanimously, five to
zero.

Next is the independent Audit Committee appointments. I am looking for a motion as follows. It is
recommended by RTD Directors Catlin, Davidson, and Dishell that the Board of Directors appoint as
members of the Independent Audit Committee Jim Brendel, external member, to a three-year term
expiring December 31, 2025, John Olenberger, external member, to a two-year term expiring December
31, 2024, Erik Davidson, Board member, to a two-year term expiring December 31, 2024, and Peggy
Catlin and Bobby Dishell, Board members, each to a one-year term expiring December 31, 2023. Do I
have a motion, Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm happy to move.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Is there a second?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Second-- Sloane.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, Sloane. And who's going to present on this? Director Catlin, are you able to?
PEGGY CATLIN: I'll be my best. General Counsel Snyder can help me with regard to our process. At
their recommendation, we had a subcommittee of two of the ad hoc committee-- that consisted of Director
Davidson, who unfortunately can't be here today and myself-- to review the external resumes and then
make a recommendation to, eventually, the Board but through the Executive Committee, since we did not
have time to go through the Financing and Planning Committee.
We reviewed several resumes-- really good, but there were a couple of standouts. We felt that because it
was really close, we needed to conduct-- close, meaning out of 100 points, in the hundredths of points
between candidates. It was that close. I hope I'm not saying too much. But that really indicated the high
quality of the external candidates.
And we conducted some Zoom interviews with a couple of them and narrowed it down to the two that we
are recommending right now. Our internal audit function consultants were very happy with the caliber,
and they were very familiar with the candidates that we chose to put forward for recommendation.
And with regard to the actual terms, we came up with those. But I think with regard to the Board
members, the internal Board members who were on the committee at the time-- it was prior to the election
when we put forth this recommendation, and I did not know the status of my reelection.
And so we thought that we'd be safer, since Director Davidson was unopposed in his race, that he be
committed to the two-year term and that Director Dishell and I serve the one-year term that could be
renewed at the end of the year. So if there aren't any questions, that's really my report.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks so much for that. Are there any questions on this item? Seeing none, are there
any no votes on this action item? And seeing none again, that passes unanimously, 5 to 0. Next, we're
going to move on to the—
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you all so much.
VINCE BUZEK: I'm sorry?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you all so much. This is a big hurdle. And I would say that the two external
gentlemen that we selected are both very enthusiastic to contribute. And I think we'll value their expertise.
So thank you.

VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thank you. And thanks to you and Director Dishell and Director Davidson for your
hard work on this. I know you guys have been meeting frequently to get this thing done and a very
important item that we've kind of put off for a while. And now we're back on track. So thanks very much.
Next is a zero-emission policy item, but I believe there is going to be a motion other than the motion as
written, which might be a motion to continue this to a date certain. Is that right?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I guess we hadn't thought about continuing it to a date
certain. But we certainly could. We wanted to turn this into a discussion item and discuss it at this point.
And I suppose a date certain would probably be in January or February. We'd need to re-up our
committee.
I think I'll just talk about our discussion item. And then I know that Bobby and Julien and Kate are all here.
They may weigh in. But we had a good roundtable on Tuesday on the zero-emission vehicle activities at
other agencies and with the Colorado Energy Office.
Fred Worthen is going to join the Colorado Energy Office on a committee working on the hydrogen hub
and hydrogen accessibility, which is great. We wanted to move this to a discussion item to really focus on
getting the asset transition plan started as soon as possible and completing it quickly so we can start to
access funding for the federal Low-No grants. And I know Debra Johnson and her team share that
interest in getting it going as quickly as possible.
So I think what we would want to do is get our committee continued and work with the staff. Ms. Johnson,
I think if you can bring us a plan for when you can get it started and how long you think it would take, we
would like to see it done by no later than June, if possible-- we can look at that later-- and preferably
earlier. We need to know when those grants go out. I see Ms. Johnson's hand is up.
VINCE BUZEK: Ms. Johnson, go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And thank you very much, Director Guissinger. A
point of clarification, Director Guissinger referenced an asset transition plan. I want to be clear in
reference to the nomenclature as to not confuse our audience. We're looking at a fleet transition plan. I
made-- [AUDIO OUT] clarification—
VINCE BUZEK: Ms. Johnson, you're breaking up. Your connection is not very good. You're cutting in and
out.
DEBRA JOHNSON: --the administration. There is such a thing as a transit asset management plan.
VINCE BUZEK: Ms. Johnson, can you hear us?
DEBRA JOHNSON: --is a fleet transition plan that, of course, incorporates all aspects, including
infrastructure and support mechanisms, as well as workforce and other training aspects.
VINCE BUZEK: Ms. Johnson, can you hear us? You're cutting in and out.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes? You were cutting in and out. We missed—
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I can hear you. Can you hear me?

VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, we missed about the last half of that presentation.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK, so as I was [AUDIO OUT]. OK, sorry about that, sir. So as a point of clarification,
I wanted to share that, as related to Director Guissinger's comments, I just wanted to make the distinction
that we're looking at a fleet transition plan. It was referenced as an asset plan. That's something different
under the FTA, so I just wanted to ensure that there was an understanding.
But more specifically, yes, we will work in earnest as relates to developing a scope of work. And we will
apprise the Board as it relates to a timeline, recognizing as we talk about June there is a point in time
where we have to put out a solicitation. And we will work with whatever consultant we are able to acquire
during the course of that endeavor and keep the Board apprised. So thank you very much. Hopefully, you
heard me. I'm in transit.
VINCE BUZEK: We got that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: We got that. Thanks. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think others-- Bobby or others may want to speak up on this.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Director Dishell, do you have some comments you'd like to add?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Thank you so much. And thank you to those of you who joined us yesterday.
We had a great roundtable and got great feedback from staff. And so I think-- there have been many
dates thrown out-- I think something we heard [AUDIO OUT] clear, though, is that staff is in support. And
from our outside folks with experience, as well, it's really an undertaking to effectively build a new and
robust transit system. Because you're replacing the key and critical infrastructure.
There are certain milestones the scientific community has said we need to hit in order to effectuate the
purpose of transitioning to zero emissions, which is to help mitigate climate change. And so I think there
are certainly target dates that have been discussed, but I think we can strive for dates.
And it's also really critical that we do have that fleet transition plan, which details when and how we can
get things done and what are the barriers to accelerating that-- are they legal barriers? Are they cost
barriers and people power problems-- so that the Board can pick and adjust manually a date. Because
technology and funding options change so regularly in a relatively nascent industry.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thank you so much for your comments. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for allowing me to speak during the meeting. I also participated in the EV Ad
Hoc Committee yesterday and came away with a couple of points, the first being that before we can
actually look at vehicles, we need to look at infrastructure. Mr. Stopplecamp has been trying to point that
out to all of us.
And one of the recommendations that we heard is that we need to start now talking to our energy
company, which is Xcel Energy. And that doesn't require any movement or any plan or any funding for
anybody for us to open conversations with Xcel Energy. They had a representative on the call yesterday.

One of the other things that we heard is that there are other transit agencies around the country who
already have a transition plan similar to what we need. And probably, they-- I don't know, I haven't
checked yet-- but I believe that they would be willing to share that with us so that we would have a format
to work from.
And the third thing that we heard was that the simplest and easiest way to do it, particularly in light of the
fact that RTD does have people problems, is to hire someone to do that for us and then get input from our
in-house experts, as opposed to having to have somebody on staff do that for us.
I'd like to point out that RTD, for some time, was in the forefront of this field. We, at one point, had the
largest electric fleet in the country. We have a reputation. The ADA standards for transportation started
here in Denver.
RTD is one of the few agencies in the country that has an elected Board. So in many ways, we have
always been at the front of what's going on in the world of transit. And I'd like to see us work a little harder
on maintaining that. Thanks for taking my comments.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I just wanted to add on and piggyback what the other committee members were
saying and just wanted to say we do have upcoming-- it looks like January-- another roundtable where we
will have more opportunities to listen in. A big point, do you want to break, there's obviously want and
desire for this, and we want to be eager, and we want to be the drivers and leaders behind this.
The question that we've kind of gone over the week, though, is how do you do it-- ultimately, is how do
you do it? And how do you fund it is a big question, too, which we have to have that conversation about.
And of course, as we move forward and as we go into the future, pursuing these-- again, ultimately, goal
of fighting climate change, ultimate goal of lowering carbon emissions-- but the easiest way to do that is,
again, getting people to actually ride on transit systems.
If you really want to fight climate change, if you really want there to be lower carbon emissions, you've got
to get people out of their cars. And that's the biggest thing. And making sure that we have a healthy,
robust system has to be balanced at the same time as we pursue these future technologies. So it's been
exciting so far, and looking forward to next year and learning more.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thank you, Director Bouquet. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Well, I was going to defer to Director Dishell, who was on the Ad Hoc Committee,
and Mr. Worthen. And then I can comment. Thank you-- if that's all right.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, thanks. You bet. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, apologies. Just quickly, I think one thing that's important for the Board to know
and be aware of is we explicitly talked about funding. The only other agency on the line of great size was
New York's transit agency was on the line. And one thing that was incredibly clear was that this is not an
inexpensive venture to undertake and that New York is able to get there by 2040 because they have
explicit state funding.

And so by choosing to be aggressive, one thing we talked about is, do we want to lead in this space or do
we want to be led? [AUDIO OUT]
JULIEN BOUQUET: We lost you, Bobby, We lost you.
BOBBY DISHELL: We need you to come along with. [AUDIO OUT]
VINCE BUZEK: Director Dishell, are you still there? I don't even see his icon anymore. OK, I think he's
lost his signal, so let's move forward. Mr. Worthen, please.
FRED WORTHEN: Yes, sir. Fred Worthen, AGM, Bus Operations. I do want to say that, actually, I'm
excited about working on a fleet transition plan. We expect to have the first phase of work done by WSP a
little bit later this year. But that's only something that will work as a springboard towards the actual fleet
transition plan.
I think it might be helpful for everybody to understand what we need to do to get to a fleet transition plan.
There are many steps we're going to have to do. First, we have to go through and develop a complete
deployment strategy, or a charging and assignment strategy.
What that means is we'll go through, look at all of the pieces of work that we have, and we will see after
we work through and block out those assignments how many buses do we truly need? Because an
electric bus won't be a one-for-one venture. So we want to look at multiple technologies, like battery
electric buses, fuel cell buses, other types of technologies, and try and get a baseline calculation of how
many vehicles we'll need.
Then we need to do a facilities assessment itself. And that means also identifying strategies for
electrifying our contractors. Then we have to move into the costing. And part of that is operational costing,
not just what it will cost to operate but trying to identify offsets and credits available and then doing the
capital costing.
Once we've got the operational and capital costing in place, then we go through the financial analysis. We
look at the mid-term financial plan and say, what can we pay for, and how do we basically go through
transitioning this fleet? Then we'll develop an FTA-compliant fleet transition plan. The FTA has six points
that you have to address in that.
So I just want everybody to understand this isn't just a let's go out and do a few things. There's quite a
few steps that are going to have to be done to get to that complete compliant transition plan. Hopefully,
that helps everybody understand the things that we have to do to get to that final transition plan. Thank
you, sir.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Mr. Worthen. Director Dishell, I see you're back. We lost you there. Do you want
to restate your comments?
BOBBY DISHELL: No. I think I'm all set. Thank you, though.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Good deal. OK, Secretary Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. First, I'd like to compliment the Ad Hoc Committee on the roundtable. I thought
it was extremely helpful with a lot of good, practical knowledge around the table. So good job on that.

And with that, I would like to sound in on what Director Guissinger said is the committee should be
extended. They have invested in the issue. They made contacts. And the Ad Hoc Committee should have
the opportunity to keep going after the next year. And they should not be under the condensed time
pressure that they're under right now.
Of course, we want to work as quickly as possible. But we've had four versions of this policy-- or at least
four-- in three days. And they need the opportunity to work it through and present it to the Board.
As they know-- I think it was Chairman Mao who said this-- there are many ways to the summit. And we
do want to lead, but we need to know which trail we're going to take. And for that, we need to rely on our
staff and our committee and the contacts they've made to determine the way.
And I would also like to support what Director Bouquet said about the major task is getting people on our
trains and buses. And I would like to point out that's one of the goals in the Climate Action Plan that RTD
filed in April 2022.
So, we know everybody's working in the same direction. And we're excited, and we want to get something
done. But I believe this approach about giving it more time is really the best way to go. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. I see second Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Unfortunately, I missed a lot of things the last couple days. But
I'm assuming that the tape of the roundtable would be available on the Board website.
VINCE BUZEK: Does anyone know the answer to that?
PEGGY CATLIN: I would like to listen to it, since it sounds like it was a very rich discussion. 1
VINCE BUZEK: Jillian, is that available yet?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: Yeah, it should be posted on the ZEV website.
VINCE BUZEK: Excellent.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you very much.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, I also typed up some notes that I'd be happy to share with Director Catlin. If
she's interested in having those, I can send them right now.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Maybe you could ship them off to all of us, if you wouldn't mind. That'd be great.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'll send them to the Board Office and let them do that.
VINCE BUZEK: That's perfect. Very good. Any other questions, comments, discussion before I weigh in?
[CHUCKLES] So thanks. I'm glad this is moving forward. I certainly hope that this Ad Hoc Committee is
continued into the future.
And whoever the Chair of the Board is moving forward, I strongly encourage them, whoever that is, to
keep this thing going. Because it's not just a one-off. It's something that we need to-- it should be maybe

even a standing committee at some point in time. But I'm really glad this is taking the shape that it's
taking.
Back in a million years ago, I was on city council in Broomfield when we were transitioning from a city to a
city and a county. And it was a lot of work. We had to create a Health and Human Services Department.
We had to create a Sheriff's Department, a detention facility, all these different things.
And it goes back to that old saying, how do you eat an elephant? Just one bite at a time. When you've got
a big project, you just have to-- you have to start. You just have to take that first step. And I think we're
taking the first step. And I'm really thrilled to see that.
I have a couple questions. First of all, the fleet transition plan, does anyone know-- my understanding is
having that is often a requirement in applying for federal funding to help with the zero-emission fleet
transition. Is that fairly accurate, Mr. Worthen?
FRED WORTHEN: Yes, sir. A Dear Colleague letter was issued by the Federal Transit Administration in
December of last year. And it does require the fleet transition plan to be completed. I believe there are six
components that must be in the fleet transition plan for it to be accepted.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Great. And I go back to-- I know I mentioned it once before-- the August 16, 2022
article by Nathaniel Minor talking about Summit County Transit receiving $34.7 million in federal funding,
paying for most of a 60,000 square foot transit facility to hold their electric vehicle fleet. And I know we've
been having some discussions about where are we going to put these 17 buses we're getting so that
they're segregated and safe from our diesel fleet?
So I know it's a big ask, but I just hate to think of us leaving money on the table when we could be getting
some of that stuff to help us with some of this initial build-up and ramping up toward the ultimate goal. So
I'm eager to see that moving forward. I know it's a big deal. I don't see that any of this is just no big deal,
let's just get it done. It's a lot of work. And it's going to be a lot of work for decades, I'm sure.
In terms of general funding-- and I know I've said this, I know Director Broom has said that, and all of you
on here have said this-- we need a more predictable form of income, not just this sales tax revenue. And
I'm hopeful that-- and I've said before-- maybe the state decides to give us more than under 1% of our
funding. And maybe something like this gets them to do that.
Because this administration is really big on going green. And RTD needs to be the green option. And
we're trying to do that. So to the extent we can get help in the funding to make that happen, that would be
fantastic. So Michael Davies, you'll have that done by next week, I'm sure. So anyway, thanks for all the
great discussion.
Anything else before we move? On, oh, I'm sorry. Ms. Snyder, do we need a motion to continue this to
date certain? And if so, Directors Guissinger and Dishell, do you guys have a date you want to move this
to? I'll start with you, Ms. Snyder. We need a motion, correct, to move it?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: So I need a motion to move this action item to a date certain. And that date would be?
Members of the committee, help me.

LYNN GUISSINGER: I don't think we prepared for that date certain. Can we just withdraw the motion and
bring it back later?
VINCE BUZEK: Ms. Snyder, what's the best way to do it if you don't know the date certain but we don't
want it to just die?
MELANIE SNYDER: I think it would be recommended that you come up with a date certain, even if you
say the June Executive Committee meeting or the March-- I don't want to presuppose when. But it would
be good to pick a month.
VINCE BUZEK: And we can always move it from there if we need to do another motion, correct?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes.

KATE WILLIAMS: January—January.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I would say January, also.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. And does anyone from staff know the January Executive Committee meeting date?
MELANIE SNYDER: Mr. Chair, if you just note that it will be the Executive Committee meeting in January,
that'll be appropriate.
VINCE BUZEK: Sounds good. So I need a motion to continue this action item to a date certain, that date
being the January 2023 Executive Committee. Do I have a motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: Is there a second? I'll second that, so Guissinger, Buzek. Any no votes? Nope. So done.
So moved. Thanks, everybody. Thanks for the great discussion. Thanks again, Zero-Emission Vehicle Ad
Hoc Committee for your hard work on this.
Next is the November Board meeting review. And so now we're adding a couple things to the Board
agenda. Is that correct? We've got the federal lobbying contract extension, the legislative program, and
the Independent Audit Committee appointments. Would those get added to the consent agenda, Ms.
Snyder?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, Mr. Chair. Typically, they would. I think that the Ad Hoc Committee-- the Ad
Hoc Audit Committee-- had discussed potentially having the committee appointments be discussed by the
Board and not included on the consent agenda.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, sounds good. Ms. Parish, I see your hand is raised.
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Hi, Chair. I just wanted to say that usually, any vote items that come out of
Executive Committee have always been placed under Recommended Action so that the full Board can
discuss them, if needed.
VINCE BUZEK: Cool. That sounds good. All right, so how about a motion to approve the November
Board agenda with the additions of federal lobbying contract extension, 2023 legislative program, and

Independent Audit Committee appointments added to the Recommended Action section of that agenda?
Do I have a motion for that approval?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: Catlin and Director Sloan. Are there any no votes to that? Cool. I didn't ask for
discussion. I'm sorry. Was there discussion? I didn't think so. OK. Next, we move on to discussion items.
And we have the Government Relations report. Ms. Johnson and/or Mr. Davies, would you like to tell us
what's going on?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes. Hello, Chair. Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer. I will have a very
brief Government Relations report for you, as, really, official business at both the federal and state level
was at a halt with the general election this week.
So with that, at the federal level, no change from the last month's report. The federal government is
continuing to operate on a continuing resolution through December 16. Congress will likely come back
here in late November and early December to negotiate that.
Going to one of the things that Director Guissinger said during the last discussion on the zero-emission
vehicles, grants are largely the thing that gets held up in continuing resolutions. Because the FTA will not
put out there notices of funding availability without a full year of appropriations attached to that. So that's
one of the items that usually gets delayed at the federal government level without a full-year
appropriation.
At the state level, again, no official business is happening with the interim committees. And lastly, at the
local level, RTD's planning staff, our local government contractor, and our service development staff have
been participating in the initial meetings with a few of the subregional service councils. And so those have
kicked off. And there are a few more subregional service councils this week and, I believe, next week, as
well. And with that, happy to answer any questions.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for that report. Are there any questions for Mr. Davies? Seeing none,
thanks very much again, Michael, for your report. What's next? Next is the timeline and recruitment
process for Board Office Executive Manager. I will make that report.
So here's what's happened, and here's what's happening. So the Board Office posting was open for 30
days and closed on October 25. A Human Resources screen for minimum qualifications-- making sure
candidates met the minimum quals pursuant to the job description-- that has been complete.
And I believe we have 20 or 21 qualified candidates. Those applicants have submitted cover letter,
resume, and everything to Human Resources. That was due by October 27. And that is complete.
What's happening now is that there's the panel that I appointed, consisting of Mr. McKay, Director
Davidson, Director Cook, and myself, are reviewing those qualified candidates. And we're trying to
winnow down that group to the top level of qualified candidates. That top level we'll discuss and will be
presented to move forward for interviews by that panel.
And then they'll be further winnowed down from there and then, ultimately, submitted to the Executive
Committee for final interviews and recommendation of a candidate or candidates for the full Board to

consider. And I believe-- I don't have those dates off the top of my head, but we've got an interview date
for the Executive Committee in early December and then a special Board meeting for the Board to
consider that and make the appointment. So I'll take any questions if anybody has any questions.
Good. So we're moving that forward, and I'll keep everybody apprised about what's going on as we do
move forward. I think that takes care of all of our discussion items. Are there any other matters to come
before the Executive Committee? Ah, I see Secretary Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: I do. And this is just brief but very nice. My husband and I took the W Line downtown
Denver on election night. And there was a queue at the drop box at Union Station. And it was a very
cheerful crowd and kind of a celebratory event. It was nice to see at Union Station.
So terrific for zero-fare days and including the drop boxes in the effort. And I really feel like I should give a
shout-out to Director Lewis. Because she has been pursuing this effort for quite a while, and it came to
fruition and, I think, went really well. That's it. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that. And when we did our kickoff to the zero fare for Election Day event a
couple weeks-- it was a couple weeks ago, I guess-- in the snow, our General Manager and CEO
Johnson also recognized Directors Lewis and Bouquet and the rest of the staff for all their hard work-and you, Director Sloan-- for making all that happen.
Of course, none of you were there. I was there by myself in the snow. [CHUCKLES] But thanks. I
appreciate those comments. And it was a great-- I hope we can do this, we can recreate this, every year.
It was really great. And thanks to GM/CEO Johnson for your hard work on all that, too.
Any other matters to come before the Executive Committee? No? I'll entertain a motion to adjourn. So
moved. Is there a second?
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: There a second. Any discussion? Any no votes? All right. Thanks, everybody. Good
meeting, and keep moving stuff forward. Bye-bye.

