Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
January 10, 2017 at 5:30 PM

I.

Special Board Meeting
Chaired by Chair Pro Tem Hoy
A.

Call to Order
Chair Pro Tem Hoy called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

B.

Installation/Swearing-in of New Board Members
Chair Pro Tem Hoy announced that the first item on the agenda was the installation
of the new and re-elected Board Members. He noted that there were four new and
four returning Directors.
New Members to be installed:
Bob Broom
Ken Mihalik
Doug Tisdale
Kate Williams
Returning Board Members:
Director Claudia Folska
Director Judy Lubow
Director Natalie Menten
Director Jeff Walker
Chair Pro Tem Hoy welcomed the Honorable Judge Susan Macey (fmr.) to officiate
the Oaths of Office. Judge Macey is a former Indiana Superior Court Judge and
served as legal counsel to the Indiana Senate and the City of Indianapolis. She now
is a member of the staff of arbiters at the Judicial Arbiter Group (JAG).
Judge Macey asked the new and re-elected Board members to come to the inner
circle of the Board Chamber. She performed the installation which included the

recital of the Oath of Office. Afterwards, two official copies were signed and
authenticated by Judge Macey.
C.

Roll Call
Barbara McManus called roll. There were fifteen Board members present at roll call.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Arrived
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present
5:37 PM
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present
5:32 PM
Bob Broom

Director, District F

Present

5:41 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Present

5:33 PM
5:41 PM

Tina Francone

Director, District N

Present

5:32 PM

Larry Hoy
Judy Lubow
Ken Mihalik
Natalie Menten

Director, District J
Director, District I
Director, District G
Director, District M

Present
Present
Present
Present

5:37 PM
5:33 PM
5:32 PM
5:32 PM

Doug Tisdale
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District H
Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District D
Director, District A

Present
Present
Present
Present
Present

5:32 PM
5:32 PM
5:32 PM
5:32 PM
5:32 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Lacy Bell, Shirley Bennett, Jessie
Carter, Jeff Cluphf, Heather Copp, Nate Currey, Sherry
Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, John Hersey, Janet Huhn, Ali
Imansepahi, Tina Jaquez, Russ Larson, Shontel Lewis, Adrian
Mabry, Michelle Madrid, Doug MacLeod, John McKay, Barbara
McManus, Brenden Morgan, Tai-Shrae Parish, Scott Reed,
Jenifer Ross-Amato, Lindsey Smith, Henry Stopplecamp,
Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Susan Wood

Others Present:

Allen Archer, Stephanie Bender, Jenifer Brandeberry, Ruth
Broom, V. Duncan, Kristina Evanoff, Emily Glockman, William
Gross, Joni Haughty, Tom Hertner, Claudette Hertner, Kathy
Hoy, Peter Humphrey, Rachel Johnson, Sally Jones, Alex
Khaldy, Jamie Lewis, Susan Macey, Angie Malpiede, Liz
Mihalik, Kelly Mihalik, Kathleen Osher, Jamie Perkins, Dave
Sauls, Jim Schlote, Sabine Shaikh, Roger Sherman, Jeanne
Shrove, Shannon Slack, Karen Stuart, John Thompson, Joe
Tripplett, Gary Van Dorn, Megan Wagner, Bob Wilson

D.

Election of 2017 Board Officers
Chair Pro Tem Hoy remarked that, as stated in the Board Bylaws, in the first official
meeting of the year the Board elects the Officers of Chair, First Vice Chair, Second
Vice Chair, Secretary, and Treasurer. Barbara McManus provided each Board
member with a copy of the rules of engagement for the nomination and election of
Officers in accordance with RTD’s Bylaws and Robert’s Rules of Order. The
election begins with the position of Chair and worked through the process to all
Executive Committee seats. Board members making the nominations, seconders,
and any other requested speakers will be given three minutes to speak on behalf of
their candidate for each position.
Chair Pro Tem Hoy noted he would ask for other nominations and, when there are
no more nominations, the nominations would close and votes would be cast by
secret ballot. Two Board members who are not running for the position, along with
General Counsel will count the votes and provide the tally back to the Chair Pro
Tem for announcement. He added that, if no candidate receives eight affirmative
votes, the vote process would be repeated. Chair Pro Tem Hoy said that, should
the vote go into multiple rounds, Board members who wished to speak further on
behalf of a candidate with new or additional information to share could do so. He
stated the vote would be done in round-robin fashion and each speaker would be
limited to three minutes.
Motion for
Chair of the
Board:

Director Sisk nominated Director Hoy for the position of Chair of the
Board. He said Chair Pro Tem Hoy would be an excellent
representative of the Regional Transportation District. Director Sisk
stated that Director Hoy has performed well under difficult and
trying circumstances and always has the concerns of RTD at the
forefront. He added that Director Hoy listens and attends to the
matters that are most important.
Director Anderson seconded the nomination.
Director Francone nominated Director Folska for Chair of the Board.
She stated that Director Folska has developed into a strong, patient,
and knowledgeable leader. She added that Director Folska knows
what is important to the District as a whole, and that she is willing
to do what is needed to best serve the District’s diverse group of
taxpayers. She further noted that Director Folska will act as a
catalyst to best serve the District.

Director Lubow seconded the nomination.
Chair Pro Tem Hoy stated that, as he has been nominated for Chair,
he would turn the meeting over to Second Vice Chair Deadwyler,
who will Chair through the completion of the Election of the Chair.
After the election of the Chair has been completed, Director
Deadwyler will turn the meeting back to me for the election of the
other Executive Committee Officers.
Second Vice Chair Deadwyler asked the Board to commence with
the vote. As the secret ballot process completed, she asked
Directors Archuleta and Lubow to join General Counsel Rolf Asphaug
to tally the votes.
Vote on
Nomination:

Motion for
First Vice
Chair:

Chair Pro Tem Hoy was elected as the Chair for 2017 with a vote of
8 in favor and 7 for Director Folska. Second Vice Chair Deadwyler
announced Chair Pro Tem Hoy as the Chair for 2017.

Director Folska nominated Director Francone for First Vice Chair of
the Board. She said that Director Francone has served well on the
Executive Committee as Treasurer and has done a phenomenal job
as the Chair of the GM Oversight and Performance Management
Committee. She added that Director Francone has made a
meaningful and powerful contribution to RTD.
Director Solano seconded the motion.
Director Anderson nominated Director Walker for First Vice Chair of
the Board. She said that she has known Director Walker for six
years, and he is a very hard worker. She added that he has a great
background in transportation and knows what cities and transit want
and need.
Chair Hoy seconded the nomination. He added that Director Walker
has been very involved in the Executive Committee before, serving
as Secretary and Treasurer.

Chair Hoy asked the Board to commence with the vote. As the
secret ballot process completed, he asked Directors Mihalik and
Williams to join General Counsel Rolf Asphaug to tally the votes.
Vote on
Nomination:

Motion for
Second Vice
Chair:

Director Francone was declared the winner with 8 votes in favor and
7 votes for Director Walker.

Director Sisk nominated Director Deadwyler for Second Vice Chair of
the Board. He stated that the Board has seen Director Deadwyler’s
actions and words, which have come in volumes. He added that he
has a great deal of respect for her compassion towards her
constituents and her district.
Director Solano seconded the motion.
Director Anderson nominated Director Walker for Second Vice Chair
of the Board.
Chair Hoy seconded the nomination.
Chair Hoy asked the Board to commence with the vote. As the
secret ballot process completed, he asked Directors Tisdale and
Solano to join General Counsel Rolf Asphaug to tally the votes.

Vote on
Nomination:

Motion for
Treasurer:

Director Deadwyler was declared the winner with 8 votes in favor
and 7 votes for Director Walker.

Director Deadwyler nominated Director Menten for Treasurer of the
Board. She stated that Director Menten has proven herself over and
over again and that she is a great representative of this agency.
Director Solano seconded the motion.

Vote on
Nomination:

Since there was no other nomination, Chair Hoy requested the
nomination be accepted by acclamation.

Director Menten was proclaimed the Treasurer.
Motion for
Secretary:

Director Deadwyler nominated Director Walker for Secretary of the
Board. She noted that he lives close and works downtown and he
would be able to take care of any immediate needs.
Director Anderson seconded the nomination.

Vote on
Nomination:

Since there was no other nomination, Chair Hoy requested the
nomination be accepted by acclamation.
Director Walker was proclaimed the Secretary.

New Board Officers for 2017
Chair Hoy
First Vice Chair Francone
Second Vice Chair Deadwyler
Treasurer Menten
Secretary Walker
E.

Action Items
1.

Bank Account Signature Authorization Agreement

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the attached Bank Account Signature Authorization
Agreement (the “Agreement”).
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to
approve the Bank Account Signature
Authorization Agreement with the newly
approved officer signatures.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 15 in favor
(Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler,
Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Menten,

Mihalik, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker,
Williams) and 0 opposed.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:

PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy,
Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Tisdale, Sisk, Solano, Walker, Williams

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
2.

Selection of Location for Posting of Board Notice

The RTD Board of Directors designates the entry way of the RTD administrative
office at 1600 Blake Street as its official location for posting of notices of all public
meetings in 2017 as required by C.R.S. 24-6-402(2)(c). In addition, to the
maximum extent feasible, notices of public meetings will be posted on RTD’s
website.
Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to
approve the Selection of Location for
Posting of Board Notice.
Director Tisdale seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 15 in favor
(Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler,
Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Menten,
Mihalik, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker,
Williams) and 0 opposed.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:

PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy,
Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Tisdale, Sisk, Solano, Walker, Williams

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

3.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of December 20, 2016
Motion:

Director Sisk made the motion to approve the
Board Meeting minutes of December 20, 2016.
Director Folska seconded the motion.
Chair Hoy noted that four of the new Directors
were not in attendance as Directors at that
meeting, and two Directors were absent.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 9 in favor (Archuleta,
Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Lubow, Menten,
Sisk, Solano, Walker) and 6 abstentions
(Anderson, Broom, Hoy, Mihalik, Tisdale,
Williams).
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSTAIN:

ADOPTED [9 TO 0]
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Archuleta, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Lubow, Menten, Sisk,
Solano, Walker
Anderson, Broom, Hoy, Mihalik, Tisdale, Williams

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.

F.

Other Matters
Director Anderson congratulated the new Executive Committee and especially Chair
Hoy. She welcomed the new Board members and stated that she looks forward to
serving alongside them.
Chair Hoy said he was pleased with everyone that stood for election and added that
he looks forward to a healthy, strong and vibrant 2017.

G.

Adjourn
Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 6:24 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

