Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
February 17, 2015 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Folska
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Solano/Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Director Lubow
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of January 20, 2015

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.
Indemnification, Waiver of Governmental Immunity and Purchase of Insurance for
the BNSF Railway Company on the North Metro Rail Line
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
pass the attached Resolution agreeing to waive the defense of sovereign immunity to the
extent it may under Colorado law and to purchase insurance for the purpose of
indemnifying the BNSF Railway company (BNSF) for claims arising out of RTD’s ownership
and use of the property to be acquired from BNSF for the NMRL, including but not limited
to environmental liability, claims both regulatory and in tort; claims arising out of the use
of automobiles, worker protection claims including those for railroad worker’s arising under
the Federal Employee’s Liability Act (FELA); and, the Board intends that the limits shown
in the Resolution shall be the limits to which immunity is waived pursuant to C.R.S. 24-10114.
B.

Approve Contract Amendment to Supply 64 - 40' Transit Buses

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to exercise an option and
amend contract 13-FH-053 with Gillig LLC. in an amount not to exceed $27,500,000 for
the purchase of 64 additional 40’ transit buses and associated spare components.
C.

Approve Contract Amendment to Supply 18 - 60’ Articulated Buses

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to exercise an option and
amend contract 13-FK-001 in an amount not to exceed $12,300,000 with New Flyer of
America Inc. for the purchase of 18 additional 60’ articulated buses and associated spare
components.

XII.

Recommended Action
D.
16th Street Mall Intersection Improvements, Funding Intergovernmental Agreement
with the City and County of Denver
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorizes the General Manager, or designee, to execute an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between the City and County of Denver (CCD) and
the Regional Transportation District. The purpose of the IGA is to set forth the rights,
duties and obligations of CCD and RTD to construct intersection improvements within
the CCD Right-of-Way in conjunction with the 16 th Street Mall Reconstruction Project.
The intersection improvements will be funded by CCD, and the construction managed
by RTD.

E.

Board Report May 2015 Service Change

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the May 2015 Service Change package as revised and summarized in
Attachment A and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute
contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by
these changes

XIII.

Executive Session

XIV. Old Business
XV.

New Business

XVI. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

