2024-09-11
Operations Safety and Security Committee
TROY WHITMORE: Good evening, everyone. The Wednesday, September 11 Operations Safety and
Security Committee meeting of RTD will now come to order. We are convened as of 5:31 PM Mountain
Time. I would respectfully ask everyone attending the meeting to mute yourself, unless you are
recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that committee meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings,
along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's
website.
During tonight's meeting, we are also providing Communications Access Realtime Translation, also
known as CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board
Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. And a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript
can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like access to a live transcript of this
meeting in Spanish. The live stream of the meeting will also be available on RTD's YouTube page.
All right. At this time, I'd like to call the roll for the committee members. Vice Chair Julien Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
TROY WHITMORE: Director Ian Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: I'm here.
TROY WHITMORE: Director Jaime Lewis.
JAIME LEWIS: Present.
TROY WHITMORE: Director Paul Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present
TROY WHITMORE: Director JoyAnn Ruscha. Don't see her here as of yet. Director Marjorie Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
TROY WHITMORE: And I'm Director Troy Whitmore, Chair of the Committee. So we have six committee
members present. We do have a quorum. Additionally, we have Chair Davidson of the Board here with us
and Director Bob Broom. If I missed any other director guests-- oh, I see Director Guzman is with us as
well. Thank you all for being here.
All right. Before we move to public comment, I'd like to take just a moment to see if any director would
object to me modifying the agenda slightly at the request of our GM and CEO. We have three
recommended actions on the agenda. However, the GM and CEO have asked that I remove the
recommended action related to the replacement of a hoist at our East Metro Facility. This is so that staff

will have more time to work with a third party related to grant funding for this project. GM/CEO Johnson,
would you like to add anything to those comments?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, that's adequate, in the sense that we do have to work on an
intergovernmental agreement associated with those grant dollars. And that's the reason we thought it
would be completed. So appreciate it. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you for the explanation. And we're hopeful that we'll see it soon on
the agenda. So are there any Directors opposed to removing this item from the agenda? All right. I see
none, so we will look forward to seeing this item in the future as appropriate.
All right. Next up is public comment. I'd like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address
the committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately
preceding month. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand
or press 9 on your phone.
During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you'd like to
be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtddenver.com. All right, Mr. Kroll, do we have hands raised for public comment?
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Whitmore, this is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. At
this time, no one has raised their hand in desire of providing public comment. Oh, excuse me. Just as I
said that, we do have one individual who raised their hand. And that is Nate Trela.
TROY WHITMORE: All right, Mr. Trela, you have three minutes. Go ahead and address the Board. Thank
you.
NATE TRELA: Thank you. Yeah, my name is Nate Trela. I am a Board Member with the Planned
Parenthood Division of the National Federation of the Blind of Colorado. I am very interested in the
presentation discussion that will be happening regarding the peer review on Paratransit. We had a
chance to attend the Paratransit Advisory Committee Meeting last week-- or yesterday. And we certainly
heard some interesting points of the peer review and we're, as an organization, digesting them.
I believe there's a lot of ways to maintain, if not strengthen, the program, while also improving its financial
viability. And as an organization, we, as a policy, do oppose any service cuts to public transportation. So
we will definitely be curious. And we look forward to being part of the discussion on how to strengthen the
Paratransit offerings for RTD going forward in a way that both maintains the quality of service and also
protects our viability.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you for your comments, Mr. Trela. Mr. Kroll, any other hands raised
since the first comment?
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Whitmore, at this time, I do not see any additional hands raised.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Very good. So I will declare the public comment portion of the meeting
concluded. Any email comments, by the way? Forgot about that.
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Whitmore, no, we did not receive any email comments in relation to this
committee meeting in advance of the meeting. All right. Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. All right. Next is

see information from external entities. There are no external entity reports this evening, so we will move
to the recommended actions.
There are two recommended actions on the agenda. As mentioned earlier in the meeting, East Metro
Hoist Replacement item has been removed from tonight's agenda. So the first action item is a near-term
downtown reconstruction legal service contract amendment. It reads for the Board of Directors to
authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her designee, to execute an amendment to add $600,000 in
additional funding to the near-term downtown rail reconstruction legal services contract for a total contract
amount not to exceed $953,800. Do I have a motion?
MARJORIE SLOAN: So moved, Sloan.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second, Bouquet.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Directors Sloan and Bouquet. All right. Melanie Snyder, General
Counsel, the floor is yours to present this item. Thank you.
MELANIE SNYDER: OK. Thank you, Chair Whitmore. As noted in the motion, this action is for the Board
to authorize an amendment for additional funding on the contract we have with outside counsel. This is
for supplemental advice on the solicitation and contract for phases 2 through 4 of the near downtown rail
reconstruction project.
Given the complexity and the size of the project, attorneys at Kaplan Kirsch were retained to work
alongside our internal RTD legal team, as well as our contracting and procurement teams since April
2024. They have been advising on the structure and the form of the solicitation and the contract.
This is a progressive design build contract that we're going to be using for the first time in RTD's history.
The remaining work that we need to have performed in order to procure and contract for these phases of
the project is going to require additional legal services to meet the agency's goal to award a contract in
order to begin work in 2025.
Kaplan Kirsch does bring significant expertise with advising public entities on alternative project delivery
and procurement. And they also have some deep experience, with respect to similar complex transit and
rail infrastructure contracts. They have provided substantial value, we feel, to date and they have met all
contract performance requirements. So with that, I'm happy to take questions on the proposed
amendment.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Melanie. We appreciate the presentation. Questions from committee
members or other Board members or Ms. Snyder?
JAIME LEWIS: Mr. Chair, can you repeat the amount again?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes, sir. Not to exceed 953,800. This is an extension of $600,000 additional. Is that
correct, Ms. Snyder?
MELANIE SNYDER: That's correct.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you.

TROY WHITMORE: You're welcome, sir. Any other questions? All right. We have a motion from Director
Sloan, second from Vice Chair Bouquet. Are there any no votes on this matter? Seeing no votes. The
Chair declares it passes 6 to 0. Thank you very much.
Second, final action item for the evening is approval of budget transfer for wheel truing machine
replacement. This is for the Board of Directors to approve a budget transfer in the amount of $1,678,500
for the light rail operations division for the replacement of existing wheel truing equipment and to
authorize the General Manager and CEO to enter into a contract to procure the replacement equipment.
Is there a motion?
JULIEN BOUQUET: So moved, Bouquet.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Second, Sloan.
TROY WHITMORE: OK. We have a motion from Bouquet, second from Sloan for this action item. At this
time, I'd like to introduce Dave Jensen, assistant general manager of rail operations, to present this item.
Dave?
DAVE JENSEN: So good evening. As introduced, I am Dave Jensen, assistant general manager of rail
operations. And I am here this evening to recommend that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager and Chief Executive officer, or her designee, to transfer funds for the replacement of the existing
wheel true machine. Current funding of $1,875,000 exists. The internal cost estimate produced, however,
was $3,553,500, leaving a delta of $1,678,500.
The existing wheel true machine is nearing the end of its expected life and is in need of replacement. For
explanation, wheel truing is a process of ensuring that the wheels on the light rail vehicles are within
specified guidelines established by the manufacturer. And a wheel true machine is the electronic
computerized machine that accomplishes this critical task.
This is essential to safety and state of good repair. By adopting this recommended action, RTD will be
able to maintain light rail vehicle wheels and remain in a state of good repair and further the 2021 through
2026 strategic plan priorities of community value, customer excellence, and financial success by ensuring
the public and employee safety and maintaining a state of good repair on our RTD light rail vehicles.
Thank you for the opportunity to speak with you this evening. And I'm happy to answer any questions you
may have.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Jensen. I see one hand raised so far. Director Jaime Lewis, the floor
is yours.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you. How many bids did we receive on this contract?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DAVE JENSEN: Excuse me. Chair, if I may?
TROY WHITMORE: Proceed
DAVE JENSEN: My understanding is that we've received two.

TROY WHITMORE: All right. No further questions, Mr. Lewis? No? OK. Other questions from Board
members, whether on the committee or not? OK. We have a motion on the floor-- oh, there's Marjorie
Sloan doing aerobics to get my attention. A little work out there. For that, you get the floor, Marjorie.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you. I think this is a really interesting piece of equipment. I would appreciate
seeing a photo image of it, showing the scope of it and where it's placed in the facility. How frequently it
would be used, I think, would be helpful for us to understand the equipment that we're approving.
TROY WHITMORE: Fair enough. I think that does make some sense. It's so interesting in the function
that it serves. It would be good to get a closer look, whether it's a photo or a chance to see it in action
later on, Mr. Jensen, if that's OK with you.
DAVE JENSEN: I will take note of that and see what we can accomplish in that regard. I'd like to clarify,
too, if I may, my last statement. I'm conflating two issues that were going to come to the Board. This
request did not go out to bid yet. We need to have the funding in place in order for us to be able to go out
to bid. We do know of other manufacturers that are doing this. I wanted to make sure I clarified that and
thank you for the opportunity to jump in and do that.
TROY WHITMORE: OK, I certainly appreciate the clarification. It appeared that was the case. All right.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes, go ahead, GM.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. I wanted to elaborate on what Mr. Jensen said in relationship to Director
Sloan's inquiry. Quite naturally, we have to procured the equipment first, so we can then share with you
what that may look like. We do have an existing machine that's ending-- that's approaching its useful life,
of which we could send a photograph of. But I wanted to clarify, would you like to see the existing one?
And then in such time, when we're able to go through the process of a competitive solicitation, to have a
successor piece of equipment, we can send that to you. So what is your pleasure?
TROY WHITMORE: I think, because we have a number of Board members that won't be with us by the
time the machine comes, let's see if we can get just a snapshot or two of the existing one.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Very well.
TROY WHITMORE: Yeah. And then once we get the new one, it might be worth a little tour field trip or
some more photographs, just to explain the difference because it's such an important piece of equipment
for our maintenance program.
DEBRA JOHNSON: It is. Thank you very kindly. I appreciate that, as I am intending to manage
expectations. So I appreciate the clarification.
TROY WHITMORE: Yeah, appreciate that. That's good that we're all on the same page. All right. Director
Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. Describe a little further what this machine does and to the extent that it
relates to the repairs on the rails that we're doing to ensure that the wheels are perfectly positioned,
perfectly trued up so that they don't cause damage or cause less damage on the rails.

TROY WHITMORE: Go ahead, Mr. Jensen or CEO Johnson.
DAVE JENSEN: I can jump in there, and then look for further elaboration. So what the wheel true
machine does is exactly what you just described. So every wheel, not just the diameter of every wheel, on
each train need to be exact. The profile also needs to be done. And so this machine shaves essentially
the outer part of the wheel in order to be able to do that.
So the way the machine works is through a computer. We put in the programming. And the machine will
roll the train onto the machine, which is in the shop. And then it shaves the wheels accordingly. And so as
part of good state of good repair, the wheel rail interface is very important for our rail and the wheels, so
both work together to ensure-- ultimately, it's a wear issue, wouldn't necessarily cause damage, but it
does ensure the longevity of both the rail and the wheels.
TROY WHITMORE: Very good. Any other questions in that regard, Director Rosenthal? OK. I see no
other hands raised at this time. So we do have a motion from Directors Bouquet and seconded by Sloan.
Are there any no votes on this matter? Seeing no no votes. I declare the motion passed by a 6 to 0 vote.
Thank you very much.
All right. Let's move to item E on our agenda discussion items. There are two listed on the agenda. And
the first is for the 2025 Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan, better known as PTASP. I'd like to
introduce Sky Mott, Manager, Safety Management Systems Program Development to present this item.
Sky, the floor is yours.
SKY MOTT: Thank you, Chair Whitmore. I will start to share my screen. And please let me know when
you can see it.
TROY WHITMORE: We're good.
SKY MOTT: All right. So good evening, everyone. My name is Skylar Mott, as the Chair just mentioned.
And I'm the Manager of Safety Management Systems Program Development. So tonight, what I want to
share with you, for the discussion item, is the 2025 Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan, or PTASP,
updates.
This plan is mandated by the FTA, or the Federal Transit Administration, under 49 CFR 673, remains
central to how we manage safety risk and ensure compliance with federal safety standards. The 2025
update reflects the latest regulatory changes that were proposed or that were published in at the end of
April and went into effect in mid May, update those regulatory changes and evolving needs for safety.
An important aspect of this update is the approval process, which involves several layers of review to
ensure that all safety considerations are addressed. First, the plan must be approved by the accountable
executive, the GM/CEO, who holds ultimate responsibility for safety across the organization. From there,
it is reviewed and approved by the Joint Labor Management Safety Committee, which-SPEAKER: [INAUDIBLE]
SKY MOTT: OK.
TROY WHITMORE: It looks like we have somebody unmuted. Please check that we're all muted, so we
can get full attention to Sky Mott, please.

SKY MOTT: So from there, it's reviewed by the Joint Labor and Management Safety Committee, which
ensures that the voices of both management and labor are represented in the review process. Following
those internal reviews, the PTASP, or the Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan, will be presented to
the Board of Directors for final approval at the agency level.
Additionally, because we are an RTA, or a rail transit agency, we're required to submit the plan to the
Colorado Public Utilities Commission, which serves as Colorado's State Safety Oversight Agency. Their
approval is a crucial step in ensuring that the plan aligns with both federal and state safety regulations.
Ultimately, the approval process ensures that our plan is thoroughly vetted and meets the highest safety
standards, both federally and locally. So tonight, as you will see, I will walk you through the key updates
to the Federal Rule and discuss how these changes will impact RTD moving forward, ensuring that we
remain in compliance.
So a little background-- so 49 CFR 673, with CFR meaning Code of Federal Regulations-- and you can
see that in the Board report-- is the federal regulation that mandates that transit agencies, like RTD, must
develop an Agency Safety Plan. The key focus of this regulation is to establish a comprehensive safety
management system, or an SMS, that allows us to proactively manage safety risk.
The regulation requires annual updates to ensure safety performance improves year over year. This
update also incorporates recent changes to the rule, as I mentioned earlier, with the published rule
becoming in the end of April, and then going into effect in mid-May, which includes a greater emphasis on
collaboration between the labor and the management through the formal committee, which is known as
the Joint Labor Management Safety Committee, and having a more detailed review of performance
measures for ultimate risk reduction.
OK. So as I mentioned before, this Agency Safety plan is mandated by 49 CFR 673. And it aligns with
RTD's mission of enhancing lives through connections. Integrating safety into our strategic priorities by
embedding safety into our daily operations, we ensure that it drives organizational success.
And a couple of those areas are community value-- so the PTAS strengthens trust in public transportation
by ensuring safe, reliable services, ultimately enhancing RTD's role as a key community partner. In
relation to customer excellence, prioritizing safety enhances customer experience and confidence in the
high quality of service that we aim to deliver.
As it relates to employee ownership, empowering employees through active participation in the safety
processes fosters engagement and ownership across the organization, which is extremely vital to not only
implementing, but sustaining a safety management system. And lastly, financial success-- effective safety
management, optimizes resources, reduces incidents, and builds public confidence in how RTD manages
its finances. These updates ensure that safety is a core performance indicator integrated through our
strategic priorities and operational scorecards.
OK. As it relates to employee contract or customer safety, it's not only vital-- safety is not only for
compliance, but also ensuring that we protect everyone that is impacted by our services. The Revised
Standard, 49 CFR 673, places more emphasis on protecting transit workers, particularly through the
inclusion of safety committees that involve both labor and management. And this collaboration is key to
improving how we address on ground safety issues.

One thing to note is, as it talks about the protecting transit workers, as you guys may be aware, there was
more of a focus on transit workers being assaulted just due to the climate of what was happening
throughout the US. And through conversations in Washington and different ATUs, they did place an
emphasis on trying to figure out how can we mitigate these assaults on transit workers.
OK. So as it relates to the regulations, I'm going to provide you an overview, so you get a little bit more
context of why we're doing what we're doing. So the FTA, or the Federal Transit Administration, has
established several key requirements that govern the Public Transportation Safety. These regulations are
critical for ensuring safe and secure transit environment, maintaining regulatory compliance, and
ultimately fostering a proactive safety culture within transit agencies. And with RTD being a transit
agency, that makes a whole lot of sense.
So in relation to 49 CFR Part 670, which is the public Transportation Safety Program, this regulation
creates a comprehensive framework for the FTA's oversight of the Public Transportation Safety. It
outlines what a transit agency's responsibilities are for mitigating risk, conducting investigations, and
reporting safety data to ensure safe operations across the transit industry.
49 CFR 672 is the Public Transportation Safety Certification Training Program. And this rule mandates
the training and certification for personnel who are responsible for safety and public transportation
systems. So the goal of this is to ensure that key safety personnel have the knowledge and skills
necessary to manage safety-related tasks, effectively helping to prevent accidents and incidents, so
whether it be something as simple as maybe a simple slip, trip, or fall to an accident involving a transit
vehicle. And the severity of any of those could range depending on the factors at play.
The next one, which I've been mentioning, is 49 CFR part 673, which is the Public Transportation Agency
Safety Plan. And this rule requires transit agencies to develop and implement a comprehensive safety
training plan, utilizing the framework of a safety management system, or SMS. These plans must outline
how risk will be identified, managed, and reduced, ultimately improving safety performance across the
agency.
In relation to 49 CFR part 674, this is in relation to the state safety oversight. So this rule applies to the
state safety oversight agencies. And it mandates that they oversee RTAs, or rail transit agencies, overall
safety performance. The SSOA, or state safety oversight agency, are responsible for ensuring that we
make sure that we're identifying the risks, complying with the federal safety standards, and implement
corrective actions as needed, whether it be through our ISRs or our internal safety reviews, or through
safety audits conducted by the SSOA. And ultimately, this regulation ensures that compliance with both
federal and state bodies are actually taking place.
And then lastly-- or not, lastly, the Colorado Public Utilities Commission Program Standard, that is an
enhancement that is from 674, which basically states that the Colorado Public Utilities Commission and
the state of Colorado is responsible for regulating rail fixed guideway systems, adding basically an
additional layer of state-specific oversight.
While the program standards aligned with federal regulations, such as 673 and 674, they also include
Colorado-specific requirements for transit safety compliance. And in doing this, this is a partnership that
helps address things that may be unique to the state of Colorado as it relates to how our system
operates.

And then as it relates to the bipartisan infrastructure law, so while it doesn't introduce new safety
regulations directly, it does provide significant funding for infrastructure improvements, including the
Public Transportation Safety upgrades and also consideration for the assaults on transit workers to
basically make it to where we can control that in a better fashion. Basically, that bill is helping us
modernize equipment, enhance safety systems, and then address aging infrastructure.
All right. So what is a PTASP? So you can see some of the elements that I have up there. And I'll step
through those. So the annual SMS review, or that snapshot you see, provides a concise summary of key
safety activities, processes, and performance metrics. It ensures transparency and accountability, offering
leadership and additional stakeholders to have a better picture of safety outcomes and the efforts over
the past year. So as we go through and evaluate how we're doing based on measures that are defined
within the Agency Safety Plan, this gives us a way to see where we're falling in relation to those things.
Document the processes and activities-- so this section captures essential SMS processes, such as
safety risk management, safety assurance, and safety promotion activities. It helps us look at any
changes, corrective actions, and any lessons learned to ensure that we are working to continuously
improve safety, aligning with any regulatory requirements or anything that is local that we must adhere to.
And then safety performance targets, those include things such as accidents, injuries, and safety events.
Safety events could be anything from some kind of violation of a policy or procedure, or SOP, that could
have safety implications, so something as simple as maybe a red signal overrun. And that's where we can
basically go back and say, OK, we had a target for like five, or three, or whatever it may be, and then just
seeing how close or how far off we are from hitting that target.
And then the last bullet on there is review, update, and approving annually. So this review, which we're
going through right now, is basically a step in us making sure that we are compliant with any rule
changes, and then any lessons learned as it related to the performance measures and targets that were
established in the prior year to ensure that we are as compliant as we can be and making any
adjustments, so moving forward we're not setting unrealistic targets or expectations.
All right. So under 49 CFR 673, RTD is required to implement this SMS, or safety management system, to
manage risk in a structured and proactive manner or manner. This process involves identifying safety
risks, such as slips, trips, and falls or vehicle collisions by managing these risks through safety controls.
And as you guys may be aware, there are various number of controls that can be implemented. Some
examples are administrative controls, which tend to be SOPs, internal work instructions, things of that
nature, PPE, like eyeglasses, gloves, safety vests. Or there's substitution or elimination. Elimination is
one of those controls that are generally harder to implement. But what generally happens, in order to
manage risk, is utilizing various layers and combinations of those controls to bring risk to an acceptable
level.
With that, we also continuously monitor performance based on implementation of said controls. The most
recent rule updates an emphasis on making the SMS, or the safety management system, more datadriven and collaborative, which can be referenced with the Joint Labor and Management Safety
Committee, where, again, management and the union work together to work through and identify hazards
and develop mitigations to bring those identified hazards and associated risk to acceptable levels.

This aligns with how RTD staff has been proceeding prior to these updates. Just because the FTA put out
these new regulations, RTD had already been moving in that direction. And with this new rule, it gave us
more ammunition or more support to further move those initiatives along.
And then additionally, greater emphasis is now placed on using that data to inform decision making with
an increased involvement from employees through various committees. The one, like I mentioned, the
Joint Labor Management Safety Committee, but there are also committees underneath there, which are
more at a facility level. And those are facility safety committees, where hazards are identified, mitigations
are proposed and/or implemented. And if they can't be implemented at that level, they do rise to the Joint
Labor and Management Safety Committee for consideration and to be addressed.
All right. Going into the requirements and updates, so for 2025, the Agency Safety Plan incorporates
changes from the most recent rule changes, which I've mentioned earlier, as it related to 49 CFR 673.
Recognizing that transit agencies were apprised, like I said, it was published in April.
This includes adding of the Joint Labor and Management Safety Committee's responsibilities to the plan,
the plan being referred to as the Agency Safety Plan, requiring a more formal review process that
involves both labor and management. Another key change is the introduction of the risk reduction and
risk-based inspection programs, which focus on preventing incidents before they occur, identifying areas
through safety data.
So if we can start seeing trends, we can be more proactive. It doesn't have to necessarily result in some
kind of failure mode, but something that we can see that seems to be deviating from what is expected,
which would allow us to better allocate resources to address those potential issues. And then these
updates ensure that we stay continuously improving our overall safety performance.
All right. Something to highlight is there's something that is referred to as the National Safety Plan, which
that basically provides a nationwide framework for improving safety across all FTA, or Federal Transit
Administration, regulated transit agencies, offering guidance and best practices to National Safety
Performance Measures to help guide agencies, such as RTD, in improving safety.
In contrast, the Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan, which is required by 49 CFR 673, is an
agency-level plan that outlines the individual transit agencies, such as RTD, how we'll manage safety risk
and meet performance targets specific to our operation.
So underneath that new rule, or the updated rule, RTD is required to set specific measurable safety
performance measures and objectives. These include tracking metrics, such as fatalities, injuries, and
system failures, with annual goals to reduce these numbers. The rule also mandates using a three-year
rolling average to track performance over time, which helps us identify long-term trends, while addressing
immediate and critical incidents that are still being addressed in real time.
Continuing, in addition to those core safety metrics, the new regulation, or the new update to the
regulation, 49 CFR 673, expands our data collection to include more specific metrics, such as those
transit worker assaults and collision rates. These metrics help us address emerging safety issues,
particularly those that affect frontline employees.
By tracking these incidents closely, we can implement targeted strategies to improve both employee and
public safety. Again, so over time-- and RTD had already been doing this ahead of time-- is starting to

look at data as it related to certain types of events, as it related to certain types of interactions between
peds and vehicles.
We do have data that we collect every month and go through, step through, to see if there's any
improvements that we can-- or mitigations that we can suggest to impacted groups to try to see if we can
see some improvement. And this can be observed through our Safety Risk Register. And that is the
Safety Risk Register that we have is a way in which we track identified hazards and their associated risk
and also track what mitigations that we will be putting in place-- well, we will put in place or are proposing
to put in place to reduce the level of risk exposure.
All right. As you can see here, the Safety Performance Targets, under 49 CFR 673, it emphasizes setting
the specific accident reduction targets. For 2025, we aim to reduce the preventable accidents. You can
see it's to fewer than one, fewer than one per 100,000 miles for bus and light rail.
Additionally, we are targeting a 5% reduction in workplace injuries and increase in system reliability. The
regulation focuses on measurable outcomes. So these are things we're held accountable for, but It allows
us to better make adjustments to improve overall safety.
All right. Some PTASP safety activities-- so our activities for the coming year, as required by the 49 CFR
673, include improved risk management, more thorough incident investigations, and enhanced employee
safety training. A key focus of the new update is on risk-based inspections, meaning that we prioritize our
efforts in areas with the highest safety risk.
We leverage something here, which under 49 CFR 673, is called Safety Risk Management. RTD made
an enhancement to that and focused it more on operational risk management. And that made it to where
we leverage an adaptation of MIL Standard 882 E, utilizing their risk matrix for probability and severity.
And the enhancement we made was making it a 5 by 5, so it's a more balanced approach to managing
risk and identifying risk.
And then that helps us when discussing identified hazards on the best way to prioritize and categorize
how we need to allocate our resources. So those are a couple of things that we'll be doing to overall
improve our safety performance in the coming year.
Next steps-- so what we have here is the timeline, what we're looking at. So as today, you see that we're
presenting this discussion item to this committee. On October 9, we hope to bring it back as a
recommended action for consideration. And then on October 22, we hope to be able to present this
recommended action to the board. And if it is approved, like I mentioned at the opening, it will go to the
public utility-- or the Colorado Public Utilities Commission for approval.
With that, thank you for your time today. And with that, I will yield the floor back to you.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you, Sky Mott, for a very comprehensive presentation and prelude to
what we will be seeing in October, both in the Committee and the full Board. Any questions for Mr. Mott? I
see Director Rosenthal. The floor is yours.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Mott. So in terms of assaults on our
operators, could you maybe go into a little bit more detail as to what consists in assault? So is it
someone, let's just say, banging on the shield? Is it somebody verbal assault? Is it only physical assault?
Or how would you categorize all the factors that are considered in that statistic?

SKY MOTT: Yes. So the way in which we consider assaults has been prescriptive by the FTA. So they
break it up into two categories. The first is physical assault, which they gave a range where it could be
somebody spitting at you, physically making contact. And those are things that are classified as physical
assault.
Then there's a category of non-physical assault, which could be more in that verbal, like threats, things
that could impede an operator. Now, because that is more subjective, the way that we're classifying it
currently-- and we're always looking to improve-- is if an operator calls dispatch or control after
experiencing an event or in the middle of an event, making sure the operator is OK is priority, obviously,
but making sure that we categorize that correctly so that that information can be reported to NTD
accurately.
Additionally, we are coordinating with transit police. And there's been an ongoing effort, as that new
guidance came out, to ensure that we are more coherent-- more balanced in our approach and more
congruent in our approach because there are different definitions of assault based on law enforcement
and what FTA is saying. But we are working toward reconciling that.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, very helpful. And then my other question is, how you mentioned if they
call a dispatch. And then it sounds like another methodology of reporting and recording is if there's a
police report through transit police or another police agency. Any other methodologies to record and
report? Let's just say they report it to a supervisor. Or is there an internal filing system where they can
report that?
SKY MOTT: Yes, they have a number of ways to report that type of information. The primary way is to
definitely call dispatch or control, respective of the mode. But if they feel that, at the time, they didn't feel
like reporting it, once they get back to their division, they are able to fill out an incident report and hand
that to their supervisor to be included for tracking purposes.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you
TROY WHITMORE: All right. GM/CEO Johnson, did you have something you wanted to add?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I just wanted to clarify and qualify a couple of comments that Mr. Mott made. So
first and foremost, for everybody's edification, as we talk about the National Transit Database, that's the
collective entity in which all transit agencies submit information, as that's the portal that is used as it
relates to providing discretionary formulaic grants.
But on the flip side of that as well, I wanted to clarify that we are tracking this information through law
enforcement and have been doing so. As Mr. Mott indicated, this is relatively new, as it relates to the
modifications to the various rules that came out through the Code of Federal Regulations.
And so what we're doing internally is shoring that up through our Leadership Safety Committee, in which I
am a part of in conjunction with members of the leadership team, so we have one source of truth as we
go forward and recognizing that as part of law enforcement, there are different categories as it relates to
various crimes that are crimes that are occurring in and around our system.
So I just wanted to ensure that you had an understanding that we do have data that we're collecting.
We're shoring that up for the purposes of the federal government, but it does not negate the information
that we already have, which is more in-depth that allows us to better manage the operating environment
to create a welcoming transit environment. Thank you.

TROY WHITMORE: Thank you very much. So I see Director Ruscha has joined us. And I don't know
what time that was. But Jack may know, or you may be able to do that, so we can get that on the record,
but floor is yours.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. We'll just pretend like I was on time. So first, thank you, Mr.
Mott, for this presentation. And that was a hefty one. So I was really impressed. Very professional. And I
don't even think you needed a sip of water. I took at least four while you were talking.
But I have a couple of questions. And if you'll excuse me, I'm going to flip my screen. I downloaded the
attachment separately, so I don't know what Board Packet Page, but if I could just maybe refer to the title.
So there's a note where it says New in 2025 to incorporate the JLMSC responsibilities.
And I was just wondering if you could expand upon that a little bit. Like, what changes would we
anticipate in 2025 PTASPs that we don't have in the current one? Or perhaps that's better for GM/CEO
Johnson. But that bullet point I found interesting and would like to hear more about how we further that
partnership with our labor partners.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So, Mr. Chair, if I may, and then I'll yield the floor to Mr. Mott. So thank you very
much, Director Ruscha, for the question. Mr. Mott had outlined-- and I'm uncertain if you were here for the
entire presentation, so forgive me if I'm repeating myself. But from the outside-- the outset, excuse me,
where he's talking about the different parts of the Code of Federal Regulation and talking about what
elements are going forward, I wanted to ensure that you understood where we say New in '25, what you
all are going to take into consideration is what we're calling for 2025 going forward.
And these elements we are preparing in working in tandem with our joint labor management Safety
Committee to have incorporated in as we go forward. So I just wanted to qualify that. I will leave it to Mr.
Mott to go through the specificity as it relates to the certain elements, so we could provide examples. So
thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Mr. Mott?
SKY MOTT: Yes. So as it relates to those things that the Joint Labor and Management Safety Committee
will be doing as an enhancement from the prior year's Agency Safety Plan, 49 CFR 673 essentially
fleshes out a little bit more of what their role is.
So a couple of those things-- and this is not totally inclusive-- but the highlights are the approval of the
Agency Safety Plan. That is more defined as it was. It was really not that well-defined in the prior year's
regulation-- additional regulation and Agency Safety Plan. Additionally, they are to help with basically
allocation of the 5307 safety set aside funds, which accounts for 0.75% of the 5307 formulaic fund grant
funds that we receive, RTD receives.
That said, what they are also now tasked with doing is working with leadership-- so the ATU are working
with RTD's leadership on not only identifying those mitigations that have been put in place maybe by like
a lower committee, such as a Facility Safety Committee, and to give more clarification.
So we have Facility Safety Committees at our Operating Division. So a couple of examples are like
Boulder East Metro, Light Rail Side. We have Elati where we use that as One Light Rail Safety
Committee, where we do account for the entirety of the light rail operations. But they can identify hazards
at that level, provide a mitigation.

But based on the level of risk that has been assessed for that particular hazard, it may trigger to where it
needs to be brought to the Joint Labor Management Safety Committee, as the mitigation may be
something that requires a more coordinated effort between departments in order to successfully
implement and sustain said mitigation. So that committee, the Joint Labor and Management Safety
Committee, will be working to ensure that mitigations are actually appropriate and sustainable for those
identified hazards.
Additionally, the Joint Labor and Management Safety Committee will now basically coordinate more with
subject matter experts in order to help identify the most appropriate mitigations, because there are a
number of different hazards that could be identified throughout the system. And when reading the
regulation, it says the Joint Labor and Management Safety Committee represents the plurality of the
agency, which is more bus side.
But there are real elements there as well, specifically light rail, to where they may need to have additional
information or additional subject matter expertise to ensure that the proper mitigations are put in place. So
those are a couple of examples. I don't know if that answered your question directly.
JOYANN RUSCHA: It day. If I may, Mr. Chair?
TROY WHITMORE: Proceed.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah, thank you. So that was actually very helpful, Mr. Mott. And those are the kinds
of examples that I was kind of looking for, like how can we better integrate and improve Labor Relations.
But also it sounds to me, if I understood you correctly, this is also bringing an additional layer, in layman's
terms, of safety review on-- within the agency, but also ensuring that the Joint Labor Management Safety
Committee is apprised of issues, but also some more of that decision making. Did I-- I mean, not as
eloquently as you, but did I sort of sum that correctly?
SKY MOTT: Yeah, I would agree. And one thing I would like to add there, so with the Joint Labor
Management Safety Committee, we are providing training for them so that they develop competencies.
So we're not just putting them in there cold, right? Not just from an ATU side, but also from an RTD
leadership side, we want to make sure that there is a base level of understanding of hazard recognition,
what are appropriate controls, and what it actually takes to implement things.
Just because as I mentioned, we do have that 5307.75 safety set aside-- just because you have the
money doesn't mean that you're going to implement immediately. There has to be other considerations.
There are other processes, other things we need to touch. And so that education, that training piece is
vital. And that is what we've been stepping through and helping better identify what competencies do we
need to build for that particular committee based on the dynamic nature of the agency.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Mr. Chair, just one more follow up, if I could.
TROY WHITMORE: One more. Go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. So I think I-- again, thank you for that comprehensive review and update.
Our frontline workers are-- sometimes, they can be the first to spot something that we don't see. And so
that partnership and strengthening that is critical and as well as establishing that mutual respect.
So I appreciate that the conversation is going, but I do have a question. And again, it's not abstract, but
it's related to what the Board might anticipate in less than a month when it comes back before this

committee, in terms of changes. So earlier this year, the PUC had requested of us several updates to the
PTASP. And we declined to do it ahead of schedule, but consider it in the fall, which is now.
And without going point by point in that a letter exchange, which, as we recall, was in the press, would
GM/CEO Johnson be able to just briefly highlight some potential changes that we can expect, that, again,
are different from our current PTASP as it relates to the PUC's request?
And then I would just piggyback on that a comment recognizing the significance of this document. And it's
one of the few things by law that the board has to do is approve a PTASP. If we could perhaps get a little
bit of a longer leeway, even just a summary of major changes in the 2025 PTASP than we ordinarily
would when Committee docs are presented, just so we have time to digest them before a vote.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. GM/CEO, go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly. And thank you for the question, Director Ruscha. So a
couple of things-- in relationship to your inquiry relative to the Colorado Public Utilities Commission
putting forward a request regarding some elements that they wanted RTD to consider in relation to the
PTASP, we met and had a discussion around that.
When I say we met, i.e. Dr. Pam Fischhaber, who was the program director and members of the safety
team, as well as rail operations. The request they put forward, they retracted in relation to the PUC not
having auspices over that element which they asked for in cooperation.
What we did agree was keeping them apprised of where we are with the process, as Mr. Mott indicated,
recognizing that we just received the new rule making or not-- it wasn't rule making. I'm sorry-- the
modification to the Code of Federal Regulations. We start this process months and months in advance,
working through our partners.
And so there wasn't adequate time in which to do that going forward, nor was it a requirement. And so
when we met with the PUC about that in the latter part of June-- or was it July-- and I don't have the dates
off the top of my head, so don't quote me on that-- we doubled back. And we shared with them that we
would keep them apprised of the schedule in which we had meeting with our Joint Labor Management
Safety Committee partners, which we did.
Just on Friday, I sent a communique to the PUC, letting them know that the draft packet was readily
available, and provided that to them, and let them know where we were in the process. And so
recognizing that the period of time in which we're incorporating changes, they're cognizant of that fact,
recognizing that this is a joint effort going forward.
And the intent, as it relates to the next steps forward, recognizing what was presented here this evening,
I, as the accountable executive, will sign off on the document. And then it will go to the Joint Labor
Management Safety Committee for them to look at the document because the terms I've identified
previously and the Code of Federal Regulations was very nebulous. And there was a lot of confusion
about what the role is, hence the confusion with the PUC.
So this defines it. And so Mr. Mott has described what will be included in the PTASP. And the PUC is
cognizant of that, in serving as the state safety oversight agency as it relates to the federal statute under
MAP-21 for the Federal Transit Administration.

TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you very much. If you have further questions, Director Ruscha, I'll get
back to you. I've got two other folks in queue. I'd like to move to Committee Member Lewis followed up by
Chair Davidson. All right. Thank you. Director Lewis?
JAIME LEWIS: Yeah, I'm just curious, Sky, if you're aware of several directors have been working on a
project called Vision Zero. And my question is, how will PTASP and Vision Zero coexist and how can they
complement each other?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, I think that question is better suited for me, Mr. Chair.
TROY WHITMORE: Proceed.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Right. So recognizing that there has been discussions and I've had the opportunity to
engage directly with Director Ruscha and Director Harwick on this topic, I am of the mindset that they are
presenting some information. And at such time, when there is something that is presented to the board for
its consideration, the team will work in tandem, quite naturally, as it relates to ensuring that there is an
environment that's operable for all.
Recognizing where we are, we have been part of the Office of the Secretary, the United States
Department of Transportation Roadway Safety Worker Protection System, in which our Safety and
Environmental Compliance Team has been involved, as well as Bus Operations, with revenue and nonrevenue vehicles going forward. So recognizing that we are waiting on more specificity as relates to the
direction of this body, we, in turn, will ensure that we can have some alignment. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you, CEO Johnson. Are you done, Director Lewis?
JAIME LEWIS: Yeah, let me ask this question to GM/CEO. Do you see potential of these two groups
doing work together and complementing each other, just in general, your general opinion?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair?
TROY WHITMORE: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So, Director Lewis, a simple answer would be yes, when we talk about reducing any
type of risk in hazards as relates to our operating environment. The one thing that I will qualify-- and
Directors Ruscha and Harwick are aware of this, as we have had conversations, when we talk about
Vision Zero, holistically recognizing we don't have auspices over infrastructure in which our buses
traverse nor other elements when people alight our vehicles and things of the like, we do have
opportunities, quite naturally, to look at an operating environment that may be optimal.
And that's working in conjunction with municipalities to help create that operating environment. There
could be instances whereby this body or different municipalities in which we have services could adopt a
transit-first policy, which would put an emphasis on transit being a priority as it relates to roadways. It
could help in reference with certain treatments to ensure the ease of movement of vehicles.
Other aspects is utilizing scrambles to cross at key intersections where all vehicular traffic stops, so it's a
lot safer. So there are opportunities. So I just wanted to give that as an example without actually knowing
the direction in which this Board would like to go. Thank you.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you, General Manager.

TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you, Director Lewis. OK, I will call on Chair Davidson now. He's had
his hand up for a long time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair. I'm happy to defer to Committee Member Ruscha if
she'd like, if it's relevant to Vision Zero. Mine's separate from Vision Zero.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Oh, it-TROY WHITMORE: Go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah, it was. I just wanted to just note for the record-- and I think it addresses
Director Lewis's question in part. Director Harwick and I have had conversations with the ATU. And one of
the things that we had done also as a group is that we said that transit workers were an essential part of
any Vision Zero plan.
And we had also stated-- and ATU is part of the coalition working on this project. And so it was always
our intention, when asking the question, like where does this live, that it would-- it's not intended to
supersede the JLMSC, but possibly even be under it in part or work in cooperation. So I hope that kind of- I hope that helps address your question, at least from the perspective of the Directors that were having
those conversations and what our vision was, as well as for the public or anyone else on the Committee.
Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Director Ruscha. I appreciate that. All right. Chair Davidson, the floor is
yours.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Thank you very much, Committee Chair Whitmore. Mr. Mott, thank you for
the presentation, very, very helpful. I have two questions. One is really just as a reminder to myself here.
Can you remind me whether we need to do any type of coordination with DRCOG as the MPO with
respect to, for example, being recipients of 5307 funding? Is there any action that needs to occur with
respect to the PTASP? For example, approval. And if so, what is the process of coordination? And where
are we in that? I'd just appreciate the reminder, if you wouldn't mind.
SKY MOTT: Did you want to go, Debra?
JACK KROLL: Yes, if I may, Chair Davidson. Thank you very kindly. So recognizing that DRCOG is the
Metropolitan Planning Organization, as it relates to any approval by DRCOG, no, that is not required. The
only approval that is required is through the State Safety Oversight Agency, as delegated by the Federal
Transit Administration in their federal regulation, which I believe that dates back to MAP-21.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for that reminder. And Committee Chair, if I may, just one more
question?
TROY WHITMORE: Proceed.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I know we've set some goals here-- I think it's packet page 41. And you've touched on,
Mr. Mott, what the goals are for 2025. As perhaps another reminder, I know, as we've gotten more
organized with our PTASPs, we've set some goals, I think, for 2024. Can you remind me just on how
we're doing against the goals that we had previously set in the PTASP? And are we trending in a positive
direction? Or do we have any misses? If there are any misses, have we identified what concerns may be

there, whether it be resourcing or so forth? Just some idea of how we're trending from when we've been
setting goals on this and how that relates to our 2025 goal setting, that would be helpful context.
TROY WHITMORE: Mr. Mott or Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair, thank you very much, Chair Davidson, for the question. So
recognizing what you put forward, I want to use this as a gentle reminder that the presentations we were
bringing forward relative to our safety stats or those that are extrapolated because all of these are
intertwined.
I don't know if Mr. Mott has those stats readily available. But in our cycle, those would be forthcoming. In
some areas, quite naturally, as we look at where we are relative to fatalities, as we talk about injuries, Mr.
Mott indicated at the outset of his report, when we talk about slips, trips, and falls, that is something that is
very prevalent, quite naturally, as we look at where we are with the various seasons.
That is something that we see, especially strains as well. The reason this happens to be top of mind is
because with the Leadership Safety Committee. We just met on Monday. So that's why I can recall these.
But we would be happy to circle back. Mr. Mott, I don't know if you have any stats readily available,
recognizing that we produce those, and I know-SKY MOTT: Yeah, don't have them off the top of my head, but I can get those to you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Right. And I think, if anything, what would be more advantageous as we go forward,
Chair Davidson, that we would provide that in an update as we typically would do with our safety stats.
ERIK DAVIDSON: That would be fine. Thank you very much. I appreciate it.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. I just wanted to ensure that everybody knew what we were presenting
were extrapolated from this. So there's alignment there, hints with the strategic plan, and all the other
metrics that we discussed. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Appreciate that. Is that all, Mr. Chair?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, it is.
TROY WHITMORE: I'm having some issues with my mute button tonight. Sorry about that, folks. All right.
So that was all from Chair Davidson. Director Ruscha, the floor is yours.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Chair Whitmore was trying to figure out how to mute me. So my question was similar
to Chair Davidson's question. And it was about the TAMP. So as noted, the board doesn't vote on the
TAMP, but DRCOG does. Or at least, I don't know if they formally approve or we just have to present.
And so recognizing that the TAMP is essentially an addendum of the PTASP and our TAMP hasn't been
formally updated, public facing I think, since 2022, will the TAMP be updated this year? And then in a
more comprehensive way that it has in years past? Or again, just forward facing and go through that
similar process with DRCOG and presentation to the Board and such and thus be seen as an addendum
to the 2025 PTASP or used in conjunction with however you think of it? I hope that question makes
sense.

I guess a simpler way to say it would say that our last two or three PTASPs have reference to TAMP that
is dated from 2022. The board doesn't vote on the TAMP, except perhaps through a budget. But we do
vote on the PTASP. And so I was wondering if we'll see a TAMP update that tracks with the PTASP
update.
TROY WHITMORE: GM/CEO Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly. And thank you very much, Director Ruscha, for the
question. And just for everybody's edification, with the TAMP, she's speaking about the Transit Asset
Management Plan that we utilize as we look at our state of good repair.
And just for everyone's edification, as you know, we've gone through an iterative process as we look to
increase information relative to our asset maturity, so we can make informed decisions relative to capital
investments and ensuring, quite naturally, as we had our earlier agenda item, utilizing legal counsel to
help us with our delivery methods as we modernize our systems.
And we're using information that we've been able to acquire through the removal of rail to make informed
decisions. So with that as context, it is our intent to update the Transit Asset Management Plan in the
course of 2025, recognizing that there's myriad of different elements that need to go in that. You're
absolutely correct that this body does not approve the TAMP in that regard because we use data points in
reference to useful life and benchmarking, as specified with the guidance that brought forward the Transit
Asset Management Plan.
And DRCOG does not approve the plan. We provide them with targets relative for planning purposes as
we go forward. So that is in process. I don't know if Mr. MacLeod is on this call, as the Transit Asset
Management Group falls within his auspices. And I don't see him. But the time frame, off the top of my
head, is the middle part of 2025 when we were going to start working on that.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you both. Any other questions before we move to our second
discussion item? All right, thank you, Mr. Mott. Good presentation and very important discussion when it
comes to safety of our employees and our riding public.
All right. Next, we have the Paratransit Review final report and next steps. I'd like to ask Fred Worthen,
Assistant General Manager Bus Operations, and Stuart Summers, Chief Communications and
Engagement Officer, to present this item.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, actually, it's going to be me starting.
TROY WHITMORE: Well, that's just fine as well. Go right ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly. If I may have the presentation in Slide Show mode, please.
FRED WORTHEN: Sorry, working on it. My computer is running very slow.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK, no problem.

FRED WORTHEN: There we go.
TROY WHITMORE: OK. So thank you very kindly. Good evening, once again. I've been speaking with
you all evening, but Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO. This evening, I am joined by Fred
Worthen, the Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations and Stuart Summers, Chief Communications
Engagement Officer, as it is our intention to orient this body and for those that are tuning in to this virtual
meeting where we are with the Paratransit Peer Review, which was commissioned by me with the
American Public Transportation Association.
Next slide, please.
So this evening, I will give a quick overview as it relates to the Paratransit Peer Review as a gentle
reminder of how we have gotten to this point. Mr. Worthen will discuss the observations and
recommendations. And then we will yield the floor to Mr. Summers, who will talk about next steps and
timeline as it relates to our intent with this information.
So if we could go forward to the next slide, please. Thank you.
So for everyone's edification, back on February 27, I submitted a letter to the American Public
Transportation Association, of which we are members, specifically to the Chief Operations Officer,
requesting that APTA work with RTD and convene a panel that would be comprised of individuals that
have subject matter expertise in the paratransit realm relative to RTD's paratransit services.
And when I talk about paratransit services, this was intended to include the Americans with Disabilities
Act of 1990 Complimentary Paratransit Service, in addition to the supplemental premium on demand
services that RTD has providing.
And so starting back in April, when we were working towards convening panelists that had experience
specifically as related to paratransit operations, but more specifically as it relates to the venturing into
access on demand, we provided comprehensive operational information to our peer review panelists in
preparation for their on-site visit here to the organization, which took place in May.
And specifically speaking, in relationship to the peer review, the scope and objectives that we had
outlined really dealt with the program's overall structure, the contracted service delivery model in which
this agency has, because I do want to qualify, not all agencies contract out their paratransit services,
service performance monitoring and our auditing process, the program's service performance and cost
effectiveness, including review of per boarding subsidies and average fare costs, annualized program
costs and future costs, and then, quite naturally, cost controls and contract structures, and, most
importantly, recognizing that we are recipients of federal dollars in 5307 in reference to formulaic dollars,
adherence to federal guidelines, related to complimentary paratransit services.
And so with that as the scope, we wanted to ensure that our peer review panelists could provide us with
information from their perspectives relative to where might this agency have strengths, opportunities, and
then potential improvement areas.
Next slide, please.
So more specifically, I won't read through this, but the peer review focus was encapsulated-- and that's at
a higher level. And I did provide more specificity to what I had requested of the peer review panelists in
my initial scope.

And so with that, you can go to the next slide, Fred.
And so the final report, RTD received-- specifically, I received the report on August 7. I had the
opportunity to confer with the team led by Fred Worthen as we looked at what it is that we would do as a
path forward, recognizing that, when this report was received in August, we were dark, but we ensured
that we disseminated this information to the Board, which, in turn, I did on August 21.
This information has been made available to the public with a forward facing web page that was launched
just earlier this week. And I will now yield the floor to Mr. Worthen to go into more detail about the
recommendations and the path forward. I do want to remind everybody that it is our intent to come back
to the full Board and have discussions relative to the elements in which we are going to leverage through
means of tactics that are associated with our engagement process. So with that, Mr. Worthen, thank you
very kindly. The floor is yours.
FRED WORTHEN: Oh, thank you, CEO and General Manager Johnson. Good evening, honorable Board
members. As Ms. Johnson said, I'm Fred Worthen. I'm GM of Bus Operations. So tonight, I'll discuss at a
very high level key themes related to the final peer review panel report that Ms. Johnson referenced.
Before I delve deeper into report recommendations, I think it's important to point out the final peer
reviewed report focused on several recommended actions for consideration to improve both Access-aRide and Access-on-Demand services. Although examples were provided by the panel to address the
core problems identified, the final action plan to address program challenges has to fit within local
operations, fiscal and operational constraints.
Thus, final solutions to address program challenges may vary from those presented by the peer panel.
Additionally, policy changes related to service delivery must be brought to the RTD Board of Directors for
consideration. So again, these are recommended actions for consideration. They are not beta complete.
Stuart Summers, Chief Communications and Engagement Officer, will discuss next steps later in the
presentation.
Although the final report is very detailed, all the recommendations centered around three major themes.
First, there's a need to develop a clearly stated vision for paratransit to guide priorities for both Access-aRide and Access-on-Demand services. Currently, the Access-a-Ride and Access-on-Demand programs
function pretty much stand alone programs, instead of complementary programs to support each other.
There is a clear need to integrate the programs more seamlessly, where the Access-on-Demand program
is truly supplemental and complementary to Access-a-Ride services. Second, there's a need to refresh
the Access-on-Demand program structure to create a financially sustainable option that serves customer
needs.
When Access-on-Demand program was first initiated, the monthly cost of operations was roughly
$75,000. The program has grown to over $1.2 million in monthly expenses. In 2022, the average cost per
trip was roughly $10. The average cost per trip has grown to approximately $16.50 per trip.
Currently, also about one third of our Access-on-Demand service users consume about 70% of Accesson-Demand services. Growth within the Access-on-Demand program is not operationally or fiscally
sustainable as it currently functions. Third, there is a need to leverage technology and process
improvements to streamline daily work.

To address these major challenges, the report identified and the panel recommended a number of actions
that include-- and I'll go through these and give you a few examples to help elaborate on the
recommendations themselves. The first was to empower staff and contractors to set boundaries on the
Access-on-Demand service and alignment with service mission.
Currently, the Access-on-Demand program operates with significantly different policies from accessorized
services with regard to fare, service area, span of service, and eligibility. The Access-on-Demand
program does not charge an initial fare associated with the service, operates beyond the ADA-mandated
RTD service area, operates 24/7, which is beyond regular fixed route service hours, and the service has
different criteria surrounding conditional eligibility.
The peer review panel has recommended that the Access-on-Demand policy should be in alignment with
Access-a-Ride policies, as well as the mission surrounding these services. Second, the panel
recommended to create a technology and data strategy. Technology can stream workflow, which will
improve staff efficiency and allow RTD to reallocate staff to more impactful work, deliver better service,
and reduce costs.
The third recommendation was to reduce compliance exposure by evaluating specific aspects of service
delivery. For example, there are many Federal Transit Administration Regulations that define
requirements for paratransit service delivery. One of the requirements is that paratransit services should
be provided within a complimentary 3/4 of a mile zone surrounding most fixed route services and rail
stations, with a few exceptions.
Due to route alignments, this could create donut holes, whereas there are routes surrounding an area
completely without service. If these holes are 1 and 1/2 miles in diameter or less, FTA guidance requires
paratransit service be provided within this donut hole. The panel recommended that RTD evaluate
specific aspects of FTA regulations to reduce compliance exposure.
Another recommendation was to evaluate Access-a-Ride reporting standards for on-time performance,
conduct regular checks on data parameters used for key performance indicators. So as an example,
Access-a-Ride on-time performance is measured based upon a 30-minute pickup window. A vehicle is
considered on time as long as the vehicle shows up anytime between 15 minutes before or 15 minutes
after the scheduled pickup time.
Although it's important that customers are picked up on time, it's also important that people get where
they're going on time. Thus, we should look beyond pickups on-time performance and also look at
appointment drop-off times. The panel also recommended a need to identify an empowered owner of
paratransit who can get into details and lead policy. In a nutshell, the panel has recommended that the
agency identify a champion for paratransit services.
Another recommendation was to identify software that can automate tasks, including trip caps, across
Access-on-Demand providers and reduce manual oversight of the program. We have many opportunities
to automate and streamline processes. As an example, Access-on-Demand users are limited to a certain
number of chirps per month.
Access-on-Demand users are not constrained to one service provider. So they could take 15 trips on one
service provider, three on another, and two on yet another provider. Because the Access-on-Demand
service providers do not talk to each other, staff has to manually track trip usage to ensure users are not
exceeding monthly trip caps. Developing an interface for Access-on-Demand users to book trips through

would give customers the ability to see the cost and availability of trips since their services available to
their needs. But this would automatically track total trip usage for staff.
One final area that the panel recommended within the report was to review contractor management
processes and requirements to improve service and streamline operations. The panel recommended that
RTD look for opportunities to improve RTD and contractor collaboration with the particular emphasis on
improving contract management, streamlining processes, and create greater customer satisfaction.
The full report goes into much greater detail, but these are the primary focus of the panel's
recommendations. Again, I want to reinforce these are recommended actions for consideration. At this
time, I'd like to invite my peer, Stuart Summers, to address where we go from here with regard to the peer
report.
STUART SUMMERS: Thank you, Fred. Good evening. As introduced, I'm Stuart Summers, Chief
Communications and Engagement Officer. I want to take you through the customer and stakeholder
engagement process and plan that we have put together.
First and foremost, RTD has put together an outreach plan to directly engage with registered paratransit
customers. We want to hear directly from those individuals, members of our community, who utilize these
services. As part of this, we will be organizing in-person and virtual feedback meetings. Those are in the
process of being scheduled and will occur over the next six weeks.
We also are planning to launch a statistically valid survey to directly garner feedback from those
registered customers of the services. So the survey will be representative of RTD's paratransit customers.
And a tool has been added to RTD's web page for all customers and members of the community to ask
questions, share comments, and provide feedback to RTD.
All information received from both the survey, as well as during meetings and that online form, will be
shared with the board in November. We also last week put together an industry survey that was
disseminated to other transit agencies to garner their feedback about their paratransit services, to
understand how other individuals have their programs structured and put together.
The peer review web page has already garnered more than 1,600 views. GM/CEO Johnson mentioned
this, that the page launched earlier this week. So more than 1,600 views to date. The final report that is
available on that web page has been downloaded 544 times since Monday.
And additionally, we sent an email to 10,315 paratransit customers, inviting them to visit the web page,
read about the recommendations, and download a copy of the peer review. That mass email has been
opened by 4,500 customers, approximately for about a 49% open rate.
And then earlier today, a prerecorded message was sent out to approximately 5,000 eligible customers,
using RTD's interactive voice response system, also known as IVR. And that prerecorded message was a
truncated version of the email that we sent on Monday.
We are putting together a toolkit that we will share out with the community that will have frequently asked
questions, sample newsletter content, presentation materials that we're hoping individuals can help us to
share out with their communities. And then yesterday, staff provided a presentation to the Access-a-Ride
Paratransit Advisory Committee-- we heard about that during the public comment period-- where we
answered questions, took notes about concerns, and listened to feedback from members of the

committee. Additional presentations will be provided to RTD's other two customer advisory committees in
the coming month.
Next slide, please, Fred.
So here's just a high level overview of the timeline. I mentioned what's already underway. We're in the
process of individually reviewing each of these recommendations, soliciting feedback. And then later this
month, we will launch that survey. That survey will go through the end of September into the early part of
October. In October, we will close those feedback surveys, compile all of the information that we receive.
And then we'll start to develop those final policy recommendations for the board's consideration.
As part of that process, we also want to identify some of these implementation timelines. In November, all
of the feedback that we receive as part of this engagement process will be put together and shared with
the Board. And then any policy related recommendations will be taken to the board for their consideration.
And then finally, starting in December and then working our way through mid-2025, that's where anything
that's adopted, we will start to put in those modifications, implement those major operational adjustments
as part of the May 2025 service changes. And with that, we will answer any questions. Thanks.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you to all three of you for the overview and the presentation. I'm sure we will
have a number of questions, starting with Director Jaime Lewis. The floor is yours.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Chair. As you guys know, I had Jack Kroll, our Executive Manager of the
Board, send my comments out for the sake of time. There was like 9 points. And some of them, obviously,
are going to have to be vetted through this process in the next three months.
But there one issue that kind of sticks out by itself. And I just want to remind everybody that, back in
January, we started getting testimony about this multi-ride option. And for over eight months, we had well
over 100 public comments on that.
I personally don't see the fiscal impact. It was a contractor-initiated benefit. And the multi-ride was very
useful to our community, including getting people's kids to school and making life a lot easier. So I kind of
wish we'd pull that out and address that sooner than later. I think waiting another three months is just not
addressing the issue. So if staff could look at that, I'd really appreciate it.
TROY WHITMORE: Director Lewis, thank you for the comment. Any staff comments? We can move
along.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I would just, if I may, Mr. Chair-TROY WHITMORE: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Director Lewis, thank you very kindly for your comments. We hear you loudly and
clearly, recognizing the impetus behind the paratransit, i.e. ADA and the supplemental premium services
to look at them holistically. We want to ensure that we're garnering feedback and not rushing to judgment
about certain elements as we go forward and really want to get feedback directly from those that are
impacted. And I just wanted to share that as we go forward. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, General Manager, CEO. Anything further, Director Lewis?

JAIME LEWIS: Yeah, I don't want to get into an argument, but we've had well over 100 people attend that
used the system. So to say that we need more input, people who use the system seems to be not
listening to those who are coming and testifying. Again, I'm not sure why we're waiting. If staff has
concerns about the multiple ride, then they need to present that sooner than later. And I'll just leave it at
that. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, sir. Director Rosenthal, the floor is yours.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, sir. And thank you, everyone, for that presentation, for all your work. To
build on Director Lewis-- and I appreciate the extensive outreach, not just by one form of communication,
but multiple forms of communication with the community, and that there is planned other communication
as well to the broader community.
And so the folks who did testify, submit comments, et cetera, is that a group of folks perhaps that we
might cultivate more of a relationship with to do outbound calls, send them emails, give them updates, let
them know specifically about this report, perhaps maybe they have or have not heard about it?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So if I may, Mr. Chair, thank you very much, Director Rosenthal, for your inquiry. Mr.
Stuart just provided information relative to our intention as related to communicating. And those
individuals that received the email, was in excess of 5,000 registered paratransit customers or access-we use paratransit Access-a-Ride as well as access on demand. And so we have been intentional in
communicating with those individuals. Mr. Stuart-- Mr. Stuart? Mr. Summers, would you further like to
elaborate? I'm sorry. I'm tired.
STUART SUMMERS: Absolutely. If I may, Chair, thank you. So Director Rosenthal, thanks for the
question. So a couple of things that we're trying to be intentional about-- first and foremost, we want to
engage directly with those customers who will be impacted or potentially impacted. And so we've
intentionally communicated with registered paratransit customers.
So the email went out to more than 10,000. The phone calls went out to approximately 5,000 earlier
today. We will continue to provide those updates throughout this process, especially as we start to put
together virtual and in-person forums so that people can be invited to continue to share their feedback
and ask questions.
In addition to that, we also are working with any of our community groups to share this information with
them, so they can also communicate it out more broadly. But we're really being intentional about trying to
garner feedback from those customers who utilize this service from our RTD.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Summers. And I guess, just to put a finer point on it, so you'll be
communicating with this set of folks on multiple occasions. And I'm not here to tell you what to do with
your job, but let's just say you emailed thousands of folks. And we all know that folks get busy. We get
buried with emails. Or they go to spam.
I just want to ensure that there's going to be multiple contacts with the same number of people and more,
but definitely the same number of folks who have already signed up for those services and that they're
going to get multiple emails, multiple phone calls to make sure that they may pick up on one of those
communications or more of those communications
STUART SUMMERS: Mr. Chair, if I may?

TROY WHITMORE: Proceed.
STUART SUMMERS: Yeah, and just to clarify probably a little bit more, Director Rosenthal, we also will
be providing multiple touchpoints throughout this process. We recognize that not everybody checks their
email regularly, answers the phone. We've also provided scripts to our call center. So any customers that
are calling in there to inquire, schedule a service, individuals, our agents, are able to also answer
questions and have some of that information readily available. But we will be providing ongoing regular
communication over the next 6 to 8 weeks.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And then finally-- thank you. And then finally, Mr. Chair, and then, of course, new
folks who are signing up for Access-a-Ride and for Access-on-Demand, they will also be included in your
data set, that it's actually increasing, that you're saying, hey, as you said, with the call center, you're also
increasing the folks who are getting these communications because they're being added to our database.
STUART SUMMERS: Mr. Chair, if I may?
TROY WHITMORE: Go ahead.
STUART SUMMERS: Absolutely. So for example, just yesterday afternoon, I added approximately
another 1,000 registered customers into that mass email. So we did another transfer of emails so that we
could communicate with additional paratransit customers. So yeah, that is something we'll continue to do.
As new customers are added to the system, we'll continue to put them into the pipeline.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Is that all, director Rosenthal? All right. Thank you. Good questions. Director
Harwick. The floor is yours.
IAN HARWICK: I just have a quick question for Mr. Worthen. Fred, when you were talking, you were
quoting some costs. And I feel like you said the monthly costs were $75,000 a month. And then they went
up to be above $1 million per month. I just want to make sure that I'm hearing correctly and I didn't just-FRED WORTHEN: No, you heard correctly, sir. The very first month that we operated, we were at
$75,000 a month. The program has grown. And it has grown month over month since inception. There
have been multiple stages, of course, through the pilot program. But we are at the point now where it is at
over $1.2 million a month in expenses.
IAN HARWICK: OK, all right. That's all I got. Thanks.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Good question. Phenomenal growth there. I'm not seeing any other
questions in this discussion. Oh, there's Director Ruscha. The floor is yours.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I have several, if you'll permit me to have some bites at the
apple, just considering the importance of this review and what we're discussing here. So actually, I'm
going to piggyback off of what Director Harwick just asked because I had a similar question.
So we started this with a pilot. And I think the pilot, if I recall, was like one zip code, maybe two zip codes.
So when we talk about $75,000 a month, are we talking about from the pilot stage or are we talking about
from the launch stage post-pilot where services encompassed all of our RTD area? Just for point of
clarification, that's one question.

FRED WORTHEN: As I previously stated, the program has gone through multiple stages. The initial first
month was a pilot. I believe it was three zip codes, if I remember correctly. But since full inception, the
program has grown month over month, over month, over month. And it has grown exponentially to the
point of where it is at over $1.2 million a month.
The budget for the entire program, for the three year pilot, was set at $9 million. You may recall that
earlier this year we had to come to the board because the full three-year budget was already exhausted
within the first year of our expenditures. So the program has grown significantly in ridership and usage
cost. As I mentioned, the 2022 cost per trip at $10 was at full program implementation. It has grown up to
$16.50 per trip. So it is growing exponentially.
JOYANN RUSCHA: If I may, Mr. Chair.
TROY WHITMORE: Continue.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Permission to just try to dialogue to get through these quick-- quicker-- quicklier-wow, I'm tired, too.
TROY WHITMORE: That's fine. And then certainly if there's other staff members like Mr. Summers or Ms.
Johnson, just go ahead and jump in, folks.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, sir.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. So thank you, Mr. Worthen. Yes, I definitely understand that we had a pilot
phase. That's why I noted it. But I just wanted to make sure that it was clear that that monthly overhead
hadn't grown exponentially. You know what I mean? Post, but we're also including like that pilot phase.
So I guess with that-- and I also very much remember, I think, voting yes on appropriating-- what was it-another $9 or $10 million because we were hitting the red. But what hasn't been clear to me as a board
member is what are the major variables driving up those costs.
I mean, they've been hinted at, but if that's something you can address, I think that would provide some
clarification because-- and I'll just give an example. So when the multi-stop function was taken away and
we heard hundreds of comments, it was suggested that the multi-stop function was driving up some of the
costs.
But at the same time, we also know that we have more and more users. So that's obviously a variable.
And without us having KPIs or just data, like data sets to look at month over month, like we would with,
say, fixed route, I think it's just really hard for us to-- well, for me. Like, I can't get inside your brain and
see what you're saying.
So to that end, is it-- I mean, was the multi-trip function-- was that really driving up costs? Or was that a
matter of what we considered equity? I think that's one. I think that should-FRED WORTHEN: So I'll answer your question in multiple phases. First off, when it comes to multi-stop,
cost is a piece of the factor. But the equity is another piece of the factor with multi-stop. It is not a service
that is available by all of our providers. And it is also not a service that is available to all of our clients.

So we do have to ensure that we are equitable and we don't create disparate treatment. So that is a
consideration that we have to look at going forward with regard to multi-stop. With regard to cost, though,
when I talked a little earlier about a lot of the differences in the Access-on-Demand versus Access-aRide, there are a lot of things that are contributing to cost drivers.
First and foremost, there is no fare associated with the Access-on-Demand until somebody hits the $25
cap, whereas an Access-a-Ride has to pay, I believe, $4.75. So the lack of a fare for one makes the
service very attractive. Ridership has grown significantly. And there's also a $25 cap. People have
learned how to use that cap as effectively as possible. So they are not only taking more trips. They're also
taking longer trips. So the cost per trip has gone up as well.
The third issue-- I don't want to say issue. A third driver is the fact that Access-a-Ride is limited to 3/4 of a
mile within a fixed route service area, where Access-on-Demand is available throughout the entire service
area. So we do have-- I'd have to go back and check the numbers. But we do have roughly 6% of the
trips are beyond the ADA-mandated corridor itself.
So that also creates a new market for ridership because they are able to gain services where a normal
Access-a-Ride user cannot, which is another reason why, when we look at where we're delivering these
services, we have to consider disparate treatment.
And the last one was service hours. The Americans with Disabilities Act requires that Access-a-Ride is
provided in alignment with fixed route services. So Access-a-Ride starts and stops basically at the same
time that our fixed route services do. Access-on-Demand is 24/7. So people have access to service
outside of our service areas.
So in a nutshell, it's not just the cost per trip. It's not just the lack of fare. It is also the fact that we created
a service that has created a demand for a completely new and different market, which was above and
beyond the actual and original intent of the program development, which was to create a system that is
supplemental and complementary to our Access-a-Ride system, not to create an entirely new market
itself.
So those are some of the big factors that have been driving cost themselves. Those are the things that
come off the top of my head that I think are clearly explainable, not only what's driving cost, but helps to
understand the differences between Access-on-Demand and Access-a-Ride and the differences in equity
and treatment between the different users.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. And I appreciate that. I fully understand the differences between the two.
But to that end, just as it relates to the costs, it would be helpful if staff could, in a follow-up memo, maybe
just, whether it's long-form or a chart, help us see some of that data over time, the monthly costs, like
user increase, stuff like that.
I know some of it's buried in Board documents here or there and reports, but just a snapshot, I think,
would be good for the public, but also for us to understand. I do understand, from a market perspective,
or from a product perspective, why this is so popular. But to that end, I would note, as I think Mr. Worthen
just stated, the stated purpose of this program originally was we were told-- the community was told that it
would reduce some of the stress on Access-a-Ride.
And also, we would have cost savings and that Access-a-Ride would improve. We gave users a subsidy
to use the premium paratransit, and then increased that subsidy. And so I mean, just as I think we are

aware, we didn't see the cost savings in either program. But also, we didn't see operational efficiencies in
Access-a-Ride as well. So we might have created something with good intentions. And I understand the
need to do some-- maybe some organizational policy work, but-FRED WORTHEN: If I may, to respond to you-- and I think this will help put things in perspective. And I
do have the types of numbers that you're talking about. And to be perfectly honest, we will be using
qualitative and quantitative data to make final policy decisions. And of course, the type of information
you're asking for is the type of things that we'll be considering when we make final policy
recommendations.
But for example, in March of 2023, when we were at full blown implementation of the Access-on-Demand
service-- we had all four service providers-- we had 26,210 trips. As of July of 2024, we have grown to
55,000 trips. So the service has more than doubled in about a year's time. So I think that helps put things
in perspective. As we move forward, though, with policy recommendations, the type of information that
you're asking for will be things not only we consider, but we will be providing.
DEBRA JOHNSON: And if I may, Mr. Worthen, and just with everybody, this has been a great
conversation. I just want to remind everybody and amplify what Mr. Worthen said. We want to be
intentional as we bring forward information for you all to make informed decisions that is data packed,
right?
And so recognizing that, we'll come back before the Board in the end of the month, for the full Board
meeting, recognizing that we generally have speakers and things of the like, I want you to know that it is
our intent to be highly communicative because, like tonight, no decisions are being made.
This is to ensure that you had an opportunity, as you could clearly see our intentions as we go forward,
because this is a sensitive topic. And we recognize that, hence that is why we took the path forward
relative to having a peer review, recognizing the premium supplemental paratransit services are relatively
new. They became more frequently utilized on the heels of the pandemic. And there was not any basis for
anything going forward, to your point, Director Ruscha, when you said that it was stated that this was
supposed to help alleviate it.
And what we learned, through our colleagues in New York, same thing. Everybody was using it because
it was convenient. But then again, there was some unintentional consequences, whereby there is this
disparate treatment, leveraging private entities, i.e. transportation network companies, that aren't
accustomed to operating in this space.
And so our intention is to ensure that we are being equitable as we go forward. So I just wanted to ensure
that because I know this is a robust discussion and didn't want to curtail it, but wanted to emphasize that
we're going to be talking about this in so many different forums because we want to address the needs of
our populations to the best of our abilities while being good fiduciaries.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you for that elaboration, Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Oh, you're welcome.
TROY WHITMORE: Director Ruscha, if you've got one or two questions. Otherwise, I'm going to jump to
Paul Rosenthal, and then I'll come back to you. But why don't you continue? I think you're on a roll here.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thanks. So I appreciate that. And so I don't disagree that the two programs are-they're not equitable. I've said that on the record, I think March of last year, that we had conversations
about the availability of WAV vehicles.
So even within on demand, there are inequities. But for me, again, just not having those numbers, I hear I
believe what staff is saying. just I think it's easier for the Board to chew on when we can see them. And so
I think that kind of leads me into my other point was that we've had discussions about KPIs.
And one of the requests from some of the Directors, myself included, was that we get more data and
those KPIs on paratransit reported back to the Board in the way that we used to. And I believe it's been
almost three years now where we haven't had those reports.
And those reports used to detail things like customer satisfaction surveys, on-time performance, et cetera,
et cetera. I mean, even right now, we're not reporting to the Board our OTP for Access-a-Ride. And so
that is something that I just would implore staff to-- I know that there's been discussion with the
Performance Committee-- but for staff to just get that data out there and share it with the Board and with
this Committee because paratransit and ADA-related issues are under the purview of this committee.
And it does seem strange that we don't get those reports. So my hope is that not only do we do some
course correction, in terms of optimization and equity with the programs, but also the communications
and that transparency with the public return as well. It will definitely, I think, help directors make better
data-informed decisions on votes on these matters.
So I did have a couple of things that are specific to the actual peer review. And they weren't on the
screen, but I just wanted to flag a couple. And the first was the airport fare was mentioned. I think the
route referenced was like 145X, which is essentially like a Sky Ride that we don't call Sky Ride, but it's
limited stops. And that was pulled out as an example of we should evaluate our definitions of commuter
and fare equity.
So I don't disagree that we should do that. But the issue that I had flagged-- and I think I flagged it with
staff-- as it relates to the airport was one not brought up in the peer review. And I think it's important to
just put it out there today, is that RTD-- we permit one-way, low income fare, three-hour passes to the
airport for individuals who are able to, say, take the A line in.
And if you are an Access-a-Ride customer, you don't have a three-hour pass. Your trip might take you
three hours. But you don't have a three-hour pass. And so there's no comparable fare for that low income
paratransit customer base. And so I think that, in the same spirit that we permitted Access-a-Ride users
into our Low Income Fares Program because it was unjust and a potential ADA violation, I think this
similar fare discrepancy, like with the airport, would just be a similar line of thought.
So that's something that I just wanted to flag and put on the record. It may be that it's something that staff
can address in a memo, or at least reassure us that that specific issue will be evaluated as you move
forth in this process.
And then on the communications-- and then I'll yield to my colleagues. And then I'll follow-up with just one
more. But on the communications, I had a couple of questions and requests. The first is, since we're
already starting to communicate out with the paratransit community and enter that dialogue, would staff
just kindly forward some of those communiques to the Board so that we can see them? And then moving

forward, we might get a copy, just like we have done with other campaigns, just so that we're kind of in
the know and we can see how the process is moving forward. And then-DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, if I may, just with my communication that I sent out on Monday, where I
shared that there the web page was live, embedded in that was the email that was disseminated. And we
will continue to do that, so you guys know what's happening. I just wanted to take the opportunity to share
that. Thanks.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah. Thank you, Ms. Johnson. I did note that. I wasn't sure if there had been more.
But just moving forward, I think that's an effective way to communicate with the Board and keep us in the
loop as staff goes through their process.
And then a survey was mentioned. And it wasn't clear to me from Mr. Summers if it's already been
written. It sounds like it's in the process of being written. And I'm looking at the transcript and not a
screen, but I don't know if someone could shake their heads yes or no or popcorn.
STUART SUMMERS: Director, if I may. So there's two surveys. The first one is our industry partners,
other transit agencies. That was sent out last week. We wanted to give additional time for some of our
partners to be able to provide us information of how they have their paratransit services operationalized.
So we're gathering feedback from our partners across the country. The customer survey is still in the
development stage. We met this morning as the staff with a market research to put that together. We're
still finalizing the questions. That survey will go out late this month. I think we're planning sometime
around I think the 25th-ish, but don't quote me on that. And it will be open until about the second week of
October. And it will be online and mailed to addresses.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Summers, for that clarification. My request, just food for thought, I
think it would be useful if-- well, I think would be meaningful, I should say, if staff, before that survey is
launched, also make sure that they engage with our advisory committees on the language of that survey
and perhaps even share it with the Board as well before like it's completely buttoned up and we've hit
send.
I think that, particularly as we're talking about engaging with community members, who are going to be
affected, they also would have-- they might have input on how that survey is constructed. And as you well
know, once the survey is out, we've said what we said, we phrased it how we phrased it, we can't take it
back or make other inferences. So I think that would be-- I think it'd be really meaningful and appreciated
if we did run the traps on that one.
And then there was a note about industry partners. And I'm really glad Mr. Summers just clarified what
that meant because I was thinking I just interpreted that as community partners. And so will there be like
a community partner list or survey? And is that something that, if we don't have one, would staff be open
to our existing partners and directors who have those connections help develop as we have with other
communications endeavors?
So if I could give an example, so I work for the state's largest employer of people with disabilities. And the
majority of those individuals use Access-a-Ride. So we'd be considered like a community partner or
perhaps [? Laird ?] and Hall, who one of their staff participated in the peer review, that'd be considered a
community partner. And so I'm just wondering if we have that kind of list going or how we incorporate that
aspect into potential policy changes moving forward.

STUART SUMMERS: Director, thanks for the suggestion. Fred and I will take that back to the project
team because I think that's some great input and feedback. The one thing we are encouraging anyone in
the community is we have that form online that you can provide feedback. And we're really encouraging
people to utilize that form.
It's the best way to directly connect. We're going to just pull all of that feedback into the Board report that
we share in November with the board for some of that qualitative feedback in addition to the customer
survey. But thanks for that feedback. We'll take that back to the project team.
JOYANN RUSCHA: All right. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Director Ruscha, if I can, I'd like to shift it over to Director Rosenthal. If you still have
some other questions, please put your hand up, so I don't blow past you. OK? All right. Director
Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Actually, it sounds like Director Ruscha is still asking questions. I'd be glad to allow
her to continue and finalize any other perspectives, thoughts, and questions.
TROY WHITMORE: It makes no difference to me, folks. However, you'd like to proceed. One or the other
of you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. And thank you, Director Rosenthal. That's very kind of you. I know you've
waiting patiently. So regarding the-- again, going back to the survey and the survey construction itself, I
was wondering if staff knows how many paratransit riders were surveyed by the panel-- or I'm sorry,
surveyed, communicated with, engaged with by the panel during the panel review.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Director Ruscha, in the document, the peer review itself, there is an appendix that
includes who was coordinated with. And recognizing the intent of the peer review and the panelists being
volunteers, it was the intent to leverage a couple of representatives going forward with the understanding
we're doing what we're doing now to engage with paratransit customers.
We were using the subject matter experts to look at our program, to identify opportunities, strengths, and
weaknesses that we're leveraging. So I don't have the peer review pulled up, but the document is
somewhere. I think there was only maybe like two. And maybe due to conflicts, one didn't participate.
FRED WORTHEN: Here.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Did you find it, Fred?
FRED WORTHEN: Yeah, there were three individuals that were invited. One did not participate. The
other two we did receive feedback from.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Fred.
FRED WORTHEN: Sorry, I had to find the paper.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, I knew there was just a few as we went forward and had a cross-section.

JOYANN RUSCHA: So I appreciate that. I would just-- again, like Director Lewis had said earlier, I don't
want to argue here. But just from a framing perspective, I just want us to be careful because when we talk
about subject matter experts, our riders are our subject matter experts as well.
And I think that I recognize that the review is complete. And that was in part why I asked questions about
how we would move forward, engaging with community partners, current paratransit riders, our advisory
committees, et cetera in that strategic outreach and how we are going to potentially overhaul these
programs.
For example, the panel noted that they were-- and I'm just paraphrasing here, so I can focus on the Zoom
screen, that they were just overall pleased with vendor commitment to-- there was a list of variables, but
one was reliability. And I appreciated that statement, except I wondered what data they were looking at
because the data that I had last seen showed our on-time performance for Access-a-Ride was in the low
70s on average.
And I understand we might have had some improvements to the technology since. But again, without
having those data sets that we used to get that came directly from our paratransit customers, in terms of
customer service-- we used to get reports. We don't get those now. And I just want to really, really stress
that our riders are subject matter experts. And I think that that peer review, upon reflection, not that it was
any poor intent, could have been enhanced by having more of that perspective.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Director, if I may-- and I want to thank you very much for your comment [AUDIO
OUT]
TROY WHITMORE: Debra, you went on mute.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Sorry. Thank you very kindly. I appreciate it. I've just got a couple of pop-ups with
people telling me that. So Director Ruscha, wanted to say thank you very much. A couple of things that I
just wanted to note. I hear you loudly and clearly as it relates to paratransit metrics.
I do want to share, just on Monday-- and this was in the packet that went out for the Performance
Committee-- there are information related to our paratransit survey that was just conducted. And I'm
looking at my other screen because, as it relates to Access-a-Ride in comparison to 2023, we went up-80% of Access-a-Ride customers that were surveyed, their overall satisfaction is at 80%. And Access-onDemand is at 86%.
So I just wanted to qualify that because that was top of mind for me, recognizing this information was just
shared on Monday with the Performance Committee. And then more specifically, as we talk about peer
reviews, the American Public Transportation Association does peer reviews.
The intent here is to utilize their subject matter expertise to give us an understanding of where we're
going forward. And I speak from that vantage point because a couple of us on staff here have participated
in that review, recognizing that we had people fly out from around the country. They were here for two
days.
And so they were meeting with different people. So I think when we talk about a peer review, the scope
that we have within and the amount of money we pay for that, recognizing that these are volunteers that
are helping us out, there could have been some misunderstanding relative to what the expectation was
and what we were doing.

And I just say that because, as some Board members know, this is the fourth peer review that I have
commissioned. And recognizing that we have leveraged all of these peer reviews, the four being the
transit policing, community policing that we are still utilizing recommendations and implementation phase.
Secondly, the audit function, case in point, that's how we got to the outsourcing of the Internal Audit
Committee. So I was just providing that context to manage expectations relative to what it is that we're
doing and how we took iterative steps and how we are going to engage the community. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: I see Fred Worthen's hand up. Did you have some other input on that question?
FRED WORTHEN: Yes, I would like to comment very briefly on this. And I'll try not to go too far down into
the weeds. But when we prepare for a peer review, before the peer panel actually arrives on property,
they go through a significant amount of information. They look at policies, they look at procedures, they
look at data sets.
An interview panel, the individuals that are interviewed are not strictly driven by RTD. After the subject
matter experts review the data and the information and they look at the scope of work, one of the things
they do is develop a list of subject matter experts that they want to interview where they have questions,
concerns, or they want to have a better understanding.
So we are very limited. We only had two days that the peer review panel could conduct interviews. And
those panelists were interviewing people almost-- they were pretty much every hour on the hour for two
full days back to back.
So I don't want this to be given the impression that they strictly went on staff's word of mouth. There is a
significant hours and hours and hours of background information and prep work that is done before the
peer review panel even steps forth. They also have expertise, as Ms. Johnson said, in these areas. So
many times, they know where to look and what to ask for because they have dealt with these issues in
the past.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Fred. So Director Ruscha, I'd like to get to Director Rosenthal. Are you
close to being done? Or do you want me to come back?
JOYANN RUSCHA: If I could take a breather and let's let Director Rosenthal get in a couple, and then I'll- if I could, I just have two quick ones at the end.
TROY WHITMORE: OK. Thank you for your cooperation . Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Sure. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I actually only have one question. And so I've been
hearing through this entire discussion-- and this is something that maybe we can hear more about when it
comes more to the full Board. But I've been hearing words like disparate treatment, equitable, inequitable,
ADA violation, contracts with private vendors and industry partners.
And it makes me concerned. Are we at exposure to litigation to where that is a factor in ensuring that
whatever program that we reorient our paratransit to, that we are not going to be subject to litigation either
by a federal agency, or by individuals and community, or our private vendors, industry partners who say,
how come these folks are getting this disparate treatment that I'm not getting?
DEBRA JOHNSON: With your question. Director Rosenthal, first and foremost, we were talking about the
multiple trips, for all intents and purposes, that have been halted. That was an element where we had

concerns about the disparate treatment in reference to the service delivery option with the supplemental
premium service instance. That's not happening currently. And so as we go forward, we are in
compliance with the Federal Transit Administration with the American with Disabilities Act.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Did that answer your question?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: You did. And I guess that's exactly the answer I was looking for to ensure that we
do not allow the agency to be exposed to litigation. So what you're saying is that we have taken action to
ensure that we are not.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Right. And moreover, I want to ensure that we're doing our due diligence and using
data sets as we bring forward recommendations. Hence, earlier, when a question was posed whether or
not we wanted to extrapolate the multiple stops, we want to ensure that we're not running afoul, creating
the perception that there is disparate treatment going forward. So we need to be intentional, and look at it
holistically, and bring forward recommendations for the betterment of the varying populations that we
serve.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
TROY WHITMORE: Let's try and wrap up here fairly soon, Director Ruscha, because otherwise we're
going to need a break for our visible voices, folks. And just a reminder, we will probably have another very
robust discussion in the next month in regard to this item again. So if you'll move it along real quickly, we'll
try and get through this without having to take the break. So floor is yours, Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thanks. Although, Mr. Chair, I'll say, when you tell me to hurry up, I have this pause
in my head and I start slowing down. So anyway, but back to a couple of core questions. On one of the
things in the peer review that was noted was the legacy status that we gave paratransit riders in 2020 in
the May cuts.
And so the language in the peer review was a little confusing. How it was phrased, I couldn't tell what the
current policy is. Are we continuing to do that with other service cuts? Or are we just adhering to that
Board resolution in 2020? So that was a clarifying question I had. What is RTD's current policy regarding
legacy customers and those cuts?
FRED WORTHEN: So I can speak to that. The board resolution was specific to the pandemic itself. It was
not a policy change that was extended beyond the pandemic service reductions itself. There has only
been one other time that I am aware of. And it was a similar situation when there were severe service
changes during an economic downturn.
There was a legacy status provided to customers at that point. Those are the only two groups that I am
aware of that have ever been provided legacy status. And no, we do not provide legacy status to other
cuts beyond those two that I mentioned that I've known.
TROY WHITMORE: Next question or point?

JOYANN RUSCHA: I just want to I just want to clarify because I think I'm understanding what you're
saying is that that group of customers is the only-- that's the only legacy group that we have right now
because-- is that what you're saying? Because the resolution that the Board passed, if I could, sir, does
not specify a duration. It's specific to those cuts. And that's a matter of Board record, public record.
And it's in the transcript in the meeting minutes. So I wanted to make sure that I understood you correctly
that there is an undefined number of paratransit customers who have legacy status because of the severe
cuts that we made in 2020, like particularly in some of our suburban areas-- and I know Broomfield, for
example, was hit hard-- that do have paratransit service because that resolution has not been rescinded.
FRED WORTHEN: That is correct. That resolution-- we have not. It depends on the interpretation of the-I was present when those resolutions were passed. I was on staff and in the Board room when the things
were passed. The intent was to deal with the pandemic service reductions itself.
We have not rescinded that. The panel did recommend that that is something that is looked at as part of
final recommendations. But as far as the other reduction, I don't know if there is anybody left from the
previous-- I believe that was back in 2008. I doubt very seriously that we have any legacy riders left from
that. But as far as the pandemic side, those who were granted the legacy status at the time still have that.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Great. Thank you, sir. And then I would also note-- and I don't have that map in front
of me. But I would also think that if some of that service from 2020 had been restored, then that number
today of legacy status customers would be smaller than it was in 2020.
But one of the reasons for the question was it wasn't clear to me, in the peer review as I read it, where the
agency had landed, what the current policy was. But also, there was reference to operational efficiencies
and the like. And I was really concerned that a small portion of disabled, mostly suburban paratransit
users who don't have any other options might be flagged for denial of service, or increased premium
service, or something of the.
And I hope that it's not what staff intended to say in the review or summarize. But that was a fear I had as
I read it. Thank you for that clarification and allowing me to just put that on the record. And then I think the
only other question I-- I guess, I would just make a comment. And any other questions I can just follow up
with staff.
But I do want to make a comment. And it's kind of piggybacking on what Director Rosenthal asked, like
about our liability and exposure. And this peer review is, I think, a wake up call for the agency. I think we
put things on paper we know inherently to be true.
And to that end-- how do I say this? I believe-- and council, feel free to interrupt me if you have a different
thought. But I actually believe that had we not engaged in this peer review and we continued as we were,
then we absolutely would have-- we were open for liability, whether it was an ADA lawsuit or it was
something related to FTA compliance, like contract monitoring.
And so I think, by going through this process, we're also demonstrating as an agency that if we do find-- if
we do find things that need improvements or enhancements, we're going to address them. And if we had
let things just go on as they had been for a while, we would have-- I think that exposure just would have
been wider.

So I guess I do want to give our GM/CEO credit for initiating the peer review. And I know the scope was
kind of broad. But it did highlight some things. And I think it's an opportunity for us to do some course
correction, but just improve services across the board and our relationships, just within the community.
Overall, this is not going to be easy. And this is a lot of work for staff. But this could, in my mind,
potentially be one of the most significant undertakings the agency has done in years for the benefit of our
customers. So I just want to make sure, after some of the tougher conversations earlier in that line of
questioning, that I did say that on the record, my appreciation for the review and for the work that staff is
doing.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you very much. I don't see any other raised hands. Great discussion.
And we certainly will continue into next month on this matter. So next is item-- excuse me-- F, other
matters. There's just one comment I wanted to make.
We are endeavoring to work on Vision Zero in October. There's been a lot of talk about it brought up
again by several Directors tonight, certainly not our intent to postpone that past the end of the year. So
we will have a discussion on Vision Zero in October. So that will be on the agenda. So other matters from
other board members? Raise your hands if you've got other announcements or other matters. Wow, only
one. Oh, there's two. All right, Director Lewis?
JAIME LEWIS: Yeah, just quickly, Director Tisdale and I had a chance to do a class with the Denver
Chamber of Commerce a few weeks ago. I think Jack Kroll sent you out a letter. And two of the nuggets
that came out of that-- we were getting feedback from executives and professionals. And I just want to
share with you two nuggets.
And they were saying that the buses should be a little more welcoming and perhaps stickers, decals,
color, one, to please our younger riders that were getting on the bus, the 19 and under, but also to help
address mental health. If we do some research on mental health, I'm pretty sure we're going to find out
that there's certain symbols and colors that help people with IDD and other issues to stay calm on the
bus.
The other one was providing information to our general public about how to deal with people with mental
illness. So maybe a possible connection on our website to give, maybe a YouTube channel or something,
that would address people's fears. Because I know, when I get on the bus and I see somebody that might
be schizophrenic, I recognize that. I know they're not a threat. But to other people, that's a threat to them.
We've talked about safety, whether it's real or perceived. So I just wanted to share those two ideas with
staff and see what they can do with it. And like I said, Tisdale and I had a really great conversation with
these people. And those two ideas really stuck out to us. So we just wanted to share that with staff and
see what they can do with that. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Appreciate the commentary on that. We did see the message and some good input
and great to have RTD represented with that prestigious group. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I did have a question. I think it's appropriate for this-- to raise in this
committee. So we had just received, a few weeks ago, an email communiqu regarding our latest FTA
review. And there was a notation about service animals.

So I was wondering if-- I guess I had one comment/question. When we went through our last code of
conduct change, that was brought up. And just making sure we're very clear, what is a service animal
versus a pet? And it's something that customers have communicated to us about as well as operators.
And so I guess I was wondering, maybe GM/CEO Johnson could answer, should we expect changes to
signage, code of conduct? Is that something Directors can work with you on as it relates to the COC? And
just an update on where we are after getting that feedback and where you think we might go.
TROY WHITMORE: Proceed.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. As it relates to the FTA. Triennial Review and the
comment-- or excuse me, the finding, it basically delved with having information that hadn't been updated.
And that was in process as we go forward. So I do recognize the point you're raising, which is different
from the Triennial Review finding.
You're talking about individuals that may have comfort animals that aren't necessarily deemed as service
animals as we go forward and individuals that are purporting otherwise. And as it relates to the customer
code of conduct, trying to mitigate potential altercations with an operator in reference to questioning as
we go forward generally.
And Fred could probably speak to this, but we instruct our operators to do-- it's more or less they may cite
what the issue is-- not the issue, I'm sorry, cite what the regulation is. But going forward, we don't want to
put them in harm's way because there could be very clearly a service animal-- an animal that's deemed
as a service animal. But we could circle back. Fred, do you have anything further to add on that?
FRED WORTHEN: No, we just have to be very careful about when it comes to handling service animal.
The only real question that we can ask is what service does it provide. I mean, really, we can't ask for
anything else with regard to proof or any kind of documentation. So we're very limited.
If we have a situation where a person is a continuous problem, then we can deal with that independently.
Also, if an animal is a danger to others, we can handle it. But otherwise, we're pretty restricted on what
we can and can't do when it comes to service animals.
JOYANN RUSCHA: If I may just clarify, then we can follow-up via email, so I'm aware of what we can and
can't ask. And we don't require IDs and stuff. But I'm sure you would remember, Mr. Worthen and Ms.
Johnson-- I strongly encourage you to Google it, just if you-- but it wouldn't surprise you.
We've had individuals say that their snakes were emotional support animals. I remember that making the
news. We've had runaway snakes on buses, actually. And that's not just RTD lore. It's happened. And so
we do have-- so when we talk about a service animal, we are specifically-- I mean, unless the FTA
definition is different, we're talking about different than-- I recall we're talking about a dog, possibly a mini
horse.
It's also a misdemeanor in state law to pass off an animal as a service animal when it's not, right? So I
just think that a combination of updated signage, education, but education with the public would also help
in addition to just that fine language tuning that we need to do just to ensure that our definitions are
tracking with state and federal law and regulations.
I think that definitely goes towards the welcoming service environment for everybody. And I know that
staff knows this. But it's really worth pointing out again that we have had situations where a bona fide

service animal is attacked by someone's pet. And that animal is now out of service or has to be put to
sleep.
I have friends who will not ride RTD because we have a pet problem, as it were. So I think, just in addition
to some tweaks, and policy, and education, and language, I know we've got a lot on our plate now. But I'd
really love to see, as an agency initiative, maybe next year, of really doing customer engagement
campaigns and education campaigns so that we can reduce the risks to folks, animals already
mentioned. I think that's a double triple benefit. So thank you. And I appreciate your comments.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, ma'am. Yes, we did actually do a pretty extensive outreach about a year
or a year and a half ago on this particular topic. I'd have to go back and refresh my memory. One of the
problems we do have is the Department of Justice definition of a service animal differs from FTA. So
there are a lot of misconceptions about, like you say, what a service animal is, an emotional support
animal is not. So you're correct. So I hear what you're saying. Public outreach will put that on the work
plan.
TROY WHITMORE: All right.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. I really appreciate the comment.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you all. Any other matters from other Directors? OK. Our next
meeting date is October 9, 2024. And our work plan for that meeting has us slated to consider action on
the PTASP as we reviewed today, as well as discuss items related to the January 25 service change.
We'll also hear a quarter three HR update and hopefully be in shape for a Vision Zero discussion. So
seeing no other discussion, I will adjourn the meeting at 8:03 PM Mountain. Thank you all very much.
Good meeting.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Bye, everybody. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you so much.

