Board Meeting
2022-09-28
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. I'll now call the Wednesday, September 28 RTD board meeting to order. We're
convened as of 5:32 PM. I would respectfully ask everyone to remain muted unless you are recognized to
speak. Thank you all for joining us this evening.
Please note that the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely in the interest
of public health, safety, and welfare. The official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom
and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the
meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website visit rtd-denver.com. And a live
stream of this meeting is also available via our RTDs YouTube page.
Colleagues, being an elected member of this body imposes an ethical obligation for each of us to enhance
and maintain the public confidence in this agency. As a Board of Directors, it's our collective duty to our
constituents, stakeholders, and staff to conduct our business in an atmosphere of mutual respect,
cooperation, civility, trust, and collegiality. These are values upon which we all agree. As such, I encourage
each of us to review the operating guidelines set up by the Board and act in accordance with those
principles, which are available on the Board of Directors page on the RTD website. Thank you.
Pledge of Allegiance. We will now do the Pledge, and I'm going to ask Director Rivera-Malpiede to lead us
to the Pledge.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I Pledge Allegiance—
ALL: To the flag of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation under
God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you very much, Director. And now the land acknowledgment, I'm going to ask First
Vice Chair Guissinger to please read out loud the land acknowledgments. you're muted, Lynn. Still muted.
I'm going to go ahead and read the land acknowledgment-- oh, wait.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I got it. All right. The RTD Board of Directors acknowledges that the land on which
our buses and trains operates is the traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and other
contemporary tribal nations that are historically tied to these lands. We honor our indigenous elders who
have traveled, inhabited, and stewarded these mountains, hills, and plains throughout generations. May
this acknowledgment demonstrate a commitment to working to dismantle the ongoing legacies of inequity
of the native and all historically oppressed peoples, and recognize their current and future contributions in
the district as we move forward.

VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for that, First Vice Chair. I will now call the roll. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Buzek is here. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Cook, she's not here. Director Davidson.
SPEAKER: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Director Guissinger
.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Lewis. Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: Dr. Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Sloan.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Tisdale. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: And Director Williams.

KATE WILLIAMS: Director Williams is coming to you live from the state transit agency conference in
Snowmass.
VINCE BUZEK: Lovely. Thanks very much. So we've got 12 present and three absent. We do have a
quorum.
Next on our agenda are retiree awards. One of the many truly rewarding duties of serving on the Board is
a recognition of RTD retirees. As we reach the end of the third quarter, the time has come for us to recognize
the employees who have moved on to enjoy their retirement. Being able to acknowledge the incredible
individuals who work here for a significant portion of their professional careers is both an honor and
privilege. It's becoming increasingly rare for agencies and companies to be fortunate enough to have such
long tenured employees and RTDs privilege to have such amazing and dedicated people as a part of our
family.
At this time, I'd like to read the names of employees who have retired since July. And Jillian, do we know if
any of the retirees are present?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: No, they are not tonight.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. We have Cynthia Hart, LRV Service Worker 21 years; Benjamin Rodriguez, Division
Supervisor 23 years; and William Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of planning 31 years.
Unfortunately, none of the retirees were able to attend tonight's meeting, but I'd like to thank them again for
their hard work and commitment to RTD, and the Board wishes them well in their future endeavors. Thank
you to the retirees.
Thanks. Next we move on to our public participation phase of the meeting. If you wish to speak and have
not already done so, please raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone. Staff, we'll unmute you
when it is your turn to speak. If you are dialed in, press star 6 to toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing. If any speaker has documentation or
reference materials for the Board, or if any member of the public would like to submit written comments,
please email those materials to the Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
During this time, the Board will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may contact speakers
following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow up. Speakers should begin
their remarks by stating their names, and they will have up to three minutes to provide their comments.
Now, Jillian, has anyone raised their hand?

JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: Yes, Chair Buzek. James Flattum is first on the list.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Mr. Flattum, please go ahead state your name and give us your comments.
JAMES FLATTUM: All right. Good evening, everyone. My name is James Flattum. I'm with Greater Denver
Transit. Thank you for taking my comment.
Three quick topics I was hoping to raise tonight for further discussion, two, concern transit safety, and a
third is requesting an update on e-bikes. So first, to reflect on the Parker Road bus incident earlier this
month, along with the Aurora R line derailment last week, we are hoping that interim and ultimately final
reports can be published on both incidents promptly so that the public can understand what happened in
context with the key facts.
Safety is the most important consideration in transit operations. Buses and trains nationwide are much safer
than driving in autos, but there are definitely things that can be done to make them safer.
Second, wanted to raise the vehicle advertisement wrapping issue again, but this time in a safety context.
It has been discussed before about how the ad wraps that fully cover windows of buses and trains to track
from the riding experience for all riders, which we hold is true, but we are also becoming increasingly
concerned that could be a safety hazard as well. While neither of the vehicles involved in incidents over the
past few weeks had fully ad wrapped windows, both happened in busy intersections and it is not difficult as
a rider to consider a situation where these fully ad wrapped windows could make a safety emergency exit
from a vehicle more difficult and dangerous.
If an ad wrapped RT vehicle became overturned, perhaps at night, the ad wraps that already distort what
is going on outside would add to impeded vision from the rider's adrenaline. And this unnecessarily elevates
risk of severe injury to the rider who at the time would be looking for a safe and efficient exit from the train
or bus without being hit by another nearby vehicle.
We thus call on RTD to review their policy on ad wraps with consideration for safety of riders in the event
of a dangerous incident. We understand the importance of advertising revenue for RTD and have seen
many examples where the wraps can be applied without fully covering the windows of the bus or train. RTD
has an opportunity to get ahead of this risk and take sensible steps to remove as many visual obstructions
from windows on their vehicles as possible.
Third and finally, as the low carbon mobility revolution of e-bikes continues to gain steam across Colorado
and the nation at large, we are concerned that Denver Transit in particular is being left out of this revolution.
We thus request an update on where RTD is with our e-bike policy, and the challenges remain would
recommend RTD take a look at the policies of peer agencies like King County Metro and others that have
allowed many types of e-bikes on their systems without any major safety incidents or need for significant
capital investments to accommodate these e-bikes.

That's it for me. Thank you very much for taking my comment and looking forward to a healthy discussion
this evening.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Flattum, for those comments. Who's next? Any other speakers?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: Next in line is Richard Bamber.
VINCE BUZEK: Mr. Bamber, please state your name and go right ahead.
RICHARD BAMBER: Hi, there. It's Richard Bamber, who's also Greater Denver Transit. I have a couple of
things. Firstly, zero fare. I was out the first day. We noticed tickets disabled in the apps to get vending
machines switched out of service, blue covers on bus fare boxes. So I'd like to pass on my appreciation for
all the relevant departments that work to do this and for a job well done.
William Van Meter, it might be a surprise to you that I actually contracted with RTD a couple of years ago,
and I remember Bill very well. I'd like to have my voice for those thanking him for a long and distinguished
period of service with RTD. 31 years is quite something, and I wish [AUDIO OUT] retirement.
Main topic tonight is planned service disruption information. You probably all aware that Greater Denver
Transit wrote a letter to CO Debra Johnson. Firstly, thank you very much for a very prompt response that
tried to address all our concerns and acknowledging that there were some areas for improvement.
We are also quite happy to see that for the A Line disruption starting next week there is a temporary
schedule being uploaded to the website. That said, in the letter one of the things that drops out is the
published train schedule is what is used as the schedule for supplemental bus service. Which the way we
read it in our observation in the field is that RTD is trying to run these replacement buses to the same
schedule of trains, which given the fact that trains are a lot faster surely feels like it's never going to work.
For example, Union Station to 38th and Blake on the A Line, 10 to 12 minutes by bus, four minutes by train.
So you have a replacement bus schedule that's doomed to fail and be late before the first stop. Surely the
way to do it is to take an actual station-station run times by bus and construct a bus schedule that way. The
Aurora derailment replacement bus is kind of a non-emergency nature. We were kind of hoping there would
be some sort of regular bus schedule out there now.
I had to make a trip from the Metro Center by the weekend. I was there at 8:00 PM in the dark. We have
no idea when the replacement shuttle bus is going to show up, or should I just be getting the 15 L out of
there?
So what I'd like the boards and senior management RTD to do is to really start to think of how the rider
experiences and goes through these disruptions. Please look into it because it's causing a lot of frustrated
riders. There's been a lot of comments on Twitter [AUDIO OUT] I know is being now cleared. But there's a

lot of frustrated rider experiences, and in some cases, with the A Line people are missing flights Thanks for
listening. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for your comments, Mr. Bamber. Who's next in our queue?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: Next we have Danny Katz.
VINCE BUZEK: Mr. Katz please state your name and give us your comments.
DANNY KATZ: Thank you. My name is Danny Katz, and I'm the Executive Director of CoPIRG, the Colorado
Public Interest Research Group. I'm here today to just-- it feels like it's been a year since this happened,
but the fare free month about a month ago, just wanted to thank you all. We know that that month you had
a limited timeline to set up the zero fare month. You had a limited timeline to put together any of the
marketing that you did and educate the riders. You had limited amount of money as well. So just wanted to
really thank you for diving in and implementing that month.
I wanted to thank many of the Board members here who were out there writing and posting about it and
highlighting this as a resource. I think that made a big difference. I want to thank all the transit workers too
that stepped up. That was huge as well.
And I think this was a chance for all of us to come together as a region and really celebrate transit and
celebrate RTD. And I think you set it up well for us to do that. I hope you saw all the community groups and
other elected officials that were out there talking about this and experienced this, some of them for the very
first time.
We don't know the numbers yet, but I'm pretty confident we saw an increase in ridership. The people I
talked to expressed appreciation for the opportunity to rise and to ride for free during that month. And I think
we saw a lot of highlights coming out of it through the media as well.
And lastly, I talked to a lot of people who just mentioned that they felt it was safe, that they felt that it was-especially some of the operators and drivers. I think we saw that you all were prepared enough and that by
getting more riders on the system, it helped make people feel more comfortable as they were riding too.
So just wanted to express appreciation for the month and for all the hard work you did to make that happen.
Looking forward to next summer as well, and just encourage you. So many people keep asking me how
did it go?
And I say what I just said to you, but it'd be so much better if I could say and there was a ridership increase
of this exact amount. So as soon as you can get those numbers, please get those out to the public because
I think a lot of people would love to know that. I know you're taking your time to make sure those numbers
are accurate. As soon as you can possibly do it I think will help us all wrap up the month as the success
that I think it was. Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak.

VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr Katz. And the Board also shares your gratitude toward staff operators
everybody that made this happen. So Jillian, is there anybody else in queue?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: There is no one no other hands in the queue and there were no emailed
comments either.
VINCE BUZEK: With no other participants in the queue, we will close the public participation period at this
time. We move on to our external entities reports. The Access Paratransit Advisory Committee, APAC, and
the Advisory Committee for People with Disabilities, ACPD, do not have any updates this evening. Both are
anticipated to present their next committee report in October.
The Citizens Advisory Committee, CAC, report will be presented by the CAC Vice Chair John Fussa. Mr.
Fussa, please begin when you are ready.
JOHN FUSSA: Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thank you Board and staff for RTD. As indicated, I'm John
Fussa, the co-chair of the CAC. I think I prefer to call myself Matt Applebaum's Second Chair.
I've been relatively new to the CAC. I've been on the Committee for a little greater than a year. I reside and
work in District G. So in Director Bouquet's district. And I have a background in land use planning and
community development. And certainly I'm a strong supporter, both professionally and personally, for RTD
and the role of transit in the region and in the district. So thank you.
Matt and I, we've discussed alternating appearances before the Board. So we're going to try and make that
happen going forward subject to scheduling and availability. So some months you'll see Matt-- and you all
know Matt-- and then other months you'll see me as we rotate that responsibility.
I also want to, Chair and members of the Board, thank you for the invitation. I want to recognize the RTD
staff-- certainly the past few months, we've had really terrific both engagement and support from the RTD
staff, especially Brandon, but also Jessie Brady was in front of us in September talking about the subregional service councils. So I do want to recognize and thank RTD staff, and also just recognize Jennifer
from Catalyst and Mandy, Colleen, and Loretta from Peak.
So that's about it. In terms of recent discussions, we're focusing on several areas, including developing a
charter for the CAC that will kind of better define the role and purpose of the CAC going all the way back to
its founding with the FasTracks initiative many years ago. So the CAC thinks that there is a need to do
some chartering work and better define the committee's role and mission, and related to that without getting
too governmental, develop some bylaws that will tell RTD, the Board and staff, and the world how we would
like to operate. And as we go through that process and we have tangible work product, we're going to be
sharing it with RTD staff. And we'd like to certainly bring that to you Chairman Buzek and the Board for your
review and comments and hopefully a request for support when we get that far.

So robust discussion in August and September on that, that'll continue into the fall. As I indicated, we had
Jessie Brady in front of us in September at the September meeting with an update on the sub-regional
service council initiative. What I can say is that the CAC certainly is both interested in that effort and
supportive of it. Staff indicated there may be a role for CAC in it, at least as kind of liaison to the sub-regional
service councils as that gets refined and finalized. And we certainly welcome and are interested in
participating in that process.
One concern that we did have is that the roles of the sub-regional service council and the role of the CAC
be defined so that where there's overlap we're not working at cross purposes, that we're working in a
complementary and supportive way. So that was a comment of the CAC to Jessie and the staff at our
September meeting as well.
So that was a big one. We await I think the results of the fare free August. Certainly kudos to the Board and
to the staff and to the organization for making that happen on fairly short notice. Of course, the CAC
supports that initiative. We await the results and any insights that staff can provide when you have that data
and information on a going forward basis as well.
And then I think kind of lastly, and I'll just wrap this up here, in addition to what I've addressed, the CAC
continues to I think as we go through chartering and bylaws trying to keep our focus more on the high level
issues and for more of a policy orientation. So to the degree you as the Board and the staff are willing to
engage with us on the CAC, update us and seek our input as informed members of the public and
stakeholders. We would certainly welcome that and are eager to have those discussions and interaction,
including as you go through Reimagine. If there is a movement, for example, coming out of the Reimagine
process to deal with some of the financial constraints and limitations that RTD has, the CAC would be
interested in learning about that, engaging and providing its support where appropriate.
And I think with that, Mr. Chair and Board I could go on and on, but I think that's a general overview. I'm
happy to take any questions or comments if you have any.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for your report, Mr. Fussa. Any questions for Mr. Fussa? Seeing none, Thanks
very much for that report. We appreciate that, and we appreciate the work of the CAC.
JOHN FUSSA: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: I'm going to move on now to the audit ad hoc committee report. Director Catlin, would you
and Mr. Marino provide us an update?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. We've been pretty busy trying to get a number of items completed
before the end of the year. And I think what I'll do is turn it over to Doug MacLeod and he will introduce our
RubinBrown guests Matt Marino and David Herdlick. So Doug.

DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Director Catlin. Yes and quite a bit of work has been done. And I think we've
made very good progress with RubinBrown's help. And so as Director Catlin mentioned, Matt Marino is a
partner with RubinBrown, and Dave Herdlick is a manager with RubinBrown. They're both leading the effort.
They have a fairly large team as well as a disadvantaged business enterprise that they've contracted with
to carry out this function. So Matt and Dave, please go ahead.
MATT MARINO: Perfect. Thank you so much. Can everyone hear me OK? So we're here to report back to
the full Board. As Director Catlin and Doug both mentioned, we've been very busy. Primarily what we
worked on in the last couple of weeks since we last talked with many of you is taking the feedback that we
received in the Finance and Planning Committee meeting and incorporating that into the Audit Committee
Charter.
So we had received feedback on a couple of different points that I'd like to highlight kind of what we decided
as an ad hoc committee and come back to you. The first one being is the composition of the Audit
Committee. How many directors need to be on the committee? Some guidance on terms for those directors,
and the other Audit Committee members, as well as reporting frequency were kind of the three main things
that were pointed out. So I will share the updates that we went ahead and did.
So the first update, we did oblige the request of any directors that we increase the composition on the Audit
Committee to be three Board of Directors and two external members. That is important because we heard
the feedback, we wanted to make sure we took that, and we went ahead and incorporated that. So you can
see that in the red text up at the top.
One of the things that kind of go hands in hands when increasing the number of directors on the Audit
Committee is we were very cognizant that all the directors have to go through re-election every several
years. And we wanted to make sure that we kind of took into consideration the likelihood that your Audit
Committee could turn it over 100% in any given year. And so we really look long and hard on how longterm should be in order to where we maintain continuity on the Audit Committee, but also make sure that
we increase the number of directors on that committee.
So what we did is we went to a two year term for directors except for the first year of this Audit Committee
so that we can basically get two off election years, so that we're not turning over 100% of our Audit
Committee or even a majority of the Audit Committee.
The other item that came up when we were discussing increasing the number of Board of Directors on the
Audit Committee was much debate about who should be eligible to serve on the Audit Committee? Should
any director be eligible to serve on the Audit Committee, or should it be a director that's at least familiar
with the Operations of RTD because RTD is a unique organization? There's a historical context that is
helpful when making decisions.

And so the Ad Hoc Committee came to the conclusion that we should limit the Audit Committee pool to
being those directors that have served at least one year as a Board of Director. So those are kind of two
updates so far.
I guess I'll stop here and take any feedback on that part before I go forward with the external members and
I can show some graphics.
VINCE BUZEK: Why don't you go ahead and conclude the presentations. We're not going to be taking an
action on this tonight. But I think we'll ask more questions at the end.
MATT MARINO: Perfect. And then in the spirit of also trying to maintain continuity we also put terms on the
external numbers. So with the overall five Audit Committee members that are contemplated in this charter,
three being composed of selected directors and then two from committee members, we have one of those
people would be a two year term, and the other person would be a three year term.
And this helps make sure that when-- just like with the directors-- that we're not turning over to much of the
committee in any given one year. When we sent out the RFQ, or the Request For Qualifications, for our
potential Audit Committee members, we did advertise a term up to three years. So all of the people who
have submitted RFQs are expecting at least up to that amount.
I guess this would be a good time for a PSA. Those directors that have not submitted their RFQs, please,
please do, also, submit your Request For Qualifications to serve on this Audit Committee. It would just be
helpful for your other directors to understand why you might fulfill one or many of the qualifications that
would help provide value to this Committee and, ultimately, to the district.
So you can find that information on the RTD website and, I believe, the RTD Board Office together with
Director Catlin sent out a communication, I believe it was last week, on this. So I have not seen any directors
come across thus far, so I'm encouraging directors to please submit.
And so I think I'm going to show the pictorial just because I think it helps people understand what we are
talking about with the terms. This is just, basically, a pictorial depiction of what the words said. So if you
look at the top three lines-- yes, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: First of all, I just wanted to acknowledge that this chart is compliments of Director
Davidson. I wanted to thank him for that. But I also, Matt, wanted to thank you for encouraging directors to
apply.
And I wanted to take this time to punctuate that with an exclamation point-- that we do need directors to
serve on this Audit Committee, since we've made it a priority that we have a majority of the Committee
comprised of Board members. That's all I have. Thank you.
MATT MARINO: Thank you. So we won't spend a ton of time on it, but as you can see, two of the directors
would serve one-year terms, and the other director would be a two-year term. We probably need to look at-

- I would probably suggest looking at how those directors' election years might fall out, depending on who
is ultimately selected and fulfill that in order to maintain continuity and knowledge base for the Audit
Committee.
And then our two external members, the two- and three-year terms-- the good news is, we have at least
two current RFQs from individuals that I would qualify as being the financial expert that we were desiring
to attract on this Audit Committee. One of them is a County Finance Director, and the other one is a retired
accounting firm partner-- office managing partner.
So they're both very qualified in financial, cyber, IT sort of skills that we were looking to attract. So that's
good, as well, because we're attracting the type of talent from an Audit Committee skills that we were
desiring when we set out the RFQ. And I'll switch back to the charter-- talked about that.
So, really, the other main point that was discussed at the last meeting where we discussed this in detail
was we wanted a little more delineation on how the reporting would function with regard to the Audit
Committee to the full Board. So we put in the Audit Committee charter that, regardless of what's happening
from an audit perspective, that the Board be updated from the Audit Committee at least quarterly so that
you're provided all of the information to continue making your relevant decisions.
And that would also allow them to disseminate any reports that might have been issued and send them up
to the Board to review and ask questions to the Audit Committee to provide further insights on and so on.
That's really the main update, at this point.
We're pushing towards trying to form the Audit Committee by the end of October, early November, but,
ideally, by the end of the year so that we can reevaluate our Enterprise Risk Assessment, select some
potential audits to do, and work on doing some internal audits for the district. So now would be a good time
to take questions or further feedback on the modifications we made to the Audit Committee charter.
VINCE BUZEK: Anybody have any questions or comments? This will be coming through the normal
process. There'll be plenty of time to comment and, if you do want to take these offline, you can direct
comments to members of the Audit Ad Hoc Committee and Director Catlin, Davidson, and Dishell.
Seeing no hands raised, thank you both very much. Thank you, Second Vice Chair Catlin. Thank you, Mr.
Marino, for the report.
MATT MARINO: Thank you. And if anybody-- feel free to email me directly, as well. While we are external
to the district, we act like we are an employee of the district, so we would oblige that, as well. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for that offer, too. Great. Next, we'll go on to the Zero-Emission Vehicle Ad
Hoc Committee report. Director Dishell, do you have anything you'd like to report?

BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Thank you-- excuse me-- Chair Buzek. The RTD Zero-Emission Vehicle Ad Hoc
Committee has been hard at work. Director Guissinger and I were in Anaheim last week for the National-It was international-- Zero-Emission Bus Conference, along with AGM Fred Worthen. It was an absolutely
insightful conversation for all.
I think, just as a brief reminder for folks, goal of the RTD Zero-Emission Vehicle Committee is to recommend
to the RTD Board of Directors a policy or set of policies to transition RTD to a zero-emission fleet and
reduce its scope 1, scope 2, and scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions as measured by the Greenhouse Gas
Protocol as an entire agency.
We will be convening a group on November 8 at 3:00 PM for a roundtable to discuss a draft policy and
some draft milestones that we're looking at proposing to the Board as a whole. If there are any professionals
or folks that you think should be there to help us provide that feedback, that would be greatly appreciated.
As it stands right now, the current ask will be for folks to react to-- including our own staff-- the following
statement. "RTDC with the Ad Hoc Committee is evaluating proposing to the RTD Board of Directors that
RTD halves its greenhouse gas emissions by 2028 and achieves net-zero emissions by 2038 for its fleet,
as measured by scope 1, scope 2, and scope 3 emissions."
The way in which the Committee came to this initial number to ask folks to react to is that, within the scientific
community, it's well-published that halving emissions by 2030 is really standard. That is what most folks
are aiming towards within private and public sectors.
We got to 2038, as many of our peers-- as many transit agencies across the country are aiming for zero
emission by 2040. RTD, historically, has been a leader in this space. In this period of time, it'll be one of
the largest zero-emission fleets. RTD has led in areas such as disability rights, and RTD continues to be
an innovative and thoughtful leader.
And we thought, why not push here and come in a little bit faster than, perhaps, what might be strictly
necessary? So that's how we arrived at those numbers. The questions will be asked of folks at the
roundtable are, do you think this is achievable along this timeline? What are options that we have to achieve
this?
For those agencies or folks that will be joining us and will oversee a transition to a zero-emission fleet, if
you could start your program over today, what would you do differently? What issues do you think we should
consider addressing immediately? And how are you funding this?
Importantly, the actual policy that will come to the Board will contain a caveat to have the policy be revised,
reviewed, and updated after a full asset transition plan provided to the Board. One of the biggest things
we've heard at the conferences and discussions with others is flexibility is critical. When you are talking
about rapidly evolving technology and technologies, being a first mover can have advantages, but it can
also mean that you end up with pretty sizable capital expenditures that can quickly become obsolete.

And so we want to make sure that we draft policy for our roundtable to react to in a way that provides
sufficient flexibility but that still set aggressive targets and that was really technology-agnostic in order to
meet those goals. An asset transition plan-- I say that as opposed to a fleet transition plan because, as the
Board has been made aware, transitioning to a zero-emission fleet is not just procuring a new bus. It is an
entirely new transition plan.
Our existing facilities need to be upgraded and altered. We may require additional power at different
facilities. If we choose to go hydrogen, that requires a whole different set of circulation requirements. There
are a multitude of requirements for us to think through and for our management team and our staff to think
through as we map out when and how we'll transition, including without limitation scheduling blocks.
As you all may know, our buses are run-- in the transit world, it's largely scheduled on blocks, which has to
with how far each vehicle needs to travel. And the technology needs to be there for that to be a reality. So
while we're excited to set these initial goals to ask folks to respond to at a roundtable on November 8-would love to see folks at-- we also want to make sure that we know that having periodic updates on this,
as technology gaps is also pretty important.
With that, if there's any members of the Committee who want to add, please feel free to do so. Otherwise,
it looks like Director Broom has his hand up.
VINCE BUZEK: Any other information from other members of the Committee? I see none. I see Broom's
hand raised. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I just had a question. Have we had any discussions with Xcel Energy to
determine their ability to provide energy to do the recharging?
As I recall, recently in California, they're getting ahead of themselves. And they're telling people, buy electric
vehicles, but don't charge them at night. Because of the heat wave, we can't provide enough energy.
BOBBY DISHELL: Chair, may I?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, please, Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks so much for raising that. A couple of things I want to tease out there. One, your
statement assumes a single type of fleet, which is battery electric buses, which would be reliant on Xcel
power grid. That rules out fuel cell electric buses, the possibility of producing hydrogen, as well as the
possibility of producing their own power from solar.
So while I appreciate the comment and the note to make sure that Xcel is in the loop, that is something that
I think-- the way in which it was posed creates a conclusion before we really know all the facts.

The second aspect is is that that contract with Xcel and the way in which the buses are charged is something
that, I think, I and the Committee would categorize as a management decision, which is the way in which
the team that likes to manage towards getting to zero-emission, whether that's hydrogen fuel cell, whether
that's through battery electric-- self-powered, generated, or otherwise-- is going to rest with our staff.
I know that our staff is regularly in communication with Xcel Energy just to provide service to our current
fleet but would refer to General Manager and CEO Johnson, to the extent that there's other information that
may be relevant that Director Broom's question.
BOB BROOM: Thank you very much.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Broom. Thank you, Director Dishell. Thanks for the hard work, you
guys, on this. We've not had a policy on this topic ever before, so I'm eager to get this going. And I know
it's going to have to be a flexible policy, as things change and facts and circumstances change. But it'll give
us some direction to move forward.
BOBBY DISHELL: And if folks want to join us, we'll be meeting October 12 internally.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, please. However many directors can get there, yeah, attend these meetings. Let's
get your input, and I'll be very helpful. Thanks so much. We're going to move on to—
KATE WILLIAMS: We also, Chair—
VINCE BUZEK: I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Director Williams. Yeah.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm sorry. Yeah, it's hard for me here. I'm doing this on the phone. We also have a
roundtable coming up with a bunch of industry experts that we'd like to invite all of the directors to attend.
Director Dishell, can you give us a little bit on that?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes. I mentioned it earlier on the report. It's at November 8 at 3:00 PM at the Board
Office. I believe, if they haven't already, they'll sent out that calendar to homes. And I did mention that a
few times—
KATE WILLIAMS: It's also open-- will be open to the public. So thank you. Sorry.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, as all RTD meetings are.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Thanks very much. Next, we're going to move on to the Finance and Planning
Committee report. Committee Chair Davidson, do you have anything you'd like to report.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'll keep it brief. But we'll summarize what was a lengthy first
meeting back after the August hiatus. We had a couple of items that were presented by external entities.

First, we did get our update from the CU Leeds School of Business on the sales and use tax forecast. As
I've done in the past and encouraged Board members interested to listen in on previous Committee
meetings, I might draw some attention to, actually, this update for those that want to go back and review
the discussion and the presentation because we do have some things that we need to consider.
We actually did see an increase in projected sales tax revenue and use tax revenue for the year that we're
in-- 2022-- to a 10.6% increase on sales tax and 5.2% on use. However, the forecast is calling for a very
low level of increase in 2023 for a total of 2.2%. So certainly an important thing for us to consider.
Particularly, we did have some discussion as to whether the inflationary environment continues having a
low increase to our sales tax sales and use tax next year may have some implication to our planning. So
we had some discussion around that. It was certainly a helpful update.
We also did get an update on our Nonrepresented Employee Pension Plan Fund status, as well as the
Amalgamated Transit Union pension fund status. I would just like to call attention-- very well-done to our
financial team and financial staff for the work that's been done to really stabilize and improve our situation
there.
So we had some good discussions about the health of those plans, at the moment. And then we had the
presentation regarding the internal audit update. As you already heard, we did have a good discussion at
the committee to receive input from other Board members who do not serve on the Ad Hoc Audit Committee
regarding preferences around some of the key decision points, such as that three versus two internal
numbers.
We then moved on-- we had recommended actions for the evening. Everything did pass unanimously. Most
of these are on unanimous consent tonight. The account-based ticketing contract extension is a rethinking
of our ABT contract with Masabi, the vendor, that enabled us to get some more predictability and simplicity
in that contract.
We also did go through the Mid-Term Financial Plan. We did pull that off of unanimous consent, given that
this was our first look at the MPFP. Typically, we would see that as a discussion item and then vote. So the
materials were provided, and we'll have a discussion this evening.
I would note that we had some discussion around how the MPFP may or may not be communicating our
goals and objectives to the public. In particular, several Board members express interest in being more
explicit about our forthcoming partnership programs, which we'll receive some updates on in future
meetings. We went through the bank authorization-- bank signature authorization action item. We did pass
that.
This is removing the need for a wet signature from the treasurer which, I believe, Treasurer Whitmore
reluctantly voted for but did ultimately support. We had a good discussion about not really needing that

today because the controls are in place with the bank and, actually, those signatures aren't looked at. So
that was just easy updating and modernization of our controls.
We also did the salaried trustee appointment. With Bill Van Meter's retirement, we had appointed Bill Sirois
now, as a trustee.
Moving forward, we had some discussion items. We had a presentation from Leah Riley, our Chief
Administrative Officer, regarding the Family and Medical Leave insurance program participation. We
received an update that, again, may be worth some Board members looking at, although we'll learn more
moving forward.
Actually, government agencies have been opting out of the program. We'll be learning more about that for
a decision point yet to come. We did receive an update from Ms. Chessy Brady, Manager of TransitOriented Development regarding our transit-oriented development plans. Some very exciting and fun
updates there.
And we also received a good update on the System Fare Study and Equity analysis presented by Chris
Quinn, Planning Project Manager, and Carl Green Jr., Acting Director of Civil Rights. Really good evening
for discussion items. It might be worth glossing through the video and the transcript, if you have some areas
of particular interest.
I would like to say, we will have the MPFP discussion this evening. But huge kudos to our CEO and General
Manager, as well as our financial staff for some really great progress financially stabilizing the agency. We
got into some hard times from COVID, but we were already in some tricky financial waters.
And we've done a great job, from my vantage and opinion, stabilizing the agency, stabilizing our pension
plan, addressing some of our debt service concerns through good refinancing, creative refinancing. Things
are looking very good for us. Although, again, I would just be mindful of the fact that we need to keep an
eye on the macroeconomic environment as inflation continues and as we look at lower than desirable
projections on our sales tax revenue.
So very well done to our staff. Let's keep up the good work on the financial side. And thank you, Mr. Chair.
That concludes my report.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Committee Chair Davidson. Thanks again to you and the rest of the Committee
for your hard work. Next, we're going to move on-- if there are no questions, we're going to move on to the
Operations and Safety Committee report. Committee Chair Rosenthal, do you have anything you'd like to
report?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Sure. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And at our last meeting, we heard a presentation about
the 2023 Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan-- the PTASP. And it was moved and seconded and
unanimously passed.

We also had a discussion about the January 2023 service change proposals, so that was also a very good
discussion. And that is it.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for that report. I'll just note that the PTASP is coming forward. It's been
removed from the consent agenda at the request of First Vice Chair Guissinger, and we'll be having a
presentation that will become a recommended action. So we'll hear a little bit more about that for the full
Board.
Next, we're going to have the Performance Committee report. I don't think Director Lewis has joined us,
yet. Vice Chair Dishell, do you have anything you'd like to report?
BOBBY DISHELL: Sure. Just briefly, the Performance Committee met earlier this month. Unfortunately, I
was also out due to a personal matter. At the Committee meeting, the Committee discussed matters related
to performance.
I think, of note for the Board, is the slight modification that you all will be seeing forthcoming related to
evaluation. As you may recall, we set a number of metrics related to the General Manager's work. And one
of those metrics-- the employee engagement survey-- we were not able to establish a baseline early
enough.
Largely, that was due to wanting to get high employee participation and centering that around the time
when employees would actually-- our represented employees would be conducting votes. So you will likely
be seeing a amendment to that contract forthcoming. If you have any other questions, please feel free to
reach out.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thank you very much for that report. That concludes the reports of all of our external
and internal committees. Next, we're going to go on to the approval of Board meeting minutes and
Committee reports. They were included in your Board packet, so if there are any corrections from the
directors, please let me know at this point in time. Seeing none.
Unless there's an objection to considering these minutes all at the same time, may I please have a motion
to approve the minutes for the following meetings-- July 26, 2022 Special Board meeting; July 26, 2022
Regular Board meeting; September 13, 2022 Finance and Planning Committee; September 14, 2022
Performance Committee; September 14, 2022 Operations and Safety Committee; September 2022 Special
Board meeting; and September 22, 2022 Executive Committee. Is there a motion?
BOB BROOM: Move approval.
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director-- oh, OK, Director Broom. Second, Director Williams.

VINCE BUZEK: I've got Broom and Williams. Are there any no votes on the approval of these minutes?
Seeing none, this passes unanimously. I believe we're still at 12 to 0, right? OK.
Next, we're going to move on to other reports. The Chair's report is next. I was out of town for several weeks
on holiday, so not a lot for me to report. I want to thank First Vice Chair Guissinger for filling in admirably
and taking care of things in my absence.
On September 20, 2022 I attended, along with CEO and General Manager Debra Johnson and Michael
Davies, the Transportation Legislative Review Committee meeting. Debra Johnson did most of the talking
because she knows everything, and she did a great job.
And we had-- I thought it was-- compared to the way things have gone in the past, I thought it was really
good. We had a lot of good questions. Maybe it helps going first at 8:30 in the morning, but a lot of good
questions. And you could tell the committee was interested in what we're doing and was really receptive to
all the information.
And one of the things that I took great joy in talking about-- very briefly-- was there was a specific question
about, do we have any plans for electrification in RTD? And I could say, yes, indeed. And, in fact, Directors
Dishell and Guissinger are currently at a national conference studying this very issue.
So I think they're pleased to see how we're doing. So that was a good thing. One of the things that came
up-- a couple of things came up at the Executive Committee meeting last week.
For the first thing, start thinking about next year's retreat. Yes, that's right. It was only six months ago that
we had our retreat in March, so it's never too soon to start thinking about that for next year, whether we
want the same kind of format, something completely different, and things like that. So the Executive
Committee will be tickling you on this from time to time to give some thought as we can start preparing for
that.
We also have underway recruitment for a new Board Office Manager, as Ms. McManus has indicated that
she will be leaving the Agency just shortly after the first week of January. So we are in the process of
recruiting a new Board Office Manager. Job description, salary range, and all that was posted on the RTD
website last week.
So, internally, that's gone out, and it is now going out to a number of external agencies. And HR and the
recruiter from HR are doing a great job in working with us to make that happen. There's a process in place.
If you want more detail, please reach out to me and I'll talk to you about the five, or six, or 12-step process
that's going to happen.
Ultimately, I think the Executive Committee will be doing final interviews of candidates and then presenting
a finalist or a number of finalists to the Board of Directors for full Board approval for that position. And we're

hoping to have that person in place by the end of the year, if we can. So I think that concludes my report,
as brief as it may be. I will now turn this over to GM CEO Johnson for her report.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And good evening to all of you. I'm Debra Johnson,
General Manager and CEO. This evening, I will share with you the following information centered around
our strategic priorities.
Speaking to community value, I will give a brief update on the Zero Fare for Better Air initiative. I will also
share information regarding speaking engagements and other external meetings in which I have
participated on behalf of the agency.
Related to both community value and customer excellence, I will discuss the agency's response to the
September 2021 R line derailment incident, the second wave of community and customer surveys currently
being conducted. And regarding employee ownership, I will touch on the agency's ongoing COVID-19
pandemic responses and the second anniversary of the N lines opening for revenue service.
So as it relates to community value, regarding the Zero Fare for Better Air initiative, as I shared with the
Colorado General Assembly's Transportation Legislative Review Committee just last week that the Chair
just referenced, staff is working with a consultant to prepare a comprehensive report to the Colorado Energy
Office, which is due December 1, 2022.
The report will outline ridership data as compared to July and September level, as well as takeaways and
lessons learned during the August Zero Fare period. Staff will assess the program's impact on altering
people's travel habits, which will be determined by utilizing data collected through automatic passenger
counters that are on the majority of vehicles and those buses and trains operated through third-party
contractors.
This data will be used to determine trends and to assess whether travel patterns have shifted, though a
longer-term review will be necessary to determine the lasting effects. Staff will also review survey data that
was garnered through customer intercepts conducted on the system during the Zero Fare period from
August 23 through August 31. Data analytics from reports of security incidents will be evaluated collectively
with the other data sets and compiled into the report.
As for initial impressions, bus and rail operations and transit police reports indicate that the overall number
of law enforcement contacts and operator reports citing disruptive or dangerous behavior were in line with
those experience in recent months and years. I would note that vehicle capacity issues occurred at times
during the month as a result of ongoing people power problems.
While monthly boardings will be reported as part of the final report, anecdotal accounts indicate an uptick
in those using the system during the Zero Fare period. It is important to note that RTD did not have a
baseline upon which to gauge success, as that was not provided to the agency by the state. However, staff
sees the opportunity to encourage the region's residents to change their travel patterns, as it only takes 21
days to form a new habit.

And, more specifically, want to also state that it was a regional effort in relationship to all the different
associations, entities, and jurisdictions, and nongovernmental organizations that leaned in and really
promoted this Zero Fare for Better Air Initiative.
Regarding community value, some of the events and speaking engagements and other external meetings
in which I participated on behalf of RTD-- it's really been an incredibly busy month, two months, really,
because we haven't reported out, or I haven't. Though I will attempt to be succinct in my remarks, there is
a lot to cover, so please, bear with me.
On Thursday, July 28, I presented to the Visit Denver Government and Community Affairs Committee to
discuss a number of RTD and transit-related topics. The media kickoff event for the Zero Fare for Better Air
initiative was held that same day. And several members of the Board, as well as other Metro-area elected
officials, attended.
The following day, I flew to Jacksonville, Florida to attend a WTS International Board of Directors meeting
and to participate in an orientation session for the Association. On August 3 and 4, RTD hosted the
Vulnerable Populations and Transit workshop, which was attended by 20 police and security
representatives from 10 transit agencies from across the country. A shout-out to RTD's own Deputy Chief
Stephen Martin Garneau for his role and the genesis and organization of this event, during which
participants engaged in dialogue surrounding several key public safety and security challenges, such as
mental health, social work, and resource navigation, fare enforcement, addressing antisocial behaviors on
transitive property, and crime prevention through environmental design, or SECTEP strategies, and
outreach for individuals experiencing houselessness.
Also on August 4, I participated in a panel discussion as part of the Denver Metro Chamber of Commerce
State of the City event, and, in doing so, presented information regarding RTD's initiatives, including Zero
Fare for Better Air, restoring a welcoming transit environment, and the system-wide Fare Study and Equity
Analysis. From Monday, August 15 through Wednesday, August 17, the APTAtech Conference was held
in Denver, for which RTD participated as the host agency and provided staffing and programming
resources.
I was honored to give the opening remarks and to participate in a CEO roundtable on Tuesday, August 16.
Later that week, on Thursday, August 18, I and other Agency leaders were interviewed by Paul Comfort,
former Maryland Transit Administration CEO and current transit podcaster and host of Transit Unplugged
to showcase both Denver and RTD's transit network and operations.
The following day, on Friday, August 19, I attended the annual RTD Snowplow Rodeo held at the District
Shops Facility and cheered the participants who gathered to compete in written and diagnostic tests, as
well as a serious-- a series, excuse me-- of nine driving exercises for both single- and tandem-axle plows.

On Thursday, August 23, I participated in a multimodal transit tour with Danny Katz, who you heard from
earlier this evening, the Director of the Colorado Public Interest Research Group, and Molly McKinley from
the Denver Streets Partnership and other transit advocates as we took advantage of Zero Fare for Better
Air and, collectively, did the multimodal tour.
The next day, Wednesday, August 24, I presented to the Denver City Council Safety, Housing, Education,
and Homelessness Committee to share information regarding the restoration of a welcoming transit
environment at Denver Union Station. Director Sloan and I attended a luncheon in Lakewood on August
31, along with Mayor Adam Paul and Lakewood City Council Member Jeslin Shahrezaei to discuss potential
avenues for collaboration between the city of Lakewood and RTD.
On Thursday, September 8, I engaged with the Move Colorado Organization to deliver a presentation at
Agency Policy Matters. On Wednesday, September 14, I engaged in a panel discussion convened by a
delegation of municipal and county officials from the greater Orlando, Florida area to study economic
development in Denver and its nexus to transit.
The following day, Thursday, September 15, I met Mayor Jeff Toborg from the town of Parker, as well as
Town Manager Michelle Kivels and her team to discuss opportunities, challenges, and concerns in the town
of Parker and the Denver South Region. And this last week, I traveled to Washington, DC to serve as the
keynote speaker and to meet and engage with participants in the Transportation Bid Manager Program of
the E&O Center for Transportation, whose mission is to shape public debate on critical multimodal
transportation issues and to build an innovative network of transportation professionals.
As it relates to community value and customer excellence, I will now turn to the R line derailment incident
that took place one week ago today on Wednesday, September 21. A thorough investigation is currently
underway to determine the causal factors in this incident. I have personally gone to the derailment site and
walked the alignment to familiarize myself with the incline, the speed zones, and the operating environment
to garner a firsthand understanding.
The leadership team and I in coordination with safety personnel are assessing various options to mitigate
and/or repair the rail infrastructure prior to restoring light rail service to the section of the R line corridor for
which service is currently suspended.
As the public is keenly aware-- that this incident has taken place, I would ask for their continued patience
as agency employees and contractors do their due diligence to ensure the rail corridor infrastructure is fully
ready to be placed into service. Moreover, I have been in contact with the Chief Operating Officer of the
American Public Transportation Association to share that I will be making a formal request of APTA for
them to convene a Peer Review Panel to assess the agency's light rail operations.
Regarding customer community surveys related to the strategic plan, the second wave of customer and
community surveys for strategic plan metrics are currently being conducted. The methodology used to

conduct the surveys is consistent with and comparable to the methodology that was used in the inaugural
community and customer surveys conducted in 2021.
The consultant team that conducted the surveys will present the results to the performance committee
during the meeting scheduled for November 2. As relates to employee ownership, ongoing COVID-19
pandemic responses are currently underway-- or, I should say, are ongoing, of course. According to recent
data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, community COVID-19 transmission remains at
a high or substantial level across all county service-- all counties served by RTD.
As of today, one RTD operating facility remains in outbreak status, with two other facilities having been
monitored as of earlier this month as potential breakout sites. Due to the continued prevalence of COVID19 in the region, the agency will continue to maintain current health protocols for operating and
administrative facilities.
And lastly but certainly not least, I would like to acknowledge that Wednesday, September 21, 2022 marked
the second anniversary of revenue service for the N line-- RTD's first, internally-operated commuter rail
line. My thanks and appreciation for the Commuter Rail Operations Team for their hard work and dedication
in launching and safely operating this line since its inception with no recorded incidents.
That's quite a feat-- no recorded incidents in two years of operation. And with that, Mr. Chair, I will conclude
my remarks and would welcome questions at this time. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, General Manager Johnson. Great report. Anybody have any questions,
comments? Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Aren't we coming up on your second anniversary, Madam
General Manager, I believe?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, that is forthcoming on November 9.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And thanks for your work for the agency.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Davidson, you're up.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And Ms. Johnson, as always, thank you for a thorough report and
organized report. Appreciate the thoughtfulness and these. Thank you for the update on the After Peer
Review that you're going to be requesting. I think that's excellent.
I just had a question about that, given that you, if I understood correctly, had been in touch with the COO.
Do you have an idea of timing as to what might be possible to start that peer review process and how long
that may take?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. So, Director Davidson, I have not submitted a formal letter indicating what
it is. The way the process shapes up is that we would put forward areas in which we'd like to have the Peer
Review Panel assess. This would be overarching as relates to light rail operations.
It is my intent to have that transmitted early next week. I am working in tandem with individuals within
Operations and Safety as we put that together.
I want to be intentional and methodical in relationship to what I am seeking because there are some notable
agencies within APTA's membership and across the country that would serve to be of great benefit for us.
And so contingent upon those peer agencies' availability, and the scope, and the willingness to lean in, I
will, at that point in time, have a better understanding of the time frame associated.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Wonderful. Thank you very much.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Chair. And I just wanted to give a very big thank you to CEO
GM Johnson for meeting with my hometown's mayor, Mayor Toborg and, ultimately, building those
community values down in District G and, as well, building those communication values, as well. It sounded
like it was a very productive conversation going forward.
And it was great to hear that there's going to be potential for future partnerships with the town of Parker
going forward. And thank you so much for keeping it on a positive track, and thank you for everything that
you do. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Bouquet. Director Broom.

BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I just had a question on the light rail derailment in Aurora. Do light rail
cars have the equivalent of a black box that you talk about when an airliner goes down or something?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, rail vehicles do have an event recorder, sir.
BOB BROOM: So that's going to be used by the team that's examining to determine what kind of speed the
cars were going at the time of the derailment?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Director Broom, all of those different elements will be taken into consideration as
relates to the investigation in which we're working in tandem with the Colorado Public Utilities Commission
that serves as the state oversight agency, as specified by state-- not state-- federal statute with FTA
BOB BROOM: Thank you very much.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome, sir.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Broom. Anybody else have any questions for GM CEO Johnson? Seeing
none, we're going to move forward to the unanimous consent agenda. As I indicated earlier, the 2023 Public
Transportation Agency's Safety Plan will be removed from its unanimous consent agenda and moved to
the recommended action agenda.
So there are now three items on the unanimous consent agenda. They are the account-based ticketing
contract extension and fixed fees, bank signature authorization, and salary trustee appointment.
If anyone has any changes to or has questions on a specific action, please feel free to advise me at this
time and I'll be happy to pull from the unanimous consent agenda. Seeing none, may I have a motion to
approve the consent agenda as just read to you?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
ERIK DAVIDSON: So moved. Davidson.

VINCE BUZEK: I have Whitmore and Davidson first and second, are there any no votes on approving the
unanimous consent agenda? Seeing none, that gets proved. Hang on 1 second. OK. Great.
So that passes, I believe, now, it's 11 to 0. I do believe Director Williams has had to drop off, as her cell
phone upon which she was communicating has died.
So, next, we're going to move on to recommended action. There are now three recommended actions on
the agenda. In order, they're going to be the Mid-term Financial Plan, the bylaw amendment, and then the
PTSAP.
So let's start with the 2023 to 2028 Mid-term Financial Plan. And I am going to need a motion for the Board
of Directors to adopt the 2023 to 2028 Mid-term Financial Plan. Do I have a motion?
ERIK DAVIDSON: So moved.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.

VINCE BUZEK: Davidson and Catlin. And we have a staff presentation?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, good evening, Chair Buzek. This is Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Doug. Go ahead with your presentation.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. I'm joined by Todd Nikkel, Senior Manager of Budget, and we have a short
presentation to go through. It was provided to the Finance and Planning Committee earlier this month. We
did receive quite a bit of feedback, which I very much appreciate, from some Board members who made
some recommendations as to future MTFPs regarding the types of information provided.
We did provide a follow-up email through General Manager Johnson providing some of those details,
including a listing of projects within the Mid-term Financial Plan. But I do bring that up because we welcome
any comments, criticisms, recommendations in terms of the way we present information and are happy to
take those into consideration and use those going forward. So, please, don't hesitate to contact either
myself or Todd Nikkel.
So without further ado, I will share my screen. We have a relatively short presentation to go through. OK,
so this is the 2023 through 2028 Mid-term Financial Plan. The last Mid-term Financial Plan was presented
to the Board in October of 2021. We do this once a year to provide a forecast-- a six-year forecast for the
Board.

The six-year forecast is really a building block to establish a 2023 budget baseline. So as far as scheduling
goes, what we'll do is we will come back to the Finance and Planning Committee on October 11 with the
first look at the 2023 budget. That will be a discussion item.
It also must be presented-- the budget also must be available to the public for public inspection by October
15 of each year, per state statute. So we will give a budget presentation in a discussion format to the Board
with preliminary numbers, get feedback during the month of October, then return in November and ask the
Board to approve on November 1-- through the Finance and Planning Committee, approved the 2023
budget.
The six-year forecast is used for our strategic financial planning. It helps us to really look out in the future
based on information that we have at this point in time and certain forecasts and needs for the organization
to really assess where we will stand with our finances and what to anticipate and provide that information
to the Board as part of our long-range planning.
A reminder that the Mid-term Financial Plan is not an appropriation by the Board. The only appropriation
we do with the Board is through the annual budgeting process. We do amend that budget through the
Board, occasionally. However, this is not an appropriation. It's simply a forecast.
So what you're going to see in a few slides later that Todd will go through is the actual numbers. But just to
give you a foreshadowing of what we've put together, you'll see that fare revenue is lower than previous
forecasts.
That is mainly due to some of the feedback that has come through the fare study and equity analysis. So
we've used some assumptions there, as well as our approach as an agency to be conservative in our
estimation so as not to over-forecast revenues and under-forecast expenses.
In addition, you'll see that sales and use taxes are slightly higher, as Director Davidson mentioned. We had
a presentation by CU Leeds School of Business. They do provide that forecast-- that sales and use tax
forecast. And our Mid-term Financial Plan is based on those numbers, and then we do make a few other
adjustments, which Todd will discuss, to be a little more conservative due to potential taper restrictions.
We did carry forward some COVID-19 relief funding. What you'll see in the monthly briefings, however, is
that we are very close to drawing the majority of that COVID relief funding. And it will continue through the
IIJA bipartisan infrastructure law in which there's additional annual funding for preventive maintenance.
However, what you'll see in the Mid-term Financial Plan is we've carried that forward. However, we have
picked up most of that money to get it into the bank and earning interest and investment income as quickly
as possible. We've included sustainable service levels.
The Finance Department has worked very closely with WSP, the consultant who has put together the
Reimagine long-term forecast. So I would point out that the budget, the Mid-term Financial Plan, and the
long-term financial forecast are all tied together very closely with assumptions in actual numbers.

You'll see that asset maintenance is fully funded. So our Asset Management Plan is anticipated to be fully
funded based on this forecast. And we've also been able to maintain fund balances in this forecast.
A couple of high-level items to consider is that as we were developing this Mid-term Financial Plan, we've
really been on a path these last couple of years really directing our budget and our forecasts towards
Strategic Plan implementation and addressing Strategic Plan priorities, most notably of which one of the
items would be our Asset Management Plan, but also aligning everything else with those strategic priorities,
including our fund balances.
Reimagine RTD-- that's part of the WSP long-term financial forecasts, so we've taken that into account
along with the service levels, which are embedded within that effort. Fare Study and Equity Analysis
certainly will have some impact on our finances.
However, I would point out that our current fare levels are approximately 50% of where they were previously,
just because of the low ridership and only make up approximately 8% to 10% of our operating expenses.
So while still important, not a significant funding source for RTD, currently.
TABOR limits are taken into consideration. That's a big concern we have as an Agency, as the Board
knows, with the formation of the Tabor Ad Hoc Committee which will reconvene at the beginning of next
year to really address that issue with the revenue limitations that are impending on the base system-- 6/10
sales tax.
And, again, economic volatility-- so as I mentioned early on, a big consideration in putting together these
forecasts is we use the information that we have at the current time. Economic volatility, obviously, will
change that as we move forward. If we did a new Mid-term Financial Plan a few months from now, it might
look significantly different, depending on what interest rates do in terms of inflation and costs, as well as
employment levels, et cetera.
So there's a lot of assumptions made within this mid-term financial plan based on current information. But
we think that we're being conservative in our approach and cautious. So with that, I'll turn it over to Todd
Nicole, who will take us through a few more slides with the actual, forecasted numbers. Todd, please go
ahead.
TODD NIKKEL: All right, thank you, Doug. I'll touch on these next two slides very briefly. This is just a visual
representation of demonstrating that our revenues have gone up, in fact, from our last MTFP.
However, as you'll see, our expenses have also gone up. But this just shows you that our revenue
projections have gone up slightly from last year. So the expenditures, as you see, also going up.
And then we'll move on to the actual numbers so that we can talk through those briefly. I'll just go through
each of the lines and go through a few details on each of those. First of all, you see our fares, and these
are considerably lower, as Doug mentioned, than last year at this time.

And this is based on two factors-- one, ridership, and also the average fare that is being paid. We worked
with our Planning Department to forecast our ridership, and although we're doing better, the forecast just
doesn't show us recovering quite as quickly as we had thought we might be last year at this time.
The other impact is what our fares actually are. And we are assuming at the end of 2023, based on the
Fare Study and Equity Analysis, that we will see an average reduction of 20% in our fares. So the
combination of those two factors dramatically decreased our fare revenue.
Sales and use taxes, as Director Davidson and Doug also mentioned, have gone up slightly. However, we
do have the effects of TABOR limitations on the base side of our tax revenue reflected here. And we had
WSP-- one of the consultants in the Reimagine campaign do an analysis for us.
And with the limitations of TABOR, RTD's revenue would be tied to property tax increases. And so we
reflected that. That would be a 1.4% increase-- capped at a 1.4% increase once TABOR takes into effect
on the base side. So whatever revenue we would actually get, we could only keep 1.4% increase of that,
and we'd have to refund the remainder. So we've reflected that.
Grant revenue and other income-- you see that going up in 2023 as a result of the infrastructure bill that
was passed earlier this year. And so as a result of that, we get an additional $30 million in preventive
maintenance funds. So you see that going up in 2023 and remaining relatively steady throughout the period.
And then, as Doug mentioned, we did reflect two more years of COVID grants. And we did that simply
because even though we've drawn down the majority of those funds, they were not reflected in the
beginning balance-- cash balances-- that we started off with in this model, so we wanted to pick those up
as part of revenue to get the most clear picture of our revenues.
And then I'll move down to expenses. Operating expenses-- you see this going down just slightly in 2023
based on our amended 2022 budget. And the goal is to keep operating expenses-- keep a good control of
operating expenses to fund that sustainable level of service that we've talked about but keep our other
expenses as closely under control as we can.
The debt service numbers you see there reflect the most recent refinancing we did. So you see that going
down a little bit, as well. And then our capital expense state of good repair line-- as Doug mentioned, we
anticipate fully funding our Asset Management Plan, and that's reflected here in that we are-- we're funding
everything that we need to replace when the plan shows that it needs replacing.
A couple of items I want to point out, specifically, here on this line is see some fairly significant bumps in
2025 and also 2028. And I wanted to highlight the fact that in 2025, we have the funding available for a new
operating facility. And then in 2028 we have a significant amount of our fleet that we're replacing.

And based on this plan, we are paying cash for those items and not financing anything. We're not increasing
our debt to take care of our assets, which is a significant accomplishment in this financial plan. So we can
move on to the next slide. I'll finish my presentation, and then we'll take any questions.
DOUG MACLEOD: Todd, I'd just like to interject real quickly. Both Todd and I have mentioned the fares
and the impact from the Fare Study and Equity Analysis. We're making some assumptions to be on the
conservative side. Certainly, nothing has been proposed or options have been presented. Those will all
come through the Board.
So I just want to be clear that our 20% reduction in fare revenue rates is simply based on the public feedback
that was received regarding the perception that our fares are high. So I just want to clarify on that one. So
please go ahead, Todd. Oops, I got to get you to the next slide.
TODD NIKKEL: The numbers that we just talked through are base system. The next slide is the FasTracks
system, which will-- essentially, everything is-- what I've said stands for the FasTracks, except for the sales
and use tax. And then the next slide just shows consolidated total company.
And then we also added what our reserves are. And so you see a pretty significant number there, and it
looks like we have a lot of money. But I wanted to just clarify, by going to the next slide, we broke out what
our reserves are.
And so we have-- you can see our Unrestricted Year End Fund Balance is just money that we can use in
any way we need to. The first couple of years is fairly large-- that's the dark blue-- because of those COVID
funds. But as we progress through this financial plan, we use a lot of that up. So in 2028, that's a very small
amount.
You can also see the gray, which is our Capital Replacement Fund, is growing. And, essentially, what we're
doing is whatever we don't use of our-- we took a 30-year average of all of our AMP-- our Asset
Management Plan. And what we don't need at any given year, we put in this fund so that we have it to draw
against when we have years that have larger amount of assets that need to be replaced.
So that continues to grow and be maintained. And then I mentioned-- Doug mentioned our reserves earlier.
We do have our Unrestricted Operating Reserve, which, by policy, is three months of operating expenses.
And this plan does maintain that, and that's the yellow bars.
So I wanted to just illustrate how those reserves are broken out. These funds will help us maintain our
financial situation in the future. So I'll turn it back over to you, Doug.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thanks, Todd. So I think, just to summarize, Mr. Chair, we do have a balanced Midterm Financial Plan. Based on our current assumptions, we can meet what's projected to be the funding
needs going forward over the next six years and beyond.

We are in a good financial position. Todd mentioned the reserves that we hold. What we haven't reflected
in here is we also have the opportunity, now that interest rates have raised, is to actually generate some
investment income.
What you'll see with the budget when we bring that forward is we're going to go-- we expect to go from an
investment income of approximately 0 or a few hundred thousand dollars per year up to approximately $20
million based on investments. So that will be super helpful going forward, too, and we do have a substantial
amount invested in short-term instruments in cash.
So, I guess to summarize, we feel-- along with General Manager Johnson, the Finance Department feels
that we are in good shape with cautious optimism with all the economic volatility and challenges that we
have ahead. So we'd be happy to take any questions now, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, CFO MacLeod. Thank you, Mr. Nikkel, for that great presentation. I see Director
Broom has his hand up. Go ahead, Bob.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I just had a question on the TABOR refunds. What year would those
potentially start, and what would be the total amount for both sides of the equation, as far as FasTracks
and base system, would we be looking at?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you for the question. Mr. Chair, may I go ahead?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, please, Doug.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. With FasTracks-- with the 2004 authorization of FasTracks, voters allowed
FasTracks to be debruced, or not subject to TABOR revenue limitations until all of the debt was paid off.
So the final debt payment on the FasTracks bonding will be paid off in 2050-- 2050. So we've got quite a
bit of time on that side.
The base system is where the more immediate concern is on the 6/10 sales tax. Same provisions apply to
the basis. And once the TREX bonds are paid off in 2024, RTD will be subject on the 6/10 to revenue growth
limitations, which will be capped at the sum of inflation plus property tax value growth within the district.
So what we've done in this Mid-term Financial Plan is assumed, based on some information put together
through WSP-- a subcontractor, WSP-- they went back, and they looked at the growth in property tax
valuations within the district over the past 10 years. That growth was 1.4%, so we've capped-- beginning in
2025, we've capped the base system growth year-over-year at 1.4%, which is lower than what we've been
provided by the CU Leeds School of Business.
Now, that could be off. It could be lower. And the big challenge there is that with the TABOR revenue growth
limitations is the lowest year sets the base, and so you can only grow from that year. So if we go through a
recession, it drops down-- that's our new base year to grow from.

At that point, it's called the ratcheting down effect, which could be severe in cases such as 2008, 2009,
there was approximately 10% decrease in RTD's sales and use tax revenues. On the base system side,
that would be approximately $50 million. So it's substantial numbers that we're talking about going forward.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Broom. Thank you, CFO MacLeod. Any other questions, comments from
directors? Seeing none, we've got a motion to approve from Director Davidson, seconded by Catlin. Are
there no votes on this recommended action?
Seeing none, that passes unanimously, which, I believe, is still 11 to 0. We'll move on to the next matter,
which is the bylaw amendment. First Vice Chair Guissinger, do you have an update for us?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I do. Thank you very much. The bylaw amendment requires 10 votes. And since we
only have 11 members tonight, I think that the directors who brought this forward agree that we would rather
have this discussed when we have a full-- it's a bylaw amendment. We should have a full complement of
Board members here. And so I would like to move to hold this over until the November meeting.
BOBBY DISHELL: Second. Dishell.
VINCE BUZEK: So I've got a motion to move this to a date, certain the November Board meeting brought
by First Vice Chair Guissinger, seconded by Director Dishell. Any discussion on this? Seeing none, are
there any no votes on this matter? Seeing none, this item will be moved forward to the November Board of
Directors meeting.
And we're going to move on to our last recommended action which is the 2023 Public Transportation
Agency Safety Plan. I'm looking for a motion to approve the 2023 Public Transportation Agency's Safety
Plan-- PTASP-- as required by 49CFR, parts 674 and 673, and 4CCR 773-7, rule 7345. Is there a motion?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: So moved. Rosenthal.
VINCE BUZEK: Second?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second. Bouquet.
VINCE BUZEK: Second, Bouquet. Staff, can you give us a quick presentation?
DAN MCCLAIN: Yes, Chair Buzek. This is Dan McClain, the Chief Safety Officer, Senior Manager of Safety
and Environmental. Let me share my screen.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Dan. Go right ahead.

DAN MCCLAIN: Confirm everybody can see the screen? Quick presentation here on the 2023 Public
Transportation Agency Safety Plan. Let me see here. My screen is not moving.
OK. This was the major overhaul with PTASP occurred in 2022. But, again, it was looked again to focus
and be aligned with the Strategic Plan, so we have one path forward, not different paths forwards, not
parallel paths forwards, but so they're aligned-- aligned in both success outcomes and in safety
performance measures and aligned such that when we have our leadership meetings that we talk about
the Strategic Plan metrics and, at the same time, we're talking about safety metrics.
Also, the PTASP is aligned with our shared values, especially ownership, respect, and trustworthiness.
These were focused on, emphasizing employee, contractor, and customer safety through the
demonstration of our shared values.
Why do we have to have a Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan? It's required by parts 673 and 674,
as Chair Buzek indicated and, also, the Colorado Public Utilities Commissions Regulations. And we do
have other requirements that have kicked in that enhance the FTA and the PUC regulations that were
included in the 2021 bipartisan infrastructure law.
What is a PTASP? Just a quick reminder, a PTASP is an annual snapshot of the safety management
system we have in place. It documents the safety management system processes and activities, and it
includes safety performance targets. It is required by the FTA and the PUC to be reviewed annually and
updated and approved by the Board of Directors each year and submitted to the PUC for approval.
What is a safety management system? Rather than a program, which you have a goal, and you work till
you get the goal done, and then you walk away, a safety management system is a formal, top-down,
agency-wide, data-driven management approach. So it's based on the plan, do, check, act cycle.
It's an interconnected, interdependent series of processes that enable safe and healthy workplaces focused
on prevention, focusing on the system, not the person doing the system. So whoever is replaced, we have
clearly defined expectations in that role that whoever takes that position-- this is what the systems require
you to do to continue to make this successful and continuously improve as we go forth.
For the 2023 PTASP, the changes-- what's new in 2023? We are including the operational risk management
component. This component was spun off the RubinBrown, which we spoke of earlier this evening about
the internal audit. Everything else is under operational risk management. We have an operational risk
management framework that's based on ISO 31000, and we are currently implementing that across the
agency.
It incorporates the new Colorado Public Utilities Commission Program Standards Requirements. One of
the major ones is, they've added an additional layer of events that require reporting to the PUC. There's
other parts of the PUC-- new program standard that we've also incorporated in the PTASP.

Also, the bipartisan infrastructure law requirements-- two new requirements that stand out and that are
required to be in there-- is the formation of a Joint Union Management Committee and an inclusion of a
public health emergency requirement. So we have to have a statement that we will follow what the CDC or
the local, state, or county public health department recommendations are as part of the PTASP.
A couple of things-- the other thing that's new is that we are including the National Public Transportation
Safety Plan metrics. These are metrics that were put out in the plan which includes fatalities, which is the
number and the rate-- and these rates are rates per 100,000-- revenue miles by mode, injuries, safety
events, and system reliabilities.
We are currently looking to get clarification within RTD because the National Public Transportation Safety
Plan and NTD leaves some ambiguity in how you define these. But these are required to be tracked and
then goals set on them going forth.
Goals that we have that are carryover or reviewed that we looked at from our last PTASP is the preventable
accident rate will be one less than one per 100,000 miles for bus and light rail. So it combines both modes,
which, that's an achievable goal.
Five-year reduction-- or 5% year-after-year reduction in on-the-job injuries, lost time days, slip and fall
injuries, and strain injuries. Also looking to maintain system reliability. These are the same-- very similar, if
not the same, focus that we had in 2020.
Two-- and, again, the key of being a system is that we don't change just because the year changes. We
change until we achieve success in these areas, and then we move to the next target. And that is the
continuous improvement part of it.
We will implement operational risk management. We continue with the event notification, reporting and
investigation policy and procedure implementation. Continue with the employee leadership and employee
safety skills training and implementation prejob safety briefings in high-risk and nonroutine activities. A lot
of this applies to capital programs, facilities, maintenance, and high-risk activities that we do in
maintenance.
Next step-- again, today is Wednesday, September-- we went through the Committee on the 14th. Today
is the 28th. This is the recommended action.
Once this gets approved, we then submit it to the Colorado Public Utilities Commission no later than
Tuesday, November 1, 2022, and then begin implementing it. Questions?
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. McClain for that presentation. Are there any questions or comments from
members of the Board? First Vice Chair Guissinger.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. McClain. This is a huge amount of work, and I always appreciate the
work you do. How are we doing?
DAN MCCLAIN: So let me bring up the—
LYNN GUISSINGER: Should I make it more specific?
DAN MCCLAIN: I do think General Manager Johnson did send out an update because I know Director Cook
had asked how we're doing against our goals. With that in mind, I'll just-- if I may, Chair, I'll just bring up
another slide from the Leadership Committee.
VINCE BUZEK: Of course.
DAN MCCLAIN: OK, thank you. Let me-- 1 second, here. Let me know if you can see that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: We can, thanks.
DAN MCCLAIN: OK, let me get to the slide. Yeah, so, so far this year-- this is through July of 2022-- the
preventable action of rate per 100,000 miles for bus is 1.81. For light rail, it's 0.87. Combined for the strategic
plan objectives, we're at 1.16.
The 5% reduction of lost time injuries, on-the-job injuries, we actually have had a 14% improvement over
last year. So that's a good thing. And we do have other activities that will hopefully impact that in the next
quarter and the next year.
For the OJIs, 21% increase in OJIs but that's total reports. The one thing that I would like to make clear-and hopefully this helps. Let me go back here. So when we say OJIs, it's all reports that we get in.
And these OJIs fit in three categories. They fit in lost time injuries. They fit in medical only and record only.
The reason we have an increase in number of total OJIs is we have an increase in just folks reporting just
in case.
So that tells us we have a robust reporting culture, which is really important to help build a safety culture
where people aren't afraid to report injuries as they occur, even if they don't go to the doctor or see anybody
else that, hey, this event happened, and we can investigate it.
So going back to the statistics. And then so slip and falls we're less-- we're up over the last month in June,
but we're still a reduction of 8%. And the strains are up 53%. And many of the strains are those that fall in
the report only. So that's where we are. Again-- yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: The 5% reduction of on-the-job injuries were up 21%. Is that unusual? What's-- is
there a reason for that that you can point to?

DAN MCCLAIN: Yeah, and that's what I tried to explain there, Director Guissinger, was the 21% is more of
the report-onlys. So we're having events where somebody says, I tweaked my knee. They don't go to the
doctor. They don't seek medical.
We just have a robust reporting culture because-- one of the other metrics that's shared is the rate. This is
the rate that's used to compare from OSHA. You see here, our total case is in red for 2022.
It's higher than 2021. But if you look at our OSHA case, which is our medical and lost time, it's actually
lower than 2021 substantially, by 2%.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So you're getting more reporting, but they're not-- because of getting more reporting,
they're not serious. You're getting reports of things that aren't as serious, is that what you're saying?
DAN MCCLAIN: They're less severe, yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. And could you go back to that pie chart, please? Just make sure I understand
that. So these are the numbers-- 113 lost time injuries. What's the medical only?
DAN MCCLAIN: That means that they just went to the doctor, but they didn't miss work. They had a medical
bill associated with the event, but they didn't require paid time off.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And the record only was is just where they were-- that's the reporting ones that you're
saying that reporting is up?
DAN MCCLAIN: That's correct.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much.
DAN MCCLAIN: Great. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks, Dan.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, First Vice Chair. Director Davidson, next.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Mr. Chair, and thank you, Mr. McClain. I think the first part of my
question was answered, which was, in the past, we've seen the comparison to the urban transportation
averages and the national averages.
So one question was whether we're still tracking that. Looks like we are with the on-the-job injuries. Do we
have comparisons for the other metrics, in terms of bus and rail safety, as well?
DAN MCCLAIN: In what way?

ERIK DAVIDSON: Sorry. In terms of benchmarks against national averages and against urban averages,
urban transportation averages.
DAN MCCLAIN: So the Bureau of Labor Statistics-- what we're comparing against is urban transit systems.
So they don't break it out. I don't compare against the bus systems because we don't have that separated
in the BLS statistics. So I try to use that-- the best comparison.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Understood. Great.
DAN MCCLAIN: Each one of the divisions-- light rail, bus, commuter rail-- run their own statistics and have
their own reports. That's what I shared is an overall Leadership Safety Committee Report.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, great. Thank you very much. I'll hold further questions. Thank you very much.
Appreciate it.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Davidson. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, thank you. Thank you for the report and the work here. It's great to see that we
are decreasing. I noted that we're still-- the 2020 OSHA data is what you shared in the chart, and that was
at about a 6. We're still at about a 10.
So we're still more than 1 and 1/2 x of on-the-job entries compared to national data. What steps are we
taking to be at or, hopefully, below that OSHA national data?
DAN MCCLAIN: So many of the steps that we have in the Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan will
help lower this. One of the things that we're working to implement-- and, as it says there is the
implementation of the event notification reporting and investigation policy and procedure. We've done initial
training on most of the staff-- cascaded training down.
And, in October, we're going to go live with our data collection system and also live with our investigations.
So we're going to do the investigations of the number of events that you saw, which are more detailed-determining the causal factors, determining the findings, then turning those into corrective actions and
putting those in place.
We currently don't have that completely rolled out. And with that, it's going to be about 40 to 70 events per
month are going to be investigated. Causal factors are going to be determined, and then corrective actions
are going to be put in place. Those efforts will see substantial improvement in our numbers.
BOBBY DISHELL: That's great. Two quick, follow-up questions, if I may.
VINCE BUZEK: Go ahead.

BOBBY DISHELL: So it sounds like with the implementation of the new reporting system, it's safe to-- I
assume that we should see-- we should likely see, with a robust reporting culture, probably a temporary
increase in that plateau. Is that—
DAN MCCLAIN: That's probable. That's correct. Yeah.
BOBBY DISHELL: And the question is, increasing investigations is great and, I think, will help us
tremendously. I also know we're faced with an immense people power problem. Do you have staffing that
you need to make sure this plan is turned out? And, if not, are there things the Board can do to help make
sure that our safety and our safety investigations are handled adequately?
DAN MCCLAIN: So in 2021, we did-- General Manager Johnson Chief Administrative Officer Leah Riley-approved the staffing plan for the Safety Environmental Team. We have been able to hire four people this
year, and we're looking to hire three more next year to help us with the extra load because part of that is
just doing the investigations-- mentoring, working with bus and rail to find the corrective actions to ensure
that they're put in place and they're effective. So it's just going to take more people, but I think we have an
adequate staffing plan at this time.
Again, it's a joint effort between safety operations to continue to move that needle towards a safety culture,
and close those corrective actions, and make a safer environment focused on prevention.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. GM CEO Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Mr. McClain, for your responses
and Director Dishell for asking, as well as Director Davidson. I do want to provide some context.
If you all recall, last year, we actually got an extension via FTA to revamp our PTASP because a lot of these
mechanisms we didn't have any place. So I would like to formulate this in such a way as that, yes, we are
working diligently. But we started way beyond where we should have been.
And so we are working collectively and in relationship to our Leadership Safety Committee-- the way that
has been formulated with the executive leadership of the organization working in tandem with Dan McClain,
who serves as our Chief Safety Officer for the Federal Transit Administrative side, as well as with Martha
Bembry, who serves as our Chief Safety Officer-- I should have said-- yes, for FRA. It's a collective effort,
and there's a laser-like focus on this going forward.
So I wanted to qualify that because this plan is really embedded into the way we are doing business utilizing
our strategic priorities of the functional pillars upon which we make decisions and, collectively, how we're
disseminating information in reference to the safety training, utilizing the various information conduits that
we have for our frontline employees, and then, of course, working in tandem with our union partners, as
well, I think will change the trajectory holistically as it relates to a safety-centric culture. So I appreciate the
opportunity to be able to state that.

VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, GM CEO Johnson. Thank you, Mr. McClain for the succinct report. Thanks,
Directors, for your questions and comments. I've got a motion to approve brought by Director Rosenthal,
seconded by Bouquet. Are there any no votes on this matter?
Seeing none, this is approved unanimously. I believe that's still 11 to 0. I don't think anybody else has
dropped off. Next, we're going to go on to a report of directors activities. With any Director to report on their
activities for August and September?
Seeing none, we'll move on to other matters. Does any director have any other matters to present to the
Board? Seeing none, I will entertain a motion to adjourn.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So move.
TROY WHITMORE: Seconded.
VINCE BUZEK: Guissinger, seconded by Director Whitmore. Any no votes on the motion to adjourn?
Seeing none, we are adjourned at 7:24 PM. Thanks, everybody for participating. Thanks, staff and
everybody. Take care. Bye.

