Jun 4 2019 0530 PM Communications & Government
Relations Committee Committee SD 480
LYNN GUISSINGER: Committee will now come to order, please. I'm Lynn Guissinger. It's
Tuesday, June 4th. And I would note that the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors
are digitally video recorded and will be captioned and made available to the public via the
Board's website.
Welcome, everyone. We start off every meeting with a safety moment. We often start with the
same safety moment. But I'm going to go rogue tonight. It's Bike Month. And in Boulder, we call
it Walk and Bike Month. I'm very proud that RTD is one of the sponsors of Bike Month, we're
going to hear more later tonight about our first and last mile efforts, and that's a great way to
support first and last mile.
My safety moment-- if you're a cyclist, my favorite safety thing is now, get a red light that blinks
loud. It used to be kind of uncool to have a daytime running light. But now it's not uncool. And
wear it all hours, all day. It's a great thing.
My second thing, if you're a cyclist, is always, if you're coming up behind a pedestrian, be sure
to-- now if I can't turn the thing off-- a pedestrian, or perhaps Chair Tisdale on his e-scooter, you
want to give them a little notice and you can do that with a bell or you can do that by just saying,
on your left. If you're wondering how you're going to get a bell, I just cleaned out my garage.
Anybody in the room that would like a bike bell, you can give it to your granddaughter if you
want. I won't tell. If you don't get one tonight, I have more. Ah, they're moving in already. But
they're available for anyone.
But let people know, as a car or a bus, I'll just remind us all that the law-KATE WILLIAMS: Ooh, hamburger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: It's a hamburger. I left the eyeball at home. --that the law in Colorado is
to pass a cyclist, you have to give them at least three feet of space. Ideally, I like to think of that
as more like six feet. But the law is three.
And finally, at the end of this month, June 26 is Bike to Work Day. You can go to
biketoworkday.us and sign up to ride your bike that day and be part of the change.
I'll give a little tip to the Directors. It's a great time to go find the longest breakfast line and talk
to them about all the great things RTD is doing, and the great things that you're doing for them as
your constituents. So that's it for now.
KATE WILLIAMS: I feel much safer.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Do you? Good.

We have no recommended actions tonight. We have four updates. And I'm going to start by, first
of all, we've had such a busy month. Thank you to Pauletta Tonilas and your team for some great
events, with the opening of the G Line and the opening of the E, F, and R Line. And I'm going to
let you take it away. OK.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Well, good evening, everyone. It is a pleasure to be before you. I can't
believe it, but it's my four month anniversary here in front of you. Can't believe it. It's gone fast.
Right?
So I'm pleased to be here to just give you some highlight updates of what we've been doing and
the progress we're making and some things that are coming ahead. And then we're going to be
giving you an overview of the latest customer satisfaction survey, which was conducted in
March. We wanted to get this out in front of the Board as soon as possible. And we felt that this
was a great opportunity tonight at the committee meeting.
So as you recall, I have scheduled listening sessions with each of the Board members, with the
exception of two of you. We've had a hard time scheduling with a couple of you, but 13 of them
are done. And I thought it would be good to just give you a very brief overview of some of the
common themes that I've heard from you, which is helping us a great deal as we map out our
strategic framework forward.
So transparency is something I've heard loud and clear from all of you. I think we all have. How
important transparency is and that we face the music in everything that we do. And we have
worked really hard already in the time I've been here in us doing that. And sometimes it's tough
to embrace the tough stuff. But this is what we're here to do. This is part of how we build trust
and how we reposition this agency as the great entity that it is. So we've heard that loud and
clear.
Also, showcasing all the progress that we're making. We are doing a tremendous amount here at
RTD, and I think we can continue to do a better job of showcasing to the public all the great
things that we're doing here and how we really are the integrator, the instigator, the innovator of
transit across the region.
Also, building respect and positioning the agency as a leader and a partner, that collaborative
spirit. This was also something that many of you talked about in the meetings that we had.
Creating a consistent face and voice for the agency. Wanting broader survey of the public. So
beyond our customer satisfaction surveys, which we do regularly, and you'll hear that report in
just a couple of minutes. So we do have plans to do more broad, robust public opinion research
in the coming year.
Also, T2, the Transportation Transformation Initiative, this being a great opportunity to reframe
the agency's mission and goals and what our purpose is moving forward. So many of you are
very excited about that. And also what I've heard is that you want robust community engagement
as part of that, which that is part of the plan.

Also, the desire for more outreach prior to our service changes. We do public hearings, which we
always give the public and always have given the public a voice to react and respond and to give
us their input on what our staff diligently does in the work of saying, hey, you know, some of
these routes and some of this service is not meeting our service standards, so here's what we're
looking at doing. But how can we even enhance that more?
And then a very important thing we're going to be doing working with the service planning team
is how do we then loop back with the public on what we heard. You know what, you told us this.
We were able to tweak it, or we realized that this was a change that we should make, and we're
able to do it. Or we heard this, we aren't able to do it for this reason, and here's why. And so how
do we loop back with people?
Being out in the community and going to people where they are. And sometimes it's going where
people are the angriest. And Director Lubow has said that a couple of times in the meetings here.
You know what, I'm not afraid to do that. And I think that's some of what we have to do. And so
how do we go and make it convenient for people to give us their feedback? How do we engage
with them? And it does mean us going to them, making it easy, safe, and convenient for them to
engage with us, and sometimes going where people are the angriest.
Also, that we need to do a better job of promoting mobile ticketing and the FlexRide. The
FlexRide is an amazing service, and a lot of people don't know what the FlexRide is. And we've
transitioned that. It made it a more robust service from Call-A-Ride to FlexRide, which is now
predominantly reserved online or through your phone. So we need to make sure we're getting
those messages out.
And then improving the navigation and the information access on our website. And so we are
working on doing that. And actually, some of the activities that are coming from this we already
have included in the General Manager's 2020 Tactical Plan. And this, of course, being the
tactical goal number one from the SLT Board retreat that we had, which is strengthen transparent
public communication and collaboration. So we're already on our way, as we have worked a lot
of this into Mr. Genova's plan moving forward.
Some progress. Director Guissinger, our chairwoman, already mentioned our rail openings. It's
really unprecedented in the transit industry to open two rail lines in three weeks. I'm happy to say
that's quite unprecedented. And Dave loves this talking point where he talks about six transit
projects in three years. And so if you think about that, that is like who does that? We did that. So
that's a tremendous thing, too, that we can tout.
Our strategic communications plan is being framed. We have done a lot of internal work to
figure out how do we not only rise up to what the expectations are, but how do we do it that
makes sense, that resonates with the people. So that's also something that's in development.
And I'm happy to report tonight that we've hired a new Senior Manager of Marketing. And he is
here with us tonight. He doesn't start until next Monday. So he's already on the job, folks. But I
want to introduce you to Steven Brier, who is right here.

[APPLAUSE]
And I'm very excited to have Steven here. And I'll just tell you really quickly about Steven. He
comes to us as the former Director of Marketing and Outreach for Aspen Ridge Recovery, which
is a prominent substance and mental health treatment center in Lakewood. He also was a Vice
President of Marketing for Astonish, which is a technology company, Senior Vice President of
Strategy, Brand, Customer Experience at CPA Global, Allegis Global Solutions, where he was
Executive Director of Global Marketing Communications. And also, he was Senior Manager of
Global Marketing Solutions and Support for Marriott International.
He has 25 years of experience in all different types of marketing, brand strategy, brand
development, outreach, special events, market research, and such. He is a graduate of Colorado
State University. And he starts Monday. And so I'm very pleased. We did a very comprehensive,
robust recruitment, had tremendous candidates. And I can tell you, a lot of people want to come
work here at RTD. And so he was our selection and I'm very pleased to have him join our team.
Also, right now we are in the process of doing interviews for the Senior Manager of Public
Relations and Engagement. And we expect to make a swift decision on that position and have
that person, hopefully, join us within this month.
Some enhanced outreach efforts that I wanted to make sure the Board is aware of is quiet zones,
which are not always quiet, and safety outreach. And I say that because I think that we could do
a better job of making sure we're setting expectations with the public on what quiet zones are,
how they operate, and what we can do to basically provide the communities with the information
they need in a timely manner.
So we have committed to providing advance notifications to the communities along the
University of Colorado A Line and the G Line when there's planned work that we know about.
And so we're working with Denver Transit Partners (DTP) on what can we do to make sure that
we get advance information if there's going to be work that's going to require the blowing of the
train horns. That being said, there are always going to be things that happen randomly and
intermittently that we aren't going to have advance notice to. So how do we educate and inform
our stakeholder partners out there so that we have a good dialogue about this?
So actually this month, we're going to be starting meetings on both the A Line and the G Line.
We're going to be doing two meetings each. The first meeting will be June 17. And we're
pushing this out in the next day or so along the G Line. And this will be an evening meeting on
Monday, June 17. There will also be a meeting on Monday, June 24 along the A Line. And then
we're going to be doing two pancake breakfasts that will be more of an informal way to educate
where we'll have various stations and give people an opportunity to learn at more of a family
setting. So we'll be doing these two pancake breakfasts at different times in late June and then in
July.
This is very important because we want the public to number one, understand what quiet zones
are, how they work, let them ask us questions, and so we can recalibrate to set the right the
expectations of what everybody needs in terms of information. And we know that Director Cook

and Director Lewis and others have gotten a lot of comments from their constituents about this.
Because at 3:30 in the morning, at 4 o'clock in the morning, at midnight, there's been some horns
blowing. And all I can say-- and Mr. Genova can step in if he'd like-- is that we are working
diligently with Denver Transit Partners so that we all have the right expectation level and can all
be proactive in the information that we're sharing.
So those, we're going to be getting those dates out and those details to you in the next day or so.
Then we're going to start early with the education and setting the right expectations for the N
Line communities, because we've had some lessons learned. So we'll be doing that.
And then the service change public hearings we've already started implementing, using those
meetings and audience with the public for more of an educational opportunity for all the things
going on here at RTD. Because they should know about everything we're doing, the big things,
in addition to these service changes that they've come to give input on.
One of the things we're jumping right into, in the spirit of being proactive and of telling our own
news and our own stories, is we're creating an RTD newsroom, where we can start with baby
steps and we'll be growing this over the next months as a way for us to really make sure all the
information and the right information is getting out. And so we're going to take control and we're
going to be able to frame the narrative so that it tells the complete story about things.
And this isn't just happy news. But this is even dealing with those things where we need to be
transparent, as I was talking about earlier. So we have an opportunity to do that and build upon
it. This will increase our visibility through the website, enhance the use of our blog, introduce
using news, video news releases, podcasts, strengthen our engagement through social media, and
also providing some guidance to the Board and senior leadership and staff on how we can all
better utilize our own social media vehicles out there to share RTD information, and building
thought leadership opportunities. You all can be a part of this in these thought leadership articles
and pieces that we do, for instance, through LinkedIn or what have you.
And then looking ahead, excitement on the horizon for July, because we'll be celebrating our
50th anniversary on July 1st, which is our actual anniversary of when it became legal in law.
And so we'll be doing some customer appreciation events that day and some promotion to have
people come and join us then on July 12th, Friday, July 12th, which will be the big 50th
anniversary public celebration at Union Station. And so that'll be happening. We'll get you more
details about that.
And then our employee event is August 11th at Elitch Gardens. And then in the next couple of
months, we're looking to put out the request for proposals-- excuse me-- for corporate
sponsorship and naming rights procurement. Because we need to get that contract back online.
And then our T2 engagement will be starting sometime later this summer. And we'll be working
with the consultant team, that the Board just approved last month, and their engagement team
and us doing very robust engagement to hear what the people out there say about their mobility
future and how they would like to move around this eight county region in the future.

So that is my component of the presentation. And I'd like to go ahead and move right into our
customer satisfaction survey results. And so Jeff Tranguch, which Jeff has been doing a fantastic
job overseeing our market research. He's going to go swiftly through the results of the customer
satisfaction survey. And then we're happy to answer any questions that you have.
JEFF TRANGUCH: Thank you, Pauletta. Good evening, everyone. Again, my name is Jeff
Tranguch. I'm a Senior Analyst within the Market Research department.
Over the next few minutes, I plan to share with you some of the top line findings that we have
from our most recent customer satisfaction survey. We do have the full report available, which
we hope to get available to the masses later this week, soon as possible.
The last time we did a survey was in 2017. So we do have a comparison to that year as well. So
again, this is very top line. The report will obviously have a lot more information.
A little bit about the methodology. We conducted the survey on board as a paper survey
distributing about 12,539 surveys to riders. And that number comes from a sampling plan which
we used based on ridership volume. We distributed surveys, where we could, to try and get a 5%
margin of error or less for services like Boulder local, Denver local, regional, FlexRide. In some
cases, we couldn't. But we tried to get as high a sample as we could.
We actually got a 30% response rate this time around. We're typically hovering in the mid 20s.
So this is higher than the last time we did this survey. So about one in three folks gave us the
survey back. And as my time as a consultant, we celebrated 10% as success. So the fact that
we're getting three times that, I think there's something to be said about that. We tend to have a
good relationship with our customers and they are not shy to tell us how they feel about our
services.
The slide here demonstrates what our ridership-- how it may be changing. So we included
several questions in this survey this time around to answer those questions around ridership. So
are new people riding? If so, how many? Are people riding more or less? And you'll see on the
following slides what that looks like.
But right here, we have about 15% of folks saying that they started riding RTD services for the
first time within the past 12 months. So you technically could call them new riders. We have
approximately 1% saying that that was their first time using RTD. And we're very pleased that
they actually filled out a survey. So about 15% of folks started using us within the past 12
months.
To get a sense of if folks are riding more or less, we simply asked them, how has your use of
RTD services changed in the past 12 months, if at all? We see most, 56%, say that their use of
RTD services has not changed at all, 4% are riding less, and 30% are riding more frequently.
Now of that 34%, I don't know if that's good or bad. We'll continue to monitor that in the future
to see if that number goes up or down or if it stays stagnant.

In regard to income, we calculate income based on two factors. So the respondent's household
size and their reported annual income from all sources. So we use the threshold of 185% or less
of the poverty level. To give you an example, a family of four, if you make less than $46,500 a
year, you would qualify for low income as according to RTD standard. So this slide here
demonstrates that about 30% of respondents fit that description of low income. So on any given
day across RTD services, about 30% of folks would qualify as low income.
In regard to transit dependence, we use a question similar to what's from the American
Community Survey base from the Census Bureau, where we ask how many vehicles, i.e. cars,
vans, motorcycles, are kept at home for members of your household. And those that enter zero,
we classify them as transit dependent. So they don't have any vehicle at home which they could
use. Even if they don't have their license or they have a disability that prevents them from
driving a vehicle, they have no access at their household to a vehicle.
And what this slide demonstrates is about 30% of our riders in any given day are transit
dependent. When you look at that based on income status, about 54% of those who meet RTD
standards for low income are transit dependent. And you see the stark difference there. You
would argue that those that have a higher income are more likely to own a vehicle, and you see
that represented in the data here.
Many of the questions that we ask in the survey are trip based. So not only do we measure
satisfaction, but we try to get an understanding of how folks are paying for their trip. And what
we have here is 24% of folks said that they use the three-hour pass to pay the fare for their trip,
followed by 22% EcoPass, 21% monthly pass, and then on down the list.
We do have an indication of how many folks used the mobile tickets app. And we estimate about
11% of folks on any given day use the mobile tickets app.
Getting into satisfaction, we use three questions that are standard in most satisfaction surveys. So
how satisfied are you overall with RTD services? How likely are you to recommend RTD to
others? And what is your likelihood to choose RTD again in the future? And you see we have an
average score reported and then the top two box reported. So the top two box is simply a
summation of those that selected a 4 or a 5. So if it's satisfaction, you could argue those folks are
satisfied. And if it's likelihood, they are likely to do something. So what we have here on this
side is 85% of our riders say that they are satisfied with RTD services overall, 86% are likely to
recommend RTD to others, and 96% are likely to choose us again in the future.
We also have several service quality ratings that are similar to satisfaction. We ask folks to rate
our bus services overall, our train service overall, and then their overall attitude toward us. And
this scale is on another five point scale, where 1 is poor and 5 is excellent. And again, the top
two box, 81% of folks rate our bus services as a 4 or a 5, 85% rate train services as a 4 or 5, and
then overall RTD services, 82% rate us as a 4 or a 5.
Deeper analysis allows us to identify what predicts someone to give us a rating of RTD services
overall. So the items that you see before you are those items from the survey-- again, these are all
based on a five-point scale, where 1 is poor and 5 is excellent-- and we ask folks to consider all

their experiences with RTD and give us a rating for these. What we find with these items in
particular is they act as predictors for how folks will rate us and with that question, how would
you rate RTD services overall. So again, these are used to predict how they rate us with that
particular question.
And here we have the means from the current survey in 2019 and the last time I did this survey
in 2017. And to give you a picture with the top two box, it looks like there we have three of them
highlighted in red. Now what that means is that there is a statistically significant difference from
2017 to 2019. What that simply means is that the number has dropped considerably, and we
think it's because of something actually going on in the population. So it's not just dumb luck that
it happened like this.
So you'll see some of those have gone down or gone up, but it's not a big enough difference that
we can rule out random chance. But when it comes to on-time performance of the bus, on-time
performance of the train, and the value that they think that they're getting for the money they
paid, we've gone down. Now again, they are high, but these are things that we'll need to monitor
in the future, because they have gone down since the last iteration of this survey.
Just to summarize what we learned here. 34% of respondents said that they are riding RTD more
frequently. Again, we don't know if this is good or bad. We'll continue to monitor this in the
future when we conduct future surveys. 85% say that they are satisfied, so a 4 or a 5 on that fivepoint scale. And we know that important predictors for how a rider feels about us overall are ontime performance and the value they think they're getting for the fair that they paid. And we've
noticed that the ratings for these, the average ratings have gone down since the last time we'd
done this survey. And again, we'll continue to monitor those in the future.
Any questions?
PAULETTA TONILAS: So yeah. One thing that I wanted to mention that Jeff reported on about
the 11% of the respondents said that they're using the mobile tickets app. That's 11% of all of the
ways that people pay for fares. So that actually is, in some of our opinions, impressive, given that
we have a new mobile ticketing app and we've been promoting it. But our goal is to promote it
more. But if you stop and think about how the EcoPass, college pass, those are paid and those are
basically implemented differently. It's the remainder of the ways that people pay for tickets. And
11% are paying through the mobile tickets app, which I think is a good starting point. And we'll
continue to monitor that.
SPEAKER 2: Pauletta, you mentioned-- you e-mailed the full survey.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Oh, yes. Yes. Thank you very much. So Jeff was mentioning at the
beginning of his presentation the full final report that is accessible. And we just got that final
report today from our partner that does research with us, BBC Research Consultants. And so I emailed that to all of you just before this meeting. That's the full report. And if you have any
questions, of course we can answer those. But this will also go up on the website this week. But
wanted to make sure you know you already have that in your inbox.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you very much, Chair. Thank you, Pauletta. Thank you, Jeff. That
was really interesting.
I'm particularly interested in seeing the market research survey analysis, when you get a chance
to get it. I had a quick question about the predictor part that you were talking about. Because
predictor to me means predicting something in the future that you could predict behavior. What
was that?
JEFF TRANGUCH: So the slide that you're referring to is BBC performed a regression analysis
on what effects or what predicts someone's rating of us overall. So those items that we loaded
into the regression model came out statistically significant. So we know-- we recognize them as
something that can predict someone's score, not something in the future. But using those items,
we can come up with a predictor for what that person, how those score us, and how many-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So what you're saying is that the on-time performance and value for the
ride will predict whether they're satisfied or not.
JEFF TRANGUCH: Right. So if they perceive us to be on time, if they perceive us to be getting
a good value, then they're likely to rate us higher in terms of overall satisfaction or their overall
rating of us.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, I think that's interesting. But I would be more interested in learning
to predict their future behavior to ride with us and become like a sticky rider. Because I mean,
they're going to say in the survey whether they like us or not. And I don't really want to predict
what I think the survey should be telling me in the first place. So I'm more interested in looking
into the future for that.
I'm really excited to hear that we have a new Marketing person. And so, Pauletta, that leads me
into asking for a robust marketing plan with all the bells and whistles in it. It seems to me that
with this mobile ticketing app that we could partner with DRCOG (Denver Regional Council of
Governments). Like their ad for Way to Go is amazing. It's beautiful and it's engaging and
people like it. And I'm wondering if there's a way we can partner with them to reduce our
advertising costs, but still teach people, on a larger scale, how to use the mobile ticketing and see
if that increases the usage.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Absolutely. We're happy to look at how we can partner with various
folks. We actually have a partnership with the City and County of Denver this summer for
students to have a pass that the City and County of Denver is paying for and we're pushing out
through our mobile ticketing app. And the students get a link from Denver. They go do a survey
and then we get that information and they have to set up an account. But we're already doing
that. And we're looking at doing more partnerships where we can utilize our mobile ticketing app
to push people out tickets to make it convenient for them.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Great. Also, Pauletta, I wanted to say what a great job you did as the
emcee of COMTO (Conference of Minority Transportation Officials). I was really impressed
with your abilities and your skills. And it was a beautiful night. I find that to be one of the most
inspirational things that we do every year here at RTD. So I was really proud that you did that,
and thank you.
My final question is, could you send a pretty detailed budget of the whole Communications
Department that includes Customer Care and everything?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Absolutely. Yeah. We'll-- sure, we can get you our budget.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. Thank you.
PAULETTA TONILAS: You bet. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Guissinger. I have a couple of questions. And I want to
ask Dave one first, General Manager Genova. And I'm going to have a problem here with packet
pages and presentation pages. But this is packet page 19, where it says that the on-time
performance-- this is the customer's perception that our on-time performance of a bus and our
on-time performance of a train has decreased. And so I want to know, has it? Or is that just their
perception?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, to really answer that in regards to the survey, I would need to know
when we did our sampling. So we have seen-- and we'll talk about this next week at the Finance
and Operations committees, you'll see the first quarter performance reports. So we have seen a
little bit of a dip in light rail on-time performance. Bus, I think, has been pretty steady. Although
I think we might have even had an improvement in one of the bus modes. So it's moved around a
little bit.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. So that-- and thank you. That was basically the question. I'm just
wondering if, in fact, our customers' perceptions are close to reality or if they're off. Because if
they're off, then it's a marketing issue. And if they're on, then it's an operations issue. So that's
my point with that.
I have a couple more, if you guys bear with me for a minute. On page 12, which I think is packet
page 15, I think, if I'm going backwards now, did my math. Let's go back there and look. Yeah.
So we're looking at transit dependent and non-transit dependent. And I'm wondering, because I
live and work in Denver, what percentage are bike users and TNC (transportation network
company) users reflected in there? Or did we just count people don't have cars? Because I have a
bunch of people-- I have people who work for me, I have friends, they are not transit dependent.
They don't own cars.
JEFF TRANGUCH: That's a great question. So again, the question that we use for that is based
off the American Community Survey. If you answer zero, we consider you transit dependent. It's

likely an imperfect way of doing it. But because it comes from the census, we tend to use a lot of
their stuff so that we can compare it to see how far or how close we are in terms of our estimates.
This, we do have an estimate of bike usage. We ask first and last mile questions. How did you
get to the first RTD service you boarded for this trip? We find that most people walk, followed
by driving alone. There are some differences there, based on whether they took a bus only, a
train only, or both. Then we asked how they got from their last RTD vehicle to their destination.
But we don't have some indication of OK, if they say zero, they may not consider themselves
transit dependent, but because they answered zero, for our consistency purpose, we treat them as
transit dependent.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, just to think in the future, and here's a classic example. I am not transit
dependent. And I almost always take a Lyft or an Uber when I go to the train. So if you'd asked
me, I don't know where I would fall in that. And a lot of people who are riding the A train, in
particular, went there in a variety of ways. So OK, that's that one. Cross that one off.
We really need to survey non-riders. You know? I mean, not that I don't care about our riders.
But they're already riding us. We could partner with chambers of commerce, economic
development councils, mayors, caucuses, wherever. We need to talk to people who are not riding
RTD and ask them one simple question. How come? And then we would learn all kinds of stuff.
So OK, that's an opinion instead of a question. I'm sorry. I'm almost there. Hang on.
OK. Can we-- OK, so we're talking about 11% of our people use the mobile ticketing app. Is it
possible that on our mobile ticketing app we could have some kind of a survey, a customer
satisfaction, you know, a bleep button that when they're using the mobile ticketing app, if they
were not happy, they could say so right then and there?
DAVE GENOVA: If I might. I've wondered that same thing. And I haven't had the chance to
take it up with our technical folks yet.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Heather? Sure.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So right now we do not-- So we can not embed this survey within the
app itself. But we probably could create a link that would take them out of the app to the RTD
website or something where they could take the survey. But we can't-- at this time, we don't have
the technology to embed that in the app itself.
KATE WILLIAMS: So that answers my question. And then my point being-- so we come back
around to marketing again. Pauletta, I'm sorry, I love you. Welcome.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Don't be sorry.
KATE WILLIAMS: The idea then would be to market that. So use our ticketing app and buy
your ticket. And not only can you buy your ticket, but you can voice your opinion. And if you
don't like it, you know, here we are, big shoulders in the red jacket and the red glasses. You

know, tell us. And I think that that would drive people to the mobile ticketing app myself, if they
knew that then they could gripe, unfortunately. Thank you very much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
JEFF TRANGUCH: If I may, Director Williams, we actually just conducted a customer
satisfaction survey for mobile tickets users. We got almost 3,000 responses to it. I'm currently
finishing up the analysis, hope to have it done this week. What we generally find, as we did in
2017, folks tend to like the app. We do have an idea of some of the issues that folks may be
experiencing. But I think only 7% of folks said that they experienced some issue within the past
30 days. So we should have the final report available for that.
To your other comment about non-riders, I have data from a segmentation survey from 2014
which we conducted district wide. We worked with BBC Research. That was done before my
time here. But my predecessor did a great job on it. It explores why people ride and, among those
who haven't rode RTD services in the past 12 months, which we consider non-riders, why they
haven't rode. And I actually have the results.
The top five reasons for why they haven't used RTD in the past 12 months. Number one reason is
because they prefer their car, 36%. Number two, inconvenient or infrequent scheduling. Number
three, 11%, too far or no services nearby. 9%, no routes where I need to go. 9%, no direct routes
where I need to go. That's based off of those that haven't ridden in the past 12 months. And it
was a random sample phone survey. Again, the data were conducted in 2014. I think there's an
opportunity for us to do that. And perhaps we could do that when we do T2 exploration. But I do
have-- I can elaborate on that more, if you'd like to see the results from that survey, as well.
PAULETTA TONILAS: And as far as-KATE WILLIAMS: You're hired.
PAULETTA TONILAS: --as far as T2 goes, there is a research component built into the
engagement for T2, for the analysis for the assessment. And so we already have talked about
how we can get to everybody across the region, not just our riders. Because that's one thing that I
think we need to understand better is why people who aren't riding aren't riding.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very, very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you much. Thank you, Lynn.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You're welcome. Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair. Thank you for the presentation. I thought it
was really well done. And I also would like to congratulate you on your emcee job at the
COMTO dinner. It was quite lovely. And it was so fun to watch you get up there and do your
thing. And I think that it really shows how much this community values you, Pauletta. So thank
you.

PAULETTA TONILAS: Very nice. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's the good news. Here's my other stuff.
I'm really interested in these demographics. First of all, everything you just said about why
people haven't ridden in the last year is what I hear on a regular basis. So that's not new
information. That's current information.
But I'm looking in your demographic characteristics. And according to this, approximately 50%
of your participants were men. More than 60% were non-Hispanic. More than half were 45 years
of age or older. More than a third reported residing in Denver. Approximately 30% were low
income. More than a half of the participants reported having a college degree, and nearly one
third of the passengers reported not having a car available to them.
And I find those demographics kind of concerning because it doesn't represent my district very
well. But here's my question to you. When you were doing these outreach, were there people
available to have them in Spanish and could talk to someone in Spanish? That's number one. And
secondarily, did you do any outreach to the outlying areas, like in Jefferson County or Adams
County and that stuff?
JEFF TRANGUCH: Sure. So the survey was made available in Spanish, both as a paper survey
and an online survey. And as far as the sampling is concerned, this was handed out across all of
our services, revenue generating. So it did not include Mall Ride. It did not include Metro Ride.
And it did not include Access-a-Ride or Access-a-Cab. Those services are special services. We're
conducting a separate survey for those later this year.
But the sampling plan was developed so that a survey would go out to riders based on ridership
volume for that particular service. So Boulder local, basically down to the route level. We
worked with service development to get a number of people that we think use a given service on
any given day, and we distribute the surveys out that way to give us an estimate on what
ridership looks like on any given day.
We do have an indication on where these folks currently reside. We ask for their county of
residence. I can look into those data and happy to share the results with you. But there will be
some imbalance, because it's based on the district-- or the district as a whole, ridership as a
whole, not just some certain subset.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So then my other question is, looking at that, were you able to
touch all 15 districts or was it just more spread out than that?
JEFF TRANGUCH: Surveys were handed out on every rail platform, commuter rail and light
rail. And surveys were handed out, where we could, on every bus route. Now some bus routes
that had higher ridership had larger amounts of surveys to be handed out. But again, that's based
on ridership volume. We try to-- whenever we conduct a research project, we try to come up
with a sampling plan where we know how big our population is and the chances of someone
being selected out of that population. And we've done that in the past.

And I can say that in terms of the demographics in regard to education, they're in line with what
they were in 2017. I don't know what they were in 2014. I wasn't here. But a lot of the stuff is in
alignment with what we've seen two years ago, minus the ratings for on-time performance and
things like that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. And my last question is what was the time period
that you did this in? Was it in 30 days, 60 days?
JEFF TRANGUCH: We distributed the survey the first week of March. Us being only a
department of one right now, we outsourced all of it. So we had BBC was handing out surveys
on platforms. And we basically gave them a sampling plan that they would take sample during
peak and off-peak hours at every station, and then operators handed them out to every other
person based on whatever directions they were given for that.
We did collect data from 6:00 in the morning until 8:00 in the evening. 87% of people that we
provide service to in a given day are covered between those hours. The reason why we cut that
off at 6:00 in the morning and 8:00 PM is due to safety concerns. We certainly don't want folks
out there on platforms by themselves at night. So that's simply a safety concern.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. I found it interesting, Director Rivera-Malpiede's about the
reasons people don't ride in her district, those are the same reasons I hear in my district. And yet
the demographics are very different. So I found that very interesting.
Backtracking a little bit, I did want to compliment both of you on your presentations. And I was
struck by the chart, the significant-- statistically significant drops in performance of bus and ontime performance of train, as well as value received for the fare paid. I'm hearing that, too. And
this also goes back to, Pauletta, your presentation on service change-- I guess it's page 4, service
change public hearings, educational opportunities for agency news.
I did attend the service change public meeting last week. And most of the comments received
were on operational issues. And when I attended similar public hearings the last few times, those
also were pretty prevalent as opposed to actual service changes. So as you look forward, we do
those service change public meetings three times a year. But what I'm hearing is more
operational issues from those.
Perhaps we want to maybe broaden the scope of those or look at other opportunities to conduct
public meetings where we can understand the public's concerns about our operations, on-time
performance. Because I just saw those meetings as providing an opportunity for people to speak
out on something other than service changes.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Guissinger. I wanted to thank both of you for your
presentation. And also, Pauletta, thank you so much for hearing what some of us were saying
about transparency and going to where people are angry. I know for myself, when I feel listened
to and heard, the anger dissipates. And that's a big part of why I was pushing that. So I feel
listened to by you. And I think that's terrific. So I would urge you to continue doing that, and I'm
very happy about it.
I had one question having to do with there was a statistically significant drop in happiness with
our service. And do we have a process in place where we are analyzing that and coming up with
reasons and then ways to address that? What's going to happen with that, if anything?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Well, to start with, I think we have a grand opportunity with our T2
operations assessment that we're about to embark upon. Because again, that gets back to-- you
know, for me it's kind of a several layers thing, where know what are the issues, what are the
hang ups, why are people not riding? If they used to, why don't they anymore? But now, let's
look ahead and how do we craft the mobility of the future?
And so those are two main components that I think we have a great opportunity to learn from in
the engagement that we do through T2. And then I'm not sure if Mr. Genova might have more to
say-DAVE GENOVA: I will just add, when it comes to things like on-time performance and that,
we're monitoring that on a very regular basis. And at least-- well, so I know that the operations
teams are looking at that daily and weekly. And where we see changes, they're looking at-they're doing analysis to determine why. And then we also look at the roll-ups of those at least
every few weeks amongst the senior leadership team. So we are in real time monitoring those
kinds of things and doing analysis to determine where we're having issues.
A lot of it's related to congestion. And especially with fixed route bus, as we have greater traffic
congestion, we have longer trip times. And it affects our schedules, affects our on-time
performance. And similarly, we see that with light rail. Because we do a significant amount of
street running with light rail through the central business district, right. So once we get into kind
of that downtown area, then sometimes those congestion issues hit us.
But we're looking very closely at all of these things. In fact, I was just talking with Dave Jensen,
our Assistant General Manager of Light Rail, or Assistant General Manager of Rail Operations,
just, I think, yesterday. And we were going through some on-time performance review of all the
different lines. So we're doing what we can for analysis to make the improvements we need to.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I guess I assumed that. But it seemed to me like kind of a red flag
saying this is something that needs to be answered. If this is a problem, well, what's our answer?

And I'm sure our answer is that we're already working on it. But perhaps it would be good to
write something up and tell the Board, this is what we're doing to address this particular issue.
Anyway, it was just something that I felt needed an answer. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just wanted to concur with Director Williams in
her opinion that we do need another survey, and a survey that incorporates non-riders, or a
survey that incorporates both riders and non-riders. Because when you take a survey of someone
that's on a train or on a bus, they've already moved past a certain threshold. They're kind of
happy that they got on a bus and a train.
So there are a lot of people out there, I think, that might have different opinions. And I think we
need to address those part of the transparency issue, as well. So I'd be in favor of doing some
kind of a survey that incorporated all those people, as well. Because they're customers as well.
Even though they're not using our service, they're paying our taxes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Of course, yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks so much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I do want to go to page 11 in the survey results and-- packet
page 11, sorry. And it would be the packet. It'd be one of the beginning, I call it like a cover
sheet, the methodology. And in the first bullet point, it's stated that we distributed, or actually,
BBC distributed 12,539 surveys to riders across all revenue services, with the exception of
Access-a-Ride and Access-a-Cab. And since this is asking about how much you've experienced
the service and how you would rate it, when do we give the survey to those who use that service- those services?
JEFF TRANGUCH: So we're actually in the process of conducting that survey this year. We just
had a kickoff meeting with BBC today to get that rolling. Obviously, those are special services
where we need to be sensitive to people's needs. So I would imagine we'll have data and a final
report sometime this fall from that effort. But yeah, the ball has started rolling on that and we
hope to have data soon on that.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And then it's been mentioned a couple times from some other
Directors about a survey that kind of crosses the board about transportation and general terms.
And I will mention, for those who don't know, that the Denver Regional Council of Governments
conducts a household survey. And this is something over the years that I just completely
befuddled, if that would be the word, as to why it is difficult to get the results of this. And I'm
going to just read from a letter, because I think this is very important. I dealt with Lee Cryer for
quite a long time on getting this. This is an email that I had from 2018. So it would have been the
last of several communications.

Director Menten, I was informed that you're interested-- again, 2018-- in seeing data from the
Household Survey from 2010, which was, at that time, the most recent survey-- but we're not
prepared to give that report because we're not done looking at it yet. 2010. And I'm talking to
him in 2018. And what they did give was a couple tables. Unfortunately, that is such stale data,
in one sense, that it's useless. But on the other end, at that time, public transit was about 3% for
work and leisure. And I don't know how much it's actually increased beyond that, after a
substantial, substantial amount, billions of dollars, since that point in time.
But instead of us creating another survey and going spending God only knows how much more
money on BBC or some other consultants, I think we should bring DRCOG to the table and say,
first of all, what was the big hang up on the past studies, because that is a good thing to
understand. And especially if they're getting any federal money, or we're required, perhaps, I
don't know, that where are these documents? I mean, to have eight years later? I can understand
maybe two years. But that's really a long time.
So I wanted to share that, only because two or three other members asked about a survey that
would go across the board as to what do you use, how do you use your car, how do you, do you
walk, things like that. Then-- that's the only comment I really had on those things, except one last
note. When we did see a decrease in the amount of people that considered how fast-- I forget
what the actual result was, but it was for how convenient, we had seen a change there. I would
just have to take a guess that I suspect that people where that on-time performance of a bus. If
I'm reading this right, it became less of a concern? Is that-JEFF TRANGUCH: So what that chart demonstrates is we asked folks to rate their perceived ontime performance of RTD buses. So scores closer to 5 are excellent scores. Closer to 1 are poor.
So that's the scale that's used. So that's showing the average scores and then those that answered
a 4 or 5. So it's their perception of on-time performance.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, so it went down. OK. That's all I have on the survey.
And now I just want to go back to the beginning presentation, which was about Communications
Department. I am one of the two that we had not caught up with each other yet. And I'd left you a
message and stated, I've got one thing for the Communications Department, only one priority for
myself, and that is more financial transparency, more detailed financial transparency. Financial
transparency, somebody can get the details at midnight on their own, as long as they're able to
open up a Google sheet or a spreadsheet or something. Yes, that is part of the Financial
department. But I also feel it is very much part of the Communications department. That is the
only thing I ask in your goals.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. That's all.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Well, one thing that Jeff was going to just add about the Access-a-Ride
survey, too.

JEFF TRANGUCH: Yeah. So that survey will roll out this year. And the survey instrument was
developed by working with some members of the APAC (Access a Ride Paratransit Advisory
Committee) committee to find out more about the experience. So we got their input to make sure
that we were capturing everything from when they make their reservation to when they're
dropped off. So we're trying to make it as comprehensive as possible. And we do have results
from 2017 that we can compare the results to, as well, to see if we've improved or not in other
areas.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I'll look forward to that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. Jeff, I have one question for you. Is it possible for you to
break down the data per route, the routes that you were able to capture the surveys?
JEFF TRANGUCH: It's difficult to say. I haven't taken that deep of a dive into the actual data
set. For some of the routes, like the 0 or the 15, where we have higher ridership, we might be
able to. But we definitely can't do it for every route. Just simply, some of them, you know, again,
it's the sampling was done was based on ridership volume. So we can't-- we can definitely break
it down by the route level. So Boulder local, Denver local, Longmont local. But by route, I'd
have to check and see. So if you have certain ones in mind, I'm happy to look into it.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'll follow up.
JEFF TRANGUCH: OK.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Pauletta-- and that was a wonderful presentation. I really appreciate it.
Pauletta, I really appreciate that you've had the opportunity to meet with Board members to learn
about what they'd like to see in terms of communication and engagement. I know you and I had
the opportunity to have conversations. And I see some of the things that I've said in here in
[INAUDIBLE]. So I say thank you for that. And I have a few questions, if that's all right.
So one of the things that I think I've been continuously concerned about is the lack of
engagement at Board meetings from our constituents. I have a lot of General Manager requests,
non-GMRs. I have folks who reach out to maybe on social media, phone calls. And people-- and
we talked about the reasons that people aren't utilizing public transportation. And one of the
acronyms for RTD that folks use is Reasons Not To Drive, instead of like Regional
Transportation District. And I say that because I wonder if people are feeling like we don't listen,
as an agency, and when they're coming to the podium and saying the things that they need to say.
And I know we follow up, oftentimes. But folks-- I don't know, I think I'm just generally
concerned about it.
And so I wonder within this plan, where's the opportunity to start building relationships
intentionally across the district? And maybe that means for all of us as a Board to have our Board
meetings in the regions. I don't know. That's your expertise, right?

I also had a question about the transit dependent versus those who choose to use the service or
choose not to have a car. Because I think that those two demographics has very different needs.
And so I don't know how you break that down. And my ask is, can you, please, one day? I'd
really appreciate that.
Let's see. I have another thing here. That with the customer satisfaction, so when I look at this
data-- and we did see some declines, but we mostly see that people are pretty satisfied with the
service. It's not what we're hearing. And Director Malpiede and I have had these conversations.
It's not what we're hearing amongst our constituents. So people are really frustrated with RTD.
And so I wonder where the disconnect is. So if we were able to do one of those social media
polls where you put how satisfied are you with RTD and are you not, what would that data
show? Because it feels very disconnected.
I talk to a lot of folks who are angry and frustrated. And I think people have just stopped
showing up and stopped engaging because they feel defeated. And for me as a Director, that
makes me really sad. And so how can we address that issue and get people to show up and feel
as though that they have a voice and their voices are heard in this? But the data keep saying this.
I brought it up in our Board retreat. But the data, to me, seems like it doesn't match what we're
hearing within our districts.
JEFF TRANGUCH: If I may. That's an excellent question and it's something that whenever we
present data, that's something we always hear. Well, that's what I'm not hearing. And you know,
if you look at, let's say, the overall rating of RTD services is about, I think it was 81% or 82%, if
I remember off the top my head. So that means if you took a random sample of 10 people, let's
say, from the district, at least 2 of them are going to have a very negative opinion of us. And I
would argue that those folks are going to be more vocal.
So in terms of doing a social media post and like that, we, in market research, try to avoid just
simply throwing a link online. Not that we're trying to prevent people from giving feedback,
because we certainly like to hear it. We need to hear it. We need to learn from our mistakes and
where we need to improve. But anytime where you don't have a defined sampling plan, it's
difficult to know how biased or unbiased your sample is.
So I'd love to chat more about how we can engage folks more. In market research, we have our
customer panel, where we invite 15 folks from all over the district to come four times a year. We
select a new panel every year and they give us feedback. And they're definitely not shy to tell us
how we can be better. So I am happy to talk about ways we can explore to get more feedback.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I appreciate that. I just think about our most critical friends. And
my belief, as someone who works in community engagement, is to bring those folks closer. And
so how do we create opportunities to bring those who are most frustrated with us, who are most
disappointed as closer to making decisions or understanding how the system works or whatever
that might be. So I really appreciate that. That is all.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Director Cook.

SHELLEY COOK: Just piggybacking on a question that Director Lewis had, can you provide a
list of the routes that were surveyed, not necessarily broken down, or the results broken down-- it
sounds like you're perhaps going to have trouble doing that-- but could you give us a list of the
routes that were surveyed?
JEFF TRANGUCH: We could provide you with a number of folks that answered a survey for a
given service level. So I'd mentioned Boulder local, Longmont local. I can share with you the
sampling plan, too, so you can see, OK, this operator received this many surveys and was
supposed to hand them out on their trip for that day-SHELLEY COOK: For route number LD something or other, or-JEFF TRANGUCH: Should be able to get that to you. So essentially, what I used to make the
sampling plan was got every single trip that we make across all of our services, again minus the
non-revenue generating and Access-A-Ride and Access-A-Cab, and calculated, OK, here's how
many people we think we're servicing, based on transfer rates and things like that. And we'd send
it out to each operator. So I'm operator A. I get instructions, here is how many surveys I have.
Here's which route I handed out on. So yeah, I should be able to get that level of detail, but not
how many people responded from the 0 or the G Line-- well, it wouldn't be the G Line because it
wasn't open. But something like that.
SHELLEY COOK: You'd have a little spike in satisfaction on that one.
I did want to add to something that Pauletta brought up. And I'm grateful for it. There are still the
quiet zone issues, and I'm glad we're acting on that. And one thing that Pauletta has said that
they'll look at is a way of addressing issues that crop up, weren't planned for, we couldn't notify
people ahead of time, and kind of identifying the best mechanism for that. So I really appreciated
that, because severely impactful, but for a limited number of people, and trying to figure out the
best way of addressing that is really helpful. But I agree with the comments about having some
information is really preferable when you've got something like that happening. So thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair, for another bite at the apple. I'm a bit mindful of this since
I just had a one-on-one meeting, immediately prior to this meeting, with Assistant General
Manager of Safety and Security Mike Meader. And I was wondering if there were any questions
pertaining to safety and security among the survey participants. And if not-- because of the
amount of either phone calls or emails I get from my constituents concerning safety-- I'm
wondering if perhaps that ought to be included in your next update. Thank you.
JEFF TRANGUCH: We did have an item in the survey, feeling of safety on RTD services.
PEGGY CATLIN: I see that. Thank you. The Chair pointed that out. But I guess I'm just hearing
a lot of-- when I get complaints or concerns addressed from my constituents, a lot of it's about
safety.

JEFF TRANGUCH: Yeah, we certainly would love to include more on there. The challenge is
the survey is quite large now. I believe it's six pages.
PEGGY CATLIN: Understood.
JEFF TRANGUCH: But it's something we can explore in our customer panels. If you'd like, I
can follow up and we can talk about ways we can collect data around that.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you.
JEFF TRANGUCH: Sure.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Thank you for giving me another chance. I was trying to explore
the disconnect that some of the people were raising between some of the negative comments they
were hearing from their constituents and the satisfaction ratings that are usually pretty glowing.
And could one assume that the satisfaction ratings are from people who regularly ride and the
information we're getting from constituents could be from the 97% of the people that apparently
don't ride? I mean, is it as simple as that?
JEFF TRANGUCH: Without having done an analysis like that, I don't know if I could answer
one way or another. You saw on one slide that we did have about 15% of folks who said they
started riding RTD services within the past year, 1% said that was their first time. I'm looking
through the full report now. I believe-- I don't know if it's in here-- we did ask a question on their
RTD ridership in the past 12 months. So we know if they're riding every day, once a week, once
a month.
But to your point about the satisfaction ratings being high, you would assume from your
customers, yes, they're going to be higher. But I think the goal in conducting these is OK, we
have a measurement and then we monitor it from there, so we notice it's gone down. It's more
important, the relationship from year to year than I think just the general number itself and
analyzing the trend there.
JUDY LUBOW: And I agree. I think that's valuable. But I also think it is valuable to deal with
the fact that there is a disconnect. And we're trying to understand why that happens. Anyway, I
was-- that's it. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair. Jeff, you were talking about revenue service. And
Access-a-Ride is revenue service, right?
JEFF TRANGUCH: Mm-hmm.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So why didn't it get included with the other revenue service?

JEFF TRANGUCH: So we're conducting a separate survey for them. We need to be sensitive to
people's needs with all disabilities, visual, cognitive. So we conduct a separate survey for those
folks. And the ball has begun rolling on that. And that one, should be, have data by the end of
September or sometime in the fall.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: With all due respect, Jeff, I don't understand your answer. And I don't see
why having people with disabilities necessarily requires something special or different. I mean,
the survey is a survey. People with disabilities can be surveyed along with everybody else. And
they might even be on the bus. I mean, we would like to see the majority of those folks riding
fixed route than Access-a-Ride anyway.
JEFF TRANGUCH: Absolutely. And we have a measurement of folks who-- about 1% of the
sample said that they paid or boarded a vehicle using their Access-a-Ride card. But we do a
separate survey for that just so we can accommodate visual disabilities and hearing disabilities.
We do a random phone survey with that. Everybody that provides their phone number, obviously
to make an Access-a-Ride trip, we random digitally dial those folks to make sure everyone has
an equal chance of getting a survey. And that's how it was done prior to me coming to RTD. So
I'm just picking up the reins from there.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, I would encourage you to expand your horizons with that. And you
know, when we do, like the mobile app, right, you could have-- I don't know if maybe Heather,
not just a link, but Rate Your Trip, like they do with Uber, 1 through 5, rate your trip, five stars,
one star. Is that possible?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: At this time, no. We can't even put banners on the top that say, this
line isn't running, or whatever the case may be. So that might be a feature in the future that we
can do. But right now, as I mentioned before, we would-- we could most likely do a link that
would take you out of the app into another RTD feature where you could answer those questions.
But not within the app itself is my understanding right now.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, I think it might be really informative for future analysis, actually,
that if you-- we're riding the 15 versus a 15L or the 0 or the 27 or the 31 or 51 or 72, or whatever
it is, when you get off, or you get on, you've paid with your thing and then it puts you into that
link and you can say, one star to five stars or something. But that you would have collected that
data from the app itself. Right? I mean, it's big data analytics that you would obviously have
access to, I would think.
But anyway just a thought. And kind of along those lines about Director Catlin's issue about
safety. And I think safety is always of great concern-- and security, too-- can you take any
analysis from the Transit Watch app, Jeff?
JEFF TRANGUCH: I would have to see what kind of data we have available. I'm not sure what
we have available from the app to see.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Cause you could even do like, you know, hotspots, I think there is a police
department in the San Francisco Bay Area that you can look where things are hot on your phone.
Do you know about that?
DAVE GENOVA: We know that from our Transit Watch app-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah. See?
DAVE GENOVA: [INAUDIBLE] that we receive.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, thanks.
JEFF TRANGUCH: Thank you. May I? If I can add one more comment about the Access-aRide. I'm happy to walk you through the survey itself, the actual structure of the Access-a-Ride
survey versus the traditional, if you want to call it, the other system-wide survey. They're vastly
different. So we ask a lot of trip-based questions. How did you pay for this trip? Whereas the
Access-a-Ride one, we ask questions like that, but we also ask, did you schedule your trip
yourself or did you have someone make your trip for you? Do you use any assisted mobility
devices? And then we ask questions like, how would you rate your experience with the
interactive voice response system? So there is a lot of different questions. The battery of
questions is completely different, though we do measure satisfaction. And that's one of the
reasons why we conduct it as a separate effort.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, so just as a person who's permanently transit dependent, I use the
fixed route, I use Access-a-Ride, I use Access-a-Cab, I use Uber, and I use my feet. And I get a
ride with whoever I can. So sometimes people have to help me in different ways. And sometimes
I might have somebody help me find what the fixed route is where I'm going and what the timing
is to then get into an Access-a-Cab or an Access-a-Ride. And I think that those questions, for a
person who's using Access-a-Ride, is not separate from them using a fixed route. Sometimes
people with disabilities are very willing and able to use a fixed route, but during other conditions
cannot.
JEFF TRANGUCH: And we do have questions in the survey that asks how often they use fixed
route services, light rail, commuter rail. We do get an indication of how many folks who use
Access-a-Ride also use that as well. That's fit into the survey.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I am wondering if you've done any analysis to see if the on-time
performance of our bus tracks with hours of congestion over the last 10, 12 years.
JEFF TRANGUCH: Mr. Genova, I could say for market research, most of the data that we
collect is respondent based. So we don't necessarily do secondary.

JEFF WALKER: Yeah. I'm not sure I'm asking it right. If the level of satisfaction has decreased
or changed with the amount of time that other folks are spending in traffic, just like our buses
have to sit in traffic.
JEFF TRANGUCH: Oh. Don't know if we have data specific to that within this particular
survey.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah. Because I'd be interested in that. I've seen the queues at the red lights on
the block where I live go from half a block, not even reaching the alley on the short block, to
going a block and a half. So I know that traffic is out there. My bus commute is a lot longer than- it's about 5, 10 minutes longer in the 5 miles that I ride.
I'm also wondering, if it's possible, to-- and it doesn't sound like it is-- but I think it would be
interesting to see how the opinions of passengers change over our longest routes. Like the 15 is
probably, what, a 10-mile ride, and just like the 0 is probably a 10, 12-mile bus ride from end to
end. My 5, 6-mile ride is a totally different experience after I hit Alameda station, where a bunch
of people get off, than it is south of that, when folks start getting on at Broadway carrying it on
south to Englewood. And after Englewood, it's a different experience.
So I'm just wondering-- it's a different type of use for those folks. So I'm wondering if their
experience, how their experience changes, if it does at all, from between time points. I guess that
would be an easy measure, if we were to look at that.
Surveys. I did surveys in a past life. And I know how-- I know they're kind of anecdotal. I mean,
we have about 3,000 people out of, I think, what, we have 300,000 people ride a day. 300,000
trips a day. So we're not talking a whole-- valuable information, definitely. But I think it's pretty
much anecdotal.
So I'm not sure how much I buy into the arguments that-- every complaint is valid, but I don't
know how much weight we need to-- I don't know what we can do to satisfy those. Because their
situations might be extremely specific about why it doesn't work for them. We don't know what
the 70% of the people who did not respond have to say. We can assume that it works fine,
because they weren't worked up enough either way.
But anyway, so-- so I guess what I'm trying to say is that valuable, good information, definitely
interesting to talk about. I can do this stuff all day. But I don't know if it's good shaking up
everything for black swans, a couple of black swans, when their situations might be so specific
there's nothing that could be done for them. These last six months of my life have totally
upended everything. And there's nothing that RTD can do to help me out or to make it right for
me.
So I guess I'm saying I appreciate the effort. I totally understand why we do it. We should
continue to do it and I'll support any effort to get more information. I just don't know what we
can do to better specific circumstances in this broad spectrum of service that we provide. I hope
that makes sense.

JEFF TRANGUCH: We're hoping that through some of the exploration through T2, some of the
research that we'll do around there can help inform that. Again, we do have information from a
market segmentation survey that we know how folks feel towards transit, how they make their
decision to use transit. And we have it broken up into five major segments within our market.
We know the reasons why people use us, reasons why they don't use us. We can continue to
monitor those and cater to their needs as best we can. Obviously, we can't satisfy everybody. But
we can certainly do our best to collect information to make it as best as we can.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lewis. One more round.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thank you. I'll make it quick.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I will say that I was speaking about general dissatisfaction. And I would like
to continue to explore that for my district. Because that is my own personal preference and my
leadership. And I think that's why I was elected to this seat. And I want to be responsive to my
constituents. So I just wanted to tell you that. And I wanted to also say-- I missed it, but I did put
it here. Shout out to you for the pancake breakfast. I don't eat pancakes, but I'm excited to see
what it means and what it is. That's it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Dave, did you have something you wanted to say?
DAVE GENOVA: No, I'm good.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Great. Thank you both very much. That was great, very informative.
Appreciate it.
All righty. Thank you. We next have all our local, state, and federal reports from CRL and
Brandeberry McKenna and Squire Patton Boggs. You're all coming up at once. OK. You starting
us off, Roger?
ROGER SHERMAN: I will. Because I need to be looking at my phone in about nine minutes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, OK. I wonder why. Just please be sure and tell us who you are and
who you're with and all of things.
ROGER SHERMAN: Roger Sherman with CRL Associates. Jennifer has continued to ask me
what do I think is going to happen tonight at the election. I said, I left my Magic 8 Ball at home.
So I don't know.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Wait 5 minutes, or 10 minutes.
ROGER SHERMAN: We'll know in 10 minutes, maybe.

I'll just cover a couple things on the report. Two things. The Metro Mayors caucus is tomorrow.
It's a different time, 3:00 to 6:00. I think Doug usually goes. I'm sure you know the time
difference. But that is a change from the norm.
Municipal elections tonight. It's going to be very close, I think, in all of the races. It's fascinating.
I won't say what I think is going to happen.
November, November, 2019, we have a lot of other jurisdictions that have their elections. I
mentioned it here that we'll compile what we call our snapshot of candidates. But I'm also
starting to meet with candidates. I've met pretty much with mayors. I've met in the last couple
weeks with Mike Coffman, Omar Montgomery in Aurora, Pat Quinn in Broomfield. And
interestingly, RTD is top of mind for a lot of folks.
And I wanted just to mention while I was talking about that that I think we have a real
opportunity. There's been a lot of discussion around the region on mobility issues. We did
Mobility Choice. We got Denver Moves. CDOT's embarking on their study. Other jurisdictions
are doing theirs. And so I think through the T2 process we have a real opportunity. I spent just
about an hour with Omar. That's the most recent person I met with, so it's top of mind for me.
And he was fascinated about what RTD was, and very engaged. And he gets-- and Mike
Coffman gets, and I think most of the mayors will get-- the important connection RTD has to
their plans and how they're going to manage growth. And he was particularly interested in the T2
effort.
And so I think there's an opportunity for RTD to really-- I mean, we should own the planning
space around transit. And the T2 is going to give us an opportunity to kind of assert ourselves a
little bit. And I think a lot of these elected officials, current and future, are going to be very
receptive to that effort. So that was an aside. Not in my report.
Again, snapshot. If you want to-- if I can help you meet with any candidates, I think you all are
capable and will. But you'll be getting the updated snapshots of contact information. So if I can
help or you want to meet jointly, just let me know.
The fourth item on the report was missing. It's the bold headline. That is the CML (Colorao
Municipal League) conference. I realize that Tuesday, June 8 is a Board meeting night. That is
the night that we are assigned when we can do the dinner. Sam Mamet, he has now left, but he
was ruthless about us hosting a dinner on any other night that could potentially compete with
something CML is doing. So he gave us permission to host on Tuesday. So that's why it is. And I
apologize that it conflicts with the Board meeting.
And then I think that's it. Questions. All right.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Questions, no? All right. OK.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Where is CML this year?
ROGER SHERMAN: Breckenridge.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
ROGER SHERMAN: CCI is right now in Breckenridge, too.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: So I know that some of the Denver candidates have focused on really close in
neighborhood issues. That's my take. I'm wondering if out in the suburbs if they're also focusing
on neighborhood issues, which, in my mind, is that first mile, last mile.
ROGER SHERMAN: Certainly Aurora talked, both of the mayor candidates that I've met with
so far have talked a lot about that. And they also talked about the R Line, of course. And Pat
Quinn, you know, we didn't talk as much about that. He's very focused on oil and gas right now
up in Broomfield. That's kind of the driving issue that they're faced with.
But Aurora, they have a lot of landmass still to develop. And most of that is outside of the RTD
boundaries, where they're going to see the growth of residences. And that will create an issue at
some point for Aurora and the District to figure out what to do to. I think I looked at the map.
My calculation is we take a lot of residences in but we may not take a lot of sales tax generating
commercial locations. And I don't know what we do as they grow out over the next 20 years.
Maybe T2 will look at that.
JEFF TRANGUCH: We are actually looking at service boundaries as part of T2.
ROGER SHERMAN: Yeah. Both mayors, both candidates brought that issue up.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. For you, Roger, and even for Pauletta and your team, when I
talk to people in my district, a lot of them have no idea about the AV pilot program that we're
doing with Panasonic over there for the first mile, last mile. And I think that's really exciting and
interesting. And I'm wondering if you could start integrating that into some of your conversations
for solving the first mile, last mile.
ROGER SHERMAN: Sure. I'd be happy to.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I think it's pretty innovative, and along with the Uber and Lyft app.
ROGER SHERMAN: You bet.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: That's all. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I would just say that Jonathan Singer, who's a state rep, also raised the
issue of district boundaries with me and the possibility of legislation there. So I think that's going
to be an interesting area for T2 to look at.

ROGER SHERMAN: Parker?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Jennifer? [INAUDIBLE].
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: So today is the last day of the 30-day clock for Governor Polis to
sign and/or veto bills. And unlike his predecessors, he's had a very, very busy month traipsing
around the state, doing a lot of public bill signing ceremonies. And really concluded, I think, on a
transportation note, which is interesting, if you read the Denver Business Journal article about
that.
Transportation, in a very prolific legislative session, transportation really wasn't top and center.
We got $300 million, as we've reported, in the budget. But I think the future certainly is-- you
can see in his last day in his comments nodding towards transportation as a big issue in the ballot
election, this upcoming election, as well as next session. And so I think for us, I would like to
echo what Roger said is there is a lot of interest in what RTD is doing.
And I think a lot of that has to do with you at the Board being so engaged in your communities
and working with elected representatives. I think they feel connected to the Board in a way that
they haven't in maybe a few years. And I think they're excited about looking at ways to partner
with you in terms of how transportation is. And we're at a really exciting time. Not just
traditional transportation. It's the multimodal, the transit, TNC, et cetera. And we have a new
Director at CDOT that's very visionary and not a typical CDOT Director in any way, shape, or
form. And I think she, along with the legislature and the governor, have some really creative
ideas about how to deal with our infrastructure challenges.
On the ballot, I think you know that there is the de-Brucing measure. Legislation was passed that
would say if that passes, then we could keep additional revenue, if there is any. Legislation did
pass it, say a third would go to transportation, third to higher ed, and a third to K12. So that's one
piece.
Think again, kind of underscoring infrastructure, one of the other measures that will be on the
ballot is the sports betting. That additional revenue is dedicated to water, the state water plan.
Again, kind of an infrastructure theme.
And there's a lot of interim committees. Obviously, TLRC (Transportation Legislation Review
Committee), and Megan's going to tee that up. But I think the final thing we would like to say is
I think this is the time, the summer and the fall, to continue to build on those relationships. We've
always done, in partnership with you and the staff, Sherry and folks, various tours of our
facilities. And we take the lead from the transportation leaders under the dome of what they want
to see and really thank you all for partnering and making those happen.
And finally, what I would add is we were so bummed that we couldn't go to any of the opening
line ceremonies. Because we were at the Capitol all hours of night. But a handful of legislators
asked for permission to be excused to attend that. And I think that is also a very big sign of the
interest and the excitement that elected officials have. Because it's a big deal to miss votes at the
end of the session and to ask for permission to leave. And those folks did so because they felt it

was important to be part of that in their communities. And all the feedback we got was they were
very, very impressed and excited about how that went. So kudos to everybody on the staff and to
you all for doing that. And again, we are sorry that we did not get excused from the capital to go
to any of those. And I'll turn it over to Megan.
MEGAN WAGNER: Just quickly, the Transportation Legislation Review Committee is the
interim committee that looks at transportation issues. They have two meetings scheduled this
summer, actually it's toward the fall. RTD will be already-- we've already scheduled when RTD
is presenting. It's October 28. That's the last meeting at 9 AM in the Old State Library, which is
Room 271 in the Capitol. We chose the later date so we can provide the most up-to-date
information for legislators on what's going on. And we're also going to work with legislators and
RTD staff again on doing some tours. People want to know what's going on since the last time
we did a tour, which things change by the minute at RTD. So we want to keep them updated and
kind of provide an update on that.
The other interim committee that folks might be interested in, there's a sales and use tax interim
committee. It's been going for a couple years now. But it's kind of continuing to work through
the complications we have with our sales tax collection. And it's in the weeds, but I find it very
interesting. And we can send everyone the schedule for that, as well, if they're interested.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Questions? Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Jennifer and Megan. You were talking
about the budget of transportation being $300 million. For some of those on this Board who may
not know, about how much of that comes to RTD in general annually?
MEGAN WAGNER: Virtually nothing.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. That's all.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Just a question on the de-Brucing ballot question that's
coming up. Is there any protection in there that the one third that's going to go to transportation
doesn't get diluted by then just shifting an equal amount of funds to other areas of the budget so
that you end up right back where you started from?
SPEAKER 4: Actually, that's why there's a companion bill that actually has already passed. And
it spells out that that transportation additional revenue will flow through the HPT-- the current
HUTF (Highway Users Tax Fund) formula. So it's very specific. And so I think that's the reason
the speaker and the proponents of that passed that legislation is to help assuage voters as that
whether you're for it or against it, at least they believe it helps add to the conversation for the
election to whether or not to do the statewide de-Brucing. They can say clearly, should that
happen the money will go X, Y, and Z pretty specifically.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: So of that third, part of it was listed as being able to be used for transit,
correct? So the communities themselves could use it for transit or could use it as a match for
something we're doing or to make it more possible that we could do a circulator or something
like that, correct?
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: Correct. It goes through the HUTF, and then there's a percentage
that goes to local governments and a percentage of that for-- it's like 15% for multimodal and
transit projects. So it's very spelled out. And I don't have it in front of me. It's been in our past
reports and I'm happy to send you a copy of that. But it is quite specific. And there it's not direct
money to RTD, but there would be money for us to partner with our local folks, as well.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Is there any, brainstorming wise, seeing how they're looking at ways
they can incentivize the use of electric vehicles, for example, and make up revenues in other
spots. Is there any discussion or any ideas floating about about ways to incentivize transit use or
pass purchases or anything like that? Is there any thought of integrating vehicle use with-- I
know it's kind of scary-- but is there any thought about some connection between the amounts
that people pay for vehicle registration or some other fees being offset if they're transit users. I
mean, I was just wondering if there's anything that has ever been bandied about in that.
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: I mean, not to that specific level. I think there was and are a
handful of conversations. And one bill that passed in particular creates a study about how to get
additional revenue through road usage charges, maybe additional surcharges on vehicles like
Lyft, kind of trying to have this broader conversation and recognition that the people that use our
infrastructure has really changed. Like people used to go to the store. Many people don't even go
to the store. They get goods delivered to them from Amazon, et cetera.
So nothing has been passed, but there is the stakeholder process that is going to happen in the
interim that will look at more, not so much specifically what you said, but more a broader
conversation about as transportation and the transportation users change, how do we look for
ways to leverage revenue, i.e. fees on certain folks that use it maybe more to help pay fair share.
So I do think this General Assembly and the folks engaged at CDOT and the administration are
pretty open to creative ideas. And so I haven't heard that specific, but I'm not surprised if that
wouldn't come up, both at TLRC kind of in this 239 interim committee.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just a quick question. TLRC and the 239 interim committee?
SPEAKER 4: 239 is a stakeholder process that was established through CDOT in legislation to
look at road usage charges. So there's kind of a lot of various places under the dome where
transportation conversations will be happening. As Megan said, most of it will get directed
through TLRC, because that's a standing interim committee that can refer legislation.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Director Menten.

NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So going back to HB 1258, does 1258 define then-- this is
related to Director Broom's question-- does it define a current spending level regardless of Prop
CC, which is what it is, that 1258 will require that a current amount will stay there going towards
transportation and also defines the mechanism for potentially other money under CC, or it only
addresses CC?
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: CC.
NATALIE MENTEN: So it does not prevent a shell game.
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: I think you could certainly change the legislation and statutory
requirements of how you did that. But I think you'd have to overturn legislation and will to do it.
But it is at least spelled out in 1258 how additional revenue, if there were any-- I think that's the
big question. People assume if you de-Bruce, there is additional money. That is not necessarily
given. If it is, whatever that pot of money, how it will flow, is specified in 1258.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Thank you
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Megan, interim committees, are all of them scheduled yet, even the ad hoc
ones or- I'm just curious.
MEGAN WAGNER: No. The larger interim committees, like there's two energy committees,
there's a prison population management committee, they're just putting members on those
committees now. So they haven't set any dates for scheduling. TLRC, since it's a standing one, is
they do that way in advance. And the sales and use tax one is one they have the schedule up
already. But the rest of them, any of the larger committees that people are interested in, tax
expenditure review committee, they probably will be up, I would assume, within the next two
weeks. Because they need to start meeting.
TROY WHITMORE: If you could get those to Sherry or to us, that'd be great.
MEGAN WAGNER: Happy to do that.
TROY WHITMORE: OK. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I think it's [INAUDIBLE], Megan. But do you recall the other date
of the TLRC committee, besides the one that RTD is-MEGAN WAGNER: Yeah, September 16 at 9 AM. So it's September 16 for TLRC and October
28. And the October 28 one is the one RTD is going to present at.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Mike.
MIKE DINO: All right. Mike Dino with Squire Patton Boggs. I have a brief federal report today.

The House Appropriations Committee did pass the transportation, fiscal year 2020 transportation
bill out of the Appropriations Committee. So that's a positive development that shows they're
doing something back there. But there's no movement in the Senate yet on any of the
appropriations related to transportation.
I think everybody heard that the infrastructure plan that the president and Congress is trying to
put together has gone nowhere either. So there's no anticipation when that will get back online.
In terms of our more important issues here for RTD, the credit risk premium, we've been
working with APTA (American Public Transportation Association) and got it within their
authorization objectives. So that's great. And Congressman Perlmutter has also sent it over to the
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee in the House to make sure that's on their agenda
related to any reauthorization or authorization plans moving forward.
Also relative to the BRT (Bus Rapid Transit) language and providing more flexibility in that,
Chairman Tisdale knows they've been working with APTA on that to get it within the
reauthorization objectives, also. We're waiting for the June meeting to see them do that. The May
meeting, they put the credit risk premium in the transportation reauthorization objectives for
APTA. And again, Congressman Perlmutter is also working on sending a directive, or at least an
ask to the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee in the House to include that BRT
language for more flexibility.
So that's a quick update, and glad to take any questions.
SHERRY ELLEBRACHT: In addition to what Mike just reported, we have several applications
in for grants. And the DC team is working really hard to get letters of support from our
congressional delegation. Because even though some of the report, or the applications, have
already been filed, we still have time to get letters of support from our congressionals. And so
the DC team is relentless and talking to the offices to get those.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Questions. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mike Dino, for your update. Could you go
back to the credit risk premium and remind me in some detail where we are right now with that?
MIKE DINO: Well, we are really trying to get it formally into language in some vehicle within
Congress appropriations, more on the Senate side. Letters have been sent to the two US senators
to try to get it into appropriations language on the Senate side. And then we're looking to try to
get it into the authorization that's scheduled for next year, if we can't get it into appropriations.
So that's where we stand right now.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And so have both of the Senators been helpful-MIKE DINO: Oh, yeah.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And they've been agreeable?

MIKE DINO: They've been very receptive. They want to be helpful. And they just have to get
appropriations moving on the Senate side, hopefully, to try to get them to be helpful.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. Thank you. And Sherry, could you talk a little bit about the grants
you're referring to? What are they for? How much are they?
SHERRY ELLEBRACHT: Actually, Bill Van Meter's group, in planning, that's one of the items
they're going to talk about, excuse me, tonight, the competitive grants. But we have a security
grant that has already been filed. And then we have the Lo-No bus application, and that's already
been filed.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. Mike, I just wanted to compliment you and Patty
on the language that you crafted for the explanation of the credit risk premium and also the BRT
language. I had an opportunity to review those drafts before Chair Tisdale presented them. And it
was probably one of the best explanations I've seen for that particular-- I mean, it's fairly
confusing. And so I just wanted to applaud you. Because I read through that and I went, a ha,
that's what it is. So thank you.
MIKE DINO: And Patty deserves most of the credit for this, if not all of it.
PEGGY CATLIN: It was excellent. And I responded to her, as well, saying, this is the best
explanation I've seen to date. So kudos to you all.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I want a second that. And to effectively
communicate how good that was, my task was to present it to the BRT committee at APTA in
Louisville at about 5:30 PM on the Tuesday of the session. And as I pointed out to them, I was
the only thing standing between them and bourbon. And the write up was exceptionally handy in
making it all very impactful.
And yes, as you indicated we will be talking about this at the transit board members committee
meeting in Jacksonville in July. And we are hopeful that it will work. But thank you again for all
the work, and also on the credit risk premium, as well.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I think that's what we need. Thank you all for taking such good
care of us. They have grabbed the first couple of bells. I hope you won't forget them. Do we have
any other matters? I have a little one. Anybody else have another matter?
I would just say that the things that were raised here tonight, the CDOT plan and Denver Moves
and the Mobility Choice, and Denver and Boulder and Aurora and everybody looking at transit,
DRCOG, these have all been sort of top of mind. And the Chair and I have been talking, and

Dave and Pauletta and Sherry, and with Jennifer and Roger and all of-- to start talking about how
we can bring people in and have us meeting, whether it's part of this committee or another
committee or a study session or a forum that's been kicked around. There are a lot of ideas.
But I think I've heard a lot of members of the Board. And Director Lewis was reflecting it more
from a grassroots level, which is, I think, also a great way if we can think about that, but just how
we start to start getting our hands around what's going on in the community so we can better
respond as Bill and his team come back to us with T2 proposals. And we're working on that. I'd
love to hear your thoughts.
Anything else? I think actually it says our meeting's August 8. But I think our meeting is August
6. And no other matters, I'll say we're adjourned. Come get a bell, please.
[GAVEL BANGING]
I don't want to take them home. Five minutes. I've got one I can bring you. Who wants a special
one?
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
[BELL RINGING]

