Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on Tuesday, February 10,
2009
Page 1 of 8

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

February 10, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee Meeting held on
Tuesday, February 10, 2009 in Rooms R, T and D
****

Board
Members Present:

Chair Brohl, Vice Chair Chacon, Director Bagley, Director Busck, Director
Christopher, Director Cohen, Director Daly, Director James, Director
Kemp, Director Martinez, Director McMullen, Director O’Boyle, Director
Pulliam, Director Tayer, Director Tobiassen

Board
Members Absent:
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Bill Porter, Jeff Becker, Larry Buter, Carolyn Conover, David
Genova, Rolf Asphaug, Brian Matthews, Tony McCaulay, Cal Shankster,
Dean Shaklee, Terry Howerter, Daria Serna, Paula Perdue, Phil
Washington, Caitlin Magee

Others Present:

Lee Johnson (First Transit), Bruce Behncke (Veolia), Gary Ulberg (First
Transit), Terri Westerman, Jeff Leib, Holman Carter

Call to Order:
I.

****
Chair Brohl called the meeting to order at 7:29 p.m.

Recommended Actions
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager Customer and Contracted Services asked
the Committee to move items C – I as a unit as they are essentially housekeeping
items.
c. Colfax Transit Enhancement Project
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to enter into Agreements with the Colorado Department
of Transportation (CDOT) and the City and County of Denver (CCD) to
implement the Colfax Transit Enhancement Project and to transfer $3,562,200

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on February 10
2009
Page 2 of 8
from the Transit Development Reserve fund to implement this project pending
reimbursement to RTD from the CDOT SB-1 grant program.

d. Award of “Group 20” Contracted Fixed-Route Services
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to enter into a
contract for the provision of “Group 20” contracted fixed-route transit services
with First Transit, Inc. This contract is for three years for an amount not to
exceed $62,271,383 with two (2) one-year options in the amount of
$22,350,156 (option year 1) and $23,135,466 (option year 2), for a total five
year amount not to exceed $107,757,005. In addition, RTD will reimburse the
contractor’s direct fuel costs in an amount estimated to be approximately
$15,453,432 for the initial three year contract term and $26,531,908 for the
five year period. This results in a contract amount not to exceed $77,724,815
for the initial three year contract period and $134,288,913 for the five year
period. This proposal represents the most responsive and responsible proposal
received in response to Request for Proposals (RFP) 18-DH-020 to provide
“Group 20” Public Transportation Services. The contract to provide this service
is scheduled to be effective with implementation of Group 20 service effective
August 23, 2009.
e. Cost Sharing Agreement - City of Boulder/HOP
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute
all documents necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the
City of Boulder to provide RTD financial support for the operation of the HOP
circulator bus service in the commercial areas of the City of Boulder, the
University of Colorado at Boulder and adjacent business and residential areas.
This agreement is for calendar year 2009 and is for an amount not to exceed
$1,339,351.

f. Cost Sharing Agreement - City of Englewood/ART Shuttle
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute
all documents necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the
City of Englewood to provide RTD financial support for the operation of the
Art shuttle circulator bus service in the City of Englewood. This agreement is
for calendar year 2009 and is for an amount not to exceed $297,939.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on February 10
2009
Page 3 of 8

g. Vanpooling Agreement with DRCOG
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to enter into an Agreement with the Denver Regional
Council of Governments (DRCOG) to provide RTD support for the expansion of
the DRCOG RideArrangers vanpool program in the Denver metropolitan area. This
agreement is for calendar year 2009 and shall be in an amount not to exceed
$565,000.

h. Vanpooling Agreement with NFRMPO
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to enter into an Agreement with the North Front Range
Metropolitan Planning Organization (NFRMPO) to provide RTD support for the
NFR VANGO vanpool program in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement
is for calendar year 2009 and shall be in an amount not to exceed $450,000.

i.

Cost Sharing Agreements – FTA Section 5311 Funding

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute
all documents necessary to enter into funding agreements with Special
Transit of Boulder and the Seniors’ Resource Center to provide RTD financial
support for the provision of FTA Section 5311 (non-urbanized) services for
Boulder County, Adams County and Jefferson County. These Agreements are
for calendar year 2009 and for amounts not to exceed $316,050 for Boulder
County, $130,053 for Adams County and $96,379 for Jefferson County.
Motion:

Director McMullen
made a motion for
full approval of items
C-I before the Board
at the February 17,
2009 Board
Meeting.

Second:

Director Christopher
seconded the
motion.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on February 10
2009
Page 4 of 8
Vote
On Motion:

a.

The motion passed
unanimously.

May 2009 Service Changes –Director Brohl began this item by stating she
had requested staff to identify the controversial routes so the Board would
not get blindsided by the number of people who would come to the Board
meeting next Tuesday voicing their concerns.
Bruce Abel introduced this item. He reiterated the earlier discussion from the
Finance Committee about the budget deficit the District is facing. This is not
business as usual.
Bill Porter gave an overview of the changes. The Route 410 was one of the
most of controversial changes. Many suggestions were put forward. Staff
is recommending keeping four peak periods trips. There is good ridership on
these routes. The 410 would go between Parker park-n-Ride and Lincoln
park-n-Ride.
Route 465 – retaining three round trips between Ulster/Tufts and no service
south of Arapahoe.
Highlands Ranch call-n-Ride – many handicapped patrons who said without
the call-n-Ride they would use access-a-Ride. Brian Matthews did a cost
study and found it would save the District money to keep the call-n- Ride
versus canceling it.
Route 145X – This route runs between Brighton and DIA, retain two trips in
each direction instead of eliminating the whole route.
These are the only changes that Staff is recommending from the original
Board paper.
Bill Porter spoke about other items that have been controversial. The G line
is still not meeting ridership standards. There are good alternatives available.
Route CC is not meeting ridership standards. Vanpools could work very well
in this area.
Route 125, 38L, Route U – no change in recommendation.
Director Kemp asked the total savings by these cuts. Bruce Abel responded
that it is $6,806,860 on an annualized basis.
Director Pulliam spoke about the Route CC. This is a unique area for the
District. It is ten miles to the nearest RTD connection from Coal Creek.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on February 10
2009
Page 5 of 8
One of the problems at the hearing was the question of savings that will
come from the elimination of the Route. Vanpools are difficult to form due to
rotating schedules. Director Pulliam was working with the company that
provides the “A” line shuttle and seeing if they might be able to provide
some service from the top of the Canyon to the Hwy 72 park-n-Ride. He is
hopeful for some type of PPP arrangement.
Director Tayer said these are awfully painful cuts. He spoke of concern for
the Route CC. He would like more information on vanpooling. How does
that work per the cost per individual? Can we subsidize to reduce cost for
the customer?
Bruce Abel reviewed how the vanpool works. It is very personalized to the
individuals. Van pool fares are subsidized. The fares are priced comparable
to RTD Service.
Director O’Boyle wanted to know time frame on cost sharing agreement for
Parker call-n-Ride. The response is a week from tonight.
Director O’Boyle said that the G line is different in that it is rail, it will be
connected to the FasTracks system. Not a good idea to terminate it as we
are looking for money to build out FasTracks. There is an organization.
Southeast TMA that wants to market additional passes that they have that
might help boost the service standards on the G Line.
Mr. Abel talked about the TRIP program. SEBP has reduced the subsidy on
the program from 50% to 35%.
Bill Porter said that once the I-225 extension is completed, the Route G
would be reborn again with service up to the East Corridor and then down to
Lincoln Station.
Director McMullen asked if the reduction in the Route 410 affect access-aRide? Bruce Abel said that access-a-Ride would be offered during the time
the 410 operates but not other wise. Regarding the G line, he felt it is fine to
get rid of it but if you are coming Northbound how can you make the
connection between the E/F and the H? It is literally seconds. Bill Porter
said that light rail needs to enforce H line leaving on time and not early.
Director Tobiassen spoke about issues with catching the bus at 9 mile if the
train is late. Director Tobiassen requested if we could stop calling it the
“Elimination of the G line” and say the “suspension of the G line” since this
gives the wrong connotation of what we are doing... Director Tobiassen
spoke of his concern that these cuts aren’t enough given the current budget
situation.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on February 10
2009
Page 6 of 8
Bruce Abel said that given the sales tax situation, most likely there will be
more cuts coming in the August service changes.
Director Bagley spoke of his concern about the future, and that the Board
needs to be serious about cuts. Maybe carpooling for the CC?
Director Martinez wanted to know where do we make up the other 400,000
from what was originally proposed? The other $400,000 will have to be
made up somewhere else. Director Martinez asked if frequencies on trips can
be reduced rather then eliminate service totally to an area.
Director Busck spoke about better communication. Let him know the
endangered species list in the next few weeks so that the Directors can
communicate this issue to their constituents.
Director James spoke about how transparency is important. Areas that take
the biggest hits are going to be the most cost effective cutbacks.
Director Kemp spoke about the need to “share the pain” in service cuts,
some Districts pay more in tax then they receive in service.

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the May 3, 2009 Service Change package as revised
and summarized on Attachment A resulting in a net annual savings of
approximately $6,806,860, and, further, to authorize the General Manager to
execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service
is impacted by these changes.
Motion:

Director Busck made
a motion for full
approval before the
Board at the
February 17, 2009
Board Meeting.

Second:

Director Kemp
seconded the
motion.

Alternative
Motion:

Director Christopher
made a motion to
defer the Route CC
for this run Board
until the Public

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on February 10
2009
Page 7 of 8
Private Partnership
can be addressed.
Second:

Director Pulliam
seconded the motion

Director Martinez said any amendments need to have the financial components listed.
The Directors decided it was better to pass the motion and forward the action on to
the Board meeting and then pass amendments at that time.
Director Christopher withdrew his motion.
Vote
On Motion:

The motion passed
11 – 2 (O’Boyle,
Martinez opposed).
(Directors Cohen
and McMullen had
left)

e. Resolution NO.____________, Series of 2009, Service Reductions in 2009
Motion:

Director Christopher
made a motion for
full approval before
the Board at the
February 17, 2009
Board Meeting.

Second:

Director Chacon
seconded the
motion.

Vote
On Motion:

The motion passed
unanimously (13-0).
Directors Cohen and
McMullen had left.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on February 10
2009
Page 8 of 8

II.

Route Match Update – This item was tabled until the next Operations and Customer
Services Committee Meeting.

III.

Cost Sharing Agreements of $250,000 or Less – Director Chacon asked if any cost
sharing agreements were considered as part of the budget package.

IV.

Station Naming Rights – This item was tabled until the next Operations and Customer
Services Committee Meeting

V.

Update on Mandatory Overtime In Longmont – This item was tabled until the next
Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting

VI.

Other Matters

VII.

Next Meeting Date - This next meeting of the Operations/Customer Service
Committee will be Thursday, March 12, 2009

VIII.

Adjournment - Hearing no objection, Chair Brohl adjourned the meeting at 9:25 p.m.

