Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

MINUTES
GM Oversight & Performance Management Committee
Tuesday, June 28, 2016
Board Conference Room
3:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

I.

Call to Order
GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee Chair Francone called the
meeting to order at 3:36 p.m.
Committee members in attendance: Committee Chair Francone, Vice Chair Bagley,
Directors Archuleta, Anderson (by Phone), Menten, Tobiassen and Walker.
Others Present: GM Dave Genova, Barbara McManus

II.

Review requested changes to GM Core and Task Goals for 2017 presented
by GM Genova


Committee Chair Francone reminded the Board that the updated performance
appraisal from Dave Genova was included in the packet and asked GM Genova to
speak to the amended Goals. Barbara McManus suggested it be reviewed for
Smart Goals as well as moving it forward in the process to save time since each
goal would be reviewed individually. Dave Genova indicated he had made the
changes discussed in the May meeting and would outline those changes as he
moves through the core and task goals.

Core Goal #1 - Successful Delivery of Transit Services: Attain 80%
performance measures
GM Genova outlined what adjustments he had made to the goal giving the
example of the addition of providing “noteworthy and outstanding” services

for all RTD supported special events while providing normally scheduled
services in the category of “Exceeds Expectations”. Director Anderson
reminded GM Genova that he was asked to amend the Achieved Goal to add
the monitoring of Denver Transit Partners (DTP) performance and compliance
and report this information to the Board. GM Genova apologized for the miss
and thanked Director Anderson for her reminder. Director Anderson asked if
the Committee could move to accept the change as an amendment.
Director Bagley made the motion and Chair Tobiassen seconded. The
amendment passed unanimously.
Director Menten suggested in the “Exceeds Expectations” category the she
would like to see “and” instead of “or” for the two goals listed. Committee
Chair Francone noted that the 90% is a hefty goal and thinks combining the
goals would not be realistic.
Director Bagley moved to vote on the goals as amended and Chair Tobiassen
seconded. Seeing no other questions Director Bagley asked for ayes to
accept Core Goal #1 as amended. The amended goal was passed
unanimously.


Core Goal #2 - Strong & Ethical Leadership Articulates vision, forms cohesive
team, regular team-building sessions, builds and maintains effective executive
team, and handles conflict
GM Genova spoke to the changes that were requested to add specific
examples of local and national recognition to both 1 and 2 in the “Exceed
Expectation” category. He reviewed the verbiage and the Committee agreed
the changes met the requested criteria. Committee Chair Francone asked if
there was any discussion.
Director Menten said, as she has requested last meeting and in the past, she
would like to see in the “Exceeded Expectation” category an “and” that
speaks to team building and an in-house employee survey. She feels this
would be a helpful indicator on how the employees view RTD leadership.
GM Genova stated that RTD was looking into doing an employee survey in
2017 but was not sure if it would be approved through the budget process.
He also did not know if the format that was planned would provide valuable
information for the Board. He reviewed the past survey and much of the
criteria would not satisfy what was being asked.
Dave Genova suggested looking at the continuous improvement process
being worked on agency wide as an additional gauge to cross functional
communication and perhaps do a Survey Monkey with those teams. Director
Bagley added that it would be difficult getting represented employees to
participate and that finding a baseline that would be an acceptable
percentage agency wide could be difficult to attain. He recommended that

perhaps part of what the Committee should do as a project in 2017 is to
work with staff on a survey that would effectively rate internal satisfaction.
Director Walker added he is afraid we would on only get a snapshot and is
not comfortable for the GM to be evaluated in that manner as there were too
many unknowns.
Chair Tobiassen said he would like to see what such a survey would look like
as many surveys are not effective. He thought perhaps a 360 survey with
Senior Leadership could be effective but much work would need to be done
to develop such a survey. Director Menten said she had suggested this last
year as well and would like to see this move forward in the future. Chair
Tobiassen felt this was a subject that should be brought up at the beginning
of the year at the SLT/Directors Advance and it was not the role of this
Committee to amend the goal established by the full Board. Committee Chair
Francone said she understood there should be some measure but currently
does not know what that would look like and reiterated that timing would not
allow such an effort for the 2017 goals.
Director Bagley called for the question and made the motion to move forward
with the vote on Core Goal #2. Director Anderson seconded with the motion
passing 6-1 with Director Menten voting no.


Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management Oversees operating and
FasTracks budgets, ensures compliance with local, state, and federal
reporting, and development of financing plans for future projects.
GM Genova clarified in the “Exceeds Expectations” category that there is an
“or” between number 1 and number 2 and not an “and” making both the
goal. Committee Chair Francone asked for a motion.
Director Bagley made the motion to approve Core Goal #3 and Chair
Tobiassen seconded. There was no discussion on this item and the motion
passed with a 6-1 vote with Director Menten voting no.
Director Menten asked if she could comment on her no vote. She stated that
for the record, in the future she would like to see in the “Exceeds
Expectation” category “strong financial management that we would
aggressively do everything possible to decrease debt load as to not endanger
future service”.



Core Goal #4 Ensures Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO)/Affirmative
Action (AA)/Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE)/Small Business
Enterprise (SBE): As written in Achieved Goal Criteria below.
GM Genova spoke to the changes that were requested in the “Exceeds
Expectation” category which included adding “specific examples or articles in
national publications or presenting to national audiences” and reiterating that
there is an “or” and not “and” between goals 1 – 4. He spoke to the

addition of a number 5 in the “or” category under “Exceeds Expectations” as
“recognizing DBE/SBE firms for showing annual improvement in terms of
revenue growth, capacity building, and prime contracts”. This addition was
in response to Director Menten’s request of challenging the DBE/SBE firms to
graduate from the program. GM Genova said this addition would gauge and
recognize each firm showing improvement but noted there was no way to
force a firm to go through the graduation process. Committee Chair
Francone asked if there was any other discussion, seeing none she called for
the vote.
Director Bagley made the motion to approve Core Goal #4 and Director
Walker seconded with the motion passing unanimously.


Core Goal #5 – Effective Communications & Community Outreach: Keeps
Board informed, periodically meets with Board members, delivers
presentations in local and national venues, and continues Public
Information/Public Relations planning and implementation.
GM Genova outlined the changes that were updated from the request at the
last meeting. He added clarification and specific samples in the “Exceeds
Expectations” category as requested of Directors Bagley and Walker.
Director Menten asked GM Genova if he would add under “Exceeds
Expectations” the posting of audio of the Board meetings on the website.
Chair Tobiassen mentioned this was brought up last year and was voted
down. Director Bagley said this is something he has been wanting and has
had discussions with staff, which he will continue to follow up on even when
he leaves the Board. Chair Tobiassen say he feels there is general opposition
from some of the Board members and that would need to be looked at.
Director Anderson thinks that this is an operational function and not a
function of the General Manager and should be handled by staff. Committee
Chair Francone asked if there was any additional discussion. As there was
none she called for the vote.
Director Tobiassen made the motion to approve Core Goal #5 and Director
Bagley seconded. The motion passed 6 – 1 with Director Menten voting no.



Task Goal # 1 Fiscal Sustainability.
GM Genova said the goal had no adjustments requested and only a spelling
correction was made. Committee Chair Francone asked if there was any
discussion. Seeing none she called for a vote.
Director Bagley made the motion to approve Task Goal #1 and Director
Walker seconded. The motion passed unanimously 7 – 0.



Task Goal # 2 – Workforce/Human Capital.
GM Genova outlined the changes that were requested in the “Exceed
Expectations” category by adding specific language defining agency

recognition local or nationally for our employee program, in local or national
publications or presenting to national audiences.
Director Bagley made the motion to approve Task Goal #2 and Director
Walker seconded. The motion passed unanimously 7 – 0.


Task Goal # 3 State of Good Repair – Operations and Maintenance
GM Genova stated there had been no requested changes to this goal but that
he would like to add an “or” to the “Exceeds Expectations” category as
follows: initiate the International Standards Organization (ISO) certification
process for asset management. He commented that it takes some time to
get through this certification and thinks it would be a value add and a
significant body of work. Director Anderson said this is a great idea but
having gone through this in the past with fire and police departments, it is
costly she would want to make sure it would not be a burden on the agency
in any way. GM Genova said this would be done without any additional
staffing. Committee Chair Francone asked for a vote.
Director Bagley made the motion to approve Task Goal #3 and Chair
Tobiassen seconded. The motion passed unanimously 7 – 0.

Director Bagley made the motion to approve moving the 2017 Goals as amended
forward to the full Board at the July 19, 2016 Board Meeting. Chair Tobiassen
seconded. Director Menten clarified that the Committee was making the final
approval of the 2017 Goals today and would not be meeting again on July 12.
Committee Chair Francone stated that was correct.
The motion passed 6-1 with Director Menten voting no.

III.

Review for SMART Goals
This item was discussed during review of the changes to the GM Core and Task
Goals.

IV.

Review GM Performance June Survey Results
Barbara McManus passed out a copy of the analysis of the Survey Monkey results
and discussed the methodology and the timing in comparison with past surveys.
The survey was based on GM Genova as Interim GM starting in March of 2015
through June of 2016. Director Bagley mentioned that in the past there had been
no GM Oversight committee and this was a result of the state audit. Barbara
McManus said she had reviewed the recommendations and the process outlined for
the Committee this year follows the processed set forth as a result of the audit.
Some questions were asked clarifying the number of survey participants and how
the scaling was set up to generate the results. The general consensus was that this
was a good baseline for 2016 and the results were for the most part favorable.
Director Bagley confirmed the next survey would be administered in October prior to

the final evaluation for the 2016 performance appraisal. Chair Tobiassen indicated
that in an interim position your hands are tied and it is difficult to make too many
changes and the October results would be a better indicator.
Director Anderson said she was disappointed in the initial participation and thanked
Committee Chair Francone for pushing the request back out for further response.
Committee Chair Francone said she was going to thank participants at the meeting
later this evening and clarify that evaluating the General Manager was the duty and
responsibility of the Board.
Chair Tobiassen thanked Barbara McManus and George Hovey for their work in
putting together, implementing and evaluating the Survey Monkey data. Director
Bagley echoed the Chair’s comments.

V.

GM Committee to provide Preliminary Consensus/Recommendation to
prepare final Goals to the full Board on July 19th
The GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee agreed to move the
2017 GM Core and Task Goals forward during the review of changes to the Core
and Task Goals.

VI.

Questions and Next Steps
Director Menten asked if the Committee could get an update on the status of audio
being posted to the website. Dave Genova said he would have Nate Currey attend
the Executive Committee meeting on July 14th to give an overview of the project to
date. Director Menten mentioned that the audio already exists and wonders if it is
possible to post those files. Chair Tobiassen said there is a process to getting that
done that the file format would need to be evaluated to determine how best these
files could be handled.
Director Anderson said that Adams County Commissioner Eric Hanson was involved
in an accident which caused extensive damage to his eye. Chair Tobiassen shared
that Josh Blue, the comedian, performed at the ADA Symposium and made the
comment that we are all just a second away from a disability.

VII.

Next Meeting Date: TBD

VIII.

Adjourn
Committee Chair Francone adjourned the meeting at 4:35 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

