Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, February 8, 2011
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the RTD Board of Directors

Date:

February 8, 2011

Subject:

Summary of FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on February 8, 2011 at 5:30
p.m. in RTD Room
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Cohen, Vice-Chair O’Boyle, Directors Anderson,
Bagley, Brohl, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Malpiede, Riley, Tayer
and Tobiassen, Chair Kemp.
Director McMullen

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Janne Bennick, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Libby Cox, J.
Donovan, Mantell Dyles, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Howerter, Austin
Jenkins, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod,
Anthony Menendez, Karen Morales, Andy Mutz, Paula Perdue, Carla
Perez, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna,
John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Greg Straight, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo,
Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Ashland Vaughn, Del Walker, Phil
Washington, Susan Wood.

Others Present:

Greg Amparano - DTP, Bruce Armistead-DTP, Debra Baskett, Kenneth
Burns - CAC, Sara Castellanos – Aurora Sentinel, Aaron Epstein –
DTP, Chuck Esterly – DTR, Jerry Glick – DUSPA, Anne Hays – CAC,
David Hollis – HNTB, Carl Koelbel – Koelbel & Co., Bill Mosher –
DUSPA, Ray Murphy – First Southwest, Blake Pendergrass – Fresc,
Gene Pitman – City of Thornton, Tom Rowiakis – GS, Jeanne Shrene
– Adams City, Roger Sherman-CRL, George Thorm – Mile High
Development, Scott Weeks – DRCOG.

****
Call to Order
I.

Updates
CAC

Committee Chair Cohen called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, February 8, 2011
Page 2

Kenneth Burns provided the updates for CAC. On January 19 th they had a work
session that included a tour of the Eagle P3 project. Karen Stewart, the newest
member of the CAC, was in attendance. Their regular work session will be
Wednesday, 2/16 where they will kick tires on the potential tax increase. Their
quarterly meeting will be in Louisville at the Louisville Middle School.
Director Cohen requested if a member of CAC could be here on February 22nd to
share feedback from their discussion on the tax increase.
Director Tayer asked if the CAC could share their information notice so that he
could circulate this information to others in the corridor.
Director Bagley noted that Chair Kemp had received the award as the # 1
salesperson in the US for Daimler Orion buses.
Director Cohen acknowledged Mayor Murphy from Lakewood and also for chairing
the Metro Mayor’s Caucus. He indicated he had attended the Metro Mayor’s
Caucus meeting last week and got to see the David Kinney focus group video.
This was an illuminating experience.
Phil Washington shared that Marla Lien, General Counsel, had been selected to
participate in the International Transit Program. This year’s trip will focus on India
and China.
II.

Recommended Action
2011 FasTracks Financial Plan Adoption (Staff Original Recommended Action)
The FasTracks Monitoring Committee recommends that the RTD Board of
Directors adopt a Financial Plan Scenario for the 2011 FasTracks APE that
assumes the passage of a 0.2% sales and use tax increase commencing in
January 2012. This recommendation results in the completion of 85 – 90% of
the FasTracks program by 2022, with the complete program finished by 2027.
This recommendation incorporates conservative assumptions regarding additional
federal funding. Specifically, it assumes additional federal New Starts/Small
Starts grant funding for both the North Metro Corridor and the Southeast Corridor
Extension. These corridors are assumed to be the most competitive given current
evaluation criteria. This staff recommendation assumes an additional $370 M in
federal New Starts/Small Starts funding between 2014-2024. RTD believes that
this is a reasonable assumption because of our past successes:
In 2004, RTD assumed $815 M of federal New Start grant funding in the
original FasTracks plan;

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, February 8, 2011
Page 3
By 2011, RTD is expected to receive a total of $1.3 B ($485 M more than
planned);
RTD has received $2.2 B in federal New Starts grants over the last 28 years
(2008 – 2018);
o $75 M per year on average.
This recommendation also assumes that RTD will expend the $305 M available due
to the Eagle Project bid coming in lower than internal estimates in accordance with
Table 1 below. This recommendation will provide the basis for RTD to proceed
forward according to schedule with DRCOG review of the FasTracks program and
financial plan as required by Senate Bill 90-208.
This action does not represent a decision or commitment at this time by the Board
of Directors to place a sales and use tax increase on the ballot, but it preserves the
capability for the RTD Board of Directors to continue consideration of all potential
scenarios for completion of the FasTracks program.

Chair Kemp made the following motion for the 2011 FasTracks Financial Plan
Adoption:
Motion:
FasTracks Monitoring Committee recommends that the RTD Board of
Directors adopt a financial plan that assumes an election in 2011 with
new sales and use tax increase ranging from 0.2% -0.4% commencing in
January 2012. This
recommendation
incorporates
conservative
assumptions regarding federal funding. Specifically, it assumes additional
federal New Starts/Small Starts grant funding for both the North Metro
Corridor and the Southeast Corridor Extension (0.2% and 0.3%) or just
Small Starts grant funding for the Southeast Corridor Extension (0.4%).
These corridors are assumed to be the most competitive given the current
evaluation criteria.
This recommendation also assumes that RTD will
expend the $305M available due to the Eagle project bid coming in lower
than internal estimates in accordance with Table 1 above. Further, the
committee recommends that the RTD Board wait until February 22, 2011
to make final determination as to the exact tax rate. This will provide the
RTD Board with additional time to consider their decision and to receive
input from regional stakeholders.
This action is a reasonable alternative to the staff recommendation and
allows the RTD Board additional time to consider their decision and to
receive input from regional stakeholders.
This alternative would
accelerate completion of the entire FasTracks program faster than
alternatives #3 or # 4.
Director Brohl seconded this motion.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, February 8, 2011
Page 4

Following the motion, General Manager Washington and his staff made a
presentation pertaining to the 2011 FasTracks Financial Plan Adoption. A
copy of the presentation is included in the Minutes Notebook located in
the Board office. Few points to note:
This includes a 0.3% scenario
Staff expressed confidence in their financial plan and shared why
they were confident in their financial assumptions
Staff provided comparable table with peer agencies related to their
cost escalation assumptions and noted that the RTD assumption of
3.6% was higher than most.
Staff expressed confidence in Federal Funding approach noting that
in 2004, RTD assumed $815M for federal New Start grant but was
the recipient of $1.3B ($485M more than planned).
Metro Mayor’s Task Force agreed to recommend to full Metro
Mayor’s Caucus an election in 2011 for an increase ranging from
0.3%-0.4%.
Upcoming Dates:
o February15: Presentation of the results of the privately
funded poll
o February 22: Board approval of 2011 Financial Plan
o March 22: DRCOG SB 208
o August 15: RTD Board approval of Ballot Language
Discussion: Director O’Boyle stated he has seen a change in the momentum from
the stakeholders and we need to react strongly to this. It appears from
the polling there is a strong support to get the job done now. This
leads us to go to the ballot in 2011. Based on this he makes the
following amendment to the motion.
Amendment to Motion: Director O’Boyle offered the amendment to the motion to
change the sales and use tax range from 0.2% - 0.4% to 0.3%-0.4%
Director Bagley seconded the motion.
Discussion: Director O’Boyle stated there are differences now from 2004. The
political climate is considerably different. The Federal deficit and debt
was not as subject to debate as it is today. He is not comfortable with
the Northwest corridor dependence on Federal grant and he does not
share the level of confidence expressed by staff.
Director Bagley expressed a number of concerns: (1) the assumptions
around New Start and Small Starts for the SW corridor he concurs but
he is not confident these will materialize. He would rather see all

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, February 8, 2011
Page 5
corridors funded and if we get the New Starts/Small Starts this can
allow for some flexibility as to when the .4% sunsets. (2) What
happens if the February 22nd day for a decision gets extended? Is it
possible to have a special meeting that as long as it is prior to the
DRCOG day of March 22, should this be doable?(3) He has made 4
presentations with SELP, Highlands Ranch, Cherry Creek Village and
the Englewood City Council. He found the presentation too technical
and detailed. He would like a presentation that Board members can
give that will adequately address the concerns and issues they are
hearing from the community.
Several of the Board members expressed concern that the amendment
proposed by Director O’Boyle would place limits on the flexibility that
the Board has and would send the wrong message. Director Tayer
asked if there is a prohibition against submitting multiple plans to
DRCOG. Bill Van Meter stated he was not sure but there would be
additional costs for the consultant to analyze different plans. Director
Tayer asked if staff could provide cost estimates for this and the timing
impact on when the final decision would need to be made. After much
discussion, Committee Chair Cohen called for the vote.
Vote on
the Amendment:

Secondary
Amendment:

The amendment to change the sales tax range rate to 3.0%4.0% FAILED.
Director Deadwyler offered up an amendment to approve asking
for the 0.4% with the contingency that 0.3% can be used for
FasTracks and the 0.1% will be used for base operations.
She provided the following rationale:
In light of the recent
recommendations to the Board by the staff, she cannot support
a sales tax of any amount unless it has something for the
people we serve. She was elected to bring a voice to the
people who currently do not have a voice. In her community,
the people are not responding positively to any tax increase.
They have just endured a service rate increase in 2010 and we
are still trying to solve the 35M gap in operational services. She
would like to see us address both issues. The 0.3% FasTracks
and the 0.1% for operations. This will allow FasTracks to be
completed 3 years sooner than under the staff’s original
recommendation.
Many people are suffering including the
employees who have not had a salary raise in over three years.
These are hard working people who deserve something. She

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, February 8, 2011
Page 6
believes we still have a few more years where we will be in the
slump while people struggle to find or keep jobs. This will give
operations a new facelift and help provide services to the areas
where it is needed. She just attended a meeting yesterday
where the developers gave land for affordable housing to be
built but RTD cannot get bus service to the area. The FasTracks
and base operations should be addressed side by side. This will
help to save jobs for staff and represented and improve the
overall morale. Happy employees are productive employees.
We can improve services by aligning schedules for more
coordination and prepare our base services for the increased
ridership due to our economic slump and higher gas prices. We
cannot sub-optimize our base services at the benefit of
FasTracks. She will only support this tax increase if the base
service can benefit from the 0.1%.
Extensive discussion occurred.
Director Riley complimented
Director Deadwyler for her willingness to think outside of the
box. He stated that he has not made a decision yet and is still
examining the issues.
Director Tayer commented that he
understands the issues that Director Deadwyler raised.
He
believes however that the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force will
address the operational issues and he is inclined not to want to
mix these two issues together.
We are being asked to
complete a project that is a long time coming. We need a
singular focus. He is concerned that if we mix the two, we will
take the focus off both. Director Malpiede agreed with Director
Tayer. She stated that in one of her meetings with the Minority
Chambers (i.e. Asian, Latino, Black Chamber) they all agreed
that they want this project built out now. There has been
tremendous outreach to the stakeholders group and she thinks
their message has been clear. She does not want to jeopardize
this. Director Deadwyler responded she is not hearing this in
her district. We need to be careful in putting lots of stock in
the Chambers who often times do not represent the interest of
the voter. We need to be more cognizant of what the people
(i.e. the voters) are saying rather than some elite groups. Her
constituents are saying something different than what the
leaders are saying and we need to be sure of who is right in the
end.
The Secondary Amendment died due to a lack of a second.
Additional

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, February 8, 2011
Page 7
Discussion:

Director O’Boyle inquired about are we proposing a tax increase
which include a portion for operations of the unfunded
corridors. Bill Van Meter responded our financial plan is
predicated on applying first to capital, then to operations.
Director O’Boyle commented these are political decisions but
we must weigh what the public will do. Do they want to just
get it done and what are they willing to pay for? Director
Bagley commented it is all about how bold we want to be.
There are winners and loser related to this decision. We need a
full listing of the pros and cons for each option.
Director Cohen inquired do you feel confident of the 0.4% will
get it built in 2018? How do we coalesce all opinions and
philosophies into one moving forward? We cannot overlook the
time element from our constituents. We just need to get it
done.

Vote on the Primary
Motion:

A voice vote was taken with ten in favor (Anderson, Bagley,
Brohl, Daly, Hoy, James, Kemp, Malpiede, Tayer and
Tobiassen) and three against (Deadwyler, O’Boyle, Riley).
Director Cohen did not vote and Director McMullen was absent.

Committee Chair Cohen declared the motion PASSED.
II.

Eagle Project Update
Brian Middleton, Eagle Project Manager, provided this update to the Board. A copy
of his presentation is included in the Board meeting minute’s notebook located in the
Board office.
Chair Kemp thanked the team and DTP for doing an excellent job. He reminded staff
that when a senior member of the team leaves, the Board should be notified of the
change before it occurs. The Board should have been advised of Jim Devine’s
leaving and the replacement of Armistead to the team. He looks forward to working
with Mr. Armistead on the team.
Chair Kemp asked about the mockup of the Hyundai-Rotem and suggested they may
want to do a road tour of the mock-up.
Director Tobiassen stated he will be doing a briefing before the Metro Mayor’s
Bicycle Advisory on March 3 and requested someone to speak to the mock-up and
bicycle rack capabilities.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, February 8, 2011
Page 8
Director Daly inquired about the status of the IGA’s and why some were delayed.
Brian Middleton indicated this was a natural part of the business negotiations. He
anticipates the Gold Line IGA will be ready in March and the Aurora IGA will be
March or April. The rolling stock work will be done in the country.
III.

Other Matters
Pauletta Tonilas presented the annual video which provides a graphical display of the
progress. This is part of the educational process for the public.
Director Cohen complimented the PI team on this video and suggested a condensed
version of this video could be embedded in a presentation with some of the most
salient points.

Director Daly shared the HB 1054 which mandate privatization passed out of the
second reading. RTD is taking a neutral position on this issue.
IV. Next Meeting – The next meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee is
scheduled for March 1, 2011.
IV.

Adjourn – Committee Chair Cohen adjourned the FasTracks Monitoring Committee at
7:45 p.m.

