Minutes of the Financial Administration Committee Meeting held on December 8, 2009
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

December 8, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the Financial Administration Committee Meeting held
December 8, 2009 in Rooms R, T & D

Board
Members Present:

Directors
Absent:

Committee Chair Tayer, Directors Bagley, Chacon, Christopher,
Cohen (via teleconference), Daly, O’Boyle, Pulliam, and Tobiassen

Directors Brohl, Busck, James, Kemp, Martinez, and McMullen

Staff Present:

Cheryl Sprague, Trent Ratcliff, Terry Howerter, Robert Merriman,
Mike Gil, Martha Hecox, Larry Buter, Carolyn Conover, Bruce Abel,
David Genova, Scott Reed, Kenn Hardin, Paula Perdue, Phil
Washington, Marla Lien, John Perry, John Shonsey, Caitlin Magee

Others Present:

Jeff Leib (The Denver Post), Roger Sherman (CRL), Greg Fugate
(State Auditor’s Office), Derek Johnson (State Auditor’s Office), Chris
Harless (State Auditor’s Office),

*******************************************************************
Call to Order: Chair Tayer called the Financial Administration Committee to order at 5:35
p.m.
Committee Chair Tayer gave the floor to Director Daly for an announcement. Director Daly
said that the ad hoc Committee that was formed to take a look at the Federal Liaison
services came to the unanimous decision to retain the services of Patton Boggs. This will
come to a vote at the Executive Committee on Thursday, December 10, 2009.
I.

Recommended Actions
a. GIS Consulting Services
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to
award a contract in the amount of $115,000 for 1,250 hours of Graphical
Information Systems (GIS) Consulting Services. The contract is to be awarded
to Idea Integration following a competitive review of four submitted proposals
and candidate interviews. Idea Integration is a period of one year with two

Minutes of the Financial Administration Committee Meeting held on December 8, 2009
Page 2 of 4

additional one-year options. This has been determined to be a personal service
contract by legal.
b. Oracle Database Administrator – Option Year
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the Interim General Manager to execute all documents
necessary to award the first year option, for the amount not to exceed of
$200,000, for Senior IT Oracle Database services. The contract (28DJ024)
was originally awarded January 2009 to Sol-IT, an SBE/DBE firm, through the
competitive bid process. This contract allowed for an initial-year plus two (2)
one-year options to renew based on positive performance by the vendor. The
contract is being brought to the Board because it is a Personal Services contract
per RTD Resolution No. 27, Series of 1985.
c. Oracle Software Maintenance Sole Source –
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the Interim General Manager to execute all documents
necessary to award a sole source contract with Oracle Corporation in the
amount of $556,186.01 for software maintenance and support for 2010.
d. Salaried Employee Insured Benefits It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the 2010 Plan Year Salaried Insured Benefits Program and
authorize the Interim General Manager to enter into an agreement with the
Insurance Carriers. This represents a potential cost savings to the District of
$526,553 (or 8.5%) less than the 2009 projected benefit plan cost.
Discussion: Director Tobiassen asked the following questions regarding the
salaried employee’s insured benefits package:
1. How many employees and dependents are covered?
2. There is a six million dollar liability mentioned, how do you know that will
not be exceeded? Is there a stop-loss to protect it? If you do have stoploss is there a period of time that it covers after the stop-loss contract
expires?
3. The District is switching from a fully insured plan to a HSA plan. Were
there multiple bids on the HAS plan or just Cigna and does this new plan
involve some type of medical necessity review process?
Cheryl Sprague, Senior Manager of Human Resources responded that:
1. The number of employees is approximately 525 but she was unsure
about the number of dependents and would get that information for him
at a later time.
2. Claims liability is set by using utilization data from our prior carriers and
we provide that when the contract goes out for bid through the RFP
process. Insurance providers looked at that information to determine
what they felt our expected liability and our maximum claims liability

Minutes of the Financial Administration Committee Meeting held on December 8, 2009
Page 3 of 4

would be in the context of not only the utilization data but our
demographic. Liability is set on our actual experience as provided by
Kaiser and United Healthcare. More than a dozen providers received the
RFP and the benefit committee looked at five providers and came up with
Cigna and Kaiser as the two providers. The HSA program is a selffunded program, not a self-insured program. The difference is that with
a self-funded model, the District purchases the stop-loss insurance which
is both specific and aggregate. Our stop loss insurance covers the
district on a specific basis up to $100,000. RTD is liable for the first
$100,000 and after that everything goes to the insurance provider. On
the aggregate basis – this is based on our expected claims plus 25%
which is our maximum potential liability and we have insurance that
covers that. When we set our rates for our coverage, we always look at
the maximum liability so we insulate the District from any unexpected
exposure. The stop loss is a 12/15 plan which means all claims that are
incurred on a calendar year and the 15 means there is a three month run
out so in the event we terminate our coverage we would have an
additional three months of coverage for any claims filed during that
period.
3. The District does have medical necessity review incorporated into both
the Kaiser and Cigna plans. That is an important piece of the process to
insure that we are optimizing our plan as well as doing effective case
management. This is pretty standard with any plan as insurance
companies recognize the importance of partnering with the employer to
help control costs.
Motion:

Director Pulliam made a motion to
forward items to the December 15,
2009 Board Meeting Agenda

Second:

Director O’Boyle seconded the
motion.

Discussion: Director Daly asked about the GIS software and problems reading
license plates. Trent Ratcliff said that he knew there were some hiccups at the
beginning but wasn’t sure of the specifics. Dave Genova said that we use a license
plate recognition camera that links to a database to determine if the license plate is
in or out of the District. Mr. Ratcliff said he would get back to Director Daly on the
initial issue that has since been resolved.
Director Christopher asked if the new health plan requires any additional RTD staff
to be involved and if so, is the cost factored in? Ms. Sprague responded that it
does not require additional resources but may result in some time savings.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.

Minutes of the Financial Administration Committee Meeting held on December 8, 2009
Page 4 of 4

II.

October 2009 Financial Status Report – Robert Merriman gave this report. The monthly
financial status was distributed in the packet. Subsequent to this report, the District
received the actual figures from the State and these figures were distributed to the
Committee. A copy of this handout is available in the meeting minute notebook. Our
run rate for the year through October 2009 is -12.7% less than 2008. The amended
budget predicted -9.6% by the end of the year, this is narrowing and we did adjust this
number in the adopted budget to -10.6% which will be covered through cost savings
that we’ve managed this year.

III. Other Matters – There were no other matters discussed.
IV. Next Meeting Date – The next meeting of the Financial Administration Committee will be
determined at a later date.
V. Adjourn to Operations and Customer Services Committee – Hearing no objection, Chair
Tayer adjourned the Financial Administration Committee at 5:48 p.m.

