2023-11-16
Executive Committee Meeting
LYNN GUISSINGER: Hello. This is the Thursday, November 16 Executive Committee. I'm now calling it
to order. We are convened as of 12:02 PM. I respectfully ask everyone attending to mute yourself unless
you are recognized to speak.
I'm Lynn Guissinger. I am Chair of the [INAUDIBLE]. --call the roll for the rest of the committee. First Vice
Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second Vice Chair Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Treasurer Dishell. Not here. And Secretary Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I also see Director Tisdale and Director Guzman. Is there anybody I am missing?
OK.
For anyone who would like to comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any
topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. If you wish
to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your
phone. During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you
would like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
Mr. Kroll, are there any hands raised or public comment?
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Guissinger. We did not receive any public comment in advance. And
while we have two members of the public here, Janet Kuhn and Stephanie [? Winzeler ?] from the Office
of the State Auditor, neither have indicated a willingness or a desire to speak.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. And any email comments? None of those? OK.
JACK KROLL: None of those as well.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No participants. We will close the public comment period at this time.
There are four recommended actions this afternoon. As a reminder for the committee, staff, and anyone
watching or listening, any action items that are passed by the Executive Committee, even if the vote is
unanimous, will be included on the Board agenda under Recommended Actions so the full Board will
have an opportunity to discuss the measure presented.
The first recommended action under consideration by the committee is for the Audit Committee member
appointments. The action is for the Executive Committee to reappoint Director Bobby Dishell and Director

Peggy Catlin as members of the Audit Committee with terms expiring December 31, 2025. Do we have a
motion?
MARJORIE SLOAN: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Sloan. And a second? I'll second it. So Director Sloan is the movant and I
am the second. I would ask our CFO, Doug McLeod, to please present this item. Hi, Doug.
DOUG MACLEOD: Hi. Sorry. Good afternoon. I apologize. I'm still trying to get logged in here, Chair.
Which item is it? Apologize.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No problem. It's the Audit Committee member appointments.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you very much. I do not have a presentation in the packet. What we are
requesting is to reappoint Audit Committee members. As the Executive Committee knows, we have five
members on the Audit Committee. Three are internal members, three Board members, and then we have
two external members on the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee was formed-- excuse me-- over the past year as a replacement. We've also
contracted out the audit function to an external firm, RubinBrown. Several audits have been completed.
We have made good progress on some of those audits, as the Executive Committee is aware.
Just pulling up the item right now. Apologize.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No problem.
DOUG MACLEOD: So currently we have Director Bobby Dishell as the Chair, [INAUDIBLE] as Vice
Chair. Director Catlin also is a member, and Director Davidson. Jim [? Brindle ?] as the Vice Chair and
John Olenberger, both external members. Their terms expire-- excuse me, Director Dishell is the Chair.
His term expires December 31, 2023. Director Catlin's term on the Audit Committee expires at the end of
this year as well, on December 31, 2023.
This item requests that the Executive Committee approve the extension of both Directors Dishell and
Director Catlin's terms with the Audit Committee through December 31, 2025. Each member's terms are
staggered on two years so that we always have a full contingent.
With that, Chair Guissinger, I'll answer any questions. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Doug. And sorry if we took that by surprise. Is there any discussion or
any questions? Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I thought it would be inappropriate to move or second on my
extension, so hence-- but so I appreciate you seconding the motion.
I just wanted to say that I had originally volunteered to just have one one-year term because I was not
sure that I was going to be on the Board again. But obviously, I'm still on the Board. So I just wanted to
say that's why I opted for the one-year when we formed the committee.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. We appreciate your service. Director Davidson.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thanks, Madam Chair. Yeah, and thanks, Doug, for going through that. I figured I'd
just highlight the staggered term piece as well. And the Board Office does have a chart, and I know this is
going to take some getting used to here, but we do have a chart that's available from the Board Office
that we had created as part of this. I could screen share it, if that would be requested.
But essentially, at any given time we have three Directors from the elected Board on. I had been serving
in a two-year term, and then-- oh, thank you for sharing that. So this doesn't have the names on it. Oh,
thank you. That was in the packet. I had completely forgotten that that's in our packet. Thank you.
I think just the other thing to note that I wanted to make sure that we add is that Directors Catlin and
Dishell, with this action, if I'm not mistaken, would go into two-year terms expiring at the end of 2025. So I
just wanted to make sure that was clear. And then we have two of those other external members.
Jack, thanks for bringing that up and sharing that and for including it in the packet. My apologies for
forgetting that. So just wanted to make sure that we had this clear between us with the action we're
taking. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And I just want to say how much I appreciate the hard work that our
CFO MacLeod has put in and all of you on the committee. I attended the last Audit Committee meeting
and I think there's some really excellent work being done and appreciate all of your work.
Did you have more, Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, I did. For those Directors who are on the call that may not have been part of that
process initially, the three Directors who sit on the Audit Committee did have to apply. And we applied
using the same criteria by which we selected the external members of the Audit Committee. So going
forward, I think there would be an expectation that interested Directors would also need to formally apply
for the position. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. That's great. Are there any no votes on this action?
Oh, excuse me. Our General Counsel. Yeah, Ms. Snyder.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. This is General Counsel Melanie Snyder. I just
wanted to note for the record, Doug, it looks like we inadvertently left out the Audit Committee charter in
the packet. So when we publish this for the full Board meeting, we can add that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Great. Thanks. All right. Moving to the vote. Are there any no votes on this
action? Seeing none, [INAUDIBLE] Dishell isn't here, so there are five yes votes and zero no votes and
zero abstentions. The motion passes.
All right. Our second recommended action is the Board schedule for in-person and remote meetings, for
the Board of Directors to approve the default meeting location for full Board and committee meetings. In
adopting this action, unless otherwise determined by the Chair in consultation with the Executive
Committee, the Board anticipates holding all standing and ad hoc committee meetings virtually and
holding monthly Board meetings, special Board meetings, and study sessions in person at the 1660 Blake
Street offices. In-person meetings will retain a hybrid or virtual option for public participation. Do we have
a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.

ERIK DAVIDSON: So moved, Director Davidson.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. I heard Director Catlin first and a second from Director Davidson.
I would just like to add that I believe this will be coming onto the agenda as an item from the Chair, rather
than a three Director initiated action or any other way. This is something that we heard pretty clear
support from the Board in our study session. So we're moving this forward to the Board. Or is there
discussion?
OK, moving to the vote. Are there any no votes on this action? Great. Pardon me, I think I misstated the
last one. With four yes votes and zero no votes, which was also true, if you can clean up that transcript for
me, Mr. Kroll, on the previous vote, this motion passes. Director Dishell, again, is not here.
Next is the revised Board of Directors expense and reimbursement policy. And the recommended action
is for the Board of Directors to approve the revised RTD Board of Directors expense and reimbursement
policy, which, if approved, will take effect on January 1, 2024. Do we have a motion?
MARJORIE SLOAN: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Sloan.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second, Davidson.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second from Director Davidson. Thank you.
I would like to ask Jack Kroll, our Board Office Executive Manager, [INAUDIBLE] discuss [INAUDIBLE].
JACK KROLL: Yes. Thank you, Chair Guissinger. And just as an FYI, at some points when you're
speaking, we're having a [INAUDIBLE], at least I'm having a little hard time hearing you. So you cut out a
little bit at the end there.
But on this one, the only change that you all are seeing on this document from the last time you all saw it,
which was at the study session in October, is that Section 5, the word initial was stricken. And so now that
reads, Directors are eligible for reimbursement for a home office setup package, as opposed to an initial
home office setup package.
So everything remains the same about this. We're cleaning things up. We're modernizing expenses and
also setting clear deadlines within the document for Directors to submit those expense reimbursement
requests.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. I see our GM/CEO Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very kindly. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, and all those
assembled. Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO.
Just for your edification, I did want to call attention to package page 52, Article 7, Professional Affiliation,
Membership, Subscription, second paragraph. It begins with "membership, subscriptions, and local
chambers or approved organizations are processed through the RTD Public Relations Office." Some of
this is antiquated language. I wanted you to be cognizant of it. More so, the last sentence of that
paragraph speaks of the Board policy on organizational memberships, was passed in August of 2011.

I have asked Stuart Summers, our Chief Communications and Engagement Officer, in conjunction with
John MacKay of the Executive Office, as well as with our Office of Civil Rights, as we look at the
memberships of which this organization has, you may recall from previous discussions with our local
advocate, being Catalyst Communications, more specifically with Jennifer Webster, we're trying to be
intentional. There's a myriad of memberships in which people have joined that have been on the books
for years. And it gives the appearance as if RTD isn't engaged and at the table. So hence, we are in the
process of that.
So I have asked staff to coordinate with the Board Office so we can shore that up. And I just put that out
here, recognizing that it states that any memberships the Board Office wants to have, we need to ensure
that there's collaboration so we know who's on first. So I wanted to take this opportunity just to say that.
So if there are modifications going forward to the organizational memberships policy, which I foresee
being in the near future, that there would be collaboration with the Executive Office and the Board Office
to ensure that we are putting our best foot forward and are engaged at the appropriate times with the
appropriate entities in the appropriate forums.
Thank you very kindly for the opportunity to offer that comment.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And thank you very much for that effort and collaboration with the Board Office.
And it sounds like we're cleaning up an area that it's good to be looking at. So thanks.
Is there any other discussion on this item? With no discussion, no one raising their hands, we'll move to
the vote. Are there any no votes on this action? Seeing none, with four yes votes, zero no votes, and zero
abstentions, the motion passes.
Next is bylaws amendment. The final item is the Bylaws Amendment for the Director Informal Meeting
Process. For the Board of Directors to amend Article IV of the Bylaws of the Regional Transportation
District to establish a procedure for informal meetings to engage in discussions of public business with
three or more Board members. Do we have a motion?
MARJORIE SLOAN: So moved.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I hear as the movant, which is very appropriate. And I hear Director Catlin as the
second. Thank you both.
Again, this will be one that the Chair would be putting on the agenda coming out of the discussion at the
study session. I have asked Director Sloan if she could lead the discussion on this and give us a quick
presentation.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. I would note, this does not have to be a very long presentation or discussion.
According to the chronology, very well put together by Jack Kroll, it's close to the first anniversary of when
it was first presented to the full Board. So I know people are familiar with it.
The idea is that this provision allows the Board to to take action more efficiently and more transparently
by allowing three or more members, in accordance with the Open Meetings Act, to discuss matters that
don't necessarily involve the whole Board, whether it's a nascent idea that not everyone is yet interested
on the Board, or whether it's just for one local area and only the Board members in that area have an
interest.

So this is designed to be totally in line with Colorado law and the Open Meetings Law. And I understand
now that actually some members have already had trial runs of informal meetings. And I would call on
Jack to explain how this has gone so far. And I would note the only difference between the way these
earlier meetings have gone and under the structured proposal for the bylaw is that Board members would
actually get more information about the substance of a proposed informal meeting.
So Jack, if you could flesh out briefly what has already transpired.
JACK KROLL: Great. Thank you, Director Sloan. And yeah, I would just say that the process for now is
that we are receiving regular updates from a group of Board members that include Directors Ruscha,
Guzman, and Harwick, who are hosting outreach events and education events around pedestrian safety
throughout the District.
And what we do now is we take the information from those meetings, or about those meetings, notes,
agendas, et cetera, and we link to those from our two-week calendar, which is published on the Board's
website. The two-week calendar includes also a link to the Zoom meetings for those events. So far,
they've been virtual meetings. But if there were to be any in-person meetings, we would, of course,
appropriately notice the location of those events as well.
And the final thing I'll say on this front is every year the Board takes an action in January to designate the
official meeting notification location. And that is currently the Board's website. So by providing this
information on the two-week calendar on the Board's website, we are officially posting information about
these informal meetings in the location and designation you all have chosen to post such information. And
that's all I got.
MARJORIE SLOAN: And Lynn, that's all I have too. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you both very much. Is there any further discussion? As Director Sloan
pointed out, that this has been something that we have discussed in the past, but we're open for more if
you have it. And I will also thank Director Sloan for her work on moving this forward.
Ms. Snyder?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Chair. Just one clerical thing to note. Can work with Board staff. On
packet page 60, the table of contents, there's just a couple typos. We've got in Article IV. We have
Section 4 listed a couple times. And then I think the page numbers just need to be adjusted. So just
clerical adjustments that we can get updated for the full Board packet.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you very much. Anybody else?
All right. I'll call for the vote. Are there any no votes on this action? Seeing none, we have the motion
passing with four yes votes, zero no votes, and zero abstentions.
All right. November Board meeting agenda review is next up. Is there a motion to move the November
Board agenda to the Board meeting on November 28?
ERIK DAVIDSON: So moved, Davidson.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And a second?

MARJORIE SLOAN: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I heard Director Davidson as the movant and Director Sloan as the second. Is there
any discussion? Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I note on the agenda that the Board public
hearing on the budget is noted on the agenda. There is, however, no item on the agenda for the approval
of the Board budget. And I was wondering whether we wanted to include that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's a very good call. Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Yeah. Thank you, Director Tisdale. I, in reviewing the agenda for this, note on-- and let me
just share my screen real quick. OK. I note here on Section 15, XV, Public Hearing for Budget, A,
proposed budget, then we list the motion here for the Board of Directors to adopt resolution number, then
Series, et cetera.
This did give me a little pause when I was reviewing this. And I went back and looked at how the budget
was approved for 2023. And this is how it was listed on that agenda as well, roughly a year ago. So the
Board Office is certainly open to rephrasing or adjusting this in some manner and would appreciate the
direction to do so.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And my comment is merely that, yes, the public hearing is noted and that's
appropriate and has to be separately identified. But I submit that it is required that we include the
approval of the budget either under unanimous consent, which it qualifies, because it was passed
unanimously out of the Finance Committee on Tuesday night, or as a recommended action, which we
know it's going to be treated anyway. Because I will ask, if it is on the unanimous consent agenda, that it
be removed to the recommended action agenda. But nonetheless, it needs to appear one place or the
other. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. I think that is-- I was going to recommend that too. And now that we have
one person requesting recommended action agenda. But we could just clarify that, please, Jack, that the
motion there is a recommended action, I think, to move it forward.
JACK KROLL: If I'm hearing you correctly, we can change item A under XV to read Recommended
Action, Approval of 2024 Proposed Budget.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that'd be-JACK KROLL: We will do that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. We are honoring a retiree, so it may be appropriate to put the employee
appreciation statement in this agenda.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good idea. I think let's do that. It's also our last meeting of the year, last regular
meeting of the year. So I think it's a good time to add that, to state our appreciation to our employees.
Sound good, Mr. Kroll? Yeah. Anybody else?

With those two changes, we have a motion to approve. Are there any-- and I assume the movant and the
second are OK with adding those changes to our motion? Great.
Are there any no votes on this action? Seeing none, we have four yes votes, zero no votes, zero
abstentions, So the motion passes.
All right. We have two discussion items on the agenda this afternoon. The first item is the monthly
Government Relations Committee Government Relations report for November, 2023. I understand that
Mr. Davies is unavailable. GM/CEO Ms. Johnson, would you please present this item?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very kindly, Madam Chair. Debra Johnson, once again, General
Manager and CEO. And I am here to present to you the Government Relations report for November,
2023.
Contained in your Board packet, packet page 143, we provide a summary relative to what has happened
at the federal, state, and local levels. This report was submitted into the packet on November 9. Today I
would like to add additional information relative to what has occurred since the time of the submittal of this
report.
Recognizing activity at the state level on November 9, Governor Polis issued Executive Order D2023-024
calling for a special session following voters' rejection during the November election of Proposition HH
concerning property tax changes. Among the specific topics included in the Governor's call are property
tax relief to reduce Coloradans' tax burden in 2023, the fiscal impact of the tax relief package on the
interest of schools and local governments that are funded with property tax, TABOR tax refund
mechanisms for 2023 only, and rental assistance for state fiscal year 2022 through 2023.
Legislators can only introduce legislation during the special session that deals directly with the items
specified in the Governor's call. The special session is scheduled to commence tomorrow, Friday,
November 17. The session will last at least three days, given that this is the absolute minimum time
required for passage of legislation pursuant to the Colorado Constitution. As an aside, the 2024 regular
legislative session will commence on Wednesday, January, 10, 2024.
As it relates to the specific topics, quite naturally there is an interest relative to the TABOR tax refund
mechanisms for 2023 only. I would like to note that our state advocates, being Brandeberry McKenna, will
be following this and will be advising us accordingly relative to activity and outcomes pursuant to said
special session.
As it relates to the federal update, quite naturally there's been a lot of activity over the course of the past
few days with Speaker Johnson in the House. So getting to the federal side, following the passage of a
short-term funding bill earlier in the year to prevent the shutdown of the federal government, on Tuesday,
November 14, the House of Representatives passed a subsequent stopgap, excuse me, bill to keep the
government open.
Late Wednesday, the Senate passed a stopgap to fund the government through January 19, 2024. And
by all accounts, the White House has indicated that President Biden's willingness to sign it. This plan just
kicks the can, for less than an eloquent term. It gives lawmakers time to attempt to negotiate and pass
full-year spending bills, though major partisan divisions are expected to make those efforts complicated.
And on the local front, the report pretty much stands as is. There was a great meeting that happened last
Thursday, November 9, with a collective meeting of the subregional service councils that talked about a

myriad of different issues, specifically as we look to 2024, with the call for project partnership program.
We accepted input and feedback. And as we all know, this is a evolutionary process. And quite naturally,
there was great support.
And then, as indicated in the report that's written in the packet, there was a great meeting that happened
with Arapahoe County commissioners and mayors on Friday, November 3. Our local advocate, Catalyst,
was in attendance, along with Chief Joel Fitzgerald, as well as Michael Davies and Director Rosenthal. I
was unable to attend. But by all accounts, this was a great turning point relative to what we're doing,
showcasing our collaborative efforts and our engagement with our county partners.
And with that, Madam Chair, that will conclude my report and I will yield the floor to you. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Any questions, discussion, other things to add?
I would just add that the presentation I just gave here at the Chamber, the Chamber has been the driving
force behind the Boulder area subregional service council's Gun Barrel Shuttle, one of our first projects
that's being funded in the partnership program. And they're very excited about RTD's partnership program
and about the work they've been doing with RTD staff on moving that forward. And so that was nice to
hear.
Any other discussion? Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I was just wondering if anybody had any
intelligence concerning a renewed effort to submit a bill this coming session relative to the transformation
of the RTD Board from an elected Board to an appointed Board.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I can take a shot at that. Lots of rumors, lots of discussion of what could happen. I
think there are two areas that they're looking at. One of them is additional funding for RTD and one of
them is some sort of change in the governance. And there's, from what I'm hearing, there's no consensus
on what that change would be. Would it be an appointed Board? Would it be a hybrid Board? Would it not
be a change in the Board but perhaps some change in the way decisions are made, along the lines of
what DRCOG's TIP process is, subregional forums, things like that?
We've had some conversations. I think Senator Winter and Representative Linstedt have been working
on trying to move that bill forward. But my sense is that they're looking for suggestions at this point and
don't have a real plan.
I see, Director Davidson, you have something to add there.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Well, thank you, Chair. I think you covered pretty much all of it. But I just was also
going to note that as was noted in the report-- and thank you, Ms. Johnson, for providing the report today- Chair Guissinger and myself did attend, along with Mr. Davies and Ms. Johnson, an event at the
Governor's Office. And there were a number of stakeholders there discussing matters related to
transportation funding. These spanned not just RTD matters, but CDOT, Front Range Passenger Rail
considerations. The President and CEO, Andy Karsian, was there.
So the way that session was structured was in breakouts. And folks were separated into groups to have
discussions around opportunities for transportation in Colorado. And what I would say is from what I
observed at the breakout that I had been a part of, that there really is, there's an appetite right now to look

at transportation funding and structural changes to how we fund public transportation, which I think is
tremendous and gives us a real opportunity.
It does seem to me-- and again, I would say this is very much anecdotal, because we are in that rumor
phase, as the Chair mentioned-- that there is a linkage between, in people's minds, the idea of
approaching alternative funding structures or opportunities and adjustments to governance structure of
the RTD Board. So that struck me as being very linked. And then, Chair Guissinger, I would just
emphasize that my understanding is Representative Linstedt and Senator Winter are very much in
information gathering mode at this point, in terms of what an actual structure might look like.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I think that as we move towards the legislative session and actually get into it
early in the year, if they're starting to come up with ideas, it may make sense for the Board to look at
some principles and some sort of statement, study session or at the retreat or something like that. Let's
stay tuned.
Anything else? All right. Our next discussion item is the potential bylaw amendment on committee work
plans. Mr. Kroll, can you please present this item?
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Guissinger. I have shared my screen here, a text of the proposed
change developed by the Board Office. As you may recall, this item was discussed at the Fall 2023
Governance Study Session in October and there was consensus provided that this idea was worth
exploring further. And the Board Office received direction on that to develop some language around the
proposed bylaw change, around a proposed bylaw change, I should say. And that language is in the
packet and here before you as well.
And I'll just say that the process would be, if there's any conversation on this now, we would be happy to
take it, use that conversation to revise this, bring something back for further evaluation at the next
regularly scheduled Board meeting in January.
In addition, your input, as the Executive Committee, will be succeeded by input at the November 28
Board meeting, as this item will appear as a discussion item at that Board meeting. And we'll combine the
feedback received from you all, as the Executive Committee, and the feedback received by the Board
members in November. And then if it's still something the Board wants to pursue, we would bring back a
revised version of it, if there are any revisions to be made, in January.
And I guess I'll leave it at that and see if there's any thoughts or discussion, and I'll leave the language
here for everyone to review.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. First Vice Chair Catlin, I see your hand up for discussion.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. Thank you. I think also in October, we talked about either an outline or a template
for such work plans that would be provided prior to the end of the year, so that those folks who are
interested in chairing a committee might know what lay ahead. So I would appreciate seeing some sort of
an outline or a template or just a guide for these work plans. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Does that work for your work plans, Mr. Kroll and the Board Office? Before the end
of the year?
JACK KROLL: Yeah. I think what I had in mind, based off of that feedback, is we can go back-- part of
what the value of a work plan is is it affords Board members who have similar interests in a given topic to

ensure that updates are provided in an orderly fashion on that topic and that administration, on issues of
significant importance, has the time and ability to plan ahead for that.
That being said, much of the work plan is really going to be driven by the items that come forward on a
regular basis that administration brings. And so what we can do in response to Director Catlin's request is
we can go back and look through-- our we have a whole spreadsheet that we've been maintaining now for
at least a couple of years that's called our lookahead spreadsheet.
And we can go back through and easily collate items that have come before the various committees over
the last few years. And many of them will be cyclical items. The budget follows a similar cadence every
year. The service changes, likewise, follow a similar cadence. And we can put those forward as an outline
template type of thing for those who are considering which committees they may want to serve on, et
cetera.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thanks. And Mr. Kroll, thanks for putting this forward. I think this is an
opportunity for significant improvement.
I think one of the general comments that I just put out there as food for thought I think for all of us, as we
think about long-term governance changes, is whether or not we would want to explore committees being
two-year appointments, and whether or not then by extension we would want to consider two-year plans.
I'm not suggesting that now. I just think, I don't want to lose sight of that discussion we had of how do we
maintain continuity of not just the work plan, but also the committees themselves and the knowledge
that's developed by Directors serving on those committees.
Actually, and I had another, a question, but I'm going to pause there, because although it was just a
comment, Mr. Kroll, I saw your hand go up. So if you have a comment on that, go for it.
JACK KROLL: Yeah. Just very quickly, Director Davidson, the item around two-year committee
appointments, it is something that is on our list to discuss, based off of the conversation that was held on
the 18th of October at the study session. However, in consultation with the Chair, just given the volume of
things that are coming before the Board this week-- is this right? I worked with her and we'll bring that
discussion back in November. Or not November, January, excuse me. And I've done some preliminary
research that I'm happy to fill you in on on that front.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Cool. Yeah, no, that sounds great. Thank you.
Great. And then my other question is one, potentially also for you, Mr. Kroll, and potentially for Ms.
Johnson, as well, which is just, what opportunities there are to intersect with staff and optimize? I mean,
I'm assuming that staff, for example, like you mentioned, the budget is a great example, that we have an
idea of when that's coming forward. And Ms. Johnson commented the other night about our intent to be a
lot more purposeful and deliberate about our process for budgeting.
I would suspect the things that have a regular cadence, we can make sure that the committee work plan
really jives with staff. I know it's commenting here that that's the intent in the language, which is great. But
I think just in practice, are there common project management tools? Are there common existing work
plans? Are there common things that we might be able to intersect so we can optimize a little bit?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may?

LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, please.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Director Davidson, for the question. So recognizing on
a recurring basis there are things that come before the Board. And in doing so, the members of the
leadership team, we meet regularly. When I meet with my team, I discuss, that's a general topic of what's
coming before the Board. More specifically, there is collaboration with the Board Office. And it's a process
that is still in a evolutionary stage.
But the whole intent is that we come together on a monthly basis, and it's not just the leadership team and
members of the Board Office. There's representation from Contracts and Procurement and certain
individuals within the organization that may be shepherding a project or initiative. And we qualify that as a
lookahead as it relates to items that go before the Board, be it for recommended action, be it for
discussion, or be it for preparation purposes, if it's a study session or what we would qualify as
informational items.
And we do that for the course of the year. And we have some elements that are to be determined. Mr.
Kroll, since his arrival at the organization, has taken a lead in coordinating that through the Executive
Office-- excuse me, through the Board Office-- and chairing that meeting with members of the Executive
Office and the greater leadership team and the others that I qualified.
So with that as a backdrop, yes, there are things in place that could be used to fuel the creation or
formation of a committee work plan. And then more specifically, once there is an understanding of who
may be in that spot, the leadership team executive sponsor will be available, as we have had those
discussions with the leadership team, to ensure that they're at the ready to lend that support, recognizing
that there are pre-meetings to ensure that the representative committee chair and/or Chair, Vice Chair are
adeptly, excuse me, aware of the items that are coming before.
So there's room for opportunity and we're here to support. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Cool. Yeah. Thanks, Ms. Johnson. Sorry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Go ahead. Go ahead.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. I just, yeah, thanks. You actually touched on that next part of where I was going
with this. So thanks for just commenting on that process.
I think the other thing that there's, I just wanted to mention, I think there's an opportunity in here, is if we
put together the work plan, much the way, for example, the Audit plan has the plan that we're going to go
through. And then we have the ad hoc audits that there's sort of holding place. If we have a place of
record where things are coming before the Board as part of the work plan, given that we have those
lookaheads, that record could give us a place to put in, for all Directors, or at least committee members,
to be able to see what's going to be coming up.
And what's going through my mind here, and I apologize this is not fully formed, but I've been reflecting
on something that, Ms. Johnson, you had asked this committee, this Executive Committee, early on this
year, which is how to seek additional clarity around what the Board expects should come before the
Board. We've had discussions around code of conduct. We've had discussions around certain things in
procurement. And I recognize that we are completing this year having not necessarily well bounded that.

But one thing that we might be able to do is as we start to get a sense of what's coming before
committees, that at least in a minimum gives Directors an opportunity to discuss the work plan going into
the year, be aligned on what's coming before that committee, then get lookaheads beyond the way we're
doing it right now. I just think there's an opportunity to use that record to also communicate, if that makes
sense.
So not a fully formed thought. It's something I'll be thinking about going into next year. But I wanted to put
that out there. And perhaps, Mr. Kroll, that triggers some ideas or thoughts on your end that I'm happy to
dialogue about.
JACK KROLL: If I may, Madam Chair, just respond there.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Great.
JACK KROLL: I think the idea of what comes before the Board is really a conversation, in many ways,
between the Executive Committee and predominantly the Chair and the GM and CEO. I think the Board
Office's role in all of that is tracking it, facilitating it. But it's a bit out of my lane to comment on what
exactly should come before the Board, given the various work of the agency. I think that's a give and take
between the Board and the GM and CEO.
That being said, setting aside that issue, you're not the only Director to raise a desire for some sort of
technological place where we can track the issues that the Board is talking about. Because I think a lot of
times the Board will have very substantive conversations around a given topic, but the work of the Board
is sort of a never ending grind, if you will. And there's often times things that come up and then are really
intensely focused on and then set aside.
A good example would be the three Director informal meetings item. That came up a year ago. And for
whatever reason, over the preceding months, was set aside and we finally came back to it in October and
are moving it forward now. That is just an example of one of many things that might come before the
Board. And the example from recent memory is the items related to the budget and the conversations
around what's included in the budget and striving towards middle ground where everyone is content and
happy with what's included in that budget.
I think that's a conversation, ultimately, between the GM and CEO. But insomuch that the Board Office
can track and facilitate on that, we would be happy to do so. And I know Director Dishell shares a similar
concern as to you as to how we can keep record of these things so as the Board's attention returns to
these, or has space to return to these items, we're not starting from scratch and starting all of our
conversations over.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you. I appreciate it. And thanks for the comments on that. And yeah,
certainly, in terms of what comes before, need to have the dialogue between General Manager and
Executive Committee. I think just the communication, using it, at least, to kind of look-- get an earlier look
at things by being well planned, there's an opportunity there.
But thank you for commenting on that. All that sounds great. And thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And thank you both, all of you for the conversation. I think these are-we've been getting good questions about making our Board more effective and efficient. And I appreciate
the work that all of us are doing, everyone's doing.

Are there any other matters to discuss in this meeting? Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. In years past, we have had a joint meeting with the CDOT
Commission. And I was just wondering where we stood on that for this coming year, since this year is
practically over.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Right. Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Yeah. Thank you for the question, Director Catlin. Director Williams had actually reached
out earlier this week to our office and inquired as to the same. I ask for a little grace on this. This was the
first I had heard that such a meeting exists.
So we have since followed up with our counterparts at CDOT and recommended, given where we are in
the calendar and the challenges of scheduling things, we've recommended that we host something in
early January to that effect.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Because there are some new commissioners. And I just think, in the spirit of
partnerships, that we could, as a Board, help strengthen that partnership between CDOT and RTD.
Anyway. Especially with the dialogue surrounding funding for transportation. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I agree. And I actually have been thinking that some sort of meeting or gathering
with the Front Range Passenger Rail Board might make sense at some point next year as well. It's just
something to keep in mind. So thank you. Any other discussion, any other matters?
Please note that today's Executive Committee meeting was the last one scheduled for 2023. We look
forward to seeing everyone, whoever it is, at the next Executive Committee meeting in January. I want to
take a minute just to say thank you to all of you for the good work and in managing the changes we're
doing with the Board and the policies as we move those forward into next year. I look forward to
continuing to work with all of you in whatever capacity.
And I especially want to thank our GM/CEO for her work with all of us, and Ms. Snyder. And a big thank
you to our Board Office, to Jack and Tai-Shrae and Maria and Jillian, for all their great work, who keep us
on track and moving forward and have been so helpful this year as we've made changes and brought
Jack Kroll into the system. I think it's been a great, great addition.
Thank you all. And we will see you Tuesday night.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you [INAUDIBLE].

