Feb 5 2019
Planning, Capital Programs, and FasTracks Committee
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
JUDY LUBOW: I'm calling the Planning Capital Programs and FasTracks Committee meeting
to order. My name is Judy Lubow and I am the Chair, being ably Vice Chaired by Troy
Whitmore.
It's going to be a long meeting tonight, so everybody hold on. There's just one Recommended
Action but lots and lots of updates. I think Bill Van Meter was spending his time thinking of new
updates. We'll make him pay for that.
OK, first, we're going to have a Recommended Action and I'm going to read it and then I'm
going to ask for a motion. OK, It is recommended by the Planning Capital Programs and
FasTracks Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his
designee, to execute all documents necessary to award a contract amendment to initiate the
second and final option year, 2019, of a three year contract for the annual street improvements
and shelter installation contract with Manny and Construction, Inc., for $405,250.73. Funding for
this contract amendment is included in the 2019 adopted expense budget for Capital Programs.
This action addresses core goal number one, successful delivery of transit services of the General
Manager's goals for 2019. Do I have a motion?
VINCE BUZEK: So moved.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. And a seconder?
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, Director Williams. Thank you. Would staff like to talk about this, please?
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Good evening, Board of Directors. This is Jyotsna
Vishwakarma, the Chief Engineer. And with me, I have Cory Granrud, who is the Manager of
our Street Improvements Program.
So very briefly, I will give you the program outline. We have about 9,900 RTD bus stops in the
system. And every year, we move some of them. The number varies. These changes are driven
by a variety of reasons. These can be service changes, cities deciding to reconfigure their streets,
new development coming online, and by law of the US Department of Transportation, all new
altered and relocated bus stops have to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act. And the
law also requires us to work with local jurisdictions to promote connectivity.

So we use this particular contract to implement those projects. And we also use this contract to
do improvements like bus pads and miscellaneous street improvement projects, and sometimes
emergency repairs. We have had this contractor for a long time, and we are happy with the work.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Any more comments?
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: That is all. We are happy to answer questions.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you. I don't see any people in line to discuss this, so we're ready to
call a vote. And the mover is Director Buzek, and the seconder is Director Williams.
Vince, you have to-- you have to press. He was looking at it. OK. OK, and the rest of us-- the
rest of us can vote now.
OK. This passed out of committee, 15-zero. OK, now we get to the meat and potatoes of this
thing, or so to speak. The updates.
The first update is the Regional Bus Rapid Transit, BRT, Feasibility Study.
BILL VAN METER: Director-- or Chair Lubow and Board, this is Bill Van Meter, Assistant
General Manager for Planning. And glad to see that you're all in attendance tonight. As Chair
Lubow noted, we have six updates. So I'll try to keep my future introductions brief as we march
through the presentations and the series of updates.
Brian Welch, our Senior Manager of Planning Technical Services and the project manager for
the Regional BRT Feasibility Study joins me. And without further ado, I'll turn the presentation
over to Brian.
BRIAN WELCH: Good evening, Chair Lubow and members of the Board. I first wanted to
recognize we have two members of our consultant team in the audience, project manager, Holly
Buck, who's being assisted by Steve Martintano. They're both here and are doing a fantastic job
for the district on this effort. I will go fairly quickly because I know that we have many items on
the agenda tonight but would be happy to return to any of the slides for additional discussion if
you wish.
What we're endeavoring to do as we proceed with this effort is to identify for the district what we
believe to be recommendations to the Board on our priorities as we move forward with Bus
Rapid Transit. We, early on, established that we wanted to adhere, if at all possible, to the
Federal Transit Administration definition of BRT, because that would enable the district to
pursue federal funding for some of these projects which we believe to be very competitive in the
future.
We also, however, recognize that there may be promising BRT corridors that while they don't
necessarily meet the federal criteria do also have merit. So we would envision, and I'll come back
to this and wrap up with this as well, as bringing to the Board two sets of projects. One that we

believe would be competitive and meet the federal definition, as well as other projects which we
believe have merit.
So I'm only going to show this quickly. We're right now in between tiers two and three of our
effort. What we started with was looking at, throughout the district, the simple metrics to try and
identify every place that could conceivably support bus rapid transit. We concluded those
identifying them in what we called tier one.
We then developed a map showing what those look like, and you can see there throughout the
district, fairly well distributed. We evaluated these further looking at some of the key
determinants of ridership for bus rapid transit. And again, I want to emphasize that Bus Rapid
Transit has a flexible definition, although we do know that ridership is going to be one of the key
metrics we want to take a look at in defining something as a bus rapid transit project.
We then looked at how many of these tier one categories were met. And that allowed us to move
forward and start building what we called these routes. So we had over two dozen routes that
actually made sense in and of themselves as BRT routes, bearing in mind that, ultimately, we
will bring to the Board a recommendation for a system of bus rapid transit routes, not a scattered
number of routes throughout the district, but rather something that makes sense, a system as a
whole.
Now obviously, we can't recommend to the Board two and half dozen priority Bus Rapid Transit
routes. That just doesn't make sense even in a district of our size. So then we moved into what
we call tier two, which is what I'll spend a little bit of time on this evening.
Now, this is where we looked at the combination of routes that we anticipate would have high
demand, which makes sense, as well as will offer a travel time savings to our patrons. So you
could have a route, for example, that maybe has very little congestion in the future and therefore
may not be very attractive for an alternative mode since people could still drive through these
routes. So those, generally, are not going to be where Bus Rapid Transit provides significant
advantages.
We modeled, actually, all of these routes, which was a pretty extensive process. And we did it in
a manner that all of the routes would be treated similarly. In other words, they all had an equal
chance to move forward in the process. They were all coded with identical characteristics so that
there was a valid way to compare them.
So what this resulted in is what we call the tier two route performance. This graph is intended to
show this combination of ridership on one axis, which is the boardings per revenue mile, and
then on the other axis, you see the percent of the quarter that is severely congested in the horizon
year of 2040.
Now, the other thing that you can see from this graph is the size of the circle gives you a sense of
person miles traveled per revenue mile. Now, we did that specifically because we wanted to
make sure that there weren't any specifically longer routes, that were penalized merely because
of their length, so that you had the ability to look at these all similarly.

So where that has led us so far is we are proposing that we would move forward and advance
these routes that you see at the bottom of your screen into what we call tier three. Now, bear in
mind that the level of analysis that we're going to undertake as we move forward in these tiers
gets much, much more detailed, much more exhaustive, in order to get to an even smaller set
than what we see shown here in tier three for this first level of analysis.
These routes include many throughout the central into the northern parts of our district, and as
you would expect, they're mainly clustered around the places where there is existing and future
travel demand, as well as existing and future congestion on the system. So this map gives you a
visual picture of these darker blue routes. And again, these are in your packet. And I'm going
through this quickly, but this gives you a visual idea, north to south, east to west.
Where do we go from here? Well, what we propose is a two-step process at this point. For all of
the routes, we're going to follow up with every jurisdiction, whether or not they are included in
tier three. So we want to make sure that through stakeholder interviews we're able to ask
questions to get a better sense of these routes that while they don't necessarily meet the criteria
for new starts or small starts, they do have merit.
For example, a route like State Highway 7, in the northern part of the district, where a lot of
work is being done by State Highway 7, there's a considerable amount of local investment that's
taken place in studying it, there's a lot of interest in exploring whether that could be a future
route. Now, while it may not be a candidate for small starts or new starts, we do believe we want
to bring forward routes like that to the Board for your consideration.
And so the communities that we're going to do more research, really, are throughout the district.
Both for tier three-- we want to make sure that there is local support for Bus Rapid Transit. You
could have identified by ridership alone a route that looks promising, but if the local jurisdiction
is not necessarily completely supportive of it, if they are not interested in giving us space or
transit signal priority, that's definitely something that we need to look at before we bring a
recommendation to the Board.
So we have a two-pronged way of moving forward to the Board, with both the small starts, new
starts candidates, as well as other promising bus rapid transit corridors. So what we'll be doing is
identifying multiple corridors that will move forward into what we call tier four. And you can
see here in tier three, we're starting to get into much more detail. And then by tier four, then the
criteria are getting very specific. And I'm sure many of the questions that you would ask about
the viability of a RTD project, these are definitely the kind of things that we want to evaluate and
make sure that we're on the right track before we bring anything before the Board of Directors.
We're going to move forward with additional outreach as we have been going on with our local
government group. We're keeping DRCOG on board, who's providing funding for this effort as
well. And we anticipate being back to the Board early in the summer with recommendations for
you to consider. At least-- we'll be back probably two more times to give the Board an
opportunity for additional input, of course. So with that, I will stop and see if there's any
questions.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. And there's quite a few Directors who are interested in asking you
questions. First is Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Lubow. Thank you, Brian. That was really exciting.
And as you were talking, a couple of things came to my mind. And what I really like about your
presentation is it's groovy, you know? It's got, like, a rhythm. No, it does.
Because for example, I heard this lady on Wait, Wait, Don't Tell Me a couple of weeks ago. She
actually won. She lives in Lafayette. But she works at Aurora Water. How cool is that, right? But
I don't know how she gets back and forth.
But for people in Lafayette who work in Aurora, or Boulder, to Anschutz, or what have you, to
have all those municipalities say, yeah, we really want to invest in this public transit system so
we can ensure that our employees actually get here on time, and whether that's the train and the
bus, or this multi-modal kind of thing. So I think you're on the right track.
And down that road, I was kind of wondering, would it be a good idea, do you think, to talk to
some of these larger companies, whether it's Google, Amazon? I mean, it's growing
phenomenally here, right? So find out, those people that are at that destination, where they're
coming from, and then maybe help get them there from that. So start at a different point. Not at
the origination, but the destination.
And then finally, I was wondering, what kind of data sets did you use to inform your analysis?
For example, did you start looking at the Northwest Area Mobility Study (NAMS) when you
began this analysis?
BRIAN WELCH: Yes, we did. That was helpful in identifying this initial set of corridors
throughout the district where there's been previous interest in bus rapid transit. So they were
automatically included at the very beginning.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you very much. That's all.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Menten, please.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. So one of our documents has a description, and I think it's our TOD,
which may be coming up later in the evening, where we have the citizen input on developments.
And the reason I ask along that thread is that I would certainly say I'm more in favor of a BRT
going through my parts of my district than another rail line because of less impact and far better
benefits, I think, personally.
But I'm curious about, at what point can we evaluate the amount of land acquisitions that would
need to be taken, or how many pieces of land are we going to need to take? I think the citizens
need to be brought in on that. And right now, you're still at a planning stage with a bunch of
routes. You haven't gotten down to something like that. But you're coming forward with
proposals, and that's going to be an important component to me, is, what is the impact to

neighborhoods if we do not have enough asphalt there to work with. So how are you going to do
that?
BRIAN WELCH: Yeah, in our next tier, in tier three, that's going to be a key consideration. The
availability of Right of Way for a Bus Rapid Transit project is a real tipping point because these
projects are promoted, primarily, because of their relatively lower cost per mile compared to a
fixed guideway. Right of Way needs of any significance are going to make it very problematic, I
would say, to move forward.
The only thing we really would be looking for are things like bus bulbs, simple things. But
Director Menten, my understanding would be, and I'm speculating here, but I think that if a
proposed corridor required Right of Way, it's going to make it very challenging for it to move
forward as part of the analysis. So I'm envisioning that we're going to be looking at working with
existing or future curb-to-curb right of way, which is the real challenge because the space is
limited. Does that answer that question?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. Yes, I'm glad you're considering part of that, realizing the
challenges. And on that same line, then, with costs when I've looked at things like the west line,
the southeast extension, and tried to boil it down to the simplest way for me to be able to process
it, it's a cost per mile. And what I have seemed to experience between light rail and commuter, I
think, is what started out with West Line somewhere in a $50 to $60 million per mile and cost.
Commuter, and even Southeast Extension now, about $100 million per mile.
BRT. What kind of range do we look at to boil it down to that simple price per mile? And I know
this one versus this can be different. What's the range that you can give me? Can you tell me
now?
BRIAN WELCH: We can get-- in a Bus Rapid Transit project, you can literally deploy Bus
Rapid Transit for a million dollars a mile or less, in many cases. If you don't have right of way
needs, and you're merely doing infrastructure improvements and some better stations and transit
signal priority, I've seen multiple miles of Bus Rapid Transit deployed for a fraction of the cost.
We have actually got a couple of really good experts in the audience, Phil Hoffman and Rick
Pilgrim, and they could answer that specifically. But it's such a fraction of a fixed guideway that
that's what makes Bus Rapid Transit so promising for our district, is you can build so much more
for a fraction of the cost.
NATALIE MENTEN: And when you speak of real BRT versus quasi, that's the word I've kind
of thrown around, quasi BRT-- I don't know if that's appropriate or not, but when you get into
full blown and you've got property acquisitions, where does that top end end up on BRT?
BRIAN WELCH: Then you can get into the $10 to $20 million a mile if you're starting to
acquire property, building some really high end amenities and stations, spending a great deal of
money on other types of infrastructure to accompany the project. But still, I haven't seen BRT
projects that approach anywhere near the cost of an At-grade let alone an elevated or a low-grade
fixed guideway.

NATALIE MENTEN: So for everybody who is at most one fifth, most one fifth
BRIAN WELCH: That's not a bad rule of thumb, yeah.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. All right, thank you. That's all my questions. Oh, I apologize. 285 on
here, is indicated in this map as a white line. I know Director Catlin and I share some similar
paths in that 285 seems like such a promising east-west corridor for the travel going to DTC and
some of the developments. But it's indicated here with a white line, so that means that it was
studied but didn't even get one of the notches on its belt.
BRIAN WELCH: That's correct. If it's that, yes. That's right.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, thank you. That's all my questions.
JUDY LUBOW: All right, thank you. Director Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. Just to get a feel, if this Board were to select three
projects to put in BRT, what kind of a time frame are you looking at in years to do that? And
then how does the environmental assessment process fit into this? Is that a key component of it?
BRIAN WELCH: Thank you for the question. One of the advantages of Bus Rapid Transit is you
can deploy it on a more constrained time schedule, particularly if the environmental review does
not include, Right of Way taking and other controversial parts of a project.
The environmental review process is so hard to pin down, though, whereas when we talk about
fixed guideways from conception to construction, we usually speak in decades. Fortunately, for
Bus Rapid Transit, you can speak in terms of years, literally, depending upon the nature and
complexity of the project. If a project-- and I'll only use this as an example. Broadway Lincoln,
the way it operates now, it's getting very close to Bus Rapid Transit. It's got peak hour
exclusivity for buses already.
With a few sets of additional improvements you could deploy a Bus Rapid Transit project there
in two to five years or less, I would imagine. In New York City, they build Bus Rapid Transit
projects in six months. I don't think we can go quite that quickly, but the frame for both
environmental review and construction is greatly, greatly concatenated.
Now, if we get into small starts, it would take longer than that. But again, I think we're talking in
half decades rather than decades, which is a big advantage of Bus Rapid Transit.
BOB BROOM: So a Board member might see a project get completed while he's still on the
Board?
BRIAN WELCH: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Catlin, please.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Lubow. I am very interested in this, and it's a topic that I've
studied on and off for the last 16, 17 years. And what struck me along the lines of Director
Menten's comment about the east-west mobility is that that's what I hear from my constituents,
particularly up in the mountains. They're saying, why can't we access the Tech Center from
where we are?
And so I was just looking at some opportunities that exist by way of infrastructure. Most of those
that you're studying are arterials, which have constraints such as signalized intersections and that,
plus, as you mentioned, Right of Way. But there are a couple of quarters where infrastructure is
already planned by way of CDOT and their managed lanes, and we have no bus routes on C-470
in the east-west direction. But it seems to me that we ought to consider looking at a bus route on
the managed lanes on C-470 because they would have an uncongested trip and it would make
public transportation much more attractive to those people in that area.
When we were talking earlier, Chair Tisdale mentioned we have Sterling Ranch that is looming
out there in the southwest metro area that's not part of our district. But it's certainly going to be
contributing to congestion. And it seems to me we do have an opportunity on C-470 to look at
that, or at least to park it for future consideration.
And similarly, on the north-south segment of C-470 where we actually do run a couple of bus
trips, they're looking at managed lanes on that segment as well. And so to take advantage of
infrastructure that's being planned and leverage that for bus rapid transit seems, to me, to make a
lot of sense.
BRIAN WELCH: It certainly does. And a good example of that that's moving forward is I-25
north up to Thornton, where we believe that has a lot of merit for small starts, in fact. But you're
right. Managed lanes are an important criteria that we're going to carry forward and make sure
we look at those in terms of those categories where while they may not meet the federal
definition, they definitely have merit. I agree with you completely.
PEGGY CATLIN: It's kind of a chicken, if I might, a chicken or the egg. Which comes first? But
I think we do have some opportunities that we should keep in mind. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just briefly, on packet page 20-- I can't
see here what page it is in the actual presentation. But the label is Stakeholder Outreach and you
list community research on Transit Supportive Policies.
You've got seven cities in Arapahoe County listed, but Arapahoe County is not listed. And just
wondering was that simply a typo, or is there something I don't know about reaching out to
Arapahoe County?
BRIAN WELCH: We have been in contact, and we will continue to reach out to Arapahoe
County.

DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you. Because several of the routes that you are looking at do,
in fact, appear to be impacting Arapahoe County. I just want to make sure that their team was
part of this as well. Thank you. That's all that I had. Thank you, Madam Chair.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, I can't see who's-- can you pull up the-- good, thank you. Director-- is it
Geisinger or Guissinger?
DIRECTOR GUISSINGER: Guissinger.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
DIRECTOR GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair. And thanks for your work on this, Brian. It looks
like a lot of work. I'm going to start with a specific question that is basically the same question
that was just asked. But I don't see Boulder, Longmont, Boulder County, Lewisville, Lafayette in
the stakeholder outreach.
BRIAN WELCH: They will all be and have been engaged, and we will be following up with
them specifically. They're in that group that have BRT routes that warrant further consideration
for carrying forward into the process. Not necessarily small starts, but definitely they're part of
that other part that's included in the stakeholder interviews.
We're going to actually interview every single jurisdiction that had a candidate corridor. We
didn't-- the ones in the top are the ones that are advancing specifically into tier three, and the
ones in the bottom are the ones that are going to be considered for that other bucket of projects.
But it wasn't intended to-- we just didn't include all of them because it's-DIRECTOR GUISSINGER: In the bottom-BRIAN WELCH: Where it says stakeholder interviews.
DIRECTOR GUISSINGER: OK.
BRIAN WELCH: That's where we're going to pick up everybody else.
DIRECTOR GUISSINGER: OK. And can you explain-- I appreciate you mentioning Highway
7. I went to a meeting-- I was first introduced to this last week at a meeting of the Highway 7
Coalition, which is Adams County Commissioners and up north of there, and Highway 7 is from
Brighton to Boulder. What they're looking at, it's a mess. You probably know that.
But I guess I'm-- we went through the NAM study. It was certainly before I was here, but I was
involved through the city. And it was a pretty exhaustive process, and RTD, and CDOT, and all
of the area jurisdictions agreed that we are supporting and looking for Northwest Rail. And in the
meanwhile, the number of different corridors were identified for Bus Rapid Transit. And I'm just
not sure how this-- they've all disappeared at this point. It sounds like you may be adding some
back in. But that's my question. After the NAM study, how does this relate?

BRIAN WELCH: Yeah, they haven't disappeared. They will be carried forward, and we're going
to continue to examine them with a set of follow up questions that will help us provide
recommendations to the Board, asking some key questions regarding the merits of those projects.
And I think it's-- I didn't mention this specifically, but it could very well be that we've identified
projects that have very high characteristics that meet FTA's requirements, but there could be
flaws with them for various reasons. Therefore, there's projects elsewhere on the list that are
going to move up, essentially.
But they haven't disappeared. We will follow up and put them in that other bucket of projects
that while we wouldn't recommend that the Board consider them as candidates for project
development, the formal capital improvement grant process, we would recommend you consider
them as projects for the district to recommend as a priority for other funding sources.
DIRECTOR GUISSINGER: So when you say project development, that's the small starts?
BRIAN WELCH: Yeah, the Capital Investment Grant Program.
DIRECTOR GUISSINGER: And-- I'm glad to hear all of this. Small starts, as I understand it, is
going to typically rank the dense urban areas much higher. So I think that one of their criteria,
the passenger miles traveled, looking at more of the suburban-- and I know that Director Catlin
and Director Menten were talking about some of the areas in Jefferson County as well.
I had one other specific question. Passenger miles traveled divided by service miles, isn't that just
boardings? Or what does that get us to?
BRIAN WELCH: What that allows you to take into consideration is specifically the length of the
route itself. So in other words, a very short route with a lot of boardings needs to be compared in
this third way to a longer route which carries people more vehicle miles traveled, essentially, off
the road.
And we did specifically look at that. In that chart, you'll see the size of the circles. And when we
looked at passenger miles traveled specifically, it wouldn't really change that graph at all because
we did discover that we weren't penalizing any of the longer routes simply because they were
longer, and therefore, their metrics when you simply looked at ridership. But they still had a lot
of benefit because they were carrying people long distances.
But that's not the way FTA regards Bus Rapid Transit. But we can still do it that way.
DIRECTOR GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you.
BRIAN WELCH: And-JUDY LUBOW: Executive Director wants to speak.

DAVE GENOVA: If I may just add, and that's really one of the reasons behind why we're
carrying two buckets of projects, those that would look good for federal funding, and those that
look good for other reasons and could be priorities for us because of other reasons.
DIRECTOR GUISSINGER: Great, thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. OK, Director Cook, please.
DIRECTOR COOK: Mr. Welch, I didn't talk to you about this today, but I wanted to make a
case, if I can, for the inclusion of Sheridan Boulevard. If you look on the packet page 17-- it's the
matrix with route performance. And you have Sheridan to the right, in other words, more
severely congested than Federal which is included, and to the north or top of Monaco, which is
also included.
And if you think about, too, to the extent it could connect with the existing US-36 corridor,
you've got some pretty serious densification going on there. And wonder if it wouldn't make
sense to-- because it is on the cusp, because it does have potential, and because it connects those
key corridors which I think is one of the objectives of the work that you do, US-36 Gold Line
and W Line, then maybe think about including that as well. That's my request.
And in that regard, including Arvada among your contacts because Arvada with Adams,
Jefferson, and Westminster would all be impacted.
BRIAN WELCH: We've been thinking about Sheridan Boulevard. That's a good
recommendation. We'll move that one into the dark blue color.
DIRECTOR COOK: OK, and then just commenting based on our conversation, I'm really glad
we have the second bucket. And thinking about ways to integrate that second bucket with the
metro vision prioritizations and incentivizing communities who can then help to move plans
forward, developing that bucket list with some criteria that incorporates or incentivizes that.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you. I can't see who's-- can you bring up the Directors, please?
Thank you. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. In the tier four evaluation criteria, I really liked seeing transit
dependent populations included in there, also addressing community identified safety concerns.
I've worked on some projects where we could help fix other problems while we were solving a
transportation problem. And also, the neighborhood buy-in, that's always fun and exciting.
I noticed that travel time saving-- some of the things that have tripped me up in my past lives is
that they expect-- once service is implemented, then it'll be level of service A or B, something
like that. And I'm sure you guys know it, but just to say it anyway, I think it needs to be made
clear that travel time savings over what it would be without the improvement.
Do any of the routes not-- any of the routes moving into tier three, do any of them not go
downtown? I can't tell from the map, from the graphic, on package page 19.

BRIAN WELCH: Well, Director Walker, I think it would depend. Some of them are not-- they
don't really intersect what we would consider the Central Business District. Some are, but there
are quite that-- quite a few of these routes that are being carried forward that we would consider
to be outside downtown to the east and the west.
JEFF WALKER: OK. I couldn't tell from this because there's only one label, and I can't tell if it
goes straight or if it turns and heads into downtown. And the other thing is, so it's good
recognizing that not everybody needs to come downtown. There are lots of work areas, and that's
one of the things that Houston did to boost its ridership-- my kid's calling me. And then the other
thing is that there's nothing to prevent a city from implementing some of these types of
improvements on its own to facilitate transit or transportation movements and boost the level of
service on its own roads.
BRIAN WELCH: And what we certainly want to bring to the Board is that list so you're well
aware of what we've been hearing from member jurisdictions on where they really see the merits
of BRT and are willing to do tangible things to make that happen. Because we're moving into an
era now where that's how it's going to work. With us not pursuing brand new fixed guideway
corridors, we're going to be relying on our member jurisdictions to have space for us to provide
things like Bus Rapid Transit. So we'll report back to you on our findings.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, similar to the traffic lights and the-BRIAN WELCH: Exactly.
JEFF WALKER: --exclusive lane on Broadway and Lincoln when we [INAUDIBLE]. All right,
thank you very much.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Buzek, please.
SPEAKER 2: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'll start off by saying I agree with Treasurer Cook with
regard to the Sheridan travel shed as a possible BRT solution there.
On this page 18, the stakeholder outreach, I just want to say that six of the 20 communities make
up my district. So this topic is pretty important to me and to my constituents, as well, which
leads me to a question as to whether-- when you do the analysis of the rankings of these travel
sheds, do viable transit options available to the commuters in that area come into play?
BRIAN WELCH: Yes, they will.
SPEAKER 2: OK, good. Because I think of this Highway 7 BRT, Brighton to Boulder, I want to
get from Brighton to Boulder on public transit, there's no option at all. So that's kind of
important. I heard some comments about comparing BRT to rail, and I just want to be sure that
we all understand our commitment to complete our promised rail lines and not replace them with
BRT. Rail is really important when it comes to, particularly, economic development. Businesses
and people don't move to a bus stop. They move to train stop. TOD doesn't develop around a bus
stop. It develops around rail stops.

So if you start talking about not completing rail lines, you're doing a disservice economically to
the communities that are going to be left out. And again, to that point, BRT can start up quickly
but it can also go away quickly, right? And so that's another reason why site selectors, when they
want to look at transit, they really like that rail part. Buses and BRT is great, but rail is really
important. I want to make sure we keep that in our back pocket, too. Thanks.
BRIAN WELCH: Yeah, one of the key criteria that we're using to put together the BRT system
for your review and approval is the one that leverages the existing and planned FasTracks
program, for sure.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Rivera-Malpiede, please.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chairman-- woman. I also want to add my voice to
the BRT study along Sheridan. It goes through three districts, C, L, and J, thank you. But I think
that when you look at that corridor, it really services a great, diverse community all the way up.
And very heavily transit dependent, so I wholeheartedly agree with Treasurer Cook. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I still have some comments. Don't think you're gone yet. And it's
basically I'm thinking about equity. And it almost seems to me that the federal new starts funding
pot is requirements, and then the other pot is much more flexible and it could deal with equitable
issues more. But what I'm concerned about is communities that don't have anything or have very
little. And I think it would be important to see, as part of the analysis, who's getting what and
who's being left out, because I'm kind of tired of being left out.
Now, in this particular case, because of the NAM study, 119 is getting it even if they might not
have by any other analysis. And that's kind of politics. But I do think, for everyone, it's important
to not leave out people because they don't have huge density. And I would like to see that, that
basically, when we make recommendations that it has looked at the equitable component.
OK, that's it. Thank you. Do you have anything else you want to talk about about this? No, you
had enough, huh? OK. All right, well, let's go onto the next one. Bill, I guess you can't leave.
BILL VAN METER: You are correct, Vice Chair-- Chair Lubow. I'll get it straight eventually.
JUDY LUBOW: Right.
BILL VAN METER: Brian is staying up here, so you've got another groovy presentation-JUDY LUBOW: Cool.
BILL VAN METER: --this time on Mobility Choice Blueprint.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
BRIAN WELCH: Good evening. Brian Welch, Senior Manager of Planning Technical Services.
This is going again. Now, I have to tell you that we have two key members of the HDR

consulting team in the audience, Rick Pilgrim and Chris Primus. They actually prepared a 97
slide PowerPoint.
I'm going to go through every slide. Just kidding. No, I have actually concatenated this down to a
manageable number for the presentation to the Board tonight. We are now getting ready for the
February 19th official rollout of Mobility Choice Blueprint, which we hope many of you can
attend.
What I'm going to give you now is a summary. This is the really quick summary because we've
done, I think, three or four presentations. But I want to take you quickly through the project to
see where we are and what I think are some very, very impressive accomplishments and actions
to move forward with.
What did we want to do with Mobility Choice Blueprint? Three key things, collaboration, which
has been a significant success in and of itself. Pilot projects, couple of them actually have already
gotten going, just during Mobility Choice Blueprint. One of them many of you attended with the
AV-61 demonstration.
But at the heart of this is the notion that public agencies should make smart, coordinated,
collaborative decisions on technology and not go in separate ways, but rather leverage our
individual strengths to put them together for our patrons. These are the three hearts of it.
I just wanted to mention, this project had a exhaustive and extensive outreach program. It was
multilingual. It covered virtually every type of interest group and community within our district.
There was a whole array of different techniques used to really solicit information from the
people who do and don't use our services. And I was very impressed with the success. And I
think it formed a lot of the recommendations that you see before you this evening.
These are some key things. As members of the Board, you know that these are critical to our
customers. And they came through clearly as part of Mobility Choice.
What we came up with were two different views of the future. You may have heard this
colloquially as the heaven and the hell scenarios of the future. We call them mobility gridlock
versus mobility bold. We, of course, want to aim towards what we call mobility bold. And the
tactical actions that I'm going to describe to you briefly are all intended to get us to the bold
future and not the gridlocked future.
Why are we doing this? In previous discussions with this Board, you've asked some very good
questions about, well, Brian, that's interesting you're doing Mobility Choice. What are the
outcomes? What difference do these tactical actions make? And we believe they're focused on
the economy, safety, congestion, equity, air quality. All very important to us and to our patrons.
So now what I'm going to do-- I've skipped through probably 50 slides right there for your
benefit, and I'm going to go right to the tactical actions that have been recommended for RTD
either as an initiator or as a key participant. You have all these in your packet, and just in the

interest of time, I'm just going to zero in on a few. And then you can, of course, ask any follow
up questions.
One of the things that we discovered during Mobility Choice Blueprint is we really need to
address what we would call governance when it comes to technology and mobility. If you look at
a region, say, Columbus, with Smart Columbus where they have established between the private
sector, the MPO, the transit agency, the Department of Transportation, does that sound familiar?
They have a governance model that's already in place. And we think we need a similar approach
so that, essentially, we have a one stop shop or a entry door for people who wish to introduce
new technology and new mobility options that affect all of us so that we can have a coordinated,
collaborative approach.
In other words, some new sort of introduction of technology into our region. How do we want to
handle that? So we have tactical actions that are going to address that. You all know the term
mobility as a service. It was very important to RTD to specify that that needs to be available to
all, regardless of income, any protected population. We need to focus on everybody, not just the
ones that the private sector thinks they're going to make the most money on.
I was mentioning yesterday that it was Rosa Parks' birthday, February 4, 1913, which, of course,
has been one of the key determinants in the public transit industry, equity, civil rights. And we
believe that needs to carry forward into new mobility just as it has in traditional bus and rail.
Transit priority is important to us. Now, when I say transit priority, I don't mean just transit
signal priority. But we want to see transit priority in terms of lanes, in terms of queue jumps, in
terms of other amenities that make our rider experience superior. And that's a key, obviously,
tactic for our district.
Here's one that-- as you know, we just had an announcement. We're headed towards this. This is
important. I think someday you're going to envision a situation where you can travel any transit
system in the United States with one app. That would be great. I mean, you can do it now with
Uber and Lyft, and we'd certainly like to see that happen.
When we say develop incentives to improve ride hailing operations, I think there's enough
evidence now that if not carefully collaborated, transportation network companies could have a
tendency to chip away at our ridership rather than necessarily compliment it. So as a tactic, we
want to make sure we're doing purposeful actions to make that a benefit to our customers, not to
erode our ridership.
Curbside management. This is one of Director Walker's topics. Curbs are very important to RTD.
And I've said this before, but I believe that the future concern for a district like ours is not
technology, it's really space. And everything needs space to move around in the system, and
whoever gets the space is the one that's going to have the best advantages to serve customers. If
we're constantly in congested roadways, we're going to be moving slowly. And if we can't get
our passengers to and from curbs, we're going to have a problem.

Mobility hubs are something that we want to pursue. We want to look at options, and this is
along the lines of FlexRide. How can we serve some of the communities where traditional fixed
route bus service is not the best option? Very important to us.
We'd like to look at a pilot on a park and ride to somehow do perhaps something similar to
Minneapolis where they provide realtime information to patrons of park and rides, telling them
how many spaces are available, when you're on I-25 and maybe you can see that, well, my
preferred park and ride is full, but look, hey, there's some spaces up ahead. And what they've
added to that is the congested travel time so that somebody can say, you know what? I'm not
going to sit on the freeway for 40 minutes. I'm going to pull into a park and ride.
Data, while not the most exciting topic, it's critical. There's a real tug of war going on over who
transportation data belongs to. It's worth a lot to a lot of people. It's worth a lot. Our data is very
valuable to people, and this is a key area of emphasis.
Electrification, zero emission vehicles. You're going to be hearing more about this in the coming
months. You've already heard about it from our new Governor. I believe that there's going to be
continued initiatives at the state and federal level towards battery electric and zero emission
vehicles. I'm not dictating the direction that the Board's going to take, but I think we need to be
prepared for different types of future scenarios.
Driverless micro-transit. Hey, this sounds like a good idea. As a matter of fact, we've already
done this one. So that was that 94 slides down to that set, but I don't want to minimize the
significance of this effort. I'm very excited about it. I'm very excited about the tactical actions
that we'll be able to work with the Board to implement.
There hasn't been, really, another project quite like this done that I'm aware of in North America,
where we had a purposeful collaboration between the private sector, the metropolitan planning
organization, the Department of Transportation, and the transit agency. And we came up with-- I
didn't even show you, there's a couple dozen more tactical actions that are directed towards other
players which are available on our website now. So that whole 94 page tome is available for you
to look at. So with that, I'll wrap up.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. First up is Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just want to point out a couple fun things. You
have to have a smart phone in order to take advantage of one-stop shopping. And that's
something we need to be aware of, that we need to stay in line with other options.
And then I want to tell you, kind of in line with that, we have a really fun picture of a transit
advocate attempting to plug in to the charging station his powered wheelchair. So we want to
keep that in mind. I personally ride and e-bike, and so if we are really looking at the big future
picture, we want to look at not just charging cute little cars that not everybody can afford, but a
variety of mobility options. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Catlin, please.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Lubow. I imagine that it is probably embedded in the 94
page tome, but as I looked at the three slides regarding economy, safety, and congestion and the
claims that were made about $1.55 billion dollars gained, and the number of fewer crashes per
year, and the vehicle delay per year that were predicted, I would really be curious to see how
those numbers were achieved. Some of the other numbers, like the air quality and the equity
piece, I think those speak for themselves. I don't know if they're within the 94 pages, but I'd be
interested to see how you arrived at those numbers.
BRIAN WELCH: There is definitely more explanation. I even have some more in the notes. But
you're right. It is a combination of outputs from the travel demand model that we share with
Denver Regional Council of Governments. Others were done through some-- as sophisticated as
it could be given, the limitations of the available data. But I can follow up if additional
information is needed to how we calibrated those ends of the spectrum.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I was just curious.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Rivera-Malpiede, please.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chairwoman I want to commend you on your
community engagement component. I was really pleased to be asked to be a metro ambassador
and attended several of those meetings, as you know. And we talked quite in depth about
diversity and how you do outreach to all diverse communities, and I think that you heard it very
loud and clear. And I think that is really showing the inclusivity and success that this program is
going to move forward. And I just think we need to collectively say thank you for having our
voice at the table.
BRIAN WELCH: You're welcome.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. All right, Director Walker, please.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Yeah, curbside management's really important. So you look at a city
like Minneapolis with its skyway system. They created a second level of curbs one story up. And
even our Union Station has a second curb one story down, right? We have trains on top and then
the buses down there. So that's really important to move people and move money around in the
system. So thank you for recognizing that.
And then I also noticed in one of the slides, I don't remember which number now, but it
mentioned signal prioritization on all major quarters, which ties into what you just got done
talking about in your other presentation. So it's good to see that some of these things are already
in their nascent stages, already starting to gel and overlap, since we can see some commonalities
and they aren't one-offs. So anyway, thanks for the presentation again.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Menten, please.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So in the document that you just gave us, we've got 2, 4, 6, 8,
10, 12, 13 items between 1.1 through 6.1. I'm sorry. And this is a partial document, correct?

BRIAN WELCH: This is approximately one-third of the 34 tactical actions identified, plus the
other material included in the full PowerPoint, yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, so I see 36 on the original. Now, that's the last thing I'm able to get
off the website. So there've been some items on there that I've been concerned about in the past
and mentioned in the past, and I want to just double check that they're still in there, then.
So even though we've gotten a summary, I would have loved to have seen-- you know, a lot of
those fluff slides at the beginning, they could have gone. And put the rest of these actual tactical
things in there. Just my view.
So one of the items that's in there is exploring and possibly implementing a road usage charge in
Colorado. So that is still in the game plan?
BRIAN WELCH: Is that still in there?
BILL VAN METER: No, as requested by a couple of the other partners to the study.
NATALIE MENTEN: Who are the-- you want to bring them up? It's up to-- I guess we should
ask the Chair, here.
JUDY LUBOW: OK.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
BRIAN WELCH: That was not a tactical action. RTD is an initiator or a participant.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, but it's part of the plan that we are funding.
BRIAN WELCH: Well, essentially, it's part of one of the tactical actions that was suggested to
be explored by another agency.
NATALIE MENTEN: But in the complete package, that still is in there.
BRIAN WELCH: That's correct.
NATALIE MENTEN: And we were one of the one-third funders to create this plan.
JUDY LUBOW: one-fourth, but yeah.
NATALIE MENTEN: Well, I don't count Dr.-- Denver Metro Chamber is by themselves. It was
three partners, DRCOG, CDOT, and us, so three, right? We don't have any control over DRCOG
Right? OK. Denver Metro Chamber, sorry.
So the road usage charges is still in there. And there were two partners who wanted that in there,
and one of them is CDOT.

BRIAN WELCH: And they wanted-- to be clear, that was to explore it. There was no indication
that that was recommended as a tactical action as part of Mobility Choice Blueprint. Rather, it
was to explore what the consequences of that would be.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, and who was the other partner? There were two?
JUDY LUBOW: There's only one other, so-BRIAN WELCH: It would probably be CDOT and DRCOG.
NATALIE MENTEN: [INAUDIBLE] OK. And then another one of the included 36 is
established data sharing requirements for private sector roadway uses. And still not clear what
that meant. But it sounded to me like it's requiring the private sector to share data.
BRIAN WELCH: What it's requiring is that we have a common platform by which data would
be communicated between different types of vehicles. So in other words, the realm of connected
vehicles involves the ability of cars to have communication capabilities with either infrastructure
with buses, with other cars, and there would need to be a common platform for that data to be
shared meaningfully. So if somebody in front of you put their brakes on, you could get an
advanced notice of that if the data could be shared. That would require some participation by the
private sector to make it possible. That's the intent of that.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. What-BRIAN WELCH: So the themes of Mobility Choice Blueprint, though, in accordance with the
Board's direction, was data privacy. And that's very important as we move into these new
mobility, and data sharing, and data gathering efforts.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you for acknowledging that, because that is a concern for some
people. And I know some people's response was, what do you care? You're carrying a phone
around all day. Guess what? I can leave this at home. I don't have a chip anywhere else on me,
but it's in my car. And I have a '94 Geo Metro, so I don't have to worry about that problem, and
I'm looking at a '93 that this came up on Craigslist. All the more reason to get it.
But when does this come to us for approval? Because I'm going to-- why I'm bringing these
things up is because while there's 13 here listed on that screen that we saw, there's no way that
I'm going to support a road usage charge.
BRIAN WELCH: And we are not asking the Board to adopt or approve Mobility Choice
Blueprint. What we will do is bring to the Board at future Board meetings the implementation of
specific tactical actions that involve either RTD or one of our other partners. That's the way that
you would essentially approve or adopt part of Mobility Choice Blueprint.
We knew at the very beginning that there would be components of this that, one, didn't really
affect us directly, and two, others that perhaps we're not as interested in being aligned with. We
tried to make sure that there's nothing in there that wouldn't be beyond exploring that we would

find objectionable to this Board. But you were essentially-- have future actions to implement
Mobility Choice Blueprint. You are not adopting or approving the work product.
NATALIE MENTEN: And it'll come to us in specific pieces, not as a package, is what you just
told me.
BRIAN WELCH: That's exactly right.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, thank you very much.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. I'm going to-- I'm tired of waiting, so I'm just going to go ahead.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JUDY LUBOW: I'll be with you in a minute. OK, I'm very excited by this. This is really a
terrific program even though I have lots and lots of questions and concerns at the beginning. So
bear with me for a little bit.
One of the things I wanted to mention was that we have RTD, CDOT, and DRCOG joining
together. But we're also, I think, going to need to interact with the state legislature at some point.
And I'm not sure how they're going to be kept abreast of what's going on, but they're kind of like
a silent partner that that's going to be needed. So I don't know what your thoughts were about
that, but-BRIAN WELCH: They are included. As a matter of fact, we've identified tactical actions that
would require action by the legislature in order for them to be implemented.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. That makes sense. And I had a question about the air quality impacts that
you had on the tome. Basically, was just about electrification of vehicles. It wasn't about
increasing ridership or transit share of ridership, that type of thing. Was there any reason why
that was done?
BRIAN WELCH: We just gave that as one of the examples of an outcome that was able to be
quantified. There are, Direct Lubow, other air quality benefits, greenhouse gases, particulates,
associated with the program. That was just one of the examples from one tactical action.
JUDY LUBOW: I see, OK.
BRIAN WELCH: So there's others as well. We just tried to keep it a little bit succinct to give
everybody an example of an outcome.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. And I was wondering if it wouldn't be a good thing to either have a
Study Session, or if that is not wanted, then maybe a voluntary seminar for Board members about
the tactical issues. Because it's really going to concern us. And we're kind of left out of the loop,
in my opinion, in the sense of, OK, there are x number of tactical issues. And at some point, we'll
get dribs and drabs. And you'll ask us to approve x, y, and z of the 34.

And I think it would be nice to know those 34 ahead of time and maybe say, we like this, or we
don't like this. And I don't think we know enough yet to do that. So personally, I would like to
see it. I would volunteer to go see it.
BRIAN WELCH: One of the things that Bill Van Meter will mention in his discussion of the
comprehensive plan, the T2 plan, is how Mobility Choice Relates to that. And it addresses that
very inquiry.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, excellent. Thank you. And one last thing, has to do with Universities. Has
there been any way to pull them in? And if not, I think it would be a good thing to do.
BRIAN WELCH: They are definitely in. There are tactical actions that mention Universities, and
part of how we're moving forward is we have a close partnership with both the Universities and
with the National Renewable Energy Laboratory.
JUDY LUBOW: Excellent
BRIAN WELCH: --on pushing forward pilot projects and analysis. So we're already partnering,
and that will continue throughout implementation.
JUDY LUBOW: Great, thank you very much. OK, Director Mihalik, please. Thank you for your
patience.
KEN MIHALIK: Sure. Thank you, Madam Chair. Hi, Brian. Maybe it's just how I'm reading
this, but it's on package page 37, again, one of those infographics on the red mobility versus blue
mobility. It says the more free time, 1.46 million fewer hours of vehicle delay per year. In my
head, I'm just doing some quick math.
There's 3 million people in the district. The vast majority of those are drivers. The others aren't,
either they're too young or too old to drive, or other reasons. That's maybe less than an hour a
person per year, which doesn't seem overly compelling.
BRIAN WELCH: It's looking at 2030, and then comparing how the regional travel model
compares two different looks at vehicle hours of delay based upon the results of the models. So
again, we're talking 11 years now into the future, which would we anticipate having hundreds of
thousands of more people, and therefore, that's where that metric is predicated.
KEN MIHALIK: Sure, but if I'm understanding it right, it's still less than an hour a year per
driver.
BRIAN WELCH: I can follow up and get you a little bit more explanation, because there are
some more details on the methodology that was used, but I'll follow up with you, Director.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you.
[INAUDIBLE].

KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm done.
[INAUDIBLE]
JUDY LUBOW: OK. But it would mean-- it's a little more technical than I can do so, we'll wait.
OK, thank you very much.
All right, well, there's no dearth of further updates. The next one is State Highway 119.
BILL VAN METER: Chair Lubow and Board, this is Bill Van Meter, AGM of Planning again.
And change of personnel at the table, Chris Quinn, our Project Manager for the State Highway
119 Project. It's reaching some good milestones, good progress on the environmental review and
preliminary engineering study for that project. I'll turn it over to Chris to update you on that
project.
[INAUDIBLE]
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
KATE WILLIAMS: We'll call the technology guys.
BILL VAN METER: I think we just worked our way through the technological issues, ta-da.
CHRIS QUINN: Thank you for your patience. Yeah, this is Chris Quinn. I'm the Project
Manager for the State Highway 119 Project. And earlier in the evening, both Directors Lubow
and Guissinger mentioned the Northwest Area Mobility Study, also known as NAMS. That was
a study that was completed in 2014. It was a collaborative effort with CDOT, RTD, Denver
Regional Council of Governments as well, as all of the local jurisdictions in the northwest area.
A key recommendation of that study was the establishment of Bus Rapid Transit, BRT, in the
state highway 119 corridor between Boulder and Longmont. So the effort we are underway on
right now is to establish Bus Rapid Transit in the 119 corridor. And more precisely, we want to
go through the environmental clearances, and the engineering get us to a level of engineering
design where we would be eligible for federal, state, any kind of grant funding so that we can
actually implement the project.
Community outreach to date, we've had fairly extensive number of public meetings, including a
series of public meetings this week. Last night, we were in Boulder, tomorrow night we'll be in
Longmont, and on Thursday night we'll be in Niwot. We've also had an on-board survey of
existing riders on the Bolt and J services, which currently use the corridor, as well as an online
questionnaire.
And the alternatives that we are looking at right now-- we're down to a final three alternatives
that have two components. Configuration of the roadway along 119, and what the service plan
would look like, or the routing.

Quick summary of the final remaining alternatives from the roadway configuration, we're
looking at potentially a bus on shoulder operation, very similar to what's on US-36. So that if
congestion occurs in the corridor, the buses traveling through would be allowed to use the
shoulder to bypass the congestion.
Also looking at queue jumps or bypass lanes at the key intersections along the corridor that
would allow if there's backups for the bus to have just a short lane or a queue jump, a lane that
would allow the bus to bypass the traffic just within the area of that specific intersection. Then
lastly, we're looking at managed lanes, again, similar to what's out on US-36 so that buses, HOV
cars, as well as toll-paying customers could use these lanes.
From a service standpoint, I think at a previous presentation to the Board, we did go over what
the service looks like. But potentially, we're looking at three routing patterns. One would be just
a single route pattern from Boulder to Longmont. The other one it has a little bit more coverage,
starting in the Longmont end, one covering Main Street, the other covering the west end of
Longmont, one then serving the CU East Campus in Boulder, and then the other heading to
downtown Boulder. And then the last, the four route configuration, the routing would start at
each point in Longmont and end at each point in on the Boulder end.
Some of the key metrics that we've used to evaluate these alternatives include travel time
savings, passenger throughput through the corridor, as well as reliability. And going real fast
through these, what we have found is from a travel time savings standpoint, compared against if
we were to do nothing in the corridor, we find that all of the configurations would provide a
travel time benefit, but the biggest benefit would be if we were to have managed lanes. Then on
the person throughput-- and by person throughput, we're talking about not just bus passengers,
but also how many people is the corridor moving. So that includes passengers in cars as well. So
no surprise that the managed lanes would also provide the most throughput given the fact that
we'd be providing additional capacity on the network, which would allow more cars to go
through, which allows, obviously, more passengers.
Travel time reliability here again, we would find all of the alternatives would provide travel time
reliability for the bus passengers. But we would assume that the greatest reliability would be
through the managed lane.
Ridership, that's the one area where the managed lanes don't perform the best. We actually find
that the ridership would be the highest with the queue jumps. And what we think is going on
there is by opening additional capacity with the managed lane, that might discourage some
people that might otherwise take the bus to instead drive because there would be additional
capacity in the corridor.
So the key findings that we have is that in general, the managed lanes provide the best travel
time savings, most reliability travel options, most throughput. And then in terms of the route
patterns, we figure either the two or the four route pattern would provide the best efficiency.
And so the draft recommendation that we're moving forward with in the public would be a two
route bus pattern and then using the bus-- excuse me, using BRT managed lanes. So the key

project elements would be improved transit service, both local network as well as service on the
corridor itself. Typical bus rapid transit elements such as off-board fare collections, enhanced
stations, akin to what we might see in a rail project, as well as bike paths, here again, similar to
the US-36 model where a bike path was constructed parallel to the facility.
Now our schedule and our next steps are-- actually, I'm going to back up for a second. Like most
of these efforts, this project has been governed by a technical advisory committee which is
comprised of representatives from the local governments on the corridor, as well as DRCOG and
CDOT, and then a policy committee which is the elected officials from the corridor, including
two Board members, Directors Lubow and Guissinger. We will be going to a joint technical and
policy committee next week and ask for a recommendation on a project vision that we would
clear environmentally.
Our intent is to identify what elements RTD would be able to fund given what we anticipate to
be the existing and future funding availability for the corridor. And then we will also identify as
a vision what the full build out of the corridor, which could include the managed lanes, bike way,
et cetera, but recognizing that RTD would not be responsible for funding those particular items.
So we will be seeking input from our committee next week, and then we'll be coming back to the
Board in April with the intent of trying to get final approval, review and approval, from the
Board. With that in mind, then we would expect to complete our environmental clearance and
our final engineering design probably by the end of summer. So with that, any questions you
may have.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. The outside shoulder option, are those shoulders
already constructed to the width that's needed and to the strength that's needed to handle the
buses?
CHRIS QUINN: It varies throughout the corridor. So there are some areas where-- short
segments where we actually could just put a bus out there right now. But most of the corridor, we
would have to do some reinforcement as well as widening.
BOB BROOM: So is there a big difference between the cost of doing that versus the cost of
doing the managed lanes?
CHRIS QUINN: Yeah. The difference between the managed lanes and the bus on shoulder is
fairly significant, but the difference between bus on shoulder and queue jumps at the key
intersections is pretty-- those two are pretty similar.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Catlin, please.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Lubow. I have to say that I have a bias. As you all know, I
am a proponent of managed lanes for a couple of reasons. One of them, if done correctly, they
can be an interim step toward rail. And it seems to me that if travel times are improved, and there
is a way for people to get on a bus that is reliable, that we could see an increase in ridership,
which would then translate to more viability for getting other funding sources for an eventual
rail. So I just think it's a very positive solution.
I also would say that I actually support the recommended alternatives. And I just had a question.
You can go from one route, to two routes, to four routes. Could those be incremental as well?
CHRIS QUINN: Yeah, yeah. And that's-- you make a very good point there in terms of-- of the
great things about bus rapid transit is the fact that since it is a bus, we do have a certain amount
of flexibility. We can add more services needed fairly easily, and add additional routing options
if need be, if, say, a new employment center pops up, or there's a reason for servicing a new area.
So yes. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: And if I might, one more thing. I just think it's important to note that with the
managed lanes alternative, you have a revenue source that you might not otherwise have through
the collection of tolls from single occupant vehicles. That can offset the cost for some
maintenance operations, that kind of thing, that you wouldn't otherwise have. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Walker, please.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. The one meeting I went to about a year or so ago, a little over a year
ago, I remember the discussion was more about bike lanes than it was about bus lanes. So you
recognize that, thanks.
Quick question. With the managed lanes center, bus lanes, I imagine the stations would be in the
center also?
CHRIS QUINN: Yes.
JEFF WALKER: OK, and that would provide, I assume, some cost savings, instead of having a
station on either side of the highway.
CHRIS QUINN: And one of the benefits of this particular corridor, and I know the issue of right
of way and potential property acquisitions came up with the region wide Bus Rapid Transit
Study, CDOT has a pretty generous right of way on that corridor. So while we would have to be
very careful with the siting of the stations in the urbanized areas, along the corridor we have a
luxury that usually doesn't exist.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Mihalik, please.

KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. Mr. Quinn, I'd imagine safety was evaluated as
well. Would you say that the managed lane provides a safer option as far as for the riders, and
other vehicles, and the buses themselves?
CHRIS QUINN: Yeah, in terms of-- we would have, and I would want to defer to our Bus Ops
division on this, but we would have fewer speed restrictions with operating a bus in a managed
lane next to stop traffic than we would with a bus on shoulder configuration.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, so would this be the safest option, then, as well?
CHRIS QUINN: You know, we haven't done a thorough safety analysis. I'm speculating yes, but
that's certainly something we can look deeper into.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Williams, please.
KATE WILLIAMS: I think that safety question speaks, also, to the safety of pedestrians who are
accessing the bus stops. I know that Dave can tell you at the Colfax BRT, there's been some
discussion about, is it better for people? Not necessarily is it safer for the buses, but is it safer for
people getting on and off, and particularly people with disabilities, to access those. So I don't
have, myself, any input on that, but I know that it's a discussable item. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. And I'm going to take the Chair's prerogative to interject again just
because I'm getting tired. So there's a question that I have that you and I have talked about but I
still need some clarification. In the tome that you gave us, it talked about there would be
improved transit travel time. And it was indicated that it was expected that there would be a 15
minute peak and half hour off-peak service.
And I'm just wondering, that may not be if ridership doesn't warrant that. And so what is
dependent on those figures? And what would change if those figures changed?
CHRIS QUINN: Yeah, so we assumed, and this was for our modeling efforts, we assumed that
service plan. Whether or not on a potential opening day of, say, 2023, when RTD has the funds
available for the corridor, we, in our discussions with service planning, we would figure that we
would be phasing into that level of service. So we would probably follow the existing Bolt and J
services.
Right now, the Bolt runs all day and the J runs just during the peak period. See if we could start
folding those patterns into an improved frequency, and then see what happens with the ridership
as we develop that.
JUDY LUBOW: So does that mean that in 2023 with folding those in that we expect, as of now,
that it would be 15 minute peak and half hour off-peak?

CHRIS QUINN: I don't know for opening day. So I think we'd have to just look at what the
performance of the existing Bolton and J are.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. I'm still wondering, though, if we don't have that, how the other numbers
are thrown off in any way-CHRIS QUINN: Yeah, the ridership numbers that we put into this presentation are 2040
projections, so we're using the 2040 horizon per environmental standards.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. OK.
BILL VAN METER: And Chair Lubow, if I may, what Chris is also intimating here is that we
would always look at performance against our service standards and make adjustments based on
both ridership and conformance with our service standards. So we always have that sort of caveat
when we're making the projections that far into the future.
JUDY LUBOW: And I'm just wondering-BILL VAN METER: I'm saying is we have that flexibility with buses to increase or cut back
service a little bit easier and more flexibly, as we mentioned a number of times with Bus Rapid
Transit.
JUDY LUBOW: And I understand that. And we do have that flexibility. But what I'm confused
about is, are we expecting that we're going to have that service standard now for 2023? Because
we're basing all kinds of figures on that operational standard. That may be pie in the sky, I just
don't know.
CHRIS QUINN: Yeah, here again, I think the US-36 model might be a good one where we did
fold the existing services that were out on the corridor into the FF series. So while we rebranded
it as the FlatIron Flyer, we altered the service plan and put more service out there as warranted.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. All right, thank you very much. And Director Guissinger.
DIRECTOR GUISSINGER: Thank you. Just briefly, I attended the public meeting in Boulder
last night and I intend to attend the next two. Chris did a nice job, and I appreciate all of the work
that's going into this. I also want to second Director Catlin's comments that managed lanes here
can both be an interim step towards rail and this whole project can be supporting that rail when it
comes about because there will still be a need to move people from stop to stop. The rail would
just have one station in Longmont and one in Boulder.
And I had something else. That's it for now.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you. It looks like we have nobody else in the queue, so thank you
very much. That's it. And we go to the T2 Comprehensive Plan update.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

BILL VAN METER: Chair Lubow and Board, a momentary technological pause while I queue
up the next presentation. I would like to invite Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of
Planning up to make that presentation to you.
DAVE GENOVA: Try to keep it groovy, Bill.
BILL VAN METER: Yeah, I will try to keep it groovy, but I'm not sure that-JUDY LUBOW: And keep it quick, will you?
BILL VAN METER: --I am that groovy. We've been looking at and talking for a while about the
Transportation Transformation. Sometimes we've referred to it colloquially as the T2. And the
Board has also prioritized for this year addressing future transportation needs and methods as one
of the specific goals for the General Manager and for staff.
The Transportation Transformation Comprehensive Plan is our planning approach towards
addressing, and an all encompassing approach, towards addressing our future transportation
methods and needs. It is a study that I'm going to provide an overview for you tonight when we
come back to Study Session on March 5. Brian Welch, Bill Sirois, I, will provide you with a
deeper dive into the subject areas that I'm going to give you a feel for today. That's the intent and
focus of the Study Session on March 5th. So I'm hoping to keep this at a relatively high level and
not get too much into the weeds until that point.
So as I said, it addresses General Manager's Task Goal number four. Considerations in the
Transportation Transformation Comprehensive Plan include a highlight, systems optimization
and comprehensive operational analysis, and a long list of other topic areas with particular focus,
of course, on ridership and some of our core goals and missions encapsulated in that slide.
Stakeholder and community engagement structure is at the heart of this approach, recognizing
RTD Board's role, and looking toward the Board of Directors, towards you, for policy direction
throughout the process. We also intend to support your decision making priorities and process
through an advisory committee that would have members of the RTD Board and senior
leadership team on the advisory committee to act as a conduit between the Board, also plan
regular updates for the Board at committee meetings through the course of the study, technical
working groups and other means for stakeholder and community engagement.
Now specifically, as it comes to the scope, again, number one. Customer comes first.
Stakeholder engagement, communications, and outreach, the very focus that was on the previous
slide with the Board of Directors, providing that ultimate direction for the study process. Second
key piece of the scope is to look at the fiscal and financial sustainability of the district, take a
look at our short, mid, and long term financial picture, our planning processes, and compare
them against the comprehensive operational analysis and the longer range plans that we're
putting together so that we have an understanding and a constrained scenario, given our current
and projected resources, what we can accomplish. And so that we can also look at a needs based
scenario, one that, given our current financial resources, we cannot accomplish, so we can

understand what the constrained and unconstrained plans look like, what they can achieve, and
what those gaps look like.
Core of this T2 comprehensive plan is a comprehensive assessment of RTD services. We're
going to assess our current services. We're going to look at strategies for service improvement,
and what tools we have, and what new tools might be available for service improvement, and
move into, then, a system optimization plan where we look at routing and headways, span of
service. Looking at bus, at rail, at bus rapid transit, and the focus is on the near term, on the short
term in the next couple, few years.
What sort of route restructuring or improvements and new types of service might we need to
look at to keep ourselves competitive in this changing transportation environment? Compare that
to 1977 when RTD last did a major service change. We went from a hub and spoke radio system
to our current grid network. That was a major change. It bore some real benefits to the district.
And we're going to take that sort of comprehensive look at the district again, two to five years,
shorter term.
But we're also going to look at the mobility plan for the future. How do we incorporate the
Mobility Choice Blueprint work and the actions? And how do we make them concrete and
actionable within the context of this plan? How do we look at emerging mobility? Electric bikes,
scooters, TNCs, parking, and how parking may change fleet electrification, or even take a look at
our district boundaries, and our maintenance facilities and maintenance facility needs.
Real rough idea of schedule, highlighting once again the March 5th Study Session for a deeper
dive into this topic. Moving through 2020, looking to complete and adopt that comprehensive
assessment of RTD services and the focus on short term bus and rail service optimization. And
then into 2021, wrapping up the whole study, the financial and fiscal sustainability portions, and
coming to the Board and the public, and our stakeholders, with a comprehensive set of actions
and recommendations to lay a groundwork for the future.
With that, that's a good recap or a preview of what's to come on March 5th. And I'll conclude my
comments for now.
JUDY LUBOW: Well, I guess we're lucky. There's nobody-- oh, there goes Jeff Walker. OK.
JEFF WALKER: So I'll ask because it's come up a couple of times in other committee-- in other
presentations. And I read an article in the Post today about a bill being introduced or possibly
being introduced regarding the ability of Excel to somehow char-- yeah, own charging stations.
I'm not that familiar with that. I don't work in this type of the business. But do you know enough
or does Mr. Genova know enough to discuss that now? It seems to be a relatively new
development.
BILL VAN METER: I do not.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah, I don't either at this time, Director Walker, but we can dig into that.

JEFF WALKER: OK, thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, well, I have a couple of questions. OK. Going back to the advisory
committee, it certainly seems to me that we're looking at a really major revamp. I mean, this is a
big deal. And it's exciting, but also very challenging. I'm wondering, have we thought of having
university professors and that type of experts as part of the advisory committee as well as having
reps from the disability committee and low income that are going to be really impacted by
whatever we decide?
BILL VAN METER: Indeed. I think that makes sense on both the advisory committee and from
a practical implementation standpoint on the technical working group as well. So comments
noted. Thank you, Chair Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. And along the same thing, I think we've found that Telephone Town Halls
have been a good way of reaching out to people who don't really come to our public meetings.
And maybe we could think about that, too, because again, this is going to be RTD on steroids.
We're going to change, and it's going to be a big deal.
BILL VAN METER: Indeed. And we will be consulting with AGM Tonilas and also looking for
recommendations and suggestions from the firms that are competing for this project as to their
suggested approaches and success stories elsewhere, in terms of engaging the public in
meaningful two-way dialogue.
JUDY LUBOW: Excellent.
DAVE GENOVA: And then we just-- we anticipate there'll be a huge variety of tools as far as
engagement, so-JUDY LUBOW: Good.
DAVE GENOVA: --town halls can be one component of many.
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah. I just think this is so important, we need to hear from everyone.
Similarly, scope. Are we going to be looking at something that's dear to my heart, which is
increasing ridership? It doesn't seem to have been mentioned, but I think it's really important.
BILL VAN METER: That is a key piece of what we're looking at. And if I didn't mention it, it
was my oversight but on the purpose and intent right up front. Last under considerations include
but not least, we identified ridership along with a number of other considerations and priorities.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, cool.
BILL VAN METER: I can assure you. That's last because it's most important.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. All right, that's it for me, but we have someone else. Director Lewis.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Just a quick question. Well, thank you for your time. I really
appreciate this. With the CAC, have you all engaged them in this conversation at all, or is there
any opportunity to do so?
BILL VAN METER: I think there really is. So hearkening back to discussions earlier, I had
some whispered conversations with my staff in that regard and engaging them in this process.
And we have already met at least once to review the basic approach and content that you've
heard tonight. And so we've engaged the CAC already.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, that looks like it. No more comments. Moving right along. Bill, are you
going to stay for the TOD?
BILL VAN METER: I am going to stay, but I will also invite up Bill Sirois and Chessy Brady to
take the lead. And I will quit talking. They can introduce themselves and I'll try to do the
technological change.
BILL SIROIS: Good evening. This is Bill Sirois. I'm Senior Manager for Transit-Oriented
Communities. We're going to give you an update today on the TOD side of the house of the
Transit-Oriented communities group. We typically do this two or three times a year, coming in
and updating you on all the goings on related to TOD. And in this case, we have several things to
talk about, and some of the things we want to talk about actually tee up our next conversation,
giving an update about the status of Montbello.
And I'm also going to introduce Chessy Brady, who is our Manager of Transit-Oriented
Development, and she and I will be doing a little tag team on this. I'm going to introduce it and
then I'll let her do the bulk of it. And then I'll talk about a couple of things.
So what we want to talk today about is the status report, which is a document that was started, I
have to say, way back when, I started at RTD about 2006. It's been evolving ever since. We've
kind of suspended it for a couple of years as we've regrouped, and it's actually included as an
attachment to this PowerPoint. So a lot of great information which Chessy will be going over
here shortly.
I will also talk about ongoing projects, talk about the resolutions governing TOD. And then
lastly, talk about our site assessment, our joint development opportunities, and for those of you
who may not know, joint development means development potential that would be on RTD
property. So in other words, looking at incorporating development along with active transit
facilities that we have going on. So with that, I am going to turn it over to Chessy and I'll run the
slides.
CHESSY BRADY: Thanks, Bill. So yes, my name's Chessy Brady. I'm the TOD Manager. And
as Bill mentioned, the TOD status report has been on hiatus, but we brought it back, revamped it,
and I have included a few key slides tonight. And if you have any questions on those or the full
report, we can talk about that at the end.

So one of our key findings from this investigation was that although our station areas, so a half
mile from our station, take up about 0.6% of the land area in the Boulder, Lakewood, Denver,
Aurora area. That small area is responsible for almost one-quarter of the multi-family
development, and one-third of all office development between 2005 and 2018. So when we talk
about transit effects on limiting congestion, limiting sprawl, this is really good news for transit
and for the benefits of transit.
Next slide. And where we're seeing a lot of that development, is at these top 10 office and
residential stations. You'll notice a lot of these are on the southeast corridor, but also spread
around the district. The southeast corridor in particular has seen strong market. The zoning is in
place. The local appetite is there for development, and the private sector has really jumped in.
And we've seen a lot of change there around our stations.
And lastly, for the status report, we've taken a stab at assigning a value to the development
around our stations. And we've come up with around $9.5 billion in the value of the actual
developments. And $3.5 billion of that is at Denver Union Station. So again, the effect of transit
on development in the district has been significant.
So in getting to more of our day to day work, we have two projects I'd like to update you on.
29th and Welton. Two years ago the RTD Board authorized the sale of this surface parking lot to
the City and County of Denver or their assignee. With our input, the City and County of Denver
selected a developer and they are working on the financing for that project for a mixed income
condo project.
They're hoping to close on that property in the fall. However, if their timeline gets extended,
their option does run out in September. And so we would have to come back to you to ask for an
extension. And as that financing comes together, if there are any changes we'll update you in the
meantime.
And then the Sheridan Station Garage on the West Line, that's a project that we talked about
quite a bit in the fall. So the Board approved the lease of 120 spaces to the developer next door
who will be building 100% permanent affordable apartment building. And we did execute that
lease in December for 120 spaces. And those tenants would be moving in not till October, 2020,
so we have a little time. But that will be going forward and they'll be breaking ground soon.
Other work that we're involved in, we are always tracking TODs for the status report, for other
reports. We're looking at the connections between ridership and development. We're looking at,
as Bill mentioned, the potential for TOD on RTD land, which would be joint development.
We work with DRCOG. We're heavily involved in the planning in Longmont and in station area
master plans, STAMPs. We're meeting with jurisdictions to talk about TOD and promote TOD,
and we're always ready to respond to unsolicited proposals for joint development should they
come in from developers.
BILL SIROIS: Next thing I wanted to touch on is just a little bit about the Resolutions or the
Policies governing TOD and how it's actually effecting Real Property. Two primary Resolutions,

which actually are included in your packet, not under this item but actually under the item for the
supporting materials for the Montbello conversation. But it's Resolution 15, which is a policy for
joint development and disposal of Real Property.
One that really gets to is a competitive process in terms of for RTD to look at going out, seeing
what the bids are for the project. It also outlines Board approval and what the GM's authority in
terms of those kinds of transactions are. Resolution 16, which is really dealing with unsolicited
proposals, which Chessy just touched on a little bit.
But really, this came about as a result of an unsolicited proposal that came through the Board in
terms of when you deal with transparency and making sure that we fully had the Board's-- gave
the Board information as well as providing information out to the market. So if there was other
competing proposals, that they would be available and could potentially bid on the project as
well.
Also, I think what has come up a lot lately is the lease versus sale issue. And I think we wanted
to touch just on the associated with TOD. And one of the things that we want to talk about and
bring up is the evaluation guidelines that were approved last year. And those really did touch on
the fact that prioritizing lease over sale on the TOD side. And again, we hear we have some
factors that we're looking at, including the potential for future transit use, the financial benefit to
RTD and the market viability.
So I think that gives you a little bit of context, because I do think this issue is going to come up.
It's coming up-- it will come from the next agenda item, but it'll come up, I think, in the future as
we talk about this as well as real property and the excess real property that we may consider
disposing of in the future. So with that, I'll turn it over to Chessy to finish up.
CHESSY BRADY: Thanks. So over the last couple of years, we've been analyzing all of our rail
and BRT park-n-rides to determine if they have potential for development, for joint
development. And we've brought this to the Board before. I am happy to discuss it in more detail
or share that information again. You can go to the next slide.
The sites that we're particularly interested in, the ones in blue in the middle there, are the ones
that we're analyzing in more detail to determine whether they're viable for development, what
effect that would have on RTD, on ridership, and we hope to be coming back to you in the next
year with more on those sites. So with that, that's what we have for tonight and we're happy to
answer questions.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much. First up is Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. First item I'll focus on is on page packet number 86, which
shows the 29th and Welton property. And we have authorized, in 2016, I know I was a no vote-authorized sale of the parking lot to City and County of Denver or assignee. Who did we author-who ended up being the-- it's the assignee, right?

BILL SIROIS: Well, that has not been finalized. Basically, the way that action was set up is
when the financial viability of the project was proven when they had their financing in place,
then we said the city could assign it. So the position they're at right now is the developer is
working on their financing. And they're hoping to secure some financing through the new market
tax credits and some other up options that would solidify that financing in the near future and
then get to a closing by the fall.
NATALIE MENTEN: So who is that potential assignee?
BILL SIROIS: It is a developer, it's Burgess Development, that is working with the city. There's
a team of players that are involved in that.
NATALIE MENTEN: Do they have a name?
BILL SIROIS: Burgess Development.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm sorry, Burgess. I didn't hear it. The large Burgess? I know of a big
name Burgess, but that's-BILL SIROIS: No, I think the-- Denise Burgess is the owner of the company.
NATALIE MENTEN: Denise Burgess, OK. All right, this is of property that from what I think
the history was is that when we put in the light rail there, we took up or removed parking,
eliminated parking off the street. And our deal with City and County of Denver was we had to
acquire a property to replace, for the neighborhood, a place for them to park. And so there was
potentially use of eminent domain law in acquiring the property.
BILL SIROIS: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: Is that what we did? That's what happened?
BILL SIROIS: My understanding, and Susan Altes who's here, might be able to answer that
question better. But yes, I believe.
SUSAN ALTES: All properties acquired by RTD-BILL SIROIS: Microphone.
SUSAN ALTES: Sorry.
BILL SIROIS: Come on up.
SUSAN ALTES: Susan Altes, Senior Manager of Real Property. When we acquire property for a
project, we acquire it using the Uniform Act, whether there's federal funds or not involved in the
project. Properties on the MAC Line, which became the line that goes down Welton, those

properties were acquired through the eminent domain process. The particular properties that
were acquired at 29th and Welton were negotiated sales.
NATALIE MENTEN: So they didn't go through where there would have been a jury and they
would have determined it. So we might consider that a friendly acquisition.
SUSAN ALTES: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
SUSAN ALTES: It was a negotiated sale.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Even with a friendly sale, for me, I know there are some other cities
that have done this. But when we, the RTD Board, decided that we didn't have enough parking
there, we put it onto our list of properties that we could give up. And when we have, even in a
friendly acquisition, taken land from a family, put them in that position where even if it is a
friendly acquisition, I would like to see us as a Board consider, as a first option, returning that, in
some way or another, to the family that had it when we acquired it.
They should perhaps get a first option in some way. That could be discussed by the Board as to,
what about all the years in between? But as I read this, we don't know what's going to happen
here because they have not completed their financing. And right now, if this expires in
September, 2019, and the option agreement, we, the Board, could determine perhaps it's better
that the family who invested, whatever it may be, we give something back to them.
I'd like to just briefly explain my history on this. My friend and I went down and we walked and
knocked different businesses, trying to hunt up the owners of this property. I went down to City
and County of Denver trying to look up the records to see if I could locate them. So I'm a little
bit vested in this property myself. And I am very, very passionate about property rights.
So for future reference, I'm explaining to this Board how strongly I feel about the use of eminent
domain. And when it comes up and we no longer need it, perhaps we should be considering
alternatives, such as the one that I just talked about.
So thank you very much for the information. I just have one other question. Because we are
talking about TOD and properties that we own, I have had requests, repeatedly, about the 17
acres out by Oak Street Station. And that is, I think, industrial property, and that is a huge parcel.
What are the thoughts from staff on the 17 acres? Because in the time I've been on the Board, the
response has been, we think we may do something there. What's the current thoughts on that
property?
BILL SIROIS: I'll start off and I'll turn it over to Susan. I think we've had conversations on that
property, and of course as you know, that property was used by the west corridor constructors for
staging up through 2013 when we opened. Since that time, we have had discussions with the city
of Lakewood about their thoughts on the land use vision for that site. I think they still-- they've
kind of evolved.

I don't know if they're as strongly tied to the industrial component which they were, I think,
when we initially had that conversation. But I know that we haven't had inquiries on that site
over the years. I know that Susan has been taking the bulk of those calls, so I'll defer to her on
that. But I do believe-- we've certainly had a lot of conversation about it in terms of, do we go
out and sell it? Or how do we want to take it out to the market, so to speak?
SUSAN ALTES: We have had inquiries regarding the acquisition of that property. And most
time, if not all the time, we refer people to the city of Lakewood. At one point, there was a group
that was interested in bringing a KingSoopers or a large grocery store to that location. And so we
refer folks to the city of Lakewood first, to see if the municipality will even entertain the idea of
that purpose for that property.
And so we've worked for a long time with several entities and the city of Lakewood and have
never had a plan come to fruition. I think the city is still looking at that piece of property.
In the meantime, even after we opened the West rail Line, our Maintenance of Way folks have
found that as a place to store surplus materials that they need for maintaining the Right of Way.
And so part of it is being used by RTD. So we would entertain and enter into discussions with
folks. We would include the municipality because, obviously, they are the ones that are
controlling zoning and that type of thing that would limit what could be done on the property.
JUDY LUBOW: I'm going to interrupt. And I'm wondering, can you take this offline and
perhaps bring it back another time if it needs to be brought back? Because we have a lot of
people waiting and it's late. Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: I get an email every month about that property, so it was important during
this time, I thought. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. And thank you all. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. What kind of lag do we see from the time a light rail
goes in before there's significant activity in TODs? And was the fact that we had a major
recession about 10 years ago, did that impact those first lines?
BILL SIROIS: I would say yes. My experience has been, and this has evolved over time, that
during the T-Rex days, I worked at the City and County of Denver and did some planning there.
I think developers started to get excited when they started to see the stations coming out of the
ground. And they started to become more active. Of course, that was about the time that we had
9/11 hit. And so there was kind of a lag there.
But then you saw T-Rex open in 2006, and you started to see that build up. Then we hit the great
recession. So a lot of it is time to market forces that really affect real estate development.
Union Station is a great example. We came out of that project right at the exact right time,
because we had financed it during the Great Recession and then started to start construction as

we were coming out of that. And they just hit the timing right and things took off. So there's a lot
of that luck, frankly, that we've seen.
But it also just is that developers seeing it. Union Station is a little bit unique. There's a lot of
activity there, and a lot of activity outside of Denver that have really looked at, because it's so
unique within the whole region in terms of the density and the centralness of that whole
development.
We've also seen a lot of new players coming into the market, Denver market, from outside,
especially on the multi-family side. So we're seeing that interest grow. And I think it really just
depends on that market. And like I said, in Aurora, we've seen some stuff. And things have
leveled off a little bit on the multi-family side, but I think that we don't see a huge dip. And I
don't know if Chessy would agree in the near future, but for a fairly steady pace, but who knows
if there is going to be a recession in the future that would cause that to change.
BOB BROOM: Have there been any interest in condos versus apartments?
BILL SIROIS: I think we've seen condos come back some. There has been, I think particularly
when we were having the discussion about 29th and Welton, we had not seen any affordable
condos. I think that we've seen one or two projects-- and Chessy could probably give you a little
bit more detail on those-- come on, even on the affordability side. Certainly, there have been
more condos coming in.
I know that some of that was associated with dealing with the construction defects issue, which I
think was somewhat dealt with some legislative fix. But we have seen it come back. Now, has it
come back robustly, where we've seen it being a major factor in the market? I don't think so. But
I think it certainly has come back stronger than it certainly was.
BOB BROOM: Thank you. Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have two quickies, Bill and Chessy, and Susan,
and Bill. Do we track in any way eco-passes, or monthly passes, or any relationship from the
developments that are around our station so that we can show that we benefit from that?
CHESSY BRADY: That's something that we're trying to get a better handle on as to who has
eco-passes, which developments do, and how is that affecting our ridership? And I think that's
something that we want to focus more on because I do think it's very important.
KATE WILLIAMS: And related to that, if you go back to page 84, and the top 10 stations for
TOD office and residential, can you tell me how many of those we, at some point in time, had
some or all ownership of?
CHESSY BRADY: As far as the land?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.

BILL SIROIS: As far as the land, if you want me to go through them, just looking at it, I don't
think there's-- in Union Station we certainly had some. It would be the-KATE WILLIAMS: There are 19 acres there. Union Station would be the only one that we had
ownership.
BILL SIROIS: Yeah, direct ownership. Boulder Junction, we did have some ownership there
because there's stuff on top of our facilities. But other than that, I think most of those would be
on private land next to us.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, that's good news. That goes back to a discussion that we had before-about half of this Board was here-- about leasing versus selling, and where are the benefits to us
related to this? And it looks to me like the General Manager wants to speak to that, which is cool
by me.
Dave Genova: Well just quickly, I'll just remind that the property that we acquire, we can only
acquire property for a transit use. We cannot acquire it for development. So I think that's why
you would see that in the TOD and mostly property owned by private side or other
municipalities.
KATE WILLIAMS: But that goes back to the fact that the Board had a bunch of discussion a
year or so ago about the fact that we preferred to lease property and to have some involvement in
it. And that's back to my original statement that we need to be able to see. That's wonderful that
all of these developers and housing and everybody's growing and building in it, unless we can
prove that it is helping us. So what? Sorry, Debbie Downer.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. OK, Debbie. Thank you. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Going back to 29th and Welton, one
specific question relative to that, is there a deed restriction to be included in that transaction? The
Board authorized the sale for mixed income condos.
CHESSY BRADY: The City and County of Denver will be managing that relationship with the
developer. I don't remember if it was through a deed restriction.
BILL SIROIS: Yeah, I think that the way that I understand it, it would be primarily through the
financing of the condos. So if they were going to be using some level of public financing, there
would be a restriction associated with that financing in terms of-- I'm not sure of the actual term,
but it would-DOUG TISDALE: I don't care who is selling these things or renting these things. We said we
would sell for mixed income condos. I'm talking about a deed restriction from us to either the
City and County of Denver, or to Burgess Development.
BILL SIROIS: We had not-- we had not contemplated that from my understanding in talking
with--

DOUG TISDALE: We haven't closed yet, so that time has not come, but the point is, and I was
not on the Board in December, 2016, but if the Board is as reported here, authorized the sale for
mixed income condos, then, of course, there must be a deed restriction in order to comply with
the Board's authority to sell the property. Otherwise, it's outside of one's authority.
Second question, just very briefly. The 17 acre parcel, which I know I've heard Director Menten
talk about before, and I don't have a lot of familiarity with it. It's not listed on page 11 as a site
with potential. Can you just give me a one-- or take it offline with me later, but can you give me
one sentence on why that wouldn't be a site with potential?
BILL SIROIS: We haven't-- we haven't defined it as TOD. It is probably just outside the half
mile of the station walk shed. And kind of the way we've looked at it, I mean, talking with
Lakewood, they have kind of not talked about it as TOD but more as development that they'd
like to see happen in their city.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. That's all I have for now. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: So are we going to see something about a deed to make sure that that
requirement is in there?
BILL SIROIS: We'll pull the Board Report and summarize what was discussed there.
JUDY LUBOW: Excellent, thank you very much. OK, Director Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Madam Chair. I'm just curious. As I looked through what, on my
screen, is listed as Board packet page numbers 101, 102, 103, and 107, you discuss the TOD
plan, 2018 TOD, and then you have planned. And I was just curious why there aren't any-- there
is no reference to the N Line on any of those charts.
BILL SIROIS: Yeah. Can you maybe ref-- what page was it again? I think you're in the TOD
status report section?
PEGGY CATLIN: Right. Yeah, 101, 102, 103, and 107 in the Board packet, which is on the
screen.
BILL SIROIS: Yeah. Yeah, I don't-- I don't have the right page numbers in front of me. So I
guess can you give me the title of the slide?
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Multi-family TOD deliveries by corridor.
BILL SIROIS: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: By corridor. And there's no N Line on any of those four pages.

CHESSY BRADY: So this uses our RTD development database, and we don't yet have
development recorded for those stations yet.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, I just-- I guess would expect to see that in the future.
CHESSY BRADY: Yes, absolutely.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Walker, please.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. To address an earlier comment, I imagine if a seller wanted to
negotiate a reversion or a first right of refusal, I imagine we could include that. I don't know if I
would support it wholeheartedly in every instance or de facto. That's a requirement. Because
there might be an instance where the seller doesn't want the property back, right? And I think it
would also might affect the marketability of a parcel if it's known-- timing is everything when it
comes to real estate, right? If we have to negotiate with the owner for a month or so to see
whether or not we can come to an agreement on if that owner wants it again, that might mess up
a future sale of that property if we don't need it anymore.
And just because a development is near a station doesn't guarantee success. The ghost building at
18th and Stout sat empty for about two years after that brewpub closed. And now it's been
divided up into offices, I guess, and there was a confection store, I guess, right at the end of the
lines at Union Station in the Continuum Building. It's been empty for about a month now and it
was only open for a couple of years.
So it's nice to see development and things like that, but proximity to a station doesn't guarantee
success. There's marketing, there's access, visibility, and product, pricing, and all these other
things that go into it. So anyway, it's a complicated issue. That's what makes it exciting, I guess.
That's why people get into it, to learn and be challenged. But anyway, just comments, thoughts
or observations. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Our last commenter. It's Director Cook.
DIRECTOR COOK: Yeah, I just wanted to piggy back quickly on the point that Director
Williams made about tying the-- or at least identifying the impact of ridership correlating with
the development that you have. One suggestion that came to me during the campaign was to take
it a little bit further, be proactive in terms of negotiating with the developer. Not just on design
and those elements that help promote transit ridership, but maybe requiring or incentivizing ecopasses, the purchase of passes and things like that, taking steps to actively encourage the
ridership by the people who live within those complexes, or work there as well. So thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: All right, thank you. There's no more commenters about TOD. So I think we're
done with that. Thank you.

We have one more update left, and that's the Montbello, which I am personally very interested in
seeing, but I would love to have a small break. Three or four minutes. Thank you. So we'll be
back very soon.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
JUDY LUBOW: OK, here we go with the Montbello Park-n-Ride. You're only going to be
allowed three updates from now on.
BILL VAN METER: Yes ma'am. OK, so Chair Lubow and Board, I have invited Susan, Chessy,
and Bill to join me for this update. Wanted to provide an update on the Montbello Park-n-Ride,
particularly given the level of Board interest and community interest engagement at the meeting
last week.
So in your package, we were able to provide a graphic that shows the location of the 1.4 acre
former Montbello Park-n-Ride near the intersection of Peoria and Albrook. So I want to give you
a little bit of the history, a summary of the analysis that we recently completed on the property,
and discuss with you some potential next steps and present to you some of our recommendations
and considerations.
So the former Montbello Park-n-Ride originally opened in March of 1987. A key piece to think
about in terms of our discussion going forward is that it was funded by all local funds. There is
no Federal Transit Administration interest in that property. So it was all locally funded, the
original purchase of the property as well as construction of improvements on it.
We closed it in April of 2016 when we opened the University of Colorado A Line. It was an 84
space Park-n-Ride and bus transfer facility serving seven routes. There's still two on street bus
routes that service the Park-n-Ride and area of the 42 and 45.
In July of 2018, RTD received an unsolicited offer to acquire, and that was accompanied by an
appraisal. And that offer was a subject of interest last week. But through the summer of 2018, we
had been in discussions and made commitments with the local community to activate that lot and
particularly and primarily in the form of a Farmer's Market. And that was for the duration of the
summer.
Following the closure of the Farmer's Market in October of 2018, the Montbello Park-n-Ride
was deemed surplus by the senior leadership team. That's a process we go through where all of
the senior leadership team analyzes it from their perspective as to whether there is any current or
future transit need for that property. Senior leadership team's resolution of that question was that
it was deemed surplus. There was no current or future transit need for that property. Also, then
commensurate with that determination in the fall of 2018, our real properties team started
preparing for a January 2019 sale in response to the interest that we had received for that parcel.
We also started hearing some concerns in discussions with the Board of Directors and others,
regarding the pros and cons of the sale of that property versus other potential ways to dispose of

the property. And in November of 2018, Henry Stopplecamp and Susan Altes provided the
Board with an update on that unsolicited offer.
And one of our subsequent actions following that update in November was to move forward to
analyze the pros and cons and the financial potential implications of a lease versus a sale analysis
for this particular property. So in late 2018, we embarked on that.
Summary of that analysis is this. From a staff perspective, we believe the property is most
suitable for a sale for the following reasons. One, it will not have a long term transit use. As I
said earlier, we have no need for RTD to hold the property for any sort of future use. The fair
market value of the property for a sale is about $390,000. For a long term lease, it's a little bit
higher. The net present value is about $500,000.
When you look at that leasehold versus sale interest, however, recognize that that net present
value of $500,000 for a lease translates into about 20,000 a year at the start, growing to 40,000 a
year in year 60. So you're looking at either a comparison of the sale with 390,000 upfront, or a
lease net present value a little bit higher, but it comes in over a very long period of time. It
creates additional administrative burden, frankly, on staff to administer said lease.
It also potentially precludes certain options and certain opportunities for potentially interested
parties in the parcel to be able to actually move forward on that parcel. In fact, our assessment of
the area is that it's probably not strong enough to even support a ground lease. So while we
project that we might be able to get slightly higher value, the market may not actually bring any
proposals to us were we to put it out for a lease that would be viable. However, all of that said, if
the Board prefers, we could certainly attempt to lease the property.
So I've tried to set the stage for some options that we have and wanted to present to you. Of
course, this is an update, not for formal action, but just to acquaint you with them and to hear
some discussion and feedback from the Board of Directors. One would be putting that property
up for sale.
Again, our estimate of the value would be about $390,000. To put it out for a lease, if interest
exists in a lease, we expect could generate about 20,000 a year at the start, escalating to $40,000
a year, assuming a 60 year lease. Or we could put it out with an option for lease or sale and
compare the relative benefits or what sort of response we get from the market from either one of
those.
Certainly, our staff recommendation, once again, is to put it out for sale. That's consistent with
Board approved policy. We also would have the option per Resolution 16 to add conditions
beyond just sale price that would bring value to the district. So these are all considerations for us
to make and for the Board to weigh in on.
A couple final concluding comments and then I'll stop talking and we can open it up to some
discussion and questions. One, risks of a sale approach. Over time, property values increase and
the land is sold years from now for more. Regardless, meanwhile, we would have had that

upfront infusion of dollars. A sale also means that RTD loses control of the property to a
developer or development interest.
Risks to the lease, a failed bid process of no developer interest, and we speculate interest in this
particular parcel in this particular part of the market, would be weak for a leasehold interest. A
potential for default if the project is unsuccessful. In that case, RTD would have to take back
maintenance and security of the property. And as I mentioned earlier, the long term
administration of lease terms and payments for a relatively modest amount of annual income in
the grand scheme of real estate dealings.
With that, I'll conclude my remarks. I hope that made some sense. And as I said, I kept the whole
team up here from the last presentation in order to help field whatever questions might come
from the Board.
DAVE GENOVA: Can I just make a comment? Chair, may I just-JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
DAVE GENOVA: So just to reinforce, we're not looking for-- this is not an action or a staff
recommendation for action tonight. It's information we want to seek your input, and then we can
come back to you based on input we received tonight with a formal action item if the Board
desires. So tonight's really about seeking your input.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. OK. We have a group of commenters. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So I reviewed our booklet of all of our Park-n-Ride facilities,
and for those who were on the Board in November, you would have gotten a copy of the
background on this parcel. And in that, it shows that-- and I'm sorry if you may have covered this
when I was coming in late.
But we acquired this, or got it in 1987, and in this Park-n-Ride book-- and I don't know if you're
familiar with this. Very long? Yeah, OK. So did you mention the prices that were included in
there or no?
BILL VAN METER: I did not mention those.
NATALIE MENTEN: So I have the PDF in front of me here, and our land cost was, in 1987,
$213,322.00. Cost of improvements, $360,000.00, which is a total of $573,000.00 and change.
So it's now pricing out at $390,000.00. Is that what you said?
BILL VAN METER: Correct.
NATALIE MENTEN: Because improvements really-BILL VAN METER: Improvements--

[INTERPOSING VOICES]
BILL VAN METER: As Susan notes, the improvements have been fully depreciated. And yeah,
they have no residual value, generally speaking, for any sort of development that might be
contemplated on this site.
NATALIE MENTEN: It seems to me with that 1987, it would be a lot higher value, I would
think, myself. But this was professional appraiser who did this?
BILL VAN METER: Indeed.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. All right. The numbers seem odd to me, but looking at the real estate,
and-- I just got my property tax bill, so I know it's a little bit of a sticker shock there. So that's all
I wanted to cover was to just share. Because if anybody was not on the Board in November you
would have not had that information. If you would like to see this, it is upstairs in our Board
Office, a hard copy, outlining all the parking and rides, and the money paid for it, and the data
acquired, and the square footage. So that's all the comment or question that I've got. Thank you
very much.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Sorry, I have a little bit of a sore throat. So it
looks to me, if I do the math right, that it comes out to about $6, ballpark, ballpark. $6.50 a
square foot for this, which is-- the average in the greater Denver area is a little higher than that,
but you have to consider where it is.
So I would guess in that area that it's a little lower and that we have-- not only are we not using it
now, but we don't foresee. And that's what all those guys at that table do is they tell us what they
foresee for the future. And we don't foresee that we are going to make a lot of use out of that. So
I just wanted to highlight those couple of bits of information. Thank you, goodbye.
SUSAN ALTES: I think I could provide just a little bit of information on the square foot value.
This piece of property is encumbered with several easements, one of which is a huge oil and gas
pipeline through the property, which really limits the amount of this property that can be
developed without relocation of utilities which would be a significant cost. So in the appraisal,
that lowers the per square foot value.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Susan. We're glad you do what you do.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, Director Lewis, please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I have a question. You mentioned the Farmer's Market. Will
that continue until we are able to make a decision on this?
SUSAN ALTES: We have done it for the past two years, and I see no reason why we would not
be able to continue to work with the community until there was a disposition of the property.

SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, thank you. That's my question.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Rivera-Malpiede, please.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I actually have a couple of questions that I just need
clarification on. One is, because it was an unsolicited proposal, does it have to go out for bid?
SUSAN ALTES: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. So it does, it has to go back out to the public so if other
people are interested that they have to do that, right?
SUSAN ALTES: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, great. The second thing is, I know that Denver City Council
has voted on any new developments have a TDM component to it, which includes eco-pass,
whatever it is, first, last, mile mobility choices. Would that be part of the RFP that would go on
out here in terms of making sure that that would be incorporated in these proposals that come in?
BILL VAN METER: I think the latitude given by the resolution-- if that added value to RTD, it
might be within that latitude. I'm looking to Susan.
SUSAN ALTES: I think we have to-- I'm not familiar with the details of TDM, so I think we'd
have to take a look at that, and evaluate it, and see if it couldn't be a part of that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Chair Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. The statement you made that our
estimated value is $390,000.00 dollars. I take it that is based solely on the appraisal that was
submitted to us by the people who submitted the unsolicited proposal. Is that correct?
SUSAN ALTES: That is correct.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, so a third party says, I'd like to buy the property. Here's an appraisal.
And we just say, OK, I guess that's what it's worth. Is that how we do it?
SUSAN ALTES: I think that we would have the appraisal reviewed by a review appraiser, one of
the appraisers that RTD has under contract.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, so if we were looking at it seriously, we would take that next step. We
haven't yet.
SUSAN ALTES: Right.

DOUG TISDALE: And you're just trying to get a feel for where the Board is on this. And if the
Board says, well, maybe we'd look at that, then you'd go ahead and follow through the rest of
those procedural steps to make sure that we didn't just get an MAI, a made as instructed
appraisal.
SUSAN ALTES: Right.
DOUG TISDALE: OK.
SUSAN ALTES: The appraised value, the fair market value, is determined by appraisal. It would
be the minimum bid when this is posted.
DOUG TISDALE: Right, OK. Thank you. And I'm just trying to make sure I understand this,
too, because if there is a net present value on a lease basis for $500,000.00 dollars, wouldn't that,
if we were using a 10% cap rate, anticipate an annual rental of $50,000.00 dollars?
SUSAN ALTES: I think that the professionals that did the study for the TOD folks on evaluating
the lease used a 6% cap rate.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, a 6% cap. OK, was there some particular reason for that cap rate, if you
know? This is not a cross examination, I'm just trying to get a reason.
SUSAN ALTES: I don't know why they chose 6%.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. I mean, that's something that, again, if we were inclined to look at it, we
could go forward. Because my reaction, which I take part of the reason you're bringing this
forward is to make sure that each of us has the opportunity to give you a reaction in a public
forum. My reaction is, I think we should look at both a sale and a lease. I think we can go out to
the public and at least run it up the flagpole to see if there is a possibility that we could get a
lease. But I'm definitely a believer, under the right circumstances, of doing sales.
But when we do sales, if we're doing it-- because what we were presented with last month was a
proposal, in effect, that, do this because the neighborhood wants this, and it's going to get a
benefit, and it's going to help these people who-- I take it there was some sense of an economic
disadvantage that was present in the neighborhood and they wanted to address that economic
disadvantage.
And my only thought, if we do a sale, is to make sure that we include language that that's what
we're doing and that it doesn't turn into now somebody else buys it, and develops it, and sells it
for a bajillion dollars and we all look like idiots. So that's my only comment, and that's my
reaction. And I thank you for your patience with me while I expressed it.
BILL SIROIS: And I think that goes to Bill's point earlier in terms of if the Board does value that
sentiment of the community benefit that we can include some of that language in that sale.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Jeff Walker, please.

JEFF WALKER: Thank you. Do you remember what the occupancy rate was for the park and
ride when it was-BILL SIROIS: No, I don't remember. But I know it was not certainly fully utilized. I know it
was-JEFF WALKER: Utilization rate.
BILL SIROIS: Yeah, but I don't know what the actual utilization was.
JEFF WALKER: OK. This parcel seems like it does fit the policy for sale. Doesn't have to use an
existing use, no foreseeable use, et cetera. So I'm fine with selling. I know every case is different,
every parcel is different, parcels change over time, but in this instance in this time, I'm fine with
looking at the potential for sale. Thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Before Director Lewis speaks a second time, I think I'll raise my
own concerns. What I'm wondering about, and you'll have to forgive me for my math challenge,
but would the $390,000.00, could that be invested and come up better than $500,000.00 at
further value if we leased it?
BILL SIROIS: The $500,000.00 does have a net present value, which does look at the value in
the future and bring it down. So the actual value that we get back is more than $500,000.00, but
then that discount is brought back to what it's worth today.
JUDY LUBOW: I see.
BILL SIROIS: So it's an ability to direct-JUDY LUBOW: [INAUDIBLE] OK, too bad.
SUSAN ALTES: But yes, I think the answer to that question is there is the possibility of
investing the almost $400,000.00 dollars and doing so at a interest rate where you could exceed,
possibly, the rental of the property.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Two different answers, but they're both interesting. So OK. I have a
question. I had the impression, and I'm not sure if this is accurate, that there was some need to
hurry to get this thing done on the part of the bidder, that there might be some time constraint,
and that while we're kind of diddling, they may be losing their ability to do this.
SUSAN ALTES: The funding is going to come from the Office of Economic Development with
the City and County of Denver. And there is a time-JUDY LUBOW: Limit.
SUSAN ALTES: --limit on how long they can-- how soon they need to spend that money.

JUDY LUBOW: So I'm wondering, does that mean that if we don't come up with our answer one
way or the other within a month or two, we've answered-SUSAN ALTES: Right.
JUDY LUBOW: --by pushing them beyond their limit.
SUSAN ALTES: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, because that's important to me. And another question that I had is, would
the bidder be able to use it as a lease, or would they need to buy it?
SUSAN ALTES: I have had conversations with them, and they have indicated to me that they
would not be able to finance their development through a lease of the property. And they have
talked to lenders about that.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. So I guess what my feeling is, for whatever it's worth, is one of fifteen,
and somebody who's not knowledgeable about real estate. But nonetheless, that it's for a good
cause for helping people in the area, that we could invest the money and maybe make more, and
that we can't keep messing around because we're going to close the deal just by not doing it
quickly. I would say sale would be fine.
Yeah, thank you. OK, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, I appreciate it. I just have a few comments. To you all, I really
appreciated the proposal that was presented to us. Oftentimes, we have conversations about
doing to communities, and not doing with communities or doing for communities, and I think
this proposal was an opportunity for communities to come up with things that they believe will
benefit the community. And it's truly community driven, and I appreciate that. And so I am in
support of this sale.
I would like to talk about it more offline. But thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Do you guys have what you need from us?
BILL VAN METER: I think so.
BILL SIROIS: I think so. I just talked with General Counsel about-- so earlier, I said this is an
information item. We're looking for input. And I clarified with General Counsel. We don't really
need to bring it back for action. So we could go out with an RFP based on what we've heard
tonight and the input from the Board. And so we could proceed with that process. The action
would be coming back to you with a result of what that process looked like and if we had a
recommended action from the process.
JUDY LUBOW: I see, OK.

ROLF ASPHAUG: If I may add, this is Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel. My understanding is
that the Board is essentially giving informal guidance to staff that other value to the district,
which staff is allowed to consider under Resolution 16, includes things such as if the property is
revitalized, and perhaps there's additional ridership from routes in the vicinity or if there is other
types of value, reputation or value, or whatever that other value to the district can allow
consideration of that in addition to the dollar price for the property.
And second, that there is not a situation where every thing that the district disposes of must be by
lease. Because we have a lot of other smaller slivers of property that fall well within the staff's
discretion under Resolution 15 to initiate disposition that have kind of been held up for a while
because staff is concerned that maybe we shouldn't do that because everything needs to be
analyzed through terms of a lease. Some of those are a couple of thousand square feet. And so
it's helpful if we have a general understanding that staff can go ahead and proceed with those
kind of items as well.
JUDY LUBOW: Do you have that understanding?
ROLF ASPHAUG: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Hey.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, so it looks like we're done. Thank you very much. I hope that you got the-DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, I am sorry. And the Chair himself. OK, there we go. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I'll try to be very brief. First of all, I know that there are concerns
that staff have expressed in the past that some members of the Board, including the speaker,
insist that everything be a lease. And that's absolutely not the case. The point is, leases must be
considered. And sales must be considered. And everything must be within the rule of reason
based upon what makes the most sense for the particular transaction.
Secondly, as I heard General Counsel's statement, as I understand it, no matter what staff does,
this does come back to the Board for final action. And it is not simply something that staff now
will go off and say, OK, we got a message. We can sign what we want.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Yes, Chair Tisdale. Rolf Asphaug again. Under Resolution 16, when we're
responding to what was initially an unsolicited proposal, it does state that the Board must
approve. Unless otherwise delegated, all dispositions must be approved by the RTD Board of

Directors. For Resolution 15 where we initiate, there is a number below which staff can go ahead
and do it without Board disposition.
DOUG TISDALE: And there is no understanding on the part of the staff at this point that this has
been delegated to staff, but rather that they can proceed with the exploration, come back with a
package, and say, OK, if we-- what was the quote from the Chair? It's for a good cause. If we
have language in there that demonstrates that it will be maintained for a good cause, then we can
all look at it and decide, yes, let's sell it.
ROLF ASPHAUG: That's correct, Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for the clarification. I appreciate it.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Menten, please.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Susan, could you send me information on how this property
specifically was acquired in the circumstances?
SUSAN ALTES: Sure. It was acquired for a Park-n-Ride. It was acquired from the shopping
center that existed there.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And so those dollar amounts that I listed, could you-- I know I was
reading those off. Could you confirm that-SUSAN ALTES: Yes, I will, because I believe that the purchase price was actually $100 and
some thousand, not quite the $226 that was in the facility's book.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Yeah, if you could send me.
SUSAN ALTES: I can do that.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Rivera-Malpiede, please.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I just want to make sure that because we have to do
an RFP that we don't get lost in time constraints with this community. I'm really concerned about
that. If we have to do that, is there a way to expediate that so that it doesn't impact their ability?
SUSAN ALTES: Actually, the resolutions don't call for an RFP. They call for a posting of the
property. So that takes much less time than an RFP.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I just wanted to make sure.

ROLF ASPHAUG: Yes, and this is Rolf Asphaug. I apologize. It does not call for an RFP. It
does call for a notice. And in that notice, we may list the evaluate cost. We can evaluate, in
addition to offering price, other value to the district.
JUDY LUBOW: All right. Well, as I said before, it looks like we're done with this. OK, so-yeah, right.
So other matters. No, no one has other matters, right? Next meeting, April 2, 2019. We're
adjourned. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

