Summary of Special FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, July 10, 2012
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue

Date:

July 11, 2012

Subject:

Summary of FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on July 10, 2012
****

Board Members
Present:
Committee Chair Cohen, Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley,
Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen, Tayer, Tobiassen,
Williams and Walker

Director O’Boyle arrived late.
Board Members
Absent:
Staff Present:
Bruce Abel, Shirley Bennett, Skip Brown, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen,
Chuck Culig, John Dawson, Kevin Diviness, Sherry Ellebracht, David
Genova, Terry Howerter, Brian Iacono, Austin Jenkins, Tina Jaquez,
Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Tony McCaulay,
Anthony Menendez, Jerry Nery, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Trent
Ratcliff, Jannette Scarpino, Daria Serna, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois,
Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Phil Washington, Susan
Wood
Others Present:
Dennis Arbogast, Debra Baskett, Heidi Backfield, Matt Becker, Peter
Blake, Bryan Blakely, James Bobick, Ralph Bozella, Courtney Brand,
Michelle Brier, Rod Brown, Mac Callison-City of Aurora, Bernard
Celestin, Matt Christianson-Kiewit, Jeff Cole, Leonard Dinegar, Jane
Donovan, David Dyer, Don Elliman, Dave Erb, Greg Fischer, Charles
Flax, Claudia Folska, Mike Fitzgerald, Jeff Frahm, Nancy Fred, Maria
Garcia-Berry, Lisa Goodbee, Stan Gronek, Mayor Jim Gunning, Lucia
Guatney, Lloyd Herrera, Mayor Steve Hogan, Jeff Holwell, Sherman
Hamilton, Ken Hampshire, Seth Hoffman, Tom Holfert, Dr. Franklin
Jackson, Roxanne Jacobson, Tom Howell-Kiewit, Erika KampeTransportation Solutions, Sheila King, Melanie Keene Knaus, David
Lewis-CAC, Tim Mackin, Tim Madden, John Migliaccio, Peter Mueller-

Summary of Special FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, July 10, 2012
Page 2
PRT Consulting, Rick McClintock, Frank McCurdy, Rick Muntean, Dana
Niemela, Amanda O’Connor, Ryan Parkes, Jim Paulmeno, George
Peck, RA Plummer, Jim Poggemeyer-Kraemer, Mayor Ron Rakowsky,
Laura Riker, Brad Rodenberg, Richard Romig, Bernie Rogoff, Darron
Rowe, Larry Rushing, Benjamin Sanchez, Commissioner Nancy
Sharpe, John M. Shaw, Roger Sherman, Jeanne Shreve, Julie Skeen,
Danielle Smith, Karen Stewart, Marla Stauth, Hunter Sydnor-Kiewit,
Jacob Riger – DRCOG, Chris Taylor, Landri Taylor, Jeff Thompson,
Lisa Truong, Ron Vasonez, James Walker Jr, Martin Willie, David
Willman, Jeff Whiteman, Mark Witkiewicz, Bob Wilson, Susanne
Wilson-Zann&Associates, Doug Wotzkorski, Peter Zurawel,
****
Call to Order

I.

Committee Chair Cohen called the meeting to order at 5:35 p.m.

Public Comments on the I-225 Unsolicited Proposal
General Manager Washington kicked the meeting off by sharing that the staff had
provided responses to the Board from their questions on the I-225 proposal. He also
shared that staff is preparing a memo relative to the plan forward for the remaining
3 corridors (i.e. Northwest rail, North Metro and US 36).
Committee Chair Cohen then opened up the public participation beginning with the
elected officials.
Arapahoe County Commissioner Nancy Sharpe—As Chair of the Arapahoe County
Commissioners, Nancy Sharpe expressed their support for the I-225 proposal. This is
a great step forward and provides the opportunity to leverage dollars. The
completion of the I-225 corridor moves the region closer to the full FasTracks rollout.
Honorable Mayor Rakowsky, Greenwood Village, spoke on the great economic
benefit the completion of the I-225 corridor will be to the Denver metropolitan area.
Access to the Anschutz campus serves the full region that stretches from western
Nebraska, Wyoming, and New Mexico. This will be a national treasure and part of
the life blood connecting the region. The staff has done a great job vetting this
decision and he thinks the Board should support this decision. The completion of the
I-225 corridor will not diminish the completion of the entire system.
Honorable Mayor Jim Gunning, Lone Tree, supports the whole program as outlined.
This is about leveraging dollars. The I-225 health science center is significant to the
metropolitan area. The completion of this corridor is paramount to all economic
growth.
Debra Baskett, City and County of Broomfield, spoke on behalf of Honorable Mayor

Summary of Special FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, July 10, 2012
Page 3
Pat Quinn. She read a statement that spoke to the concerns on regional equity. She
requested RTD to analyze the impact of this financial decision on all the corridors
before making this decision. She requested that RTD would fully vet other PP3
opportunities for all the corridors. A copy of the statement read in its entirety is
available in the Board office minute notebook.
Honorable Mayor Steve Hogan, Aurora-He requested the Board to say yes to the I225 proposal. He stated that the I-225 project is part of the bigger, greater view
that ties Boulder to Aurora and provides access to the largest employment center in
the State. There is an annual projection of 40,000 employees who will be using the
I-225 corridor connecting to the DIA line or every facet of this city. This is a
metropolitan Denver issue, not an Aurora issue. The I-225 proposal benefits the full
region.
George Peck, Aurora Chamber of Commerce—George spoke to the great liaison he
has with the City of Aurora and strongly urged the support of the I-225 proposal. He
noted that the Chamber of Commerce has regional representation that extends fall
beyond Aurora. This will provide access to a key part of the enhanced role of the
national center for health care and bio sciences. The Fitzsimons center ties the north
to the south and provides a central loop across Denver. This is a financially
responsible proposal and he asked for the Board’s support.
Larry Rushing is a small business owner who owns property close to the Anschutz
campus. He stated he felt like a kid in a candy store as the vision for I-225 gets
closer. He indicated he has owned his property for 19 years and has watched as the
congestion with cars and parking continues. The completion of the I-225 corridor
will take a lot of cars off the road.
John Shaw, Fitzsimons Redevelopment Authority, stated that the Veteran’s hospital
is expected to be completed in 2015 at about the same time as the proposed
timeline for the Kiewit proposal. This will provide accessibility to the Veteran
Hospital and all the other health care facilities. Kiewit has a proven track record of
delivering on time.
Landri Taylor, former Board member and current CEO of the Denver Urban League,
focused on two themes: ground changer and momentum. He reflected on when he
was a member of the Board 18 years ago and the first steps taken for light rail. He
weaved an image of having an economic network from north to south, east to west.
The I-225 is the next step in bringing this to fruition. RTD needs to continue the
momentum of being an economic engine. The I-225 corridor will become the center
of the universe as we look at jobs and economic development.
Claudia Folska, Candidate for RTD Board for District E, shared how her campaign has
inspired a group of transit dependent and developmentally disabled people from the
Project Search who travels to Children’s Hospital. They are all excited about riding
the train and have all registered to vote. The completion of the I-225 corridor will be
empowering for these users of our transit system.
Mike Fitzgerald, SEBP, stated that the Southeast Business Development has

Summary of Special FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, July 10, 2012
Page 4
adamantly supported the full build out of FasTracks. The I-225 proposal is most
visionary and aggressive. He named several reasons to support this proposal:
 This will support actions and activities up and down the front range
 This provides an economic boom to our economy-it is viable, healthy,
environmentally friendly and diversified
 This positions this region for the global economy of which a quality mass
transit system is a prerequisite.
 With the advent of this proposal and the economic stimulation that it
provides, Colorado has just gone from the middle of nowhere to the middle of
everywhere.
Don Elliman, Chancellor of CU Denver and Anschutz campus, indicated there are
currently about 23,000 employees at this facility who are daily users but anticipates
that number to be around 40,000 by 2020. He does not refer to Anschutz as a
campus but as a “city “because it is the largest size economic base in the Rocky
Mountain region. Anschutz City has multiple billion dollar impacts and will continue
to grow. The I-225 corridor completion will provide connection for campuses,
students, nations and world markets in the health care industry.
Leonard Dinegar read a letter from CU president Bruce Benson stating his support for
the I-225 proposal. A copy of that letter is available in the Board office minute
notebook. President Benson pledged the support of the CU community to the RTD
efforts to complete FasTracks.
Bernie Rogoff, Commissioner of Veteran Affairs for the City of Aurora and also
advocate of the PACT Steering Committee for Veterans, spoke in favor of the I-225
proposal. He provided a letter to the Board of Directors providing statistics around
the size of the veteran base and the impact of the new Veteran hospital. A copy of
his letter is available in the Board office minute notebook.
Dr. Franklin Jackson, Regional Commander in Colorado, Wyoming, Utah, Montana
and New Mexico, advocated on behalf of the veterans. He believes the unsolicited
I-225 proposal addresses some of the regional concerns for mobility and urged
support for this proposal.
Rick Muntean, project manager, stated how proud he is to be working on this
project.
James Bobick, Colorado Board of Veteran Affairs, stated there are approximately
450,000 veterans living in the state of Colorado. Veterans from all around will
benefit from the completion of the I-225 corridor. This will provide key access to
Fitzsimons and the VA hospital. I-225 is a Colorado access not just an Aurora issue.
When you look at the composite of the veterans and their families, it represents well
over 1.25 million of our residents.
Jeff Frahm is an architect who is working on the DUS project. He thinks it is
appropriate to approve the Kiewit proposal and to be able to work on a project of
this nature that expands the region.

Summary of Special FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, July 10, 2012
Page 5
James Walker Jr is a Denver native and small business owner who has seen the
growth in Denver. This project will provide the mobility needed. He is happy to be a
partner with Kiewit on this project.
Mark Witkiewicz, Corporex Colorado, is a developer who is in favor of this project.
This is clear economics related to its importance. He has observed the parking
issues currently associated with the Anschutz campus as they are developing a
project across the street from the campus.
Jeff Holwell, South Metro Chamber, is the Director of Economic Development. They
are in support of the I-225 project.
Lisa Goodbee, Centennial, is a small business owner who is on the Kiewit team. She
thinks this is a great project and provides opportunities for the small business
community.
Rick McClintock, Transportation Solutions, provided his full support for the I-225
build out. He cited several reasons:
 Approximately $100M in savings
 Build line all at once with 34,000 riders will reduce air pollution
 He is fully committed to the regional build out and encouraged simultaneously
seek potential for tax increase that may be lower in scale than originally
proposed but would generate a win-win for all the corridors
 The I-225 line will have a large scale impact on parking, particularly
structured parking and he asked the Board to consider park-n-ride build out.
Dennis Arbogast, Forest City consultant, supports the recommendation for the I-225
build out. Not only will this be advantageous to the users of I-225, it could also
benefit Stapleton. He advocated for a re-alignment to be incorporated in the design
for these mutual benefits.
Martin Willie, Civil Technologies, supports the Kiewit proposal. He believes a vote
for this proposal is a vote for regional growth and small business.
Charles Flax, Greenwood Village, has worked with Kiewit on the DUS/DIA. This
project will allow his company to grow and include more DBE partners on this
project.
David Lewis, CAC Chair, provides the support of the Citizen Advisory Committee.
The CAC is comprised of members representing the full region. They see this as a
critical first leg leading to the full build out. The I-225 proposal is a visionary
outreach. He hopes this is the first in a series of partnerships to build out all the
corridors.
Ralph Bozella, United Veterans of Colorado, provided his support for the I-225
corridor. As they have planned work on project Eagle, the name of the project for
the Veteran’s hospital, they felt a key to this was the light rail and having a station
serving the campus. The VA hospital will open in 2015. We need access for public
transportation. He also requested RTD not to forget about other parts of the state.

Summary of Special FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, July 10, 2012
Page 6
He stated he looks forward to the day when he can get on a train in Longmont to
travel all the way to the VA hospital.
Committee Chair Cohen thanked all of the speakers and visitors who took the time
to come out tonight for the I-225 discussion. They provided invaluable information
to him and the Board. He announced the public participation closed at 6:50 p.m.
II.
III.

Next Meeting Date: August 7, 2012
Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 6:50 p.m.

