Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on Thursday, March 12,
2009
Page 1 of 7

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

March 12, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee Meeting held on
Thursday, March 12, 2009 in Rooms R, T and D
****

Board
Members Present:

Board
Members Absent:

Director Chacon, Director McMullen

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, John Tarbert, George Hovey, Tom Hughes, Eric Farrington,
Caitlin Magee, Paula Perdue, Larry Buter, Bruce Abel, Carolyn Conover,
Brian Matthews, Dave Genova, Teresa Sedmak, Cal Shankster, Tony
McCaulay, Bill Porter, Robert Merriman, Scott Reed, Phil Washington, Bill
Van Meter, Kenn Hardin, Bob Mikelson, John Shonsey, Susan Cohen,
Terry Howerter

Others Present:

Fred Sandal, Bruce Behnke, Jeff Leib, Steve Cook, L.J. Ward, Debra
Baskett, Audrey DeBarros

Call to Order:
I.

Chair Brohl, Director Bagley, Director Busck, Director Christopher,
Director Cohen, Director Daly, Director James, Director Kemp, Director
Martinez, Director O’Boyle, Director Pulliam, Director Tayer, Director
Tobiassen

****
Chair Brohl called the meeting to order at 5:32 p.m.

access-a-Ride Update – Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager, Customer and
Contracted Services presented this item as a follow up to the discussion at the
February 24, 2009 Study Session. A written report was provided in the committee
packet. Staff distributed an update on complaints. Staff continues to work with the
access-a-Ride stakeholders to identify specific issues and address them.
Larry Buter gave an update on the AVL/MDT. This weekend, twenty-five units will be
installed on Special Transit vehicles. On Monday, March 16, 2009, they will begin rolling
out five units per day so in a week there will be thirty-five units in service. At the end of
next week, staff will decide whether to continue the rollout or to pause and work on any

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on March 12, 2009
Page 2 of 7
issues that may arise. Training is ongoing with drivers, dispatchers, and supervisors.
At the request of the DBE/SBE office and Global Transportation, staff has reviewed the
access-a-Ride contract for Global Transportation. Global is having some challenges with
their contract; some of this is related to the current financial crisis and the loss of credit
lines for small businesses. As a result, staff has performed a detailed analysis of their
2008 contract as well as their bid model and has concluded that it is appropriate to
adjust their 2009 contract by $165,142. In return, Global pledges to continue working
closely with RTD staff to continue monitoring their cost proposal as well as their results.
At the end of 2009, staff will revisit the 2010 contract price to determine if any future
adjustment is necessary or if this is not working whether the third year of the contract
should be approved.
Director Brohl said this is a needed contract adjustment. The SBOO office is helping to
mentor Global and improve their business operation. Director Brohl wanted to make clear
to the Board and to Global that this is a one year adjustment at this time. Director Brohl
has asked for periodic review and would like quarterly reports regarding the status.
Director Brohl would like an evaluation report at the end of the year from Mr. Abel. If
this contract is not progressing satisfactorily, Director Brohl would like the option to not
review the third year of the contract.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on March 12, 2009
Page 3 of 7
II.

Quarterly Reports
a.

Access-a-Ride - Bruce Abel gave this update and pointed out that access-aCab ridership was up by 58% in 2008. Access-a-Ride ridership has
increased by 3%.

b.

Contracted Fixed Route – Bruce Abel asked for questions regarding this
report. Director Daly was very concerned about Laidlaw accidents. Veolia
and Laidlaw not meeting their goal on miles between road calls. Director
Daly wanted to know what the turnover rate was at Laidlaw. Carolyn
Conover reported that they usually run at about 30%. Staff is working
closely with Veolia on road calls. They did meet the goal for February 2009.
Chair Kemp wanted to know what the average age of the fleet for each of
the contractors and RTD. Mr. Abel explained that bus replacement is done
equally amongst RTD and the contractors.
Director Daly spoke about Veolia not meeting the performance standard for
Operator complaints. Veolia has new staff in place for working with
customer service. Veolia has implemented a program called “Going for the
green” focusing on operator behavior and interaction with the customers.
Director Martinez confirmed with Mr. Abel that we should be seeing an
improvement in these issues in the first quarter of 2009 due to the corrective
actions that are in place.
Director Christopher wanted to know if the liquidated damages were enough
to motivate the contractors. Bruce Abel said he believed it was adequate.
Chair Brohl requested an update on a monthly basis regarding the private
contractors.
Director James spoke about Jim Moffett the bus driver who helped some
people across the street and he is going to be recognized by the Daniels
fund. Public Affairs will help coordinate this event. Chair Kemp said we had
an official plaque made and it will be presented to Mr. Moffett’s daughter at
the March 17, 2009 Board Meeting.

c.

Special Services – There were no questions on this report.

d.

4th Quarter 2008 Security Statistics & Fare Inspection Summary – Dave
Genova and John Tarbert presented this report. The fare evasion rate for
2008 in the 4th Quarter of 2008 was 1.98%.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on March 12, 2009
Page 4 of 7
In September of 2008, the District began putting plainclothes police officers
on bus routes that were reporting problems with fare evasion and other
incidents. The officers did an observation to get a baseline figure on fare
evasion and the percentage was 8.28%. Once the fare enforcement started,
the rate has gone done progressively. In December 2008 it was 1.63%.
Director Tayer asked about how the patrons get on the bus without paying
the fare. Mr. Tarbert reviewed the procedure and that operators are trained
not to have confrontations with patrons over paying the fare.
Director Kemp asked if we were following up with the drivers on training.
Mr. Tarbert said that when operators are finishing their last week of training
they get a security briefing. The operators are very receptive to this
program.
Director O’Boyle asked for reconciliation on the numbers for December 2008.
Mr. Tarbert explained that sometimes patrons are being warned for more
than one thing. Director O’Boyle would like to see the figures related strictly
to fare evasion only.
Director O’Boyle asked about the fare station sweeps. Patrons do not get
tickets during the fare stations sweeps. A patron has to use the system to
be cited for fare evasion. A crime is not committed until a patron boards a
train without a fare.
Director Busck, what have we learned from uniformed and plainclothes, what
have we learned from this report? Is this cost effective to do this? Where
do we go in the future? Cal Marsella recommends that we continue this
program into 2009. Dave Genova said funding has been identified in the
security budget to be transferred to this program.
Cal Marsella said that these routes were chosen based on the rates of fare
evasion. The district put the resources were the problems are occurring.
Director Martinez asked if there were additional routes we might target? Mr.
Tarbert said that incidents are reviewed on a weekly basis. Staff decides
what routes will get the officers.
Director Daly offered up a perspective from the bus driver’s position, he said
this program is invaluable. He said the safety and security for passengers
and drivers does not have a dollar amount. He wondered why this wasn’t
being done on the Route 0. Dave Genova said that this may be happening
now as they are constantly evaluating routes.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on March 12, 2009
Page 5 of 7
Director Tobiassen thanked staff for their work on fare evasion. He then
asked about car thefts at 9 Mile and he spoke of his concern. Mr. Genova
felt that with the parking management program at the facility may help this
problem as there is increased surveillance. Cal Marsella asked Dave Genova
to follow up with the Aurora Police Department on the car thefts at 9 Mile
and report back to Director Tobiassen.
III.

Group 21 RFP – The Board was generally in agreement with staff’s approach to the
Group 21 RFP.

IV.

DPS Update – Bruce Abel gave this update as requested by Director Christopher.
When DPS eliminated yellow bus for Senior High, the District entered into an
agreement to sell bus passes and provide school tripper service. Staff concludes that
we are on a break even basis on this program.

V.

Ceiling Advertising – This discussion was moved to later in the meeting.

VI.

May 2009 Service Change Update – Route U Alternatives – Bruce Abel and Bill Porter
gave an update on this. A memo was distributed describing the alternatives for the
route U and staff conclusion on these. None of these met the Board’s direction of no
additional costs to the district. One variation, an additional 6X trip to provide
connectivity at Cold Spring park-n-Ride looks like it will work.
Route CC update – Staff is well into negotiations with Ride Provide and thinks that an
agreement will be reached to provide two a.m. and two p.m. trips from Coal Creek to
the park-n-Ride at Highway 72/93. The District is writing a letter of support to the
PUC as Ride Provide will need PUC approval to operate the service.
Staff is also working with DRCOG on a van pool outreach with Route U riders.
Director Daly wanted to know if staff had heard back from the Route U users if they
were interested in the 6x issue. Bill Porter said it was one of their suggestions and
service will be evaluated once it goes into effect.
Bill Porter distributed a handout on the August service changes timeline and Bruce
Abel believed that the service changes in August 2009 might be fairly benign.
Mr. Abel said that staff has heard the Board loud and clear on eliminating service in
areas with no alternatives.

VII.

Items Tabled from February 10, 2009 Committee Meeting
a.
Cost Sharing Agreements of $250,000 or Less – There were no questions from
the Committee related to this report.
b.

Update on Staffing In Longmont – Fully up to staff in Longmont. First Transit
has moved service back from Denver to Longmont. Staff would like to cease
this monthly report as the issue has been solved.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on March 12, 2009
Page 6 of 7
c.

Revenue Generation Via On-Vehicle Ads and Naming Rights/Ceiling
advertisements – Tony McCaulay spoke to this item. Lamar Advertising would
like to add ceiling advertising as a component to their services. There was no
objection from the Committee.
Director Cohen asked about offering WiFi access on the system. George Hovey
reported that staff did a cost analysis on this two years ago and found that the
complexity of it was not cost effective.
Tony McCaulay reported that Lamar feels that there is room for additional
advertising revenue by adding advertising on light rail vehicles and the “themed”
buses in Boulder for the Jump, Skip, etc. Lamar estimates that the district
could bring in 1.5 million a year by adding advertising on ¼ of the light rail
vehicles. Mr. McCaulay gave an overview of what different properties around
the country have done with naming rights.
Tony McCaulay said that each mall shuttle bus generates $40,000/year in
advertising revenue. Director Brohl would like to see that figure included in the
discussion of the 16th Street Mall.
There was a discussion around naming rights and Mr. Marsella wanted to know
if the board was supportive of bringing in a consultant to investigate the amount
of money the District could bring in with naming rights. The consultant’s service
would cost approximately $50,000.
Director Busck felt we should move forward with this but with some conditions;
keep costs down without abusing the environment.
Director James spoke of his concern of investing a lot of money and wondering
if there was any return.
Director Christopher felt that this was premature given the state of the
economy.
Director Martinez felt that this should still be investigated should the economy
improve in particular in regards to the upcoming FasTracks stations. What kind
of policy does the Board want to have going forward regarding naming rights?
Director O’Boyle commented on the Washington Metro and said he was not
supportive of actively looking at selling naming rights to existing stations.
Barbara Brohl brought up the First Amendment issue in regards to how much
control the District can have over the advertising and suggested a clarification
from General Council.

VIII.

Other Matters – There were no other matters discussed.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on March 12, 2009
Page 7 of 7
IX.

Next Meeting Date – The next meeting of the Operations and Customer Services
Committee will be April 14, 2009.

X.

Adjourn to Financial Administration Committee – Hearing no objection, Chair Brohl
adjourned the Operations and Customer Services Committee at 7:23 p.m.

