Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Julien Bouquet, District G
First Vice Chair – Patrick O’Keefe, District H
Second Vice Chair – Troy Whitmore, District K
Secretary – Chris Nicholson, District A
Treasurer – Karen Benker, District I
Vince Buzek, District J
Peggy Catlin, District N
Kathleen Chandler, District F
Lynn Guissinger, District O
Chris Gutschenritter, District D

Michael Guzman, District C
Ian Harwick, District L
Matt Larsen, District E
Brett Paglieri, District M
JoyAnn Ruscha, District B

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
Thursday, September 25, 2025
REMOTE MEETING
11:15 AM
To join the meeting: Register Here
(connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or to listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 814 0917 6387#
Webinar Passcode: 1660#
For Public Participation in the meeting: raise your virtual hand
in Zoom or indicate you wish to speak via phone by pressing *9
If you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment(s),
please email the RTD Board office using the address below.
Public Comments can be emailed in advance to be
included in the record to
RTD.Directors@rtd-denver.com

Executive Committee Agenda
Chaired by Julien Bouquet
I.

Call to Order

II.

Public Comment

III.

September Board Meeting Agenda Review

IV.

Discussion Items

•

Monthly Government Relations Report – September 2025

•

2026 Draft Legislative and Government Relations Program

•

Board Office Budget Review

V.

Other Matters

VI.

Adjourn

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - September 30, 2025
I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Land Acknowledgement

IV.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

V.

Statement of Employee Appreciation

VI.

Retiree Awards
Jose G. Martinez Jr. – Street Supervisor – 30 years
Mac McIntosh – Senior Labor Relations Generalist – 15 years
Matthew Richey – Procurement Specialist II – 26 years
David Svenby – Telecom Supervisor – 29 Years

VII.

Public Participation

VIII.

External Entities Reports

IX.

Action Item
A.

Access-on-Demand Program Modifications as Amended

For the Board of Directors to approve modifications to the supplemental, premium
Access-on-Demand (AoD) service for RTD’s paratransit customers as amended and
described herein, effective January 1, 2026**.
B.

Access-on-Demand Contract Extensions

For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her
designee to enter into six-month contract extension amendments with existing
providers for the Access-on-Demand (AoD) program effective January 1, 2026,
through June 30, 2026, raising the not-to-exceed (NTE) amount from $37.8 million
to $47.2 million.

X.

Discussion Item
•

Finishing FasTracks Report

XI.

Audit Committee Report

XII.

Finance and Planning Committee Report

XIII.

Operations, Safety, and Security Committee Report

XIV.

Performance Committee Report

XV.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes and Committee Reports

XVI.

Chair's Report

XVII. General Manager's Report
XVIII. Unanimous Consent
A.

Successor Strategic Plan Consultancy Solicitation

For the Board of Directors to approve the scope of work summary for a solicitation
for a consultancy to assist with the development of the successor five-year
strategic plan for the 2026-2031 planning horizon.
B.

District Shops Hoists Replacement Contract Award

For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her
designee to enter into a contract with Rhinotrax Construction for the renovation of
nine in-ground hydraulic bus hoists at the RTD District Shops Division building.
This includes replacement of eight hoists and the removal of one hoist at the
District Shops Bus Maintenance Facility. The base bid award amount of the
contract is $4,003,792.
C.
Tap-to-pay and Cash Digitization Retail Network Title VI Fare Equity
Analysis
For the Board to adopt the Title VI Fare Equity Analysis report for the introduction
of tap-to-pay fare payments to comply with federal laws, regulations and
guidelines related to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
XIX.

Recommended Action
D.

2026-2030 Five-Year Financial Forecast (FYFF)

For the Board of Directors to adopt the 2026-2030 Five-Year Financial Forecast
(FYFF).

E.

Longmont and Boulder Fixed-Route Service Contract

For the Board to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to enter
into a contract with Transdev Services, Inc., for the provision of fixed-route
services as described herein. This contract is for three years, with two one-year
options for a total of five years, at a total not-to-exceed cost of $127,095,000.
Additionally, RTD will reimburse the contractor’s direct fuel costs in an amount
estimated to be $11,955,000 over five years. The total five-year not-to-exceed cost
for services and fuel is $139,050,000.
F. 2025 Systemwide Advertising Policy Amendment
For the Board of Directors to amend the Systemwide Advertising Policy (also
known as the Commercial Advertising Policy) to limit the allowable Advertising
Space such that windows on revenue service vehicles are expressly excluded from
the allowable Advertising Space, commencing with all new commercial
advertising contracts and contract renewals.
XX.

Report of Director Activities

XXI.

Other Matters

XXII. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assistive hearing devices
• Documents in alternative formats and language translations
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of
a RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

