1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Erik Davidson, District I
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Secretary – Michael Guzman, District C
Treasurer – Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Vince Buzek, District J
Bobby Dishell, District D
Ian Harwick, District L
Paul Rosenthal, District E

JoyAnn Ruscha, District B
Marjorie Sloan, District M
Doug Tisdale, District H
Troy Whitmore, District K
Vacant, District A

AGENDA
Finance and Planning Committee
Tuesday, February 13, 2024
REMOTE MEETING
5:30 PM
To join the meeting Register Here
(connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 811 5675 9255#
Passcode: 1660#
For Public Participation in the meeting: raise your virtual hand
in Zoom or indicate you wish to speak via phone by pressing *9
If you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment(s),
please email the RTD Board office using the address below.
Public Comments can be emailed in advance to be
included in the record to
RTD.BoardOffice@rtd-denver.com

Finance and Planning Committee
Chaired by Doug Tisdale

A. Call to Order
B. Public Comment
C. Update from Revenue Diversification Working Group

D. Recommended Actions
E. Discussion Items

• External Auditor Engagement Communications
F. Other Matters
G. Next Meeting Date: Tuesday, March 13, 2024
H. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
• Documents in alternative formats and language translations
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.E.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Committee Meeting Date:
External Auditor Engagement Communications

February 13, 2024

STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 minutes
BACKGROUND
After the conclusion of each fiscal year ending December 31, RTD must complete an Annual
Comprehensive Financial Report (ACFR) in conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
(GAAP) applicable to governments as established by the Governmental Accounting Standards Board
(GASB). Completion of the ACFR requires a financial audit and audit opinion as to the fairness of the
presentation of information in the Report. The audit must be performed by an external, independent
auditing firm.
In addition, a Single Audit, also known as a Uniform Guidance Audit, is required to be completed by nonfederal agencies that expend more than $750,000 of federal dollars within a fiscal year. The federal
Office of Management and Budget (OMB) establishes the requirements for the Single Audit, which also
must be performed by an external, independent auditing firm.
DISCUSSION
RTD has contracted with Plante Moran, LLC (Plante Moran) to provide external audit services. Plante
Moran has engaged with RTD since 2020 for external audit services as well as any additional
independent attestation services needed.
Plante Moran will perform the financial audit and Single Audit for Fiscal Year 2023, which runs January
1 through December 31, 2023. Preliminary audit activities were completed in December 2023, and audit
fieldwork will be completed in March 2024. The 2023 ACFR and Single Audit will be completed and
presented, along with any audit findings, to the Board in July 2024.
In planning the audits, Plante Moran is required to provide certain communications to Board in its
capacity as the governing body of RTD.
The attached letter to the Board from Plante Moran provides those required communications.
FINANCIAL IMPACT

Packet Pg. 3

1.E.1

These audit engagement services costs are based on contracted hourly rates and are estimated to total
$137,777. Funding for these services has been included in the 2024 Budget.
ATTACHMENTS:
•

RTD 2023YE TCWG - Planned Scope and Timing Letter

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 4

February 13, 2024
Board of Directors
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Dear Board of Directors:
Plante Moran in the process of planning for the audit of the financial statements of the Regional
Transportation District (“RTD”) for the year ended December 31, 2023. An important aspect of planning
for the audit is communication with those who have responsibility for overseeing the strategic direction
of the RTD and obligations related to the accountability of the RTD. At RTD, these responsibilities and
obligations are held by the Board of Directors, collectively and individually; therefore, it is important for us
to communicate with each of you in your role as a member of the Board of Directors.
As part of this communication process, we plan to speak with Chair Davidson, the Board Chair,
regarding our responsibilities under generally accepted auditing standards and the planned scope
and timing of our audit. The purpose of this letter is to provide each of you with a summary of those
discussions and to provide you with the opportunity to communicate with us on matters that may impact
our audit.
Our Responsibility Under Generally Accepted Auditing Standards and Generally
Accepted Government Auditing Standards
As stated in our engagement letter addressed to RTD and dated January 12, 2024, our responsibility,
as described by professional standards, is to express an opinion about whether the financial
statements prepared by management with your oversight are fairly presented, in all material respects,
in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Our audit of the financial statements
does not relieve you or management of your responsibilities.
In accordance with Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards (GAO Standards), we are
required to communicate all noncompliance with provisions of laws, regulations, contracts, or grants
that have a material effect on the financial statements that comes to our attention. GAO Standards also
require that we report any instances of abuse identified during that audit that could be quantitatively or
qualitatively material to the financial statements.
We expect to include an emphasis-of-matter paragraph in the auditor’s report, if implementation results
in a material amount, informing the users of the financial statements about the implementation of GASB
96, Subscription-based Information Technology Arrangements. The proposed wording of the
emphasis of matter paragraph follows:
As explained in Note XX, RTD adopted the provisions of Governmental Accounting
Standards Board Statement No. 96, Subscription-based Information Technology Arrangements,
which gives guidance on the identification and reporting of lease activities. Our opinion is not
modified with respect to this matter.
Overview of the Planned Scope and Timing of the Audit
Our audit fieldwork will include three phases. The planning and preliminary information-gathering phase will
occur during December and January; the risk assessment phase in February 2024; and the rest of our audit
procedures will be performed during March and April 2024.

Packet Pg. 5

Attachment: RTD 2023YE TCWG - Planned Scope and Timing Letter (4878 : External Auditor Engagement Communications)

1.E.1.a

1.E.1.a

Board of Directors
Regional Transportation District

2

February 13, 2024

Because management is in a unique position to perpetrate fraud due to its ability to manipulate accounting
records and prepare fraudulent financial statements by overriding controls that otherwise appear to be
operating effectively, generally accepted auditing standards require that we always consider this to be a
significant risk. In addition, we identified the following significant risks of misstatement:


Proper accounting treatment for grant funding received by RTD including accuracy and
completeness of the Schedule of Federal Awards (SEFA)



Risk that expenses could be double counted in multiple grant reimbursements



Risk related to management’s process for developing accounting estimates as it relates to the net
pension liability

In response to these identified significant risks, we will perform the following:


Testing of journal entries recorded in the general ledger and other adjustments made in the
preparation of the financial statements.



Assess whether grant funding was spent in accordance with related agreements and that related
transactions are recorded correctly in the general ledger. We will also test and assess the
completeness of the SEFA in conjunction with the Single Audit of Federal Awards.



Reconciliation of grant revenues to amounts recorded in the financial statements



Review and obtain support for the inputs, methods, and assumptions used by management in
arriving at the estimates related to the net pension liability.

We will gain an understanding of accounting processes and key internal controls through a review of the
accounting procedures questionnaires and control procedures questionnaires prepared by management.
We will confirm through observation and inspection procedures that accounting procedures and controls
included in the questionnaires have been implemented. In addition, we plan to perform testing of the
effectiveness of controls over financial reporting. We will not express an opinion on the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting; however, we will communicate to you significant deficiencies and
material weaknesses identified in connection with our audit.
The concept of materiality is inherent in our work. We place greater emphasis on those items that have, on
a relative basis, more importance to the financial statements and greater possibilities of material error than
with those items of lesser importance or those in which the possibility of material error is remote.
Information from You Relevant to Our Audit
An important aspect of this communication process is the opportunity for us to obtain from you information
that is relevant to our audit. Your views about any of the following are relevant to our audit:


RTD’s objectives and strategies and the related business risks that may result in material
misstatements



Matters that you consider warrant particular attention during the audit and any areas where you
want to request additional procedures be undertaken



Significant communications between RTD and regulators

Packet Pg. 6

Attachment: RTD 2023YE TCWG - Planned Scope and Timing Letter (4878 : External Auditor Engagement Communications)

To plan an effective audit, we must identify significant risks of misstatement in the financial statements,
including those related to changes in the financial reporting framework or changes in the entity’s
environment, financial condition, or activities, and design procedures to address those risks.

1.E.1.a

3

February 13, 2024



Understanding of RTD’s relationships and transactions with related parties that are significant to
RTD and any concerns regarding those relationships or transactions



The attitudes, awareness, and actions concerning:



o

RTD’s internal control and its importance to RTD, including how the Board of Directors
oversees the effectiveness of internal control and the detection or possibility of fraud

o

The detection or possibility of fraud, including whether the Board of Directors has
knowledge of any actual, suspected, or alleged fraud affecting RTD

o

Any significant unusual transactions RTD has entered into

The actions of the Board of Directors in response to developments in accounting standards,
regulations, laws, previous communications from us, and other related matters and the effect of
such developments on, for example, the overall presentation, structure, and content of the financial
statements, including the following:
o

The relevance, reliability, comparability, and understandability of the information presented
in the financial statements

o

Whether all required information has been included in the financial statements and whether
such information has been appropriately classified, aggregated or disaggregated, and
presented

If you have any information to communicate to us regarding the above or any other matters you believe are
relevant to the audit, or if you would like to discuss the audit in more detail, please call me at 810.766.6022
as soon as possible.
Thank you for your time and consideration in this important aspect of the audit process. You can expect to
hear from us again after the completion of our audit when we will report to you the significant findings from
the audit.
Very truly yours,
Plante & Moran, PLLC

Pamela L. Hill, CPA
Partner

Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: RTD 2023YE TCWG - Planned Scope and Timing Letter (4878 : External Auditor Engagement Communications)

Board of Directors
Regional Transportation District

