Feb 26 2019
Board Meeting
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
DOUG TISDALE: The record will reflect that we are convened here in the RTD Boardroom of
the lower level at 5:32 PM Mountain Standard Time. I would respectfully request everyone
please to silence your telephones and other electronic devices. I would also like to note, for the
sake of the record and for the benefit of the public, that the meeting is being video and audio
recorded.
We will begin with the Pledge of Allegiance and the posting of colors. I would like to point out
that tonight, we are extremely privileged to be joined by members of the Denver South High
School Rebels Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps. And these gentlemen will be posting the
colors and leading us in the Pledge of Allegiance. Gentlemen, please proceed when you are
ready.
OFFICER: Post. Forward march. Color guard, halt. Present arm.
ALL: I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for
which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
OFFICER: Order arm. Ready, face. Color guard, halt. Ready, post. Present arm. Order arm.
Ready, face. Forward march. Forward march.
DOUG TISDALE: You may be seated. And ladies and gentlemen, please join me in thanking
our cadets, Thomas Runyan, Isaac Barnes, and Joel Engelbrecht.
[APPLAUSE]
And a sincere thanks to Warrant Officer Raymond Bell and to the parents of these fine students
for allowing them to lead us in tonight's ceremony. Ms. McManus, would you now please call
the roll of the Board?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.

PEGGY CATLIN: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I'm here.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 15 present, 0 absent.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. McManus. Ladies and gentlemen, at RTD, safety
is our core value. And so every meeting that we conduct that includes the public, we always
begin with a short safety briefing. So let me advise you that if there is a medical emergency that
should arise and 911 needs to be called, I will ask our RTD general counsel to make that
telephone call.
Any medically trained individuals in the room are, of course, requested to assist if they can. And
if needed, an automatic emergency defibrillator, known as an AED device, is in a glass case
located just outside this room on the wall to the right. In the event that we must evacuate the
building for fire or any other emergency that may arise, please calmly exit out the door in which
you came. That's at the back of the room there.
Go up the stairs to the first floor, go around the security desk, and exit through the front door.
Police and security officers will be there to direct you to a safe meet-up area. If there is anyone
who might need special assistance in the event of an evacuation, that will be provided by RTD
staff as necessary.
On a related safety note-- and I'm constantly amazed at how many people don't know about this,
so it's important we always repeat it-- while RTD takes every precaution to ensure the safety of
its passengers, vehicles, and facilities, the agency relies on both staff and the general public to be
aware of and alert to any suspicious or dangerous activity that's on the buses, on the trains,
around station stops, platforms. As we say, if you see something, say something.
So as such, we encourage all of our employees and all of our patrons to download the RTD
Transit Watch app, which allows users to report suspicious or dangerous activity and
communicate directly and immediately with RTD transit security personnel, all on a real time
basis, in the event of any emergency situation. Transit Watch app is available via Google Play
and the Apple App Store.
The next item on our agenda this evening is the retiree awards. Now, there are three retirees for
the month of February, though I believe that we do not have any of them with us here this
evening. Are there any retirees in the audience? If so, raise your hands so I can make special
note. But I don't see any.
We would like to offer now our thanks and our appreciation to the following retirees who have
contributed a combined 80 years of dedicated service to the RTD. Think about that. That's
dedication. These individuals are Leonard Hope, a Bus Operator for 22 years, James E. Jacobsen,
the Manager of Wellness and Rehabilitation, a position he held for 35 years, and Richard Treat, a
Bus Operator who's been with us for 23 years. Let's give it up for those fine retirees.

[APPLAUSE]
We then turn to the public participation portion of our agenda. It's open to anyone who wishes to
speak to the Board, as is our custom. We do allow elected officials to speak to us first so that
they can get back to their own meetings and attend to their business.
Now, if you have signed up to speak, I will call your name in the order in which you signed up.
If you have not signed up and you would like to speak, I will, at the end of the sign-up list, ask
for additional speakers, and we'll take you at that time.
Each speaker is allowed three minutes-- let me just repeat that-- three minutes to speak to us. We
respectfully request that members of the audience would refrain from any expression of support
or disagreement with any speaker's comments as those outbursts might reasonably have the
effect of chilling the free expression of thoughts by speakers.
Please also bear in mind when you appear at that microphone at that podium, you are consenting
to being video and audio recorded, as we make that record for the public. If you don't wish to be
recorded, that's fine. Simply submit comments in writing. When called, please come to the
lectern. State your name and address. And if you have materials you'd like to share with the
Board, please feel free at that time to give them to the Board staff.
Now, I am awaiting indication as to whether there are any individuals who have signed up for
this evening on our sign-in sheet that was out front. And I will stretch. No, no one? OK. So we
don't have anyone who has signed up. Is there anyone who didn't sign up who feels compelled
that they would like to speak to us now? Thank you very much. That having been concluded, we
turn to committee reports.
The committee minutes were included in your Board packet, available to all the Board members
and to everyone in the public. Are there any questions from any Director relative to any of the
committee minutes? Hearing none, those committee reports will stand as submitted and will
become a part of the permanent record.
At each Board meeting, we always make a special moment available to the Chair of the General
Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee. And since Director Broom is the
chair of that committee, we offer him at this time the opportunity to advise us if there are any
comments that he would like to share with the Board at this time. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. No report this evening.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. We appreciate that. Then the next item on
our agenda is the approval of the Board meeting minutes for the January 29 meeting. May I
please have a motion to approve the minutes from the January 29 meeting?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved.

DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Rivera-Malpiede. Is there a second? There's a
second, Director Williams. Any discussion on that motion? Hearing none, all those in favor
indicate by saying aye. Oh, do we have to vote electronically on the minutes? We do. We have to
vote electronically on the minutes.
So the Directors were way ahead of me. They already have. And we have approved them by a
vote of 15 to 0. Thank you very much. And thank you, Ms. McManus, for keeping me honest.
The Chair's report this evening. I will go through this as quickly as I can, but there have been an
incredible number of great things happening in recent weeks, and we'd like to share just a few of
those with you. First and foremost, as many of you know, we have received excellent news
regarding the Eagle P3 project, particularly with respect to the University of Colorado A Line
and the G Line.
Now, it has been announced previously, but we think it bears repeating that on March the 1st,
barring unforeseen circumstances, we reasonably anticipate that, at long last, the quiet zone will
be established along the University of Colorado A Line corridor throughout the City and County
of Denver. I'm sure there are a number of constituents in the district who will be breathing a deep
sigh of relief on the evening of March the 1st.
Please note, though, that the train operators are still, nonetheless, required in emergent situations,
according to their judgment, to sound the horn. So periodically, that may happen. And we are
still working to get the two crossings in Aurora approved for the quiet zone. And there has been
some delay in that. And we're looking forward to that very soon.
Secondly, RTD has also received two critical approvals from the Federal Railroad Authority
regarding the G Line operations, namely the approval for the revenue system demonstration on
the G Line and, furthermore, for the addition of the G Line to the five-year university of
Colorado A Line and B Line operational waiver. Those are major milestones, and we are
delighted that they have happened in this last month. I'm sure that our General Manager Dave
Genova will have more details to share with you when he speaks in a moment.
Then, several events. January 31 saw the launch of the new Uber app with a transit option for
people to use their Uber app to explore and ultimately to book rides on the RTD as part of their
one-stop shopping experience with Uber. And that's the first time that has happened anywhere in
the world. After they have a successful demonstration in the Denver region, they intend to roll it
out to other markets.
We also had a very productive meeting with the Colorado Public Utilities Commission on
February the 1st. The entire Executive Committee was present for that meeting-- and Director
Whitmore was in attendance, as well-- as the commissioners demonstrated their continuing
collaboration with the RTD.
On February the 7th, Directors Guissinger, Rivera-Malpiede, and Williams attended the Moving
People Forward event sponsored by Bicycle Colorado. And then, on February the 13th, Vice
Chair Catlin and Director Menten met with Mayor Marjorie Sloan and the Golden City Council

to discuss questions concerning the W Line service. A number of us then participated in the
Mobility Choice launch that was celebrated at the History Colorado Center on February the 19th.
Also on February 19, three of our northerly Directors, if you will-- namely Directors Buzek,
Lubow, and Whitmore-- participated in a planning session for the city of Thornton, carrying on
even further this engagement of the RTD Board with municipal governments and elected
officials. Then, Directors Catlin, Folska, Lewis, and I attended the WTS Annual Awards Gala
that was held at The Cable Center on Thursday, February the 21st.
This past weekend, Directors Lewis, Rivera-Malpiede, and I attended the 2019 Annual Awards
Banquet for the Hispanic Contractors of Colorado. Then, the launch event for RTD's newly
rebranded FlexRide service was held yesterday at the First Bank Center, and I was fortunate to
be on hand for that.
Upcoming events-- tomorrow, Director Guissinger and I will travel to Washington, DC with the
US 36 Mayors and Commissioners and Commuting Solutions to discuss transportation issues
with our congressional delegation. And as you know, the Regional Transportation District will
be turning 50 this summer.
And in a couple of weeks, on Friday, March the 8th-- that's Friday, March the 8th-- we will be
announcing that tremendous milestone at an event that we will be putting on in the Great Hall at
Denver Union Station at 10 AM. It's great to see that so many of our Directors have already
committed to be there for the kickoff of our quinquagenary festivities-- that's 50th.
DIRECTOR: (LAUGHING) All right.
DOUG TISDALE: I know. John looked it up, but I was able to pronounce it. A Commuting
Solutions membership meeting will be held on Tuesday, March the 12th. And Directors Cook,
Guissinger, Whitmore, and I will attend. And a number of the Directors will also be in
attendance at the American Public Transportation Association legislative session that will be
held in Washington, DC on March the 17th and forward.
That's the end of the long-winded Chair's report. I apologize for its length. And I now am happy
to turn it over to our General Manager to see what General Manager Genova can share with us
this evening.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Good report. A lot of items covered. I'll start just by
talking a little bit about the Uber-RTD partnership because we have been getting a little bit of
feedback. So that launch that occurred last month, of course, is to include the planning piece on
the Uber app. As Uber has rolled out different changes to their application, they do it kind of
incrementally, so not everyone that's trying to get in on that has been able to. So you might have
been hearing some input on that.
They've discovered in all of their rollouts that they try to do it incrementally as they discover any
potential fixes that they have. So they're working on making that more globally. And then, of

course, we're hoping to be able to announce soon when the payment portion of that will be
available. So it'll be not just travel planning but travel payment all through that one application.
The Public Utilities Commission status conference on February 1, as the chair mentioned, I'll just
provide a little bit more detail. I thought it was really a good exchange between the Commission
and RTD team and the Denver Transit Partners team. So the Commissioners had made it pretty
clear there was a number of questions that they specifically wanted us to address.
And we did that. We prepared in a team manner with our partners, Denver Transit Partners. And
we were able to respond to all of their questions and, actually, to have some pretty candid
dialogue back and forth. It was, I think, quite an interesting meeting. They actually hit us with
some questions about their own practices that took us a little bit off guard. But it was interesting
that they wanted our input in that regard, as well.
JUDY LUBOW: You didn't tell me the truth, did you?
DAVE GENOVA: [LAUGHING]
I think one of the commissioners said I was being polite was the language. We continue to work
hard on the North Metro Line. And in fact, we've had a number of partnering sessions with the
leadership between Regional Rail Partners and also RTD. And I'll talk about the last one as I get
towards the end of my report.
With the beginning of the new legislative cycle, or session, as we typically do every year, I've
been going with Brandeberry-McKenna, and we've been meeting with certain members of the
legislature that are either new members that are of interest to us to be able to help educate and
inform them about RTD and RTD issues and concerns, and then also those that are in leadership
roles, and, of course, any of them that are involved on any of the Transportation Committees. So
probably had about six or so meetings to date. And they've all been good and informative. And
we'll continue to do those.
On February 6, I attended the Metro Mayors Caucus meeting. And it's always good to see what is
the latest information that the mayors are talking about, particularly as it relates to transportation
and RTD. On February 11, again regarding the North Metro project, or the N Line, we had our
quarterly coordination meeting that we do with the regulators, so being the Colorado Public
Utilities Commission and the Federal Railroad Administration.
And as we work closer towards our revenue date, we work through a variety of issues at those
quarterly meetings. The topics include the grade crossings, our New Starts matrix, all the
documents and plans that we need to have approved. And those meetings are progressing well.
And we're making good progress.
On February 11, I had another meeting with the Public Utilities Commission, but this one was in
a little bit of a different role. So I think the Board's very familiar with the role of the Public
Utilities Commission in terms of their authority over grade crossings in the state of Colorado.

But another significant authority they have is called the State Safety Oversight Agency for the
state of Colorado.
And this is a requirement under the Federal Transit Administration rules for State Safety
Oversight. It's an important role. I think I've reported previously that the PUC actually got their
program certified about a year in advance. And, of course, at risk for any state that doesn't get
certified is a hold on all the federal funding within that state. So that was a huge milestone.
But there's a requirement under the oversight regulations for the accountable executive, which is
myself, to meet with the head PUC staff person a couple of times a year and to allow that staff
person to express any particular concerns that they may have about the agency and us meeting all
the program standards and their regulatory rules. And so Dr. Pam Fischhaber and I met on the
11th. We had a good meeting. No real issues with our safety program.
And I believe we're one of the first agencies that have bridged-- we're kind of under two rules
right now. We're under the new Safety Management System rules to some degree. But we're also
still under the old rules. There's a transition, or a phased-in, process. And so every year, we have
to submit our safety plan to the Public Utilities Commission.
The Board may remember that you approved that plan in December. And I'm hearing that we're
the first agency that's actually incorporated a lot of the new requirements under the SMS
elements into that plan. So that's good news. And that process is going well.
On February 15, we had a US 36 Mayor and Commissioners meeting. And it was a huge agenda.
Several Directors were there. We were probably over an hour and 45 minutes with various
topics. We talked about the continued investments that we're making in the US 36 Corridor,
including the new Flatiron Flyer buses that we've ordered. We talked about the ridership increase
that we've seen in 2018 over 2017 in the Flyer of a little over 8.5%.
We talked about the Northwest Peak Service Plan and where we are on trying to advance that,
and then other topics of interest up and down the Corridor, including some of the DRCOG
Transit Improvement Program grants that we're helping the locals and counties participate in. So
I thought it was a good meeting.
At the Thornton City Council meeting that the Chair mentioned, it was a good meeting for, I
think, our Board members to be able to address the council and then hear some feedback from
the council. And then, we also provided an N Line update to the city council, which I think was
informative. And then, we just generally responded to questions.
One of the things that they've asked of us is to make sure that we attend their upcoming ward
meetings. And so we now have that schedule from them. And we'll be committed to sending the
appropriate staff members and make whatever presentations or information available as we are
able to.
Last week, I had our scheduled meeting that was going to be with the FRA headquarters team.
Because of the storm they had in Washington, DC, they were actually closed down the day we

were supposed to travel. But we had a call instead of a face-to-face meeting. And I think it was a
good opportunity to have the call to help us set the stage.
Henry Stopplecamp and myself are leaving tomorrow. We have our next meeting with the FRA
headquarters team on Thursday morning. We have three hours scheduled with them to talk about
a variety of things-- the G Line, in particular, a little bit on the N Line, and, of course, the update
on the 90-day rolling plan. So we have a big agenda with the FRA for Thursday. So we're
looking forward to having that meeting with them and continuing to make good progress.
On February 21, myself, Michael Ford, Bill Van Meter, we met with Eulois Cleckley, who is the
Executive Director of Public Works for City and County of Denver. So this is a monthly meeting
we have between RTD leadership and Denver leadership. The other folks that typically come to
that meeting from Denver are Evan Dreyer, who's one of the Chief of Staff to the Mayor, and
then also Chris Nevitt, who's their Manager of TOD.
But it's a way that we can just stay in touch so we can communicate to Denver what we're
working on at a very high level, they can do the same with us, and, most importantly, that we can
coordinate and collaborate on the different activities that we're doing. So really good meeting.
We talked about a lot of good things that are crossing over right now between Denver and the
District.
We had the FlexRide launch. And so, just as everybody knows, it was very exciting. We put the
FlexRide service in with the January service changes. And because we had so much happening in
January between the fare changes and the service changes, we wanted to do a separate event to
launch FlexRide, and that's why we had it a little bit later. And we had that yesterday.
And it was well attended by a few of our partners up in the north area because we had that up in
Broomfield. We've replaced a little over half of what used to be called Call-n-Ride, now called
FlexRide, fleet with new vehicles. And then, we will be, over the next couple of years, replacing
the rest of the fleet. But all of the new vehicles we deployed first into our northern Call-n-Ride
areas. And then, we'll be replacing the other ones as we go on.
And we're getting a lot of good questions about the FlexRide. And we're getting a lot of interest
from communities, municipalities, and counties about, is this something that, if we find funding
or we're able to maybe put together funding from a variety of different sources, is this something
that can be used in our area? So we're having a lot of interesting conversations around the use of
FlexRide.
Just today on the N Line, speaking of the N Line, we had the leadership from RTD, the staff
leadership, and then also the leadership from Regional Rail Partners. In addition to having our
face-to-face meeting, we did what we call a hi-rail of the N Line. So we started at 124th. And hirail equipment is simply a vehicle that's been outfitted to be able to operate on the rail system, of
course, at a restricted speed.
So it was myself, Henry Stopplecamp, Pranaya, Chuck Culig, and then leadership from our RRP.
There's no better way to get a look at the line and the progress that we're making and to try to

identify any concerns or things like that than doing a hi-rail tour. And so we spent about an hour
and a half going all the way down, almost to Union Station, and then coming back.
So it was a very good look at the line. Making good progress. There's still a lot of work to do.
We're about 90% complete when it comes to construction. The overhead power lines are all up
and built. All the track work is in. All the switches are in.
The things that are remaining-- there's still significant work to be done around the stations,
getting the stations finalized, the parking structure at 104th, and then, of course, the final work
on the systems. We're hoping to power up the North Metro Line-- meaning put the power in
place so then we can start the additional testing we need to do-- sometime in March.
And then, hoping to start clearance checks and pulling the first vehicle-- so it wouldn't be a
vehicle under power but doing what we call a clearance, or a pull of a train vehicle-- hopefully in
early April. And then, of course, we'll get into a full-fledged integrated testing.
It was a good thing to see, and it was a good thing to see with our contractors. So then, we were
able to share what our concerns were. I think our biggest one was the volume of work that needs
to get done. We really impressed that upon the contractor.
There's a lot of volume that needs to be completed. But they are committed to doing that and
delivering. And I believe that concludes my report for this evening, Mr. Chair. I'm happy to take
any questions.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Genova. We appreciate that. First, I'll recognize
Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. General Manager Genova, what do we do with the old
buses?
DAVE GENOVA: The old Call-n-Rides?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah.
DAVE GENOVA: Or just old rolling stock, in general?
KATE WILLIAMS: Or specifically, if we are replacing those, what do we-DAVE GENOVA: All of our rolling stock that we retire goes to auction.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's what I wanted to know.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah. We did keep a handful of the old Call-n-Ride cutaways. Because I
want to be able for the agency to be flexible and nimble in case we have interest of people
wanting to do something with the FlexRide service. Because there's a significant lead time, of
course, to get vehicles. So we kept a handful of those, just in case.

KATE WILLIAMS: That was a great answer. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Director Menten, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I am curious about when is the last time that a US
Congressman has come down into this room to visit with us?
DAVE GENOVA: Off the top of my head, I can't think of a specific date that we've had a
congressman here. We've had a variety of visits from time to time for different congressmen that
come-- congresspeople-- that come and want to see the progress we've made on FasTracks and
Union Station. And particularly, there's been several that we've met at the airport, ridden the
University of Colorado A Line with them and given them a tour of the Denver Union Station and
environs. But I don't have an immediate recollection of, actually, somebody being here.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. I would think, for myself, it would be interesting to invite,
perhaps, to start with, one or two to come. And we could talk about the loan money. We could
talk about, perhaps, some other items that may be of interest to the Board versus going out to
Washington, DC when this is the state that they represent.
So I would be very interested in opening the door by starting with Congressman Perlmutter.
Come on down on a 5:30, Tuesday night. We'd like to see you. That'd be of interest to me. And
then, with the mention of all of the North Line, is there any construction defects you know of
right now beyond a very absolute minor issue?
DAVE GENOVA: Nothing's coming to mind. I'm going to look at Henry and get a head nod.
Henry?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Nothing major.
DAVE GENOVA: Nothing major, he says.
NATALIE MENTEN: Nothing major. And then, once the line would get running, what sort of
time would we be keeping money on hold to address any defects that might be discovered later,
if you could remind me, please, since we had a lot of conversation about North Line in your
update?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, we do keep retention for a certain time period. But that's typically until
we just close out the contract. So if there was something that would show up later that would be
some kind of a latent defect or something like that, that would be through a claim process,
through more of an insurance type of a process with the providers. So we don't hold any
retention after we do the complete contract close-out.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. All right. Thank you. That's my questions.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. We appreciate that. Any other questions
from any Directors at this time for Mr. Genova? All right, then. We thank you very much for that
comprehensive and welcome report as to a lot of very positive things.
The next item on our agenda is under Roman XI. It's the unanimous consent portion of the
agenda. We have two items that are on the unanimous consent agenda tonight, meaning that they
passed through committee with unanimous support.
They are noted as agenda items number 13, actions A and B, specifically relating to Contract
Amendments Second Year-- 2019-- Option 2017-2019, Street Improvements and Shelter
Installations Contract Number 37DM002; and the second item being Award of Group 28
Contracted Fixed-route Services. If any director has a change to, or any questions concerning,
these items, please feel free to advise the Chair at this time, and we will, of course, be happy to
remove the item from the Unanimous Consent Agenda for discussion under our recommended
actions.
Are there any Directors who wish to pull any item? Seeing none, may I have a motion now to
approve items A and B on the consent agenda?
VINCE BUZEK: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Buzek and a second?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: I'll take a second from Director Rivera-Malpiede. And is there any discussion
on the motion to approve the two items on the unanimous consent agenda? Hearing none, if we
would please-- I'm sorry. I was too quick. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Briefly, it's unanimous consent agenda item 11 A and B, not item 13 A and
B, just for the record.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. That's an excellent catch. I did misspeak when I said Agenda 13.
It is absolutely Agenda 11. We are now ready for the vote with Director Buzek as the movant,
Director Rivera-Malpiede as the second. If you would please cast your votes, then the rest of us,
if you would follow. By a vote of 15 in favor and none opposed, that motion to approve the two
items on the unanimous consent agenda has passed unanimously.
Then, we turn now to the recommended action items. And under recommended action items-and that's under Roman XII on your agenda-- we have a series of items. There are four
recommended action items presented this evening, items C through F.
The first of them is budget actions for T2 and O&M cost model. It is recommended by the
Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD Board of Directors approve a
budget transfer or $3,057,000 from the operating reserve to the planning expense budget to fully

fund a contract award for the Transportation Transformation Comprehensive Plan-- T2 Comp
Plan.
The Board previously approved all funding for this contract last fall when they adopted 20192024 Mid-term Financial Plan, with the exception of the $1,420,000 DRCOG Regional Share
Tip Funding approved by the DRCOG Board in December 2018. The funds are being
temporarily taken out of the operating budget due to a timing issue and will be replenished in a
2019 amended budget with a combination of the DRCOG grant funds received and local funds,
which were programmed to be expended in 2020.
It is further recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors approve a budget transfer of $200,000 in the operating reserve to Finance and
Administration expense budget for development of an updated operating and maintenance cost
model to support the T2 Comprehensive Plan effort. The funds are being temporarily taken out
of the operating reserve due to a timing issue and will be replenished in the 2019 amended
budget with local funds for the T2 Comp Plan that had been approved by the Board last fall.
And the action does address four of the General Manager's goals as articulated in your Board
packet and in the public disclosure of this. May I have a motion to approve?
BOB BROOM: Move approval.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Broom. I have a second from Director
Williams for that. And is there discussion now on this motion? Dr. Catlin, you did not wish to
speak on this? I think that's a carry-over from-PEGGY CATLIN: No, I didn't.
DOUG TISDALE: Finished. Are there any Directors who wish to address the motion? Director
Menten, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. In the last meeting for the committee, I requested-- actually, it
was through email, I apologize-- a list of all the plans that we have conducted over-- studies-over recent time. And it is quite a lengthy list. Some of these are still in progress, but many of
them have been completed.
And I know that during our Board retreat last year, we came out saying, let's think about some
innovative ideas. And it made me realize that sometimes be cautious of what you wish for.
Because we have a $4.7 million plan that I've asked for details and really can't get details
because it violates our procurement policy. But I don't know if this is one contractor, two
contractors.
And looking at the long list of plans, I have now asked for the easiest way to get these plans all
together in a pile, just to see how tall they are, to start with, and then to see how much they cost.
And I would love to see, perhaps, that we hold on this-- and I know the request for the proposal's

going out quickly-- but I think it needs further evaluation. And I will be a no vote tonight. Thank
you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Are there any other Directors who wish to
speak to this motion to approve the budget actions for T2 and O&M Cost Model as read into the
record? Seeing none, we are-- I'm sorry. Director Mihalik, you are recognized.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that. I didn't mean to be just a last minute, or a last second,
comment. But going through, I know in the recommended action, it talks about how the funding
was approved in the 2019 Budget and the Mid-term Financial Plan. And I'm going through-- and
I know it's all wrapped up underneath the operating reserve-- but I just think that something of
this magnitude should have been, if not its own separate line item, there should be a line item in
here for Transportation Transformation.
I don't think this is going to be the last project, that this isn't going to be comprehensive of the
entire Transformation effort. And there's plenty of items on here that are a lot less money than
the RTD's portion, $3.25 million. So I would like to see things of this nature better defined. And
just for that, I'm going to be a no tonight. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. We appreciate your sharing your thoughts
with us. Are there any other Directors who wish to speak to this motion? Going once, going
twice. All right. In that event, let us proceed with a vote. Director Broom is our movant. Director
Williams is our second.
And if the rest of you would now vote, as they have. By a vote of 12 in favor and 3 opposed, the
action has passed. The negative votes were cast by Director Folska, Director Menten, and
Director Mihalik. So a vote of 12 to 3 will be recorded.
The next item on our agenda is the Revised Committee Charters. And that's action item D under
this recommended action agenda. It is recommended by the Chair of the Board of Directors that
the Board approve a motion to adopt the attached revised Charters of the Board's Standing
Committees. This recommendation is consistent with the General Manager's 2019 Core Goals as
indicated. May I have a motion, please, to approve the revised Committee Charters?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a Vice Chair motion and a second from?
VINCE BUZEK: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Buzek. All right. And so is there any discussion from any Directors
at this time relative to the revised Charters? I see Director Menten. Director Menten, you are
recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I would like to speak to the Charter that deals with the
Communications and Government Relations Committee. And under the original language-- so

this was not the blue or the red additions or eliminated language-- this has been in there. And the
statement under committee purpose, last bullet point, says "Review and recommend approval of
any contracts with federal, state, or local liaisons."
And I believe that we had-- I know we had a discussion about that-- in our committee meeting.
And what we have done since I have been on this Board is that the Board votes on our liaisons.
And looking back, we had a very full night that night. Many of us were very weary. But that
doesn't mean that we skimp. And that's why I'm bringing it up now.
I think that, really, we should have had added to Mr. Asphaug's regular operating practices in
that document-- which was one of the many, we had many cross-referencing-- that our typical
operating procedure has been that we, the Board, regardless of the dollar amount, have voted on
our lobbyists. So I would like to recommend-- make a motion-- that we read that last bullet, and
it goes on the record-- I'm not sure the motion, so I'm going to have to get a little help here-- but
"Review and recommend approval of any contracts with federal, state, or local liaisons."
Because I read that as the committee-- just like all of our committee reports-- the committee
recommends. That's the starting language when it comes to the Board, right-- recommends? So
the way I read it is, let's take that as, literally, what it is. So I don't know what language I should
add.
Because I read it as the committee brings forward a recommendation to the committee of the
whole. And we vote on it. If it passes with a majority, then it goes to the Board. So Mr. Asphaug,
if you'd like to chime in, or Chair. Because you and I had a discussion about that in the
committee meeting. If you would like to-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Point of order, Chair.
NATALIE MENTEN: --respond.
DOUG TISDALE: There's a point of order from Director Folska. I'll recognize the point of
order.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. I'll second the motion and then proceed for discussion.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. That's actually not a point of order, but that's OK. We'll take it, as a
second can be made at any time. But if I can, I'm just trying to-- I don't know that I know what
the motion is.
NATALIE MENTEN: Oh, whoops.
DOUG TISDALE: So yeah. Director Menten, if you can clarify what the motion is. If it's a
proper motion, we'll absolutely address it. But I just don't know what it is.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I am going to then mimic what is in bullet-- the third one up. And so
this bullet that I'm speaking of would be "Review"--

DOUG TISDALE: And I'm sorry. Can you give us a page? That would help us.
NATALIE MENTEN: Oh, I'm still dealing with a paper here, so hold on.
KEN MIHALIK: The blue-lined version is page 66.
DOUG TISDALE: Page 66. There is a helpful note from Director Mihalik, who raised a point of
order to advise us of that. And if you look at page 66, you are asking to change what?
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Page 66, in the last bullet of committee purpose, which is at the top
of the page, and so it is roughly located halfway down the page, the bullet states, "Review and
recommend approval of any contracts with federal, state, or local liaisons."
DOUG TISDALE: It says that. What change would you like to make, Director?
NATALIE MENTEN: Review and recommend approval to the Board of any contracts with
federal, state, or local liaisons.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. I hear what you say. I understand that more clearly now. Thank you. So
the amendment is to insert the words "to the Board" after the word "contracts." Is that correct?
NATALIE MENTEN: I had it after the word "approval."
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry. I'm not trying to recast it. I apologize. After the word "approval,"
insert three words, "to the Board."
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, correct.
DOUG TISDALE: That's the motion. All right. Is the motion clearly understood? The motion's
clearly understood. And there is a second to that motion for Director Folska. With that explained
now, are you OK with the second, Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: You're OK with that. OK. So it is appropriate to have discussion on the
motion to amend the Communications and Government Relations Charter. Is there any
discussion on the motion? We've already heard from the movant. Is there any further discussion
on the motion?
Hearing none-- and this does not require it to be an electronic vote. We can do this by a voice
vote relative to an amendment to the main motion, if I am correct. I'm looking for a correction
from a parliamentarian, if there is one, who wishes to-BARBARA MCMANUS: We can do it either way.
ROLF ASPHAUG: That's correct.

BARBARA MCMANUS: I'm prepared to do a regular vote, but if you want to do a hand vote,
it's fine.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. I think, just for the sake of speed, it's a motion to amend the
government relations Charter by the insertion of three words, "to the Board," following the word
"approval" in the last bullet in the committee purpose section. Any questions relative to the
motion? If not, all those in favor, indicate by saying aye.
ALL: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed? There are none. That passes unanimously. The
amendment is made. Any further discussion on the motion to approve the Committee Charters?
If not, then the Board actually has one item to bring forward relative to these. And it's what I
would call an administrative, or ministerial, amendment to the Operations and Customer Service
Committee Charter.
And specifically, it would do two things by one action. And that is that we would delete under
the Operations Committee Charter a reference to the committee's previously practiced oversight
authority over the agency's communications functions. As you know, we actually moved the
communications oversight to Communications and Government Relations. We unfortunately,
through inadvertence, oversight, and excusable neglect, left a reference to Communications in
the Operations Committee Charter.
The second thing we would do is replace that reference with a reference to the committee's
oversight of safety, security, and asset management. The Operations Committee is responsible
for oversight of safety, security, and asset management matters. It just never said so. So the
bylaws specifically say that. And you can look under Article VI of the bylaws for that.
But it was not reflected in the Committee's Charter. And I'm going to give you a page. Don't
worry. What we would ask is a motion, please, to amend the Operations and Customer Service
Committee Charter as follows. If you would turn to page 121 of your packet, in the pending
approval version of the Operations and Customer Service Committee Charter, on page 121, in
the second bullet under the purpose heading at the top of the page there, strike everything from
the word "advertising" through the end of that paragraph and substitute the words, "safety,
security, and asset management responsibilities."
Now, before I ask for a motion, let me ask first, is that clear? Do we understand that? All right.
In that case, there being no questions, may I have a motion? Oh wait. There's a question first.
Yes, Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Could you please elaborate on the asset management?
DOUG TISDALE: I believe it relates to the normally understood and customary management of
assets by the agency. I will ask General Manager if he wishes to expand any more than that.

DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So asset management is a division of the Safety,
Security, and Asset Management Department. And so that's the asset management that we do
under federal requirements for asset management and state of good repair.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So if I may, Chair, Mr. Genova, then, it would be the duty of AGM Mike
Meader to provide this Board with an inventory of our assets if we were curious about that?
DAVE GENOVA: We do have an inventory of the assets that fall under this particular
requirement as part of our Asset Management Plan.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Now, having had discussion relative to the proposed amendment,
may I have a motion to approve the amendment? We'll get to that. Because now, I want a
motion. Because otherwise, we're discussing something that's not on the record.
I have a motion from Director Whitmore. And I have a second from Director Guissinger. OK.
Let me make a note of that first. All right. And then, relative to that, let me acknowledge, then,
Director Menten, who has a comment. Director Menten, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Not a comment as much as a question. I know the two Board Directors on
the side of me have asked, please show me which words we're striking? They weren't clear. So I
know we need it restated-DOUG TISDALE: Absolutely. Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: --now that we have it in front of us here.
DOUG TISDALE: Right. If you will turn to page 121 in your packet, at the very top of that page,
it says Operations and Customer Service Committee Charter, so you'll know you're on the right
document. Then, the very first section is called "purpose."
Then, look at the second bullet point. And the second bullet point currently reads, "Additionally,
this committee deals with all advertising, marketing, pass sales, customer service, service
changes, and customer care, also referred to as the Telephone Information Center, or TIC."
The proposal in the motion is to strike everything from the word "advertising" on and to replace
that with the words "safety, security, and asset manager responsibilities." Therefore, the new
second bullet point would read as follows. "Additionally, this committee deals with all safety,
security, and asset management responsibilities." That's the motion. All right. Director Menten,
did you have a further comment based upon that?
NATALIE MENTEN: I do. It seems like with striking customer service, service changes,
customer care-- in this quick moment, I'm reading the first bullet point-- I don't see that those are
clearly defined in what was left. And I would definitely want customer service, service changes,
and customer care stated. So perhaps I have missed something in this brief discussion.

DOUG TISDALE: I think that's an excellent point. And I think it's worthy of consideration.
Because I do see that the intent is to remove anything having to do with communications. And
that's advertising, marketing, pass sales. Customer service I certainly see as something we could
leave. And perhaps my eagerness to get this through has foreshortened the discussion, and I
apologize for that.
Service changes clearly are a part of it. And I think customer care, in general, which is the key I
see, I think is part of that, as well. So I believe that we might appropriately-- and I can ask
Director Whitmore and Director Guissinger their thoughts on this. And I'm going to recognize
Director Williams before I do that.
But I think that perhaps what we would consider-- and I would seek guidance from staff just to
make sure we're not missing something here-- but delete the words, "advertising, marketing, pass
sales" and substitute "safety, security, and asset management responsibilities" and then continue
on with "customer service, service changes, and all customer care."
I think that's the question that Director Menten is asking. All right. Before going forward and
asking the movant and the second, they have that Director Williams had requested the
opportunity to speak. Let me recognize Director Williams first.
KATE WILLIAMS: That was basically what I was going to say. Because it seems silly that it
would be the Operations and Customer Service Committee when you've removed customer
service, service changes, and customer care from it. So I'd like to see those three items remain.
I'm kind of one way or the other on pass sales. But if that belongs under communications, then
I'm OK with that. So yes, I agree that we are going to remove "advertising, marketing, and pass
sales" and substitute the other words.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
DIRECTOR: You're just talking to yourself.
KATE WILLIAMS: Do you think if I told a joke that they would notice? Oh.
DOUG TISDALE: I apologize. I turn away for a second, and they go mad. I apologize. All right.
Let me ask-- and it has been pointed out to me that some of this language was carried over into
the Communications and Government Relations Committee Charter, as well.
That said, that carry-over, that language, relates to the Communications Department developing
strategies associated with these items. The actual customer service and service changes and
customer care would properly remain in the Operations and Customer Service Committee
Charter. For that reason, let me request of the movant and the second whether they are amenable
to the change such that-- and I would ask license to make editorial revisions as may be
appropriate for common sense.

Additionally, this committee deals with all safety, security, and asset management
responsibilities, customer service, service changes, and customer care, with the parenthetical that
there follows. Is that agreeable to-- wait. I'm sorry. Staff has another question here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So Customer Care is under the Communications Department. It's not
an operational department.
DIRECTOR: That's true.
DOUG TISDALE: So is it the recommendation of staff that that particular element-- the last part,
customer care-- because it's already addressed in Communications and Government Relations,
right?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. And if we can, just let's point to that page so that we have it. Because
we're here doing this once. But then, I'm going to recognize General Manager.
DAVE GENOVA: Just to add some clarity. So Customer Care is a division within the
Communications Department. So it's appropriate that that travels with Communications. I think
it's OK to say customer service here because it's really everybody's responsibility to be involved
in customer service.
But Customer Care is a direct divisional function. And it's a division within the RTD
organization. So I think it's more appropriate to carry that-- just the Customer Care piece and the
Telephone Information Center-- with the Communications Committee because it's part of the
Communications Department.
DOUG TISDALE: And can staff verify where in the Communications and Government
Relations Charter that particular phrase is found? In the meanwhile, while you're checking that-and feel free to interrupt at any time-- the amendment then would be, "Additionally, this
committee deals with all safety, security, and asset management responsibilities, customer
service, and service changes." That is what I hear as the resultant change, since Customer Care is
expressly addressed in Communications and Government Relations Charter.
BARBARA MCMANUS: He wants the reference so he can point it to them.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Is the movant amenable to the change to read as I have recited-"Additionally, this committee deals with all safety, security, and asset management
responsibilities, customer service, and service changes"?
TROY WHITMORE: Absolutely, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: And Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So does pass sales stay with Communication?

DAVE GENOVA: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes. Pass sales goes with Communications.
DAVE GENOVA: It's part of Communications.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's fine. I move.
DOUG TISDALE: So the movant and the second have agreed to that administrative modification
to the original motion. We have that. All right. Now, we will have discussion on the proposed
amendment. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I hadn't thought about it in detail, but I must say that, on its face, it
seems illogical to me that customer care is different than customer service. I mean, to an ordinary
human being, it's the same thing. And so I find it annoying and not helpful that we're putting
customer care into a different pot than the Customer Service Committee. On its face, it seems
contradictory. That's all. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, that would be my question. So this is the Operations and the
Customer Service Committee. What's customer service, then? I mean, we have real defining. Is
customer care our Customer Service Department? And that's a yes or no.
DAVE GENOVA: It's the primary, yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK.
DAVE GENOVA: It's the primary.
KATE WILLIAMS: Then what else would be customer service? I grant that all of us, including
you and including me, are bound to customer service to our constituents and our riders. But I
don't see any point in having the words "customer service" there if the Customer Care
Department is going to move and the Pass Sales Department is going to move and the Marketing
and the Advertising. Then we need to change the name of the committee because there is no
customer service involved in this committee.
DOUG TISDALE: That may be more of an editorial observation than one that I might agree
with. But that's the Director's opinion? And that's absolutely legitimate to express, just as
Director Lubow's annoyance was fair to express, as well. General Manager, do you have any
thoughts or comments on this?
DAVE GENOVA: No. Again, just to reiterate those functions-- the advertising, marketing, pass
sales, and customer care and the TIC are all part of the Communications Department, formally.
So when we say that they're moving, that's always been the case. And so it's because we're taking
Communications out of this committee, I think, that's making it a little bit awkward.

DOUG TISDALE: And I do understand that. And I do apologize to the Board for the fact that we
are revisiting at some length a matter that we thought we had addressed. And that is unfortunate.
But it is intended to put all of these Charters before you at one time for approval.
I submit to the Board that, should other small changes or tweaks come up, we definitely can
bring those up at a later time, too, and that, as I have said from this seat once before, let us not let
the perfect be the enemy of the good. It's time to do this. Director Menten, I will acknowledge
you for one last time. This is your third bite at this apple.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm not full yet.
[LAUGHTER]
OK. I just want to make sure that with the Communications and Government Relations not being
a monthly meeting that we are not shifting our customer service discussions to the bottom of the
whatever we want to say. So I don't remember what we've shifted Government Relations to. Is it
quarterly? And when we have dropped runs, we get so many reports.
DOUG TISDALE: Government Relations meets-NATALIE MENTEN: Sorry.
DOUG TISDALE: --every two months.
NATALIE MENTEN: Every two months, OK.
DOUG TISDALE: And Operations and Customer Service meets every month. So there will be,
in some months, two opportunities to talk about customer service matters, both in
Communication and Government Relations and Operations and Customer Service. And in some
months, there will only be one chance.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. And then, I know we're voting on this motion right now, right?
But then, I'm just busy scrolling through it. So I know I get a certain amount of bites at the apple
here. But now, I need to find the Government Relations document in this very long scrolling
thing I'm doing here to make sure we don't have words there that need to be taken out.
DOUG TISDALE: My suggestion would be that-- oh.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 61.
DOUG TISDALE: Page 61 is the relevant page, I'm advised by staff, relative to the description
of Communications and Government Relations. If you turn in your Board packet to page 61.
NATALIE MENTEN: And may I-- I know we're dealing with the one motion, so this one has to
be dealt with first. Now that I'm rolled up all the way to 61, now I can start to look at that while
you are finishing your motion.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We have a motion on the floor, as made by Director
Whitmore and as seconded by Director Guissinger, to amend the language-- I will not burden the
record with reading it again unless there's any director that requires us to repeat that. If not, the
motion is to amend the last bullet point of the Operations and Customer Service Committee.
Would all those in favor indicate by saying aye?
DIRECTORS: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed?
KATE WILLIAMS: Nay.
JUDY LUBOW: Nay.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a nay. I have two nays. And that would be Director Lubow and
Director Rivera-Malpiede-DIRECTORS: No.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh. I'm sorry, Director Williams. I apologize. It's my hearing aids. They do
that sometimes. OK. Director Williams and Director Lubow voted in the negative. The main
motion is on the floor as to approval of the Charters as now amended in two instances that we
have discussed.
Is there any further discussion on the motion to adopt the Charters, again with the caution from
the Chair that you can bring up other changes in the future as to any of these that you might note
that you are concerned about? But at this time, the Chair would ask for a vote on the approval of
the revised Committee Charters as now amended. Ms. McManus, if you would conduct the vote.
We have the original movant, Director Broom-- wait, strike that, I'm sorry-- Director Catlin and
Director Buzek as the second. By a vote of 13 in favor and 2 opposed, the revised Committee
Charters are passed. Director Broom is a negative vote, and Director Williams is a negative vote.
And all of the other Directors voted affirmatively. And so those Committee Charters have
passed.
We then turn to item E. This is the approval of a minor change in the Board bylaws regarding the
Government Relations Committee. It is recommended by the Chair of the Board of Directors that
the Board approve a minor change to the Board bylaws regarding a modification to the name and
function of the Government Relations Committee to Communications and Government
Relations-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: --Committee. Director Folska is the movant, and do I have a second?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second.

DOUG TISDALE: I have a second, Director Rivera-Malpiede. And is there discussion on the
bylaw change, which, if you will recall, was the companion to the Committee Charter
amendment, to change Government Relations to Communications and Government Relations?
Any discussion as to the motion?
Seeing none, if, Ms. McManus, you would have us vote with Director Folska as the movant and
Director Rivera-Malpiede as our second. And the rest of you, if you would now submit your
votes. By a vote of 13 in favor and 2 opposed, that passes. The two opposed are Director Menten
and Director Williams.
We turn then to the amended Board Operating Guidelines. It is recommended by the Chair of the
Board of Directors that the Board approve a motion to adopt the attached resolution number
blank series of 2019, along with the associated revised Board Operating Guidelines governing
specific aspects of the conduct of business by the Board and its members. Specifically, the
guidelines address governance policy setting, meeting efficiency, communication, collaboration,
and cooperation.
Furthermore, the Chair recommends that the Board review annually, in the first quarter of each
year, its commitment to uphold the principles, memorialize and revise Board Operating
Guidelines, and to amend the guidelines periodically, as necessary, to reflect current best
practices, all of this being consistent with General Manager's core goal number two, strong and
ethical leadership. May I have a motion?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Whitmore. Is there a second?
SHELLEY COOK: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a second from Director Cook. Is there a discussion relative to the
Board Operating Guidelines? Seeing none, Ms. McManus, if you would call for the vote, please.
Director Whitmore was the movant, and Director Cook was the second.
And Director Whitmore needs to vote first, and then Director Cook needs to vote, and then the
rest of us will be able to vote. There we go. Thank you very much.
TROY WHITMORE: Sorry. I was waiting for my picture to come up.
DOUG TISDALE: Exactly, yeah.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
It's amazing. We all have a striking resemblance to the Vice Chair. The motion passes with a
vote of 13 in favor and 2 opposed. The two opposed are Director Lubow and Director Menten.
And all of the other Directors have voted affirmatively. And that ends the recommended actions
that we have before us this evening.

The next item on the agenda, were we to need one, would be the Executive Session. There is no
Executive Session this evening. And the question arises now, is there any old business that any
director wishes to bring to the attention of the Board? At this point, I will recognize Director
Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Mr. Genova, if you could, please, could you
explain to the Board where we stand with the $26 million refund we should be expecting from
USDOT? And maybe for the benefit of our new Directors, explain the history of that and what
that was.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So the credit risk premium is a type of collateral that
we paid for our railroad infrastructure loan, or was it-- RRIF or TIFIA, Heather. RRIF?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: RIFIA, TIFIA.
DAVE GENOVA: RRIF, yeah.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: RRIF.
DAVE GENOVA: I get it. There's a lot of these. And we paid off that loan. So we're trying to get
back that credit risk premium that we paid out. Our credit risk premium was relatively high, as
compared to other credit risk premiums, because it wasn't a loan to RTD. It was a loan to the
Denver Union Station Project Authority, who didn't really have any history as an entity. So one
of the reasons our credit risk premium was so high was that.
So I think we're one of only a couple, or maybe the only one, that's ever paid off their RRIF loan.
So in the DOT language regarding RRIF loans, they've gone back and forth on this language
over the last few years. We made some progress with an omnibus not this last year but the year
before on the definition of cohort and where they were limiting down the cohort to a smaller
definition, meaning fewer.
You were put in a cohort with the other loans that were made in that particular year. And if all
the cohort had paid off their loan, then you could get back your credit risk premium. Subsequent
rulemakings that went through this last year kind of undid that language to let DOT define a
cohort in a very large vein.
And so we don't see any improvement coming to this. It's always one of our priorities that we
talk to our delegation about. We talk to staffers in DC about it. Squire Patton Boggs works
diligently on this topic. Where we stand right now, simply, is DOT does not have a mechanism
in place to pay back credit risk premiums.
It's something we continue to try to work with our delegation and then, importantly, the staff.
When we're going to be back in Washington for the legislative conference, I've been asked by the
staff of the Senate Banking Committee to present on things that are important to RTD and the
industry. And that'll be one of the things that I will be talking about, in addition to other types of
funding.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So thank you very much. And seeing that Chair Tisdale and Director
Guissinger will be going to Washington tomorrow to meet with our federal delegation, many of
our new federal delegates may not be aware of this need, as well. And my hope is that that need
will be communicated on this journey. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: That is an exceptionally well-made observation, Director Folska. We
appreciate you for that. And yes, the explanation, as given by our General Manager, comports
with my understanding, as well. And it's been a bone of contention for this Board and for all of
us who have been here for more than just several months. We've been dealing with this,
essentially, as long as we've been here. So it is very frustrating. Anything further, Director
Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for the sharing. Vice Chair Catlin, you are recognized,
ma'am.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I wasn't going to speak to that, but since Director
Folska brought it up, I feel somewhat compelled. I was on the original DUSPA Board when this
RRIF loan and the credit premium risk was taken out. So it's a particular sore spot with me.
When I was in Washington, DC in February with Dave Genova and Henry Stopplecamp, I
happened to meet with Duane Callender, who is with USD. And they have combined the RRIF
and TIFIA programs under one organization within the USDOT.
And his comment to me was that it falls under the Treasury-- is that correct, Heather?-- rather
than through the DOT funding process. So it's the Department of Treasury that has no idea how
to deal with this. Anyway, I would hope that we could get it cleared up.
DOUG TISDALE: Would you interrupt for Ms. McKillop to offer an observation before you
conclude your remarks? Director Mc-- sorry. Ms. McKillop, you are recognized.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I don't want to be Director. No. So I think, just to clarify a little, it
actually falls under the purview of OMB in the scoring of the bill. And we thought we had made
it past that hurdle when we got the language in last fall. OMB and DOT worked together to get
that language reversed.
They have since defined cohorts as very large groups. We are in cohort number three, with
billions of dollars' worth of loans outstanding. There is a cohort number two that has been
completely repaid. We're not sure that they had a CRP associated with any of those RRIF loans,
so there's nothing for them to repay. But it really falls under OMB has been very resistant to
scoring the repayment of the CRP in their process.
And so we're thinking that we are not going to make any progress with DOT at this point. And so
we're looking at other means of moving forward. And we've been strategizing. We've just had a
recent conversation with DOT that further led us to that belief.

So they're kind of washing their hands of it. They said they've done what they needed to do,
which was to define the cohorts. And we need to wait till our cohort is paid off, which, right
now, those loans go out to 2050, I believe, as far as we can tell. They won't release that
information, but we're fairly sure they go that far out, based on one of the loans is over a billion
dollars.
So anyways, that's the status. But we're not giving up hope. And we're pursuing other
mechanisms that might prove more fruitful at this time, now that we have some more insight into
where the control issues are.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. McKillop. Vice Chair, did you have anything
further you wanted to add, then?
PEGGY CATLIN: Not on that topic. This is a much more minor thing. With respect to the
budget for the T2 and the O&M cost model, it's been my experience that some of the modeling
efforts in transportation run a little higher than $200,000. So even though I approved the motion,
I am a little bit concerned about cost overruns on that particular modeling effort. I just wanted to
say that for the record.
DOUG TISDALE: Point taken. And now, then, let's turn to Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. So going back to the question that I had asked during Mr. Genova's
update, maybe it's time that we invite some of the federal legislators, the representatives for the
people, to come to, let's call it our home office here. I think it's environmentally friendly to have
him come here instead of us all flying out to Washington, or The Swamp, or whatever you would
like to call it.
But I don't think it's out of line. We're all elected officials. We're all elected to represent the
constituents. And that was my comment. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. And I, for one, concur in your thought. It's
not out of line to ask that. And when I was a mayor, we asked our congresswoman, in that case,
to come and visit with us, and she did-- not in the city hall, but we had a meeting in one of our
conference rooms in the public safety facility, where she held court with anyone who wanted to
come in.
So I do understand your observation, and I appreciate it. Oh, and by the way, before I go on, I
should note, I actually tried to give a little extra time to Director Menten, too, because tomorrow
is her birthday.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
Dr. Broom, you are recognized.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I'd just like to note that deadbeats always have lots of excuses.
And maybe we should declare an emergency.

[LAUGHTER]
DOUG TISDALE: All right. All right.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: You have that power, don't you?
DOUG TISDALE: Is there any further old business to come before the Board? Any new
business to come before the Board? Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I want to preface my comments with
reference to a memorandum in our packet by General Counsel entitled Customs Relating to
Board Members, page 258. It talks about what new business is as part of this agenda.
And it's generally limited to Directors' personal announcements. I think what I've observed is
that we've gotten away from that, and it's become a question and answer period of staff with
questions that could be taken up during normal business hours and not during this time. That
said, here are my announcements.
On February 11, 2019, I participated in a panel at the DaVinci Institute in Westminster on the
Future of Transportation. I give thanks to Fred Worthen for getting me some facts and statistics
regarding electrification, our electric bus fleet, the 61AV, as well.
And again, it's already been mentioned, but I was also present on February 19, 2019 at the
Thornton City Council Study Session with Directors Whitmore and Lubow. I want to thank staff,
General Manager Genova, Michael Ford, Dave Jensen for being there and participating in that,
as well. Thank you. That's all I have.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. We appreciate that. Director Catlin, Vice
Chair, you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. Mine's a little bit the same as Director Buzek. I was
appointed by the Chair to be the Board Liaison to CDOT. So I decided, as Board Liaison, I
should go attend the CDOT Commission meeting, much to the astonishment of most of the
commissioners. They were not aware that there was a Board Liaison.
And they, actually, were somewhat interested in fostering a continuing relationship. And so I
have set up a meeting with the Director of the High-Performance Transportation Enterprise to
talk about opportunities moving forward as they proceed with their managed lane program in an
effort to possibly encourage some consideration of bus service in those corridors since they
would enjoy an uncongested trip. So that is forthcoming. That's all I wanted to say.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Vice Chair. We appreciate that. Director
Folska, you are recognized.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. If I'm not mistaken, I think that Director
Walker has been the CDOT Liaison for several terms, or years. That's my recollection.

DOUG TISDALE: And Director, if I may just point out-- and I was, in fact, the CDOT
representative last year-- none of us, I think, have ever been as proactive as the Vice Chair has,
A, the intention, and B, the opportunity to be. So we applaud and appreciate her full engagement
in that regard. Anything further, Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Any other Director with any new business? The Chair
has one item to share with you. And really, it is shaped and informed by some of the discussion
that we had this evening, although we've been very efficient in our time. I will point out with you
that in March-- next month-- this Board will be considering potential amendments to its Bylaws.
You will recall that we had a discussion where staff had engaged in the process of going through
the Bylaws, attempting to clear up various language issues that might be there, various
inconsistencies that might have crept in through time. If you look at your Governance Manual,
you will see that the Bylaws were originally dated 1970. And they have been amended, I believe,
12 times since then.
And the hope is that we can do some clean-up relative to those Bylaws. Therefore, it is fair to say
that the bulk of revisions will be what might fairly be characterized as administrative, or
ministerial, in nature, though a few items might not be. And that would include some such as
mentioned by Director Menten earlier this month concerning notice. And that proposed Bylaw
Amendment is included in this packet of amendments that staff is preparing to come forward
before the Board.
They will be presented to you in substance in the Finance Administration and Audit Committee
on March the 12th. So be aware. March the 12th is when these will come forward. That is
necessary in order for us to satisfy the timing requirement of 10 days notice to Directors prior to
final Board action if we are to consider them at the March 26 Board meeting.
So for that reason, be aware, March 12, we'll have those. They will be provided to you in
advance. And if you have any additional proposed amendments to submit to the bylaws, we
would respectfully request your cooperation in getting those to the Board office no later than
March the 6th.
That way, they can all be included in the packet at one time, and we could have an enjoyable
meeting of the Finance Administration and Audit Committee going through all of the proposed
bylaw changes. But we could do it at one time, instead of piecemealing it into a series of those.
So please be aware that those materials will be coming forth very soon. They will be provided to
you as soon as we possibly can, even in draft. We're asking staff even to circulate, for discussion
purposes only, an early draft of these prior to the normal Board packet going out on March the
6th, I believe it is, for the March 12 meeting.

So stay tuned. You will soon see them. Look at them. See if you have changes to add and so
forth. We appreciate your cooperation in that. Because it's something we want to make sure we
do as best we can.
Is there any further business to come before the Board at this time from any Director? If not, then
we thank you all very much for your attention. I will entertain a motion to adjourn this meeting
at 7:01 PM.
DIRECTOR: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: So moved. Second? Any objection? None. All in favor, aye.
ALL: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: It passes unanimously.
[GAVEL BANGS]
The meeting of February 26 is adjourned.

