Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on September 2, 2008
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

September 3, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on September 2, 2008 at
5:30 p.m. in Rooms R, T, & D
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

O’Neill Quinlan, Chair; Barbara Brohl, Vice-Chair; Noel Busck, Juanita
Chacon, Bill Christopher, Bruce Daly, Bill Elfenbein, Lee Kemp, Daryl
Kinton, Wally Pulliam, Dave Ruchman, John Tayer, Barbara Yamrick
Christopher Martinez, Bill McMullen

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Liz Rao, Bill Van Meter, Pauletta Tonilas, Rick Clarke, Bill
Sirois, Mark Bauderman, Paula Perdue, Caitlin Magee, Henry Stopplecamp,
David Genova, Julie Skeen, Marla Lien, Robert, Chris Quinn, Mike Turner,
Susan Altes, Jerry Nery, Scott Reed, John Shonsey, Liz Telford, Daria
Serna, Cory Granrud, Stan Szabelak, Nadine Lee, Ellebracht, Duecker, Susan
Wood, Greg Straight, Jim Starling, Jeff Cluphf

Others Present:

Larry Warner, Krista Sprencer (Lendlease) Marilee Utter (CitiVenture),
Roger Sherman (CRL Associates), Robin Kniech (FRESC), Kevin Flynn (The
Rocky Mountain News), Jeff Leib (The Denver Post), Dwight Shock
(Baker), Steve Roberts (Systra), Don Ulrich (CH2M Hill), Joe Rocosky
(URS), Pete Torn (Ascendant), John M. Fernandez (City of Aurora), Gene
Putnam (City of Thornton), Jeanne Shreve (Adams County), Keith Simon
(Coventry Development), Joel Noble (Curtis Park Neighbors)
****

Call to Order

Director Quinlan called to the meeting to order at 5:29 p.m.

1.

Recommended Actions:
 Resolution for the Revised Transit Oriented Development Strategic Plan – Liz Rao,
Assistant General Manager, Planning and Development, introduced this item. Bill
Sirois, Manager, Transit Oriented Development, reviewed the changes made to the
Strategic Plan. Many comments on affordable housing were received. Director
Chacon asked how this affected the document. Mr. Sirois reviewed the parts of the
document that were updated to reflect affordable housing goals.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on September 2, 2008
Page 2
Director Daly asked about the Eminent Domain issue and the City and County of
Denver’s response was that this was a step backwards. Mr. Sirois said that this
language was mostly in a response to the actions of the legislature during the last
session.
Director Tayer had some suggestions for revising the resolution to lay out the three
bullet points in Cal Marsella’s memo.




Reflect new federal guidance for joint development improvements in
Strategic Plan
Revise RTD’s joint development review process in Strategic Plan based on
experience of last 2 years
Clarify TOD Policy and Strategic Plan language related to concerns raised
during 2008 state legislative session

Director Brohl had questions about how much the Board can really enforce Affordable
Housing standards. Marla Lien provided some clarification on what the Board can do;
the Board can suggest that it be set for affordable housing but can not enforce it.
Director Elfenbein stated that the District’s mission statement is in regards to transit,
not development.
Director Christopher echoed this and spoke about if the District wants to affect
changes about affordable housing; it should be done at the Civic level.
Director Kinton asked if any of the municipalities had any ideas on how to work the
affordable housing issues. Mr. Sirois stated that most of the questions regarding
affordable housing came from the media.
Motion:

Director Christopher made a motion to
forward this action to the full Board at the
September 16, 2008 Board Meeting

Second:

Director Brohl seconded the motion.

Amendment: Director Tayer made a motion to add an
amendment. He would like to have
the three bullet points from the memo
introducing the plan included in the
resolution. These three points are:
1. Reflect new federal guidance for joint
development
improvements
in
Strategic Plan
2. Revise RTD’s joint development
review process in Strategic Plan
based on experience of last 2 years
3. Clarify TOD Policy and Strategic Plan

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on September 2, 2008
Page 3
Language related to concerns raised
during 2008 State legislative session.
Directors Christopher and Brohl
accepted the amendment.
Second:
Vote on
Motion:
2.

Director Elfenbein seconded
Director Tayer’s motion.
The motion passed unanimously.

Updates
 FasTracks Public & Stakeholder Outreach Plan – Pauletta Tonilas, FasTracks Public
Information Officer gave this update. This is a follow up to the August 21, 2008
FasTracks workshop. Fifteen public meetings are planned in all 15 districts on
Wednesday and Thursday evenings at 6:00 p.m. running September 24 – October
24. Staff will work with the Board to make sure the dates work for each Director.
The format for the public meetings was reviewed. The meeting will begin with a
welcome by Board Member and District Elected Officials followed by a presentation
by the General Manager and/or a Senior Manager and an explanation of options for
moving forward. Then there will be a public comment/question and answer period.
All meetings will be recorded and transcribed. There will also be comment cards and
laptop computers available for public comment. Key Stakeholders Input meetings
will be scheduled as appropriate. On November 4, 2008, the evaluated input will be
presented to the RTD Board at the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting.
Ms. Tonilas outlined the public outreach publicity. This will involve working with
Metro Mayors Caucus, DRCOG, Chambers of Commerce, FasTracks Citizens
Advisory Committee, and Local Transportation Committees. Information will be in
the District Newsletters, the RTD and FasTracks websites and a news release will be
sent out to the media outlets.
Director Chacon asked about additional options, and when will the Board hear about
them. Cal Marsella said a fourth option would be discussed this evening and also
once public input is received, it may result in different options as well.
Director Busck asked about the purpose of these meetings. He spoke about how
facilitators need to keep the meetings on track and see what kinds of ideas people
can come up with.
Director Tayer asked for a reach out to the City Councils along the corridor.
Director Busck spoke about the need to tell municipalities that meetings will be
upcoming in their area. Liz Rao said that the Local Governments meeting is
upcoming this week and that will be a good chance to reach out to the municipalities
regarding the upcoming public meetings.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on September 2, 2008
Page 4
Director Yamrick wanted to know exactly what was promised in the 2004 ballot
election, was it the length of the corridors, the price, etc. Cal Marsella responded
that the ballot measure was the map subject to completion of the Environmental
Impact Studies (completion of engineering, completion of cost estimates). The vision
plan is the commitment of the District, how we get there given current
circumstances has changed.
Liz Rao prepared a Follow-up memo to the Board Briefing on FasTracks on August
21, 2008. A copy of this memo is available in the FasTracks Meeting minute
notebook.
Starting the second week of September, staff will report on commodity and material
escalation and FasTracks revenue receipts as part of the weekly Project Status
Report in the General Manager’s Weekly Report. The memo broke out new corridorby-corridor project cost estimates and the amount of escalation due to materials,
scope changes, labor cost increases and other factors. She reviewed the Changes
in Sales and Use tax Forecasts between 2005 – 2035 and stressed that the staff’s
response is a very conservative estimate on the increase in sales tax.
In response to the Board’s question of what the corridors will look like if shortened in
a partial Build-out Scenario. Liz Rao said that there are many things to be considered
before this picture becomes clear. Park-n-ride requirements, traffic and access issues
and capital, operation and maintenance costs for partial build-out and provision of
service have to be studied. Staff anticipates being able to present some scenarios to
the Board for review on September 23, 2008 prior to the public input period.
The new option (2B) is to build to an incremental service level. This option includes
completion of environmental documentation, basic engineering and procurement of
railroad right-of-way for all corridors, and construction of East and gold, DUS, US
36BRT Phase 1, West Corridor, Bus, Commuter Rail and Light Rail Maintenance
Facilities by 2017. This option would specify a scaled back service plan and build
out option for the other corridors that requires limited capital investment while
maximizing the extent of corridor mileage and operating a peak service operating plan
similar to many start-up commuter rail agencies (primarily peak period/Peak direction
service only). This Option will also specify a timeframe by which the entire corridor
can be built-out with provision of full service.
Director Kemp asked about the
proposal for single track and if that would enable the Longmont extension to be
completed. Cal Marsella answered that yes, it could be single track but not all of it,
there would have to be some passing track built.
Director Ruchman wanted to know if the options could be mixed and matched. The
response was yes.
When will corridors be built if delay beyond 2017?
In the “Delayed Beyond 2017 Option”, all corridors would be opened by 2034, but
could be completed earlier if increased revenues and adjustments to commodities
costs. Corridor completions would have staggered opening dates within 1-3 years of

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on September 2, 2008
Page 5
each other similar to the original FasTracks schedule.
Director Busck asked about extending leases on lines and if the economy got better,
then could the District buy it off later? Cal said that would be possible but you have
to consider the debt ceiling that the District has. Also, the District is looking at
Certificates of Participation. Staff is not sure if there is an appetite for COPs of a
longer duration and they are looking at this. If the economy improves the District can
always refinance for a shorter term or lesser power amount, or pay it off entirely.
Director Yamrick stated that she was concerned about by the time the system is
completed in 2035, the system will be outgrown already.
Director Kinton voiced concern about only running peak service that there needs to
be a back up plan. Cal Marsella said that if only peak service was run, there would be
back-up bus service.
Director Quinlan voiced that he wants to see privatization of light rail studied in
depth.
Liz Rao reviewed the Scope and Cost Changes to the FasTracks program.
Chair Quinlan asked for more time to review and discuss the numbers presented to
the Committee and develop further questions regarding the memo.
Cal Marsella stated that the information was presented in this matter for the Board to
see it first and come back with questions.


Bus Maintenance Facility – Mark Bauderman gave this update. Five sites are under
consideration. A public meeting will be held on September 17, 2008 at 6:00 p.m. at
Stapleton Recreation Center. Staff will make a recommendation to the Board on
preferred site in October 2008.
Director Ruchman asked about location of facility and if a new mall shuttle goes into
service, could location be built it farther. Cal Marsella said that the issue is not just
the mall shuttles but deadhead time. The farther away the facility is, the greater the
deadhead and greater the operating costs.
Director Christopher asked which of the five proposed sites has willing owners. Two
of the five sties are for sale and the owners have approached the District regarding
purchase. Mr. Bauderman said both Adams County and City and County of Denver
have been supportive.



Status Report for Bike Facility – Liz Rao gave this update. Staff is putting together a
status report on bike and transit issues for the October FasTracks meeting. Cal
Marsella said that the District is looking at different ideas. Director Tayer said that
there seems to be some inconsistencies regarding policies about if the bike racks are
full when the bikes can come on the bus.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on September 2, 2008
Page 6
3.

Other Matters – Director Brohl spoke about the light rail service during the Convention
and it seemed to run well Monday – Wednesday. Director Brohl felt that the
communication could have been better on Thursday when the Invesco field station filled
up.

4.

Next Meeting - The next FasTracks Monitoring Committee will be held on Thursday,
October 16, 2008.

5.

Adjourn - Hearing no objections, Director Quinlan declared the meeting adjourned at 7:07
p.m.

