Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, June 15, 2010
Page 1 of 7
Regional Transportation District

Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of Directors

Date:

June 15, 2010

Subject:

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held on Tuesday, June 15 at 5:30 p.m. in
RTD room

Special Board Meeting
Chair Pro Tem Martinez called the meeting to order at 5:32 p.m. He indicated that Chair Kemp
wanted to be here but was called out of town unexpectedly.
I.

Roll Call
Eleven (11) Board members were present for roll call. Directors Brohl and Tayer arrived
late. Chair Kemp and Director Cohen were absent.

II.

Motion to Move to Executive Session
Motion:

Director Malpiede made the motion to
move into executive session for the
purpose to discuss C.R.S. 24-6-402 (3)
(a)-Eagle P-3 Procurement Update.
Director Brohl seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

Chair Pro Tem Martinez declared the
motion passed.

The meeting adjourned to Executive Session at 5:35 p.m. The meeting adjourned
from Executive Session at 7:47 p.m.
III.

Eagle P3 Presentation
The public meeting resumed at 8:00 p.m. Chair Pro Tem Martinez acknowledged all
the people in the audience including former Board members. He then turned it over
to the General Manager Phil Washington who introduced Rick Clarke and Brian
Middleton as the other two presenters on Eagle P-3.
The team provided acknowledgements to all of the people who were partners in the
process including FTA Administrator Peter Rogoff. General Manager Washington
introduced Tony Loiu as a representative from the FTA who had flown in specifically

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, June 15, 2010
Page 2 of 7

for this purpose. Special acknowledgements were made for the support of the
Metro Mayors Caucus, shareholders evaluation team, consultants, RTD staff and
employees, RTD Board and other community groups that had participated in this
process. This was truly a collaborative effort to get to this point.
General Manager Washington thanked the Board for their leadership and referred to
this effort as from “concept to contract” as he reviewed some of the highpoints of
this project from 2007 to the release of the RFP in September 2009 until its
culmination in a Board approval of the concessionaire team.
Rick Clarke walked through the process sharing this was a best value evaluation.
There were 120 evaluators looking at several aspects of this team. The technical
evaluation had been completed prior to receipt of the financial proposal. These
proposals also included renewable energy plans that staff will come back to the
Board later for review. The technical components were assigned 40 points and the
financial components were assigned 60 points. Overall both teams provided
excellent proposals and the evaluators agreed they could work with either team.
Rick reviewed some of the pros and cons of each team proposal. From the
stakeholder view, two of them chose DTP, two chose MTP and two remained
undecided.
The overall ratings for Denver Transit Partners and Mountainair Transit:

Technical Eval
Financial Eval
Total

DTP
20.905
56.15
77.05

MTP
20.620
21.33
41.95

Denver Transit Partners had the highest technical rating and the lowest cost. The
cost was within the established budget for FasTracks with a potential $300 million
that can be used for other corridors. Further financial analysis will be done and this
number could go up or down.
The General Manager and Staff recommendation to the Board is for Denver Transit
Partners.
For a copy of the presentation on the General Manager’s Recommendation of a
Concessionaire Agreement, please refer to the minutes located in the Board office.
Comments by Board Members:
Chair Pro Tem Martinez stated that staff had given them a product/review that was
over and above any expectations for clarity and precision. This is a historical time
not only for RTD but for transit in general. This will be the first time in the United
States that PPP will be done this extensively and we are setting the model for how
both the procurement process and how this should be done. Both concessionaire
teams were excellent and they will be able to apply their knowledge to other

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, June 15, 2010
Page 3 of 7

opportunities that will arise in the US.
Chair Pro Tem Martinez also offered his congratulations to the General Manager, Phil
Washington, and his team for this monumental achievement. During his brief period
at the helm as both interim and permanent General Manager, he has exceeded
expectations and RTD is lucky to have him.
Chair Pro Tem Martinez noted that he could not help but be excited since the East
line is in his district. This is a great honor for him and for his constituents who will
be able to ride the commuter rail from DIA to downtown Denver. Both DIA and
downtown Denver are the two greatest employment centers in the region and we
are now able to connect these two centers so that people in this region will have
access. For people like him, it will be great to ride to the Stadium and other points
downtown but the greater effect will be on his children and their children who can
benefit from having access to employment and for the quality of life this will create.
Director Busck reflected that without the Eagle P3, there would be no project. He
thanked the FTA for their support and partnership. This effort will enhance not only
the transit system in Denver but in the US as more agencies engage in PPP. This is
only the starting block, stay tuned, sparks are about to fly.
Director McMullen reflected on what a great moment this is and expressed we need
to thank Cal Marsella for all his work and vision in getting us to this point. The staff
with their diligence and perseverance is a perfect example of the fruit of his labor.
Throughout this transition period, none of the staff left or bailed out.
Director Brohl commented this can be summed up in one word - partnerships. This
is a historic moment that is characterized by a long road of partnerships. Someone
once said that great metropolitan areas require a great transit system. This is our
legacy that we will leave for the next generation.
Director Tayer read a statement which was sent by Director Cohen who was absent. “I
regret not being here with you tonight for this very historic moment in the history of
FasTracks and Public Private Partnerships in this country. Even though I am unable to
join you for this momentous and important occasion, I have every confidence in staff's
ultimate recommendation for this contract to complete the Eagle P3. I applaud the
efforts of both Denver Transit Partners and Mountain Air Transit Partners for the work
that they have put into this process and I thank them both for their investment in our
project. I feel humbled and honored to be part of this Board and the RTD as we lay the
framework for a new path towards infrastructure development in this country. To
everyone and every entity involved congratulations and job well done!”
Director Tayer offered his own assessment of the professional, excellent proposals
that had been received.
IV.

Recommended Action
The Chair Pro Tem then entertained a motion by the two senior Board members,
Directors Pulliam and Christopher, who will be leaving the Board this year.

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, June 15, 2010
Page 4 of 7

Motion:

Director Pulliam thanked the proposers,
RTD staff and the stakeholders for this
exceptional proposal and made the
recommendation for contract award to
Denver Transit Partners for the Eagle
Project Concession Agreement.
Director Christopher expressed similar
sentiments and seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The vote passed 13 in favor and 0 against.
Chair Pro Tem Martinez declared the
motion PASSED Unanimously.

The General Manager concluded the meeting by showing a slide on the milestones
and progress to “do build as much as we can as fast as we can until it is all done.”
V.

Adjournment from the Special Board Meeting
The meeting adjourned at 9:00 p.m.

Prepared by:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager of the RTD Board of Directors

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, June 15, 2010
Page 5 of 7
ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
SPECIAL BOARD MEETING
Tuesday, June 15, 2010

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Christopher Martinez, First Vice Chair
Noel Busck, Second Vice Chair
John Tayer, Treasurer
Kent Bagley, Secretary
Barbara Brohl
Bill Christopher
Bruce Daly
Bill James
Angie Malpiede
William “Bill” McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Wally Pulliam
Tom Tobiassen
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Lisa Alvarado
Shirley Bennett
Frank Buczkowski
Monica Caldwell-Reed
Damian Carey
Craig Carter
Jessie Carter
Rick Clarke
Susan Cohen
John Dawson
Kevin Diviness
Carol Duecker
Martell Dyles
Sherry Ellebracht
Kevin Flynn

District B
District K
District O
District H
District D
District J
District N
District A
District C
District E
District G
District L
District F

David Genova
Audrina Gibson
Mike Gil
Matt Harrison
David Hollis
Terry Howerter
Marla Lien
Beverly Lindsay
Rik Lor
Doug MacLeod
Caitlin Magee
Jerry Nery
Paula Perdue
John Perry
Scott Reed
Scott Roberts

Teresa Sedmak
Daria Serna
Cal Shankster
Pranaya Shrestha
John Shonsey
Bill Sirois
Errol Stevens
Greg Straight
Stan Szabelak
Pauletta Tonilas
Lisa Trujillo
Del Walker
Phil Washington

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, June 15, 2010
Page 6 of 7

OTHERS PRESENT
Chris Taylor – Spectrum A/V
Justin Kelly – Spectrum A/V
Bob Wilson – GLAC
Steve Roberts – Systra
Linda Wilson – Romero & Wilson
Abdou Yonis – YWE
Paul Courtois – Owens Corning
Brad McFarland – Aggregate Industries
Patty Lorence – City of Arvada
Marion Combs – Romero & Wilson
Jon Moellenbong – RBC
Adrian Sanford – The Sanford Group
Timi Aguilar – Aguilar PR/DTP
Marshall Crawford – JP Morgan
Matt Levin – JP Morgan
Scott Sammons – Kleinfelder
Joe Wingerter – Kiewit
Paul Ryan – The Kenney Group
Rick Pilgrim – URS
Dee Wisor – Sherman & Howard
Joy Wasendorf – Kiewit
John Thompson – Veolia
Malcolm McaIntyre – MTP
Joe Reed – Valfour Beatty
Maria Garcia Berry – CRL
Pete Hankovszky – Baker
Derrek Freeseman – MEC
Walead Atiyeh – MEC
Terri Kelly – Aggregate Industries
Kent Rowey – Fres Fields
L.L. Gann
Chris Gann
Tyler Lowe
Jeff Leib – The Denver Post
Ty Perry
Johnnie Thomas
Rana Atwi – Aconex
Brian Middleton
Karen Morales
Roger Sherman – CRL
Julie Skeen
Jane Donovan
Ravi Swamy
David Rousselle
Shawn Albert
Christian Bell – Siemens
Hunter Sydnor – Kiewit

Dale Brooks – Aggregate Industries
Bob Fauvella
Richard Ker
Nathan Will – ARLP
Brett Urquhart – Focla
Tom Romer – Goldman Sachs
Thomson Eccles – A.I.
Tom Rousakis – Goldman Sachs
James W. Jenson Jr. – MTP
Les TOwnsent – TMG
Thilo Rose – Siemens
Steve Kaplan
Mary Buckley – DIA
Ed Romero – Romero & Wilson
Vern Willson – YWE
Lorraine Anderson
Russ Larson – MTP
Steve Roescher – Siemens
Tom Howell – MTP
Herman Malone – RMES
Brian Donowe
Kevin Harrington – MEC
Chris Elmore – Goldman Sachs
Rusty Gonzales – St. Andrews
Jena Montgomery PBS & J
Reggie Gamlin
Shaun Egan – Iron Woman
Ed Bush – CRMCA
Lisa Nery
Doug Connor
Gloria Holliday
Blake Pendergrass
Bill Elfenbin
Jeanne M. Shreve – Adams County
Selena Dunham – Classique, LLC
Menola Upshaw – NAACP
Regina Kelly
Diane Webster
Diane Barrett – Denver Mayor’s Office
Anthony Loui – FTA
David Parker – DTP
Nicholas Hann – Marquarie
Michael Lipinski – Fluor
Heidi Middleton
Anne Herzenberg – DTP
Kevin Hassett – RSC
Shelly Cook – City of Arvada

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, June 15, 2010
Page 7 of 7

Pearl Gbbs
Mike Johnson – Kutak
Ken Guckenberger – Kitals
Mac Callison – City of Aurora
Katie Fauvelle
Dan Reiteman
Daryl Kinton
Terry Martin – DTCG
Earleen Brown – Systems Consulting
Sharlene Spencer – Trinity Engineering
Management
David Mauro – DTP
Albert Vanderhoof – DTP
Lloyd Herrera – HCL Engineering & Surveying
David Erb – David J. Erb & Co.

Jenny Payne – OC
Macy Cay O’Malley – MTP
Brad Langner – ABC
Diedra Garci – MATP
Willie Preseden
Harry Seelings – HSBC
Barry Gutierrez – Romero & Wilson
David Spector – KKR
John West – DTCG
David Webster – INC
Jave Daves – PB
William M. Mitchell – Mitchell Enterprise
Group
Steve Silkworth
Dick Shiffer – RNL Design

