December 3, 2019
Planning Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
JUDY LUBOW: --team Planning/Capital Programs and FasTracks Committee meeting. I'm
calling it to order.
[POUNDS GAVEL]
OK. I'm Judy Lubow, and I am the chair tonight. And we have a full agenda. So let's do what
they used to say on the New York City subway. Step lively, step lively.
OK. The recommended actions, we have three of them. And the first one concerns the Iliff initial
parking management IGA. And I'm going to lead the motion, and then ask for a motion to be
moved.
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs and FasTracks Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to negotiate and execute
all documents necessary to amend an existing agreement with the City of Aurora
Intergovernmental Agreement between the City of Aurora and the Regional Transportation
District for the initial parking management plan for the Iliff Parking Garage, otherwise known as
the Parking Pilot IGA, to extend the term of the IGA for an additional two years.
With this action, the IGA would terminate in February 2022. This action addresses the General
Manager's core goal number five for 2019, effective communications and community outreach,
plus task goal number four, address future transportation needs and methods. Do I have a
motion?
BOB BROOM: Move approval.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Second.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you. That was Director Broom and Director Folska. So can we have
a discussion, please?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: So Henry Stopplecamp, AGM of Capital Programs. At the table, I've
got Robin McIntosh, Senior Manager of Facilities. He's also our parking guru right now. So
we've got about a two-hour presentation. Number
[LAUGHTER]
I'm going to turn it over to Robin. I think the Board report covers everything. Let Robin talk for a
minute, and then we will go ahead and answer any questions or concerns you guys have got.
Robin?

ROBIN MCINTOSH: Thank you, Henry. This is an important matter. Because any time that we
charge our patrons at one of our facilities, it has to go through the Board. We've written that into
both our IGA and our lease agreement for that facility.
Three years ago, we came-- well, not quite three years. Maybe 2 and 1/2 years ago, we came in
front of the Board and requested we get a pilot IGA with Aurora to charge our patrons. One of
the elements on there was that they maintain 75% occupancy. They have not met that. There are
some triggers in there that we need to meet.
They have already reduced their rates from $3 to $2 based on the IGA. We need time to digest
that information and get more. It is a pilot program. So their manager of parking, Mr. Robert
Farren, has left Arvada-- Aurora.
[LAUGHTER]
Yeah, get my age straight. And they've brought in a new parking manager. His name is Scott. I
think it's Scott Bowman. But his first name is Scott, and a very capable man. Once he realized
that they we're a little bit behind, he has jumped onto the program, given us a plan to correct the
action, but they need some time.
And so we're asking for an extension of the existing IGA for, I believe, two years. And at that
point in time, six years prior to that, coming to fruition. We will negotiate a longer term plan. Six
months, yeah. What did I say? Six years?
Yeah. That's kind of too late now. But six months prior to that extension, we will negotiate a
long-term plan. And at that point in time, we will start looking at what our options are as far as
some of the elements that we have to negotiate. So I am here to answer any and all questions.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. We have one director in the queue who has a bit of pizza in her
hand.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. On-- I guess it's packet page 99 and packet page
7 both. It's talking about non-transit use of transit parking spaces, which basically says that we
allow the city to use it if they have a festival or whatever. I'm sure, which is great. Do we make
any statement there that says parking is donated back to the city by RTD at any of those
occasions?
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
ROBIN MCINTOSH: That's kind of an interesting part of it. They wanted to leverage the use of
the facility that they contributed a huge amount of funds for, but we weren't ready to just give it
up willy nilly. So we do have a permitting process. They have to come to us and ask our
permission prior to any such event. So we still have control over that element.

KATE WILLIAMS: I don't care if we have control over it. Do we get any beneficial press? Any
good feeling? Do we say anything to the people who get to use that to park there for the event
that we, in fact, are contributing to that? And if not, could we begin to do that?
ROBIN MCINTOSH: When we go to negotiate the final one, I think I'll take that under
consideration. Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: And now?
ROBIN MCINTOSH: But right now, currently no.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Thank you.
ROBIN MCINTOSH: And they have not even asked for anything yet, as a point of clarification.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. OK, Director Lewis, please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, chair. Mr. McIntosh, I just have one question about the
stabilization period. Can you just speak a little more in detail about that for me, please?
ROBIN MCINTOSH: Yeah. So when it first started, we want to give them-- before we made any
price adjustments, we want to make sure that we gave them ample time for the patrons that were
going to use it to use it. And so we called that the stabilization period. And we gave them 18
months to do that.
Well, it's been longer than 18 months, so it's far more mature than we kind of expected. So we
kind of expected them to take these steps a little bit earlier. Obviously, they had a change of
personnel, so we are giving them the courtesy of extending the IGA just a little bit to give them
that time so we can take that data and make some informed decisions.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So if I'm understanding this correctly, the extension is because of the
change-ROBIN MCINTOSH: Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: --in leadership. And so they're just needing a little bit more time, and we're
extending that grace.
ROBIN MCINTOSH: That is grace.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK.
ROBIN MCINTOSH: That's correct.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I have one question. I know that it was in November that we
started-- or they started to lower the fare, the cost to $2. When do you think we'll be able to
analyze the result of that?
ROBIN MCINTOSH: Very interesting question. Because I actually got the numbers today.
There's not much to analyze. It went actually down a little bit, which was kind of odd. So again,
that's why we have-- the 18-month stabilization period is far removed. But now we're going to
give it like 60 days in between price adjustment just to see if those numbers make a difference
and what that difference is.
JUDY LUBOW: I would think that's very important.
ROBIN MCINTOSH: It is very important. But amazingly enough, they're around 50% utilization
right now. The numbers went down to 47.3% for November. But I'm expecting it to kind of go
back up again. I'm guessing, you know. You're saving $1. I mean, that's huge. That's huge in that
industry.
JUDY LUBOW: One would think.
ROBIN MCINTOSH: Yeah.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. Thank you. Director Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: Just a couple of comments. One, this grudge is located about a mile or a mile and
a half from Nine Mile. Nine Mile is free to park in there. And so what they're doing is they're
picking up the overflow from Nine Mile to some extent, plus the fact that people know if they go
down the aisle, they can find a parking space. And so that's attractive to them.
The other thing is that what they're collecting right now is just enough to cover their costs of
maintaining the garage, which primarily is, I guess, cleaning it, and lighting, and the water bill
for the landscaping, and that type of thing.
So when this comes back for renewal, we should take a look at when it comes to this pricing
formula to make sure that they at least break even on doing that. Because if they don't, I suppose
they might allow the place to get dirty. Do they contract with RTD to do that?
ROBIN MCINTOSH: So that's really an interesting point. Because that is kind of a separate
IGA. The original IGA for the parking garage, we pay them what we thought at the time it would
cost us to maintain the surface lot that we would have put in anyway.
So we already pay them the maintenance costs. So they're covered there. So they're not getting
that from the revenue of the parking management. Parking management is just to run their
parking management program. That's basically it.
BOB BROOM: OK. Thank you.

JUDY LUBOW: OK. I see nobody else.
NATALIE MENTEN: Just one quick.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, Director Menten, please.
NATALIE MENTEN: So the Aurora fees, doesn't matter out of district, in district, any of that?
It's straight out, correct?
ROBIN MCINTOSH: Correct.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: As I said before, I see no other commenters.
[LAUGHTER]
So let's vote on the motion, please. The mover was Director Broom and the second is Director
Folska. And the rest of us can vote now. It passes 14 to 1, with Director Buzek being the nay
vote. So this motion passes.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. We're having a changing of the guard here. The second
recommended action concerns RTD boundary certification and director district designation. It
has a very long description.
[LAUGHTER]
So time to put on your boombox bloomers. OK. It is recommended by the Planning/Capital
Programs and FasTracks Committee that the Board of Directors approve the revised boundary
map of the district and authorize the Board's secretary to certify the boundary map and
description.
It is further recommended that the area's newly next to RTD pursuant to the provisions of CRS
32-9-106 be designated as follows. All right, number one. The ten Aurora annexations,
Bravada/Neher Annexation, Cottonwood Creek Annexation Number 1, Cottonwood Creek
Annexation Number 2, Cottonwood Creek Annexation, Number 3, Cottonwood Creek
Annexation Number 4, Watkins Road Annexation Number 2, Watkins Road Annexation Number
3, Watkins Road II Annexation Number 1, Watkins Road II Annexation Number 2, and the
Walnut Peacemaker Annexation are recommended to be included in Director District F, Director
Broom.
And number two, the seven Parker annexations, Heirloom Parkway Property Serial I and
Heirloom Parkway Serial II, Chambers Road and Main Street Tract P, Chambers Road and
Public Service Company Right-of-Way, Chambers Road Number 1, Chambers Road Number 2,

and Chambers Road Number 3 are recommended to be included in Director District G, which is
Director Mihalik.
This recommended action addresses the following General Manager's goals, core goal number
three, strong financial management. Do I hear a motion?
KEN MIHALIK: Move approval.
BOB BROOM: Second.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Mihalik and Broom. Thank you. A discussion, please?
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
WILLIAM VAN METER: Chair, this is-- excuse me. This is Assistant General Manager Bill
Van Meter-- of Planning, Bill Van Meter. I'll get that whole title out. Joining me at the table is
Chris Quinn, Planning Project Manager. And he has an extremely brief brief on this action.
[LAUGHTER]
CHRIS QUINN: So, yeah, as the report indicates we had several annexations in two clusters in
Southeast Aurora and in the Parker area. All the Parker annexations is were essentially Right-ofWay, some fairly sizable annexations in Aurora.
They border the respective Board members' districts, so we are recommending that the Parker
annexations be assigned to Director Mihalik and correspondingly that the Aurora annexations be
assigned to Director Broom's district.
JUDY LUBOW: Well, thank you so much. All right, do we have anybody in the queue to speak?
It doesn't look like it.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, there we go.
KATE WILLIAMS: Sorry.
JUDY LUBOW: Could not resist. OK, Director Williams, please.
KATE WILLIAMS: So I had a really good time looking at these little pieces of land, and
driveways, and interesting things. And my question is, how come we didn't have these before? I
mean, we have the stuff around them? Or are these-CHRIS QUINN: Yeah.
KATE WILLIAMS: Hold-outs?

CHRIS QUINN: There's a little bit of history prior to 1992. Any time a jurisdiction that was
already in the district, if they annexed outside of RTD, that land did not come in. State legislation
was changed in 1992-- or maybe it was '94.
No, I'm sorry, '94-- so that any time a jurisdiction within annexed outside, it automatically now
comes in. So especially in the Parker, Southeast Aurora, Longmont area, we have some really
irregular boundaries that have been formed by that history.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. That was what I wanted to know.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Cook, please.
SHELLEY COOK: Hi, Chris Quinn and Bill Van Meter. Thank you. Do we know how this is
being zoned within the communities that they are developing within?
CHRIS QUINN: In the case of the Parker, it's mostly Right-of-Way. And my understanding is
the Public Service one, it's going to be an easement for some type of public service use, and I'm
not sure what.
In the case of Aurora, it's been zoned R2, which my understanding is allows single family and
duplex residents up to five units to the acre. So by my calculation, that would bring in
approximately 609 units with build-out.
SHELLEY COOK: So no commercial? In other words, no generators of sales tax specifically.
CHRIS QUINN: My understanding is fairly limited on this. But in looking at the Aurora zoning
code, it looks like they can, in fact, place an overlay over part of it, which would allow some
limited commercial development. But right now, the straight underlying zoning is Aurora R2.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So has our agency ever done sort of a fiscal impact by land use type? I
mean, I would think that some of this would be new residents, and so we'd see some increase in
sales tax depending upon where they spend their money.
But have we ever done an analysis of the types of development that yield an imbalance in terms
of the revenues we take in versus-- and how much that is? Or the obligation to service, in other
words. Are we incurring an obligation that there is an implicit expectation about our service-CHRIS QUINN: Yeah, I can't answer the first part. The second part is an interesting point,
because we don't have any services anywhere nearby the Aurora annexations-- any existing
services to date.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
WILLIAM VAN METER: May I add just a little more flavor? So one, we've not done any
rigorous analysis along the lines that you're describing, that I recall in my tenure here-- recall for
these annexations. We're not asking you to approve the annexation. By state law, those lands are

automatically part of RTD. We're just really asking for the designation as to who will represent
them-SHELLEY COOK: OK.
WILLIAM VAN METER: --on the Board of Directors. And the final piece that I would add is an
examination of the size of the district, and the boundaries, and the shape of the district is
included as part of the Reimagine RTD work scope. So we will be looking at and revisiting some
of these issues to some level of detail. Not wanting to over-promise anything here, but through
that effort.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Yeah, I didn't realize that we don't have yay or nay on it. It's
automatically per some other-WILLIAM VAN METER: If any jurisdiction is wholly or partly within the RTD district when
they annex additional property in, it automatically becomes part of RTD.
SHELLEY COOK: Got it. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: Thank you. I was just going to add that there's a number of large subdivisions in
Eastern Aurora that are not in the RTD district. And they'd like to be-- some of the people who
live in there would like to be in there, but it's extremely difficult once people move into a district
to annex.
And so what the City of Aurora did in their model annexation ordinance, they put a provision in
that when you annexed to the city, you're required to also submit an annexation to RTD so that
we don't end up with those islands out there that are surrounded by RTD. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. It looks like there's no more commenters. So can we please vote on
the motion? The movant is Director Mihalik, and the second is Director Broom.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
OK, this one passes unanimously. Thank you. OK, the third recommended action concerns State
Highway 119 planning and environmental linkages.
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs and FasTracks Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors accept the Multimodal Corridor Vision for the State Highway 119 corridor as
defined in the planning and environmental linkages PEL document, which was accepted by the
Federal Transit Administration, FTA, and the Federal Highway Administration, FHWA, on
October 22, 2019.

RTD has currently committed $30 million to the transit elements of the corridor through the midterm financial plan. It is also recommended that the Board of Directors support the transit
elements of the PEL's Multimodal Corridor Vision.
Further, the RTD Board affirms that the $30 million RTD commitment will be used solely for
implementation of transit elements and direct staff to pursue grant opportunities, partnerships,
and other opportunities to leverage this commitment to that end.
This recommended action addresses the following General Manager's goals core goal number
three, strong financial management, task goal number four, address future transportation needs.
Do I have a motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
VINCE : Second.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. And who's the second? Thank you. OK. All right. Could you please go
ahead with your discussion?
WILLIAM VAN METER: Chair Lubow on board, Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager
of Planning. Remaining at the table with me is Chris Quinn, Planning Project Manager, who was
the project manager for this project. He has a relatively similarly short recap and discussion for
you on this item.
CHRIS QUINN: As you may recall, in October, we did provide an update of what the vision
plan for the corridor was as proposed in the draft, at that time Draft Planning and Environmental
Linkage document. Since that presentation, the Federal Highway Administration, as well as FTA
have, in fact, accepted the findings of the document. So we do now have finalization on that.
So as noted in the recommended action, we are asking for the Board's acceptance of that as well,
along with a commitment that the $30 million that we have identified in the mid-term financial
plan, that those dollars be allocated only to the transit elements of the plan.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Do we have any comments?
Well, I would like to comment. Being from that area, the stakeholders are very excited about this
and really promote it. So I certainly support it. Thank you.
There is Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Being from the other end of that project, thank you very much. It's great
to get the approvals. Last week-- I think it was last week we got $30 million approved by CDOT
and the Transportation Commission. I think this week they're expecting an additional 10-- or
hoping for an additional 10 from CDOT. So we're moving forward. Thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Just one other thing I noted that you put in here that at the MCC meeting
that Dave and all of you last week the request was made to see if RTD could move the $5 million
forward to match some of their other funding on design. I know how hard that is right now, but I
appreciate you keeping that request in the project. Thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: All right. Thank you very much. Seeing nobody else in the queue, it's time to
do our motion. So the movant is Director Guissinger, and the second is Director .
It passes unanimously also. So thank you. All right, moving right along, let's go to the updates.
And we have for updates.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
OK, the first one is the Regional BRT Feasibility Study. And please take it away. Thank you.
WILLIAM VAN METER: Thank you. Bill Van Meter, AGM Planning. I'm getting better at that.
Joining me now is Brian Welch, and he's going to give you an update, probably the final update
on the Regional BRT Feasibility Study.
BRIAN WELCH: Good evening, Chair and members of the Board. Thanks for this opportunity
to update you once more, one final time. We've walked you through this process, and I probably
wanted to highlight this evening two or three key takeaways from the work that we've been
doing with you on this effort.
There are more slides that I'm going to dwell on. We also gave you a look at the executive
summary. Later this month, we will be delivering to each one of you bound copies of the report
itself, as well as appendices A through M.
It's extensively documented, and I do want to recognize in the audience who have hung on there
with us, Holly Buck and Matthew Downey, who have been key parts of the team that have
assisted us with the effort.
When we began the effort, we had some definite goals in mind, and we have achieved those and
more. And so what I'm going to do-- you've seen many of these before. We updated some of
them for you in particular to get you more up-to-date.
I'll stop here and just highlight that what we have achieved is a regional bus rapid transit network
vision for the district. So that includes routes that are supported by our stakeholders, that they
have identified as important to them now and in the future. And we've also identified those that
we believe would be candidates for different types of funding.
We've talked before about the way we went from many, many routes down to fewer routes and
the analytical processes that we walked through. And I'll pause right here. We were fortunate to
discover that the eight routes that had the most level of analysis, that is those that were included
into your four, all appear to be viable candidates for the Small Starts Program.

In other words, are consultant team did the analysis that we would typically do as the staff, and
they believe that each one of them would be able to meet the project justification criteria as part
of Small Starts.
Financial justification, of course, would-- the financial commitment would need to be addressed
as well, but that was welcome news to hear. We did believe when we began that we would have
some very competitive corridors on a national basis.
So where do we go from here? I'll be brief because we're going to bring this back to you again as
part of Reimagine RTD. This is a partnership-based effort. We've told you how important our
stakeholders are going to be in making these plans come to fruition. Because it's their streets, it's
their right-of-way, it's their traffic signals, and that'll be key.
Supportive land use policies, we believe, will be emerging along the big network that we showed
you. These are going to be included by DRCOG in their 2050 Metro Vision Regional
Transportation Plan. That'll be an important step.
This will be an opportunity now to get these on project funding lists, our entire network, we
hope. And of course, as part of Reimagine RTD's mobility plan for the future, this will provide
the basis for understanding the role of BRT in meeting our future mobility needs.
And then finally, we're hoping that as your jurisdictions begin to prepare and update their
comprehensive plans, they will include this in their efforts as well.
The briefness of my brevity-- brevity of my presentation is not in any way to diminish the
significance of the effort. I think when you see the final product in its full content, you'll be very
pleasantly impressed. And we do have a lot of excitement about where we can go from here.
This project has received national attention. We believe it's one of a few that have looked at a
comprehensive, all-at-once BRT system from the ground up. So we're very pleased so far. We
thank you for your support on the effort. And now I'm available to answer any of your questions.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. So far we have two commenters. Director Walker, please.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Thank you for the effort and all this. This was really interesting to
look at. I noticed that two of the potential routes-- one likely eligible for federal, one for local
and state-- the City of Denver just reduced the traffic speeds on those, Evans and, I believe,
Federal. Right? Yeah, Federal. How does that-- does it affect? If so, how?
BRIAN WELCH: We don't believe that-- the methodology that we used focused on the ability of
the bus rapid transit to move through congested corridors, primarily based on congestion rather
than the speed limit per se. So I don't believe that would be detrimental in this case.
JEFF WALKER: OK. Has the city contacted us when they do that? Because I think these last
two happened during the middle of a run board. Do they contact-- and this is a little off topic. Do
they contact us to let us know?

BRIAN WELCH: Yes, they typically would be in touch with us on those routes that we serve.
JEFF WALKER: OK, thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you. Director Williams, please.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, madam chair. I have a number of questions that I'm happy to
have you bring back when you define this more. On packet page 59, the Tier 4 routes, I'd like to
know what the length of the proposed routes are. I'd like to know where the start and stop areas
of these proposed routes are. I'd like to know the hours that they are proposed to be running. I'd
like to know what you guys are looking at about who's riding.
And my concern comes from the fact that there is some displacement of older and disabled
people who cannot walk to the extended stops. So I think if we looked at some of the first
criteria, it might lead us to looking at who's not being able to use it.
And that background comes from sitting in on a number of meetings. I think, Mr. Sirois has
probably gone home but he's-- Mr. Ford probably too-- on the Colfax BRT because there is a lot
of animosity in that neighborhood about stops that are going away to allow quote unquote other
people to move faster as opposed to the people.
That is, I believe, still our number one route, with 22,000 or 25,000 people a day. And a lot of
people are not happy about the concept of BRT. So when we look at these recommended routes,
I'd like us to look at some of those things. That's the first point.
Can I go on? OK, if you look on packet page 65, it's defined as high-quality and high-frequency,
which, back to my previous point, means less stops. So we need to look at, as we are reimagining RTD, not only how we are carrying commuters on BRT, which is great, but who we're
not carrying based on those stops.
And then I have one more. On page 92, I think. Oh, no, 72. Sorry. There's a wide variety in cost
per boarding there. It goes all the way from $1.25, in which case it's to be assumed that we are
making a profit, to $3.44 per boarding, in which case we are not making a profit. And I'd just like
to know a little bit more about how that was arrived at. And that's-- you can do all that later.
Thank you.
BRIAN WELCH: You're welcome.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Director Williams. I don't see anymore comments. I have one. I'm a
little confused about the end result where are there are these eight proposed routes that would
probably be amenable to federal funding, et cetera.
But it was my understanding that as we were going to be doing this study, we were going to have
kind of two buckets. And one was the bucket that was carrying federal funding projects. And one
was the bucket that wasn't geared to that, but that had the great support of local jurisdictions.
And I'm wondering what happened to the second bucket?

BRIAN WELCH: It's still there, Director Lubow. The proposed Regional BRT Network, which
is packet page 51, it depicts the two buckets of routes. There's the blue color, which is extensive.
And you'll see it throughout our district, north, south, east, and west.
Those are the routes that we believe have merit for bus rapid transit, but don't necessarily meet
the criteria for Small Starts. And then the white routes are those that-- so they're both definitely
still there. And they comprise together our BRT vision.
JUDY LUBOW: But when I read that, I really didn't-- mean what I read was that we worked out
the synthesis, and we've got these eight great routes. It doesn't stress that there's this whole other
set that's also part of our system. I didn't get that stress at all. In fact, I missed it.
BRIAN WELCH: The full report and the executive summary are intended to bring that forward
as much as possible. Because that's clearly our intent.
JUDY LUBOW: Didn't bring it forward that I understood it.
BRIAN WELCH: We can certainly look at that language and pick it up-- more emphasis.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Because I know that I'm going to hear squawking from my
particular constituents.
BRIAN WELCH: We also wanted to remind the Board that 119 and East Colfax are assumed to
be part of our-JUDY LUBOW: That I understood. Yes. OK, so you will, perhaps, try to beef it up in terms of
making it more obvious?
BRIAN WELCH: Yes.
OK, thank you very much. OK. So that is it in terms of this-NATALIE MENTEN: Director Lewis' a question.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, oh. Thank you so much. Thank you. Yes, yes. Thank you. Sorry.
SHONTEL LEWIS: [LAUGHS] Just so mean. Thank you, chair. I just have one quick question
for you. To Director Williams' point, how are neighborhood demographics and ridership
demographics considered in this proposal. Sorry.
BRIAN WELCH: We have a section of the report that deals precisely with equity. And we
include a map for you to review that shows-- and in this case, we chose poverty as a proxy for-we have poverty. We have minority.
We chose that, in this case, to depict the relationship between the proposed BRT vision and
where we have poverty as defined the way that RTD does it for our Live program. So you can

see visually how the two line up. And that was a test for us. And we were very pleased to see that
they do lineup very well.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, I think that's it for our director comments. So let's go to the second update,
which is Reimagine RTD. Thank you.
WILLIAM VAN METER: Thank you, Bill Van Meter, AGM Planning, Bill Sirois, Brian Welch.
Handing it over to them.
JUDY LUBOW: You did a masterful job. Thank you.
[LAUGHTER]
BILL SIROIS: Thank you. This is Bill Sirois. I'll start off on the update, and then turn it over to
Brian halfway through. But what we wanted to focus on tonight really is a couple of things, but
giving you some perspective.
I think we are committed to giving you a perspective on engagement process and kind of the
engagement activities that we've been doing over the last couple of months since the last time we
updated you.
Also focusing a lot on--in terms of where we're at, in terms of some of the activities, we went
forward with the Advisory Committee and others on kind of how we're couching some of the
initial looking at the system optimization plan.
So those are the two things that I'll talk about. Then Brian is going to talk a little bit more about
metrics and some peer comparisons that we're starting to pull together as we speak.
So one thing to note-- and I think we had maybe just kicked this off at our last meeting, which
was we initiated an online engagement tool, which we've been able to utilize and getting a lot of
comments on. I think over 500 comments. I think that's probably closer to 700 now-- comments
from folks. And you can see some of what those are here.
But again, a lot of different areas. And again, a lot of focus what we're going to be doing focused
on in the next kind of round of things is kind of trying to take those comments and kind of more
focus them in on Circulate and Reimagine. Right now, it's kind of been a little bit open-ended.
Some of the other things that we've done and many of you participated in these. We had some
conversations. We participated in the town meetings. Some of the CAC, you heard about earlier,
we had the first Advisory Group and Technical Working-- Advisory Committee and Technical
Working Group. And we've actually initiated the youth engagement solicitation, which I know
there was a lot of Board interest on.
Some of the things that we are going to be working on actually include, next week, we'll be
having our second meetings-- second set of meetings.

We have some other things. We planned to initiate the youth engagement early next year and
start some focus groups that are going with our market research team to really start kind of
framing how we have, as part of this, a fairly large survey that we're going to be doing, and
trying to frame that survey and what are the specific things that we hope to gain out of it that will
have impact on Reimagine.
So switching gears a little bit, talking about the system optimization process and kind of where
we're at on that. This is something, a graphic that we created, I think, since the last Board
meeting in terms of outlining the processing. It does a good job in terms of the basic steps.
We're right now at that first step, which is really defining the kind of how we measure success,
and what we're doing. And then we're going to be getting into-- and what Brian will start to talk
about is how we stack up against some of our peers, how we stack up kind of just within how
we're performing.
And then we're going to get into talking about solutions and kind of the framing of those. And
then what are the trade-offs between some of those solutions? And then finally, which you can't
read with the pop-up that's come on there, is kind of coming to a recommendation that we hoped
to get to the Board in late summer about a recommend system optimization plan.
So one of the things that we did want to highlight as part of this and that we want to make sure is
assumed as part of anything that we do, which is the fact that Title VI is going to be assumed as
part of any of these analysis.
That is something that we've always embraced. And we want to make sure that Title VI is not
something that is a separate thing. It is kind of something that's embedded in all this.
The other thing here in terms of where we're at-- and this is some of the conversation that we had
with the Advisory Committee and some of the other groups-- is we talked about what are some
of the design themes or focus ideas that we have in terms of the system optimization that we
could test to talk and discuss the idea of trade-offs?
Here's kind of that laundry list that we went over with the Advisory Committee ranging from
service quality to geographic coverage to social equity.
[COUGHING]
[LAUGHTER]
OK. All right. Wow. Well, getting to the next slide-TROY WHITMORE: Whatever we do, don't hit snooze. It's might be a problem.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

BILL SIROIS: All right. Well, just in terms of the results of how when we kind of raised some of
these themes with the Advisory Committee, the Technical Working Group, the Citizens
Advisory, and the Innovation Network Team, which is kind from our TIC group-- the customer
care group-- there were some clear kind of patterns that developed.
One of those was service quality kind of being that pattern that everybody said was really
important for us to take a look at. And by service quality, we're talking about reliability,
frequency, focusing on some of those areas of this high-quality service.
Another one that came up with social equity. And by this we're talking about how we serve the
people of greatest need. So going beyond, you have Title VI, which is focused on minority and
low income populations.
Maybe I can-- oh, there we go. All right, great. We can get to the next one. How can we deal
with other needs populations like people with disabilities, like the elderly, like other ones? How
are we going to deal with that set of stakeholders or our customers.
Then another one I think that-- cost efficiency obviously in the area. And that really is kind of
like the ridership kind of focus. And then I think the other one that I think maybe didn't come out
as part of this as quite as evident through some of this is the geographic coverage. And I think
that's something we certainly have heard from the Board about quite a bit.
So we wanted to throw these out to the Board just to chew on for a second and just to see-- to get
some feedback on this. But this is kind of the thought that we would set forth with our consultant
team to kind of get some, what we call, scenarios that would be kind of loosely organized around
these themes.
Now we have some more definition of these scenarios. They're not fully defined yet, but I've
kind of loosely defined those to you. But I think the notion is that these help us then kind of
frame some of those trade offs and help us to come up with the idea of what is ultimately the
system optimization plan that we would recommend in the end.
So that's kind of just framing that for the piece. And with that, I'll turn it over to Brian, who's
going to talk a little bit more about the technical analysis side and the peer review that we're
doing.
BRIAN WELCH: With the notion that there would be four scenarios that we would look at, we
need to have metrics that the Board would concur are a good representation of how to compare
four scenarios among each other. The notion being that you would look at various types of
metrics typical of RTD and other transit properties when they attempt to measure different
scenarios that emphasize different parts of these.
Bearing in mind, as Bill said, you don't have one that focuses strictly on one of these. They have
multiple elements, but they would be thematically stronger in one or the other. So how do you
judge, and how do you make decisions of which ones you have merit? [CHUCKLES] Boy, the
computer's tiring out on us, I guess, here.

So here's just a sampling for you to get you a sense of what you'll be seeing early next year when
we begin to present to you what some of these kinds of metrics are. Now for example, you
probably are familiar with the fact that-- oh, I didn't do that? Did I?
While bus represents about 51% of our operating expenses, it represents about 67% of our
ridership. One of the big reasons for that is depreciation, which much of our bus infrastructure,
the capital side in particular, is already depreciated. And the buses compared to light rail
vehicles, for example, are much more expensive right now because they're relatively newer.
This, again, is just one of the-- just to give you a feel for the kind of things that you would adjust
as Board. And then you could see, well, how does that affect operating expenses? And how does
it affect ridership? And how do you want to make those kind of decisions?
This takes a look at where we have been in terms of revenue hours and bus boardings. This is
very similar to information. You're going to see for other transit agencies. We wanted to show
you this because, if you look at it, 2007 to 2018, we really are just back to where we were in
2007. And like I say, we've looked at this for a number of transit agencies, it looks very similar.
So that's primarily the takeaway from this.
If you look at what's happened on the rail side, well, we've added quite a bit [CHUCKLES] over
the last three or four years on the rail side, both in terms of revenue hours and in boardings.
Fairly straightforward.
Demand response has been something that we have been successful in maintaining revenue
hours and boardings. They've both been fairly stable over time. Demand response is where you
get into the whole coverage question. And let me tell you a little bit more about that.
This is an example of a metric that you would use to evaluate the coverage metrics. So you can
see here that if you took away flex ride, look at what happens to the percentage of your service
area that's walk accessible. It's measurable, and it's significant across these different cohorts that
we've shown you.
Now when you're looking at these scenarios in the future, you'll be making a decision on, well, if
we want to have more coverage, it's probably going to be, at least in part, flex ride type services,
which, as you know are more costly per unit provided than bus and rail.
That's just a fact, but that's a good example of a trade-off. More coverage may mean higher cost
per unit and less ridership per unit. Everybody experiences that. So we wanted to give you a feel
of the kind of trade-offs that come when you're measuring ridership versus coverage.
This is another one that shows-- now these are not-- these are route miles. So this isn't the
amount of service miles. But if you look at our district and our 15-minute or better service, 12%
of the routes that is in mileage represent very high percentages of our ridership.
This probably doesn't come as much of a surprise because, as you know, we have some very,
very strong ridership, but it is concentrated. This is a coverage type of metric. So you can see--

you could ask yourself, well, what if we wanted to get that higher? If we wanted to get higher
than 63% and higher than 74%, we can tell you that, and we can tell you what it would take.
Again, this is a coverage.
And then finally, another one that looks at our district in terms of different population cohorts
and the characteristics of our ridership, tells another good story about how we're able to provide
a good coverage metric for many of our different types of populations. And you'll be able to see
the effect on these different population cohorts if you turn the dials on the things that Bill Sirois
talked about. That is coverage, cost efficiency, frequency ridership, all those types of things.
And just to wrap up, we're going to be using service standards and elements that are common to
us as well as to our peers. We had our consultant team look at service standards from all of the
peers, which I'll show you in a moment. These we pick from Sound Transit.
But as Board members, you're very familiar with these. We're all using the same kinds of
measures and metrics to help evaluate. If you can't measure it, you can't manage it. And so this is
what you can expect to see. Did I skip it?
BILL SIROIS: You skipped that one.
BRIAN WELCH: Oh, well.
BILL SIROIS: Go back two slides. All right.
BRIAN WELCH: I don't know what happened to the one. We have eight peers that we're
including. I don't know what happened to that, but it's in there. I think it should be in your
materials. But we just-- no, there's 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6-- six peer agencies. Page 95, and that's one. So
with that, hope I didn't go too long. Thank you for your attention, and we're ready for any
questions.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you very much. There is one Board member. I can't see who. There
we go, Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Lubow. I have a couple of questions and comments, so
bear with me. The first question I have is who is the Innovation Network Team? Because I know
all about the Technical Working Group. And I know all about the Advisory Council. And I've
known for a while who the CIC is. But this is the very first time that I have ever heard about the
Innovation Network Team.
BILL SIROIS: Yes. So one of the things that we talked about, I think, in our update in October
was how we wanted to focus on some internal frontline employees. And so this group is actually
through our Continuous Improvement and Innovation Group. They've engaged what they call
Innovation Network teams in a couple of areas, one being rail ops and the other one being
customer care. And we use the customer care team to provide direct feedback to us on those
types of scenarios.

So these are folks that are in the call center. They're dealing with our customers every day. And
they understand very well what our customers want and need. So we felt very-- we're very
interested to see their feedback on some of that kind of-- some of these ideas. So that's who they
were.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that answer. Would you do me a favor? In the future, when
we have all these groups and this is part of Reimagine RTD that we're all supposed to own, could
you not wait for me to ask you about that, and let us know who those people are when it's
convened? I mean, I don't have to have their names. Because I don't want them to think that
Director Williams is looking at them or anything.
OK, that's number one. Can I go on for a little bit? OK. I think-- and I could be wrong-- but I
think that the fastest growing population in the state of Colorado, and particularly in our region,
is older adults. And I don't see those two words any place in here.
TROY WHITMORE: Age advantage. True.
KATE WILLIAMS: Age advantage. Speaking from one who would know. No.
[LAUGHTER]
Hey, I'm not throwing any stones, and I'm not catching. So I think when we're looking-- if you
look on page 92, and we talk at the percent service area walk accessible by households,
employment, low income, minority, people with no vehicle, older adults. But I don't see that
there.
So I think that if we are re-imagining RTD, and we are moving toward a customer base of people
that will need to use our services, that we need to look more at older adults. And then to tie
question number one and question number two together, on the Citizens Advisory Council, on
the Technical Working Group, on the-- what's the other one called? The first one? The very first
Reimagine group.
BILL SIROIS: The Advisory Group.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, the Advisory Council. Who's representing older adults on those
groups?
BILL SIROIS: We have AARP. And we have some-- I guess as Director Whitmore volunteered,
we have some older individuals on that group too. But we have Bob Murphy, who's the Colorado
State-- I guess his term is Executive Director of the AARP.
KATE WILLIAMS: He's on the Advisory Council, right?
BILL SIROIS: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: And Director Whitmore is on the Advisory Council?

BILL SIROIS: Director Whitmore is on the Advisory Council.
KATE WILLIAMS: How about on the Technical Working Group.
BILL SIROIS: In the Technical Working Group, I don't know if we have specifically that
population. But again, it's a different focus with the Technical Working Group.
KATE WILLIAMS: Well, that's what I'm-BILL SIROIS: But within in terms of the technical focus, in terms of the technical expertise
associated with transit and transit operations.
KATE WILLIAMS: So technically, there is an issue with older adults having to access transit.
So just something to think about. And then the last one I want to ask you-- and I'm having
trouble with my page packets don't match. This is talking about the percent of the population in
our district. Right? Within the RTD district-- page 92.
Percent service area walk accessible by the population. So you're saying that 70%-- I'm looking
at 63% and 73% in the first two columns. It says that 73% of the population can get to Boss Rail
or FlexRide. Is that correct?
BILL SIROIS: That is correct.
KATE WILLIAMS: I don't believe that. I'm sorry. That means that three out of every four
people in the RTD district can get to a bus stop or a train station or are within a FlexRide district.
You'll have to-- I'll have to take that offline.
I looked at Director Catlin's district, and I looked at Director Lubow's district, and Director
Buzek's district, and there are people who live there. And I just do not believe that three out of
every four people within the RTD district can get to a bus stop, a train station, or are within a
FlexRide district.
BILL SIROIS: Yeah, the one part of it, Director Williams, that I think would surprise you is if
you look at the geographic coverage of our 20 FlexRide. They are geographically spread out, and
some of them are very big. And if you add those together, that's what gets you there.
KATE WILLIAMS: So in the day, just to go on record, I run an agency that answers phone calls
all day every day from people who are looking to know how to get a ride, and I have every Flex
route map up on the wall in my office. So I know where they are. But we can take this discussion
offline. I apologize I'm not meaning to demean your credibility. Everything in me went-[PLOVERS LIPS] so thank you for your tolerance, madam chair.
JUDY LUBOW: All right, thank you very much. OK, Director Cook.

SHELLEY COOK: It's getting so late. I just wonder if I could sit down with you in the near-term
to talk about some sort of basic elements. And I'm not on one of the committees, so it's just a
chance for me to engage with you and double check on a few items if that's OK. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, Director Lewis, please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, sure. Thank you, chair. I had a lot of questions, but I'll just join
Director Cook. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you. I myself have a few questions, but I'll wait in line. OK, thank
you very much. So I guess we are done with that update. Let's go to the Southwest Chief & Front
Range Passenger Rail Commission.
WILLIAM VAN METER: Thank you. Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning
and RTD's representative on the Southwest Chief Front Range Passenger Rail Commission. And
I've been taking the opportunity to give you periodic updates, especially when key milestones are
on the horizon or have been passed on the commission's activities.
There is the composition of the commission. And you'll recall I've briefed you previously two
purposes for the commission, one to preserve Amtrak's Southwest Chief service across southeast
Colorado and to facilitate development of Front Range Rail, specifically from Fort Collins to
Pueblo, alignment, technology, cost, and path forward all TBD.
To that end, the commission has started a Front Range Passenger Rail Service Development Plan
and National Environmental Policy or NEPA Act process using an innovative blended team. We
have a consultant team on board to do this service development plan. It's a planning and fatal
flaw type analysis to look at those very topics I already brought up.
The commission has allocated funds, has entered into a partnership with Director Lew and
CDOT, who is bringing significant staff resources to bear to support a combined effort between
the independent commission and CDOT. We've been meeting monthly, alternating meetings
along the Front Range.
And the one of the key pieces that I really want to update you on right now as we're entering the
upcoming legislative season is the commission's conversations regarding governance. This is a
busy slide. Have at it at your leisure in terms of understanding kind of the schedule and activities
involved in the SDP, Service Development Plan, and NEPA, National Environmental Policy Act
work. The commission has approved a rail, a Front Range Passenger Rail purpose statement, as
well as objectives. You can read those at your leisure. I presume you already have.
Legislative options-- this is what has caused a little bit of discussion on the commission and
amongst stakeholders along the Front Range. And so I wanted to just give you an update of
where those discussions lead or appear to be leading. And we have another meeting next Friday.
So under consideration right now by the commission is a potential request of the legislature to
establish a Public Rail Authority statewide. It would be modeled similar to the Regional

Transportation Authority or Public Highway Authority, PHA-- or RTA PHA, which would
provide an overarching legislative structure that then a Front Range rail or an I-70 Mountain
Corridor Rail or any other corridor subsection or set of subdivisions of the State of Colorado
could join together to pursue funding for an initiative like we're looking at.
So that's one authority that would be statewide and give jurisdictions the opportunity to band
together like an RTA or PHA. A variation on that theme is a Front Range Rail District. Ask the
legislature to give the Front Range definition and the authority to come together at a later date to
figure out how to govern, and construct, and operate and maintain a Front Range-only rail
system, presuming that the statewide might have more interest and support from other parties.
The commission seems to be looking that way.
Rail Enterprise has limitations under Tabor but it would be similar to HPTE and then expanding
the current commission's responsibility and roles moving forward. So we're talking about that.
We're considering approaching the legislature, CDOT supporting us in those discussions. And I
wanted to bring you and make you aware of that.
Similarly, we've also started outreach stakeholders part of that process up and down the corridor.
That is my attempt at a brief update as to what the commission's activities are. And really did
want to highlight those discussions regarding potential legislative asks and governance.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much. Looks like we have one person in the queue, and I can't
see that person.
KATE WILLIAMS: It's me.
JUDY LUBOW: [LAUGHS] All right. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: No, I didn't sit here, this-- thank you, chair. Mr. Van Meter, hi there.
WILLIAM VAN METER: Yes?
KATE WILLIAMS: Just a couple of quick questions. I assume that your role in being involved
in this is to figure out how if there is a Front Range Rail District along the I-25 corridor that
would run right through the middle of the RTD district how that would work.
WILLIAM VAN METER: That's what I consider a primary charge to me, to make sure that
RTD's services are complementary and vice versa not competitive. Such that they aren't stealing
ridership from us but rather helping feed our ridership and vice versa in a virtuous, positive cycle
of transit goodness.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. [CHUCKLES] Wow.
[LAUGHTER]
Wow. Could we have that as our new mission?

[LAUGHTER]
WILLIAM VAN METER: It's after 11:00. Sorry.
KATE WILLIAMS: No, it's great. Secondly, I'm assuming that, as part of these discussions,
there are points of juncture involved beyond just Union Station, where you would get off of the
Front Range Rail and get on to RTD. And I'm assuming that's part of your job also.
WILLIAM VAN METER: Indeed. In fact, in terms of Central Metroplex, for lack of a better
word, access, there's actually kind of two alternatives that appear to be rising to the top. It's way
too early to be making this bold a statement. But one would be access to and through Denver
Union Station. The other would be access far to the east too and through DEN.
And so those are two options that still have some level of support and interest and will need
some further analysis. And south and north alignments, multiple and potential sticky issues for us
and stakeholders along the Front Range to discuss as we move further along.
KATE WILLIAMS: And one one more. Last but not least. Right now some of that service area
is covered by a CDOT product known as Bustang. And so I'm hoping that you'll look, remember- because I'm sure CDOT will remember to bring this to the table-- that the places that they are
looking at having their mobility hubs-- which are like one in Castle Rock, one up north-- would
be considered as part of this.
WILLIAM VAN METER: Indeed, that's a key assumption moving into this.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Thank you, madam chair.
JUDY LUBOW: You're welcome. All right, it looks like there's nobody else in line, so let's
consider that update finished. And there is one more update. Do we have the same presenter?
WILLIAM VAN METER: We do have the same presenter. Bill Van Meter, Assistant General
Manager of Planning.
[LAUGHTER]
KATE WILLIAMS: Yay! [APPLAUSE] Yay, encore! Encore!
WILLIAM VAN METER: We touched on this briefly a couple months ago, but just wanted to
come back to you and give you a quick refresh and get it in print rather than just verbally. An
update on the process to anticipate, starting about a year from now and extending for a little
while, in terms of Board member district redistricting as part of the decennial census.
And I have the control. That's right. So we have to review your district boundaries every 10 years
following the decennial census. If it's not done by March 15, 2022, the state will do it for us. I
think we all want to avoid that and retain that responsibility ourselves. Process is anticipated to

be this. The Board chair will establish a redistricting committee. This is based on past practice.
I'm not actually sure what the rules are from the Board, but it's worked well.
Our enabling legislation does not specify what the allowable variation in population between
districts is, but state house districts allow only a 5% deviation. And that's a rule that we attempt
to adhere to when we enter into this lacking better direction and wanting to make sure that you're
representing-- you and your successors are representing relatively similar populations.
Don't have to redraw unless you're representing something outside of those-- a population
outside of those boundaries. I'll slowly get through all of this and now quickly get through all of
this. I apologize.
[LAUGHTER]
So our anticipated scenario is that we will be entering into such a process. We will hire a
consultant to help us with that. We will make sure that districts are comprised of whole voter
precincts. Districts will keep in their current districts. Yada, yada, yada. Time frame-- yada,
yada, yada. Exactly. 2021, form a committee. 2021 first quarter, start reviewing the data through
2021 and into the early part of 2022. Start defining alternative scenarios, working with the Board
and with the redistricting committee to re-district your 15 Board member districts. I'm done.
JUDY LUBOW: [LAUGHS]
WILLIAM VAN METER: Any questions?
JUDY LUBOW: Why thank you so much. Does anybody have any questions? Apparently not.
Well, how very exciting. Thank you so much. Yay! All right. Yahoo. All right, moving right
along. We're now up to other matters. I hope no one has other matters, but let's see. Does
anybody have other matters? No? OK. All right.
Now is another fun section. I am going to entertain-- or motion to move into Executive Session.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
[LAUGHS] Wait, I have to read it. I have to read it. OK, for the purpose-- excuse me. You have
to be polite. Board members, excuse me. I have to read-NATALIE MENTEN: Just get it. Do it. [POUNDS GAVEL]
JUDY LUBOW: [LAUGHS] Shh. All right. OK, I will entertain a motion to move into
Executive Session for the purpose of a conference with legal counsel on DTP and RRP litigation
matters. CRS 42-6-402, sub 4, sub B. Conferences with an attorney for the local public body for
the purposes of receiving legal advice on specific legal questions. Instructions to negotiators
CRS 24-6-402 4, sub E, sub I.

Determining positions relative to matters that may be subject to negotiations, developing strategy
for negotiations, and instructing negotiators.
DOUG TISDALE: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Who did the second? Williams. OK, thank you. OK.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
Oh, no. Let's just move on. OK, so can we have-- let's have a voice vote on approving this
motion. Do we have to ask you and-DOUG TISDALE: I want to move.
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: I moved in favor of this point.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. All right, thank you. OK, all those in favor, say aye.
ALL: Aye.
JUDY LUBOW: Great. Thank you so much. All right. So the motion passes. And prior to
adjourning, I note for the record that immediately upon the conclusion of the Executive Session,
we will adjourn from the special Board meeting and will not address any additional Board
business. And we're going to have a slight three-minute break. And so will everybody leave the
room who is not part of this discussion?
All those who agreed to-- [LAUGHS]
- They're just leaving.
JUDY LUBOW: Just say aye.
NATALIE MENTEN: You keep going though.
JUDY LUBOW: [LAUGHS] OK.
TROY WHITMORE: Madam Chair. Shut off the lights.
JUDY LUBOW: [LAUGHS] OK. We are adjourned.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

