Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held Tuesday, July 10, 2007
Page 1 of 2
Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

July 10, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held
on Tuesday, July 10, 2007 at 5:00 p.m. in Rooms T and D

****
Committee
Members Present:

FasTracks Committee Chair Director Chacon, Chair Martinez, Director
Busck, Director Christopher, Director Daly, Director Elfenbein,
Director Kinton, Director McMullen, Director Pulliam, Director
Quinlan, Director Ruchman, Director Tayer, Director Yamrick

Member Absent:

Directors Brohl and Kemp

Staff Present:

Senior Staff: Cal Marsella, Bruce Abel, Ron Dodsworth, Dave
Genova, Marla Lien, Lloyd Mack, Paula Perdue, Liz Rao, Scott Reed,
and Phil Washington.
Susan Altes, Gideon Berger, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Kevin
Diviness, Sherry Ellebracht, Dave Genova, Jennifer Heisler, Richard
Morton, Bill Porter, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna, Joe Smith, John
Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner, , Liz Telford, Mike Turner, Bill
Van Meter,

Others Present:

Kevin Flynn, Jim Cunningham, Ray Lanman, Joel Noble, Lorraine
Anderson, Shelley Clark, L.W. Morrow, Kathleen Osher, Joe
Alexander, Don Ulrich, Mark Bader-Hellstrom, Ron Chance, Ed Colby,
John West, Tim Rauer, Tim Robalin, David Utz, Mac Callison, Brad
Langor, Bob Doherty, Gwen Christiansen, Stu Williams, Jane
Schnabel, Arlene Quale, Jim Gralebneh, Kim Kucera, Anne Callison,
Marianne LeCean, Har Williams, Terry Rutter, Nadine Lee,Jake
Jakubowski, Joe Racosky, Ashland Vaughn, Judy Montero, Ken
Smith, Phuonglan Nguyen, Dominic Dibrito, Jerry Pfeffer, Joe
Wingerter, JPatrick Kennedy, Miller Hudson, Ron Chaney, Jane
Schnabel, Jeff Wittron, Stan Williams

Call to Order:

Director Chacon called the meeting to order at 5:03 p.m.

Director Chacon noted that a special FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting is being

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on Tuesday, July 10, 2007
Page 2 of 2
called to discuss DUS and requested Board members to submit any questions or
concerns to the Board office. Some of the Board members indicated they would not be
available on the requested date. Board members will be polled for a new date prior to
the July 24th Board meeting.
I.

Presentation Regarding RTD’s FasTracks Financial Plan and Public-Private
Partnerships
Cal Marsella re-introduced the team of Tim Romer and Bob Doherty, Investment
Advisors from Goldman Sachs/JP Morgan, who provided an overview of the
PPP and their expectant roles. One of the goals from this presentation was to
provide a financial perspective of DMU/EMU and overlay how the investors in a
P-3 model will look at DMU/EMU.
Please refer to the FasTracks Minute Notebook retained in the Board office for a
copy of this Board Workshop presentation.
Following the presentation, a question and answer session for the Board
Members were held. Many of the questions were responded to by Cal Marsella
or the team of Romer and Doherty during the meeting (a separate document will
be created capturing the questions and responses from the Board). Below are
the follow-up/ action items from this discussion:







Chair Martinez: wants to see the cost differential factors leading to the
conclusion for the East/Gold line corridor before the July 24th meeting
Director Christopher: wants to see the assumptions for the O&M used in
the presentation
Director Christopher: wants a case scenario where we assume 2
EMU/2DMU and taking the lost savings from if we go to 4 DMUs.
Overlay the PPP and provide a net present value. (total cost comparison
of EMU/DMU by reducing capital and life cycle costs to net present vale
even assuming savings on PPP for East and Gold line corridors)
Director Busck: Would like to see a presentation from oil industry on
future of alternative fuels, pricing, etc.
Director Tayer: Would like a similar type analysis done on the Northwest
Parkway corridor

II.

Discussion of 2007 FasTracks General Manager’s Goal
Director Chacon asked for feedback from other Chairs on the process they are
using to define the 2007 General Manager goal from their respective committee.
Directors Martinez, Ruchman, and Kinton expressed interest in participating in a
FasTracks meeting to define the 2007 FasTracks General Manager goal.

III.

Other Matters

V.

Adjournment – Director Chacon adjourned the FasTracks Monitoring Committee
meeting at 6:30 p.m.

