Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on March 8, 2011
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the RTD Board of Directors

Date:

March 8, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held March
8, 2011 in Rooms R, T & D

Board
Members Present:

Committee Chair Tobiassen, Directors; Anderson, Bagley, Brohl,
Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle,
Riley, and Tayer; Chair Kemp

Directors
Absent:
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Mark Bauderman, Lacy Bell, Janne Bennick, Larry Buter, Jessie
Carter, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Lee Cryer, Charles Culig, Kevin
Diviness, Jane Donovan, Martell Dyles, Sherry Ellebracht, Eric Farrington,
David Genova, Mike Gil, Ken Hardin, Terry Howerter, Tom Hughes, Austin
Jenkins, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, M. McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Brian
Matthews, Doug MacLeod, Anthony Menendez, Karen Morales, Andy Mutz,
Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Trent Ratcliff, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino,
Teresa Sedmak, Danielle Smith, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Walt
Stringer, Christina Tubb, Mike Turner, Tim Urseton,Del Walker, Bill Van
Meter, Michael Washington, Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Kevin Abels, Tom Aere, Greg Amparano, Steve Arasan, Debra Baskett,
Janne Bennick, Matt Bergles, Eric Biga, Ocie Brown, Evan Burton, Roy
Caldwell, Mac Callison, Sara Castellanos, Craig Carter, Delilah Collins, Craig
Coon, Chris Cruz, Victoria Culverson, Lindsay D’Andrea, Audrey DeBarros,
Commissioner Cindy Domenico, Marirosa Donisi, Geneva Doss, Selena
Dunham, Chuck Easterlig, Aaron Epstein, Dave Erb, Kirsten Gosch,
Ellsworth Grant, Phil Greenwald, Freddie Hanns, Daniel Harper, Randy
Harrison, Dick Hinson, Gloria Holiday, John Huggins, Robert Jackson, Terri
Jackson, Danny Katz, Melanie Keene, Steve Klausing, Zack Knows, Ed
Knox, Bruce Johnson, Alan Lee, Sean Lehocky, Matt Lutkus, Mayor Nancy
McNally, Cynthia McNell, Claudie Minor, Enrique Moreno, Mayor Murphy,
Mayor Paul Natale, Sandy Nervig, Stephen Newhouse, Franciso Nunez, Gene
Ouvir, David Parker, Michael Petraccelli, Gene Putman, Daniel Rifkin, Jeanne
Shrene, D. Perkins-Smith, Jeb Sloon, Hunter Sydnor, Jeremy Tamsen, Chris
Taylor, Les Townsend, Bruce Tonilas, Mary Tunberg, Gaspar Verdugo,

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on March 8, 2011
Page 2 of 4

Robert Watkins, Scott Weeks, Katrina Wert.
*******************************************************************
Call to Order:
Committee Chair Tobiassen called the Operations & Customer Services
Committee Meeting to order at 7:50 p.m.

1. Recommended Action


ADA Eligibility Functional/Cognitive Assessment
Bruce Abel along with staff managers Larry Buter and Carolyn Conover introduced
this item.
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to
amend the contract with IBI Group (IBI) as the Owner’s Representative to Support
Replacement of RTD’s Radio and Computer Aided Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle
Location (CAD/AVL) Systems (Contract 18DH016). This contract amendment is for
the third year of a five year period of performance. The scope and fee are
renegotiated annually. The third-year fee is not-to-exceed a limit of $2,600,000 for
a total contract value to date of $5,322,000.
Motion:

Director Cohen made the motion to move this
item forward to the March 22 Board meeting.

Second:

Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director O’Boyle wanted to know what type of
oversight we provide to the decisions by Easter
Seal. Larry Buter indicated there are three audits
a year plus the appeals process.
Director Hoy inquired if there are any
competitors to Easter Seal. Bruce Abel
responded they used an evaluation system that
considered the competitive process. The other
bidder had weakness in his competitive
proposal. Someone asked about the cost
difference and Bruce Abel responded that Easter
Seal shows a 3% increase in year 1 but they are
hoping to enter into negotiations with them on
future pricing.
Director Bagley noted that we are currently
subsidizing access-a-ride at $50 per person.
How does this cost factor into the picture.
Bruce Abel responded this cost is part of the
total cost structure of $50.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on March 8, 2011
Page 3 of 4

Director Anderson after reflecting on some of
the discussion requested to withdraw her
second. Director Tayer seconded the motion.
Director Brohl asked why this is increasing. Is
the contract amount indicative of a growing
base, or more dollars expended on the same
ridership (i.e. more trips)? Bruce Abel responded
this reflects an increase to do the individual
assessments. They were unable to evaluate
their local team and facility of Adaride.
Director Deadwyler inquired about the number of
people served in 2009 and 2010. Larry Buter
responded there were 3000 applications in 2009
and 3300 in 2010. Director Deadwyler inquired
if there are any conditions where a person
automatically gets certified. Larry Buter stated
no and explained that every person must qualify.
ADA must come in to certify so even with your
own Doctor’s information, they will still need to
certify. Generally if a person has been certified
for three years, it becomes somewhat
automatic.
Director Malpiede commented that access-a-ride
handles our most vulnerable passengers so she
is highly in favor of a good certification process
that ensures the safety of our riders.
Director Bagley asked for a further breakdown
on the access-a-ride users—of the 3300
applications, how many are actually utilizing the
service? Larry Buter responded we have
approximately 60K registered over a 10 year
period so that equates roughly to1/3 utilizing the
service. Director Bagley stated that
approximately 10% of our budget goes to
access-a-ride so he would like to see us get
more innovative in our approach.
Director Tobiassen asked how a client gets to
Easter Seal. Larry Buter stated they are given a
number to call.

Vote on

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on March 8, 2011
Page 4 of 4

The Motion:

The motion passed 12 in favor (Brohl, Cohen,
Daly, Hoy, James, Kemp, Malpiede, McMullen,
O’Boyle, Riley, Tayer and Tobiassen) and 3
against (Anderson, Bagley, Deadwyler).

2. Information Items
 Review of Q4 2010 Quarterly reports
Director O’Boyle asked if Laidlaw is now First Transit Commerce City and
commented that they seem to be doing something right. Perhaps we can do a
lessons learned from them. Bruce Abel responded that First Transit Denver &
Longmont are the ones meeting their stats.
Director Bagley inquired about the Highland Ranch call-n-ride. He reflected on the
number of access-a-ride users using the call-n-ride instead of the way this service
was intended to be used. Brian Matthews shared their outreach efforts and stated
at one such meeting approximately 40 disabled clients showed up. While they
anticipated a use by the senior citizens, the senior citizens at Highlands Ranch do
not meet this profile since many of them are still active and driving.
Director O’Boyle commented that in general the call-n-ride is holding their own
which he attributed to Brian Matthews marketing effort.
Director Daly inquired about the call-n-ride services in Superior. Brian Matthews
indicates that much of the use there was by high tech employees from India. The
projects appear to be over so the demand has dropped accordingly.
Director Tobiassen expressed appreciation for the marketing efforts at the Heather
Gardens.


Station Sweeps
Dave Genova and John Tarbert reviewed this item. Director Brohl wanted to know
how this information compares with the news story and did they have access to our
information. Scott Reed responded that the most current information was not
available but the reporter was given other information that they had chose to ignore.
Director O’Boyle looked at the stats provided on the station sweeps. He asked what
the stats would reflect if DUS and Invesco Field were removed from this analysis.
He believes the calculations variance per CPO would be different. He also noted
that 58% of citations are issued on Saturday. Chair Kemp also made an
observation relative to the number of arrests using police versus fare dispatchers.

3. Other Matters
There were no other matters.
4. Adjournment
The meeting adjourned to Financial Administration and Audit Committee at 8:32 p.m.

