2024-09-10
Finance and Planning Committee
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Good evening. The Tuesday, September 10, Finance and Planning Committee will
now come to order. We are convened as of 5:32 PM. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this
meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak. Thank you all for joining us this evening.
Please note that the committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom
and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the
meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website.
During today's meeting, we are also providing Communication Access Real-Time Translation, also known
as CART. Anyone who would like to access the service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript can be
automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like access to a live transcript of this meeting
in Spanish. A live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
Just a note before we begin the roll call, there is a big event happening tonight. I believe that we as
Directors can be adept and effective and try and complete all of the work in a timely manner, so we might
attend to the debate. I would like to call the roll for the committee members. Director Bob Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Peggy Catlin. Director Bobby Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Lynn Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I am Michael Guzman. I am also present. Director JoyAnn Ruscha. Director Doug
Tisdale, Chair of this Committee, has an excused absence this evening. I will be filling in as the Vice
Chair.
For the record, I also saw that we have Board Chair Director Davidson and Director Marjorie Sloan. Did I
miss anybody? OK. Let's begin with the public comment. I would like to open public comment to anyone
who would like to address this committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for
the current or immediately preceding month.
If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand, or press star 9
on your phone. During this time, the Committee will not offer any direct comments or responses.
However, if you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board
Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Are there any hands raised at this time?

JACK KROLL: Director Guzman, this is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. At this time,
we have one hand raised, and it is from a caller. Their phone number ends in 0670.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you are dialed in, press
star 6 to toggle your mute settings. Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being
recorded.
If you do not wish to be recorded, then your comments will need to be submitted in writing, and comments
can be submitted to the Board Office at the following email address-- rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
Speaker should begin their remarks by stating their names, and each speaker will have three minutes to
speak. Our first speaker is the caller ending in-- please say the numbers one more time.
JACK KROLL: Yep. 0670.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: You may proceed. You're recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Good evening. This is Director Peggy Catlin, and I was unable to participate on the
Zoom call, but I was able to call in by phone. So I don't have any comment. I just wanted you to know that
I was present.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Present. Just updating my notes, sorry. OK, are there any other hands
raised?
JACK KROLL: Vice Chair Guzman, there are no other hands raised at this time.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Were there any comments emailed to the Board Office or any other
communication for this evening's meeting?
JACK KROLL: There were no emailed comments in advance of this meeting.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. With no other participants in queue and no other comments to discuss,
we will close the public comment period at this time. The next item on the agenda is item C, Information
from External Entities. There are no external entity reports this evening.
We can move on to item D, the Update from the Revenue Diversification Working Group. I do need to
address this. Both Chair Tisdale and I discussed this with the team beforehand. This item was just
inadvertently left on the agenda.
We will not have an update from the Revenue Diversification Working Group. It was discussed at our July
meeting that the group will be pausing its work indefinitely. As such, we should not, as a Committee,
expect to hear updates from this group until such time as they have something substantive to report,
which takes us to recommended actions.
This evening, we have two recommended actions. And the first action is for the 29th and Welton property
disposition time extension. This is for the Board of Directors to extend the outside closing date to
December 31 of 2024 for the negotiation and execution of all documents necessary for the disposition of

the real property located at 2907 through 2915 Welton Street, Denver, Colorado, hereafter known as "the
property," including execution of any deeds, covenants and other property conveyance documents. Is
there a motion?
BOBBY DISHELL: So moved, Dishell.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second, Guissinger.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I got the movement as Dishell and the second as Guissinger. I would like to ask
Chessy Brady, Manager of Transit-Oriented Development, to present this item. You are recognized.
CHESSY BRADY: Thank you, Vice Chair Guzman. Hello. My name is Chessy Brady. I'm happy to be
back with you this evening.
As noted in the action language, we are recommending a time extension on this project. Everything else
is ready to go. We just need a little bit more time.
So the 29th and Welton Street project is a parcel owned by RTD. It's less than half an acre in Five Points,
Denver. It was purchased in 1993 for community parking. And in 2021, the Board of Directors approved
the disposition or, in this case, sale of the property for affordable condominiums. In 2022, staff selected
through an open solicitation process Shanahan Development with Elevation Community Land Trust to
complete the affordable condo project.
As of this point, we have an agreed-upon purchase and sale agreement, meaning we're ready to close
with developer Shanahan. We have set the land price at $1.5 million. Denver has approved through their
zoning and other processes the site development plan. So the project is ready for building permits as
soon as everything else is finalized.
Denver also committed $5 million to ensure the affordability of this project, and that's the permanent
affordability. The state has also committed $8 million through-- and the last hanging piece is Denver City
Council approval of $2.2 million for the Denver Urban Renewal Authority. And that's the last piece of
financing that will send this project on its way. That approval is expected September 23, 2024-- so in just
a couple of weeks.
Otherwise, beyond that last piece, this project is in great shape. It's called The Hattie after Hattie
McDaniel, who was the first African-American to receive an Oscar, based on a Wikipedia article that I just
read. She was she received it for Mammy in Gone With the Wind-- so a very well-known role. She was
from the area, maybe attended East High School, I believe. So this recognizes her and keeps her name
in the Five Points area.
This project will be 62 for-sale units. They will be restricted to households making up to 80% of Area
Median Income. So what that means is that people who-- families, households that could otherwise get
mortgages, but where the purchase price of the house-- or apartment in this case-- is out of their reach
because of the inflated market in the area-- because this development will bring the price down into the
range that they're able to afford, they will be able to get that mortgage to afford that apartment. Then, over
years, they'll build equity in the project and then sell to the next family that will also have this 80% area
median income level so that we're both building equity and also continuing to send the condominiums
apartments through different families.

There will also be 21 three-bedroom units in this building, which is very significant. Often, most
apartments or rentals are one or two bedrooms. So it's important to have these 21 three-bedrooms.
It's six stories. It's a quality building. And it will have 4,000 square feet of commercial space on the ground
floor for activation. And the developer is also providing transit passes, which is so important to any real
TOD project.
Of course, this is consistent with our equitable TOD policy and helps us reach our goal of having 35% of
all units on RTD land be affordable. This is 100%, so it puts us a long way towards our goal.
And as far as next steps, our existing authorization expires September 26. So we have those three days
between when the City Council approves the DURA funding and this authorization expires. It's entirely
possible we could close in there, but it's also very possible that there might be a paperwork issue or
something else that would push that date just beyond the expiration date.
And so we are recommending an extension to December 31. We do not expect it to go that far. But
closings on land, especially when there's so many different pieces of financing involved, can be
complicated.
And so we just want to have that little bit of a buffer so that we don't end up holding up this project. And
hopefully, it will close very soon, and it can get started. So that's all I have. I'm happy to answer any
questions.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you so much, Ms. Brady. At this time, I would ask those Directors who have
questions or who wish to speak to raise your virtual hands, and I will call on you one on one. If you are
calling in and you wish to speak, please remember it's star 9. I see Director Bobby Dishell's hand is
raised. You are recognized.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Director Guzman. Chessy, thank you so much for the presentation. Two
quick questions on my end-- one is, do they have their CHFA financing for their HUD tax credits? And if
not, how are they getting around that piece of the cap stack?
And then second, is this fully for an RTD ask? Or is it on the developer side as well? Because I know
typically it's market standard that if someone is [INAUDIBLE] there's typically some compensation given.
And with interest rates coming off here pretty soon, the developer stands to make a pretty meaningful
margin that this delay, RTD should likely be able to share in some of that upside. Thanks.
CHESSY BRADY: Thank you. And this is Chessy Brady. I'm able to answer the first question, except that
I forgot what it is. I'm so sorry.
BOBBY DISHELL: CHFA financing for HUD tax credits.
CHESSY BRADY: CHFA financing. Thank you. So CHFA financing and low-income housing tax credits
are for rental properties. This project is a for-sale property, and so is not supported by low-income
housing tax credits, which makes it all the more difficult to finance.
And then I think I heard most of your second question. So the time extension-- the developer wants to get
this project done as soon as possible. They want to close so that they can lock in their construction
financing and everything else. But for the City Council approval, we would have closed already. But the
price of the land is not going to change regardless of when we close.

BOBBY DISHELL: Got it. Yeah, that makes more sense. I wasn't sure if it was a developer-requested
extension or a. gathering-of-governments extension. And it sounds like it's the latter. So nothing further on
my end. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I believe Director Catlin would like to say something. So you are
recognized. It is star 6, in case you need the reminder.
JACK KROLL: Director Guzman, I think I misconveyed my message to you. I was going to let you know if
she had anything to add. She's joined the call as an attendee, which makes it a little challenging for us to
call upon her. We have to physically unmute her. So if I hear from her that she wants to add something,
I'll let you know.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great. Are there any other Directors who would like to ask any questions or speak
at this time? OK, seeing none, I just thank you for the work and the clarity in your presentation and the
documents. I will call for the vote at this time. Are there any no votes?
I don't see any hands raised. I did not hear anything. There are five aye votes, zero no votes, and two
absent from this meeting. We'll move on to our next item. Thank you so much.
The second item is for the 2025 through 2029 Five-Year Financial Forecast, also known as the FYFF. For
the Board of Directors to adopt the 2025-2029 Five-Year Financial Forecast, is there a motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
BOBBY DISHELL: So moved-- oh, second.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right. I heard Director Guissinger and Director Dishell as the movement and the
second in that order. I would like to ask Doug MacLeod, our Chief Financial Officer, and Todd Nikkel, the
Senior Manager of Budget, to present this item, please. You are recognized.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Vice Chair Guzman, and good evening. So as mentioned, this is the FiveYear Financial Forecast, also known as the FYFF. This covers a period of 2025 through 2029. And I'm
joined by Todd Nikkel, our Senior Manager of Budget, and would like to thank Todd for all his work pulling
these numbers together and making them all fit.
So in your package, you will have seen the Board Report, this presentation. And there's also a new item
that we attached, which is a document that gives some of the assumptions that were used and some
more information regarding the Five-Year Financial Forecast just for reference. And I'd like to point out
that it's not just RTD that uses this document and this process for planning, but it's also credit rating
agencies, and vendors, and also our community stakeholders to showcase our community value.
So this evening, just a very short presentation. We're going to talk a little bit about background, then we'll
talk about the assumptions used for revenue and expenditures. We'll go through the cash flow forecasts
and then talk about next steps. So regarding background-- so you may recall the term, "Mid-Term
Financial Plan." That has been replaced with the Five-Year Financial Forecast.
The Mid-Term Financial Plan was last approved by the Finance Committee and the Board in October of
2023. That covered the period of 2024 through 2029. It was a six-year forecast. We've changed that to
five years.

No real great reason other than to have a nice, round number of years, and nobody could explain why we
did six years. So this is a five-year forecast. And obviously, the further you go out, the less certain a
forecast becomes. So it made more sense to move to a five-year forecast.
This action item that we're requesting is also in support of the strategic financial planning item of Financial
Success. It establishes the 2025 budget baseline. And also, for planning purposes, it also lays out and
helps us plan not only for financial resources to be fiscally sustainable, but also to plan out as an agency
what other resources we need-- the human resources involved, lead time for procurement, et cetera.
And just as a reminder, unlike the budget, this is not an appropriation. So this recommended action is
really to approve this into the records of RTD. We do this once a year.
It provides information to the Board as well as the community and our employees regarding what we see
based on current information regarding our financial forecasts. It's not an appropriation or an
establishment of funding for any particular items. That will come in October when we present at this
Committee the proposed 2025 budget as a discussion item.
So moving into the assumptions-- so this first slide is all surrounding our funding coming in-- so all of our
revenues. So what you'll see when we go through the cash flows, we've included modest fare revenue
increases. And we're not assuming a fare increase itself. So the fares are still going to be $2.75 for our
flat fare throughout the five-year period. The increases simply come from assumptions in growth in
ridership that's driving that.
We've also included the TABOR refund provision. So you all know that we have the TABOR ballot
initiative to try to remain de-Bruced. That will be voted on in November of this year. What we're assuming
in this forecast is to be the most conservative possible in all of our assumptions, both revenue and
expenditures, to where we're not assuming that ballot initiative may pass. So what I'll show you is we
have some assumptions in there for decrease in revenue, assuming that TABOR refunds will, in fact,
occur.
The sales and use tax is our biggest revenue source. We are using the most recent forecast that RTD
has received from CU Leeds School of Business, and that came from March of 2024. This body will be
presented next month in October with a revised forecast for September-- excuse me-- yes, it's
September.
So in October, a revised forecast will be presented to this body. And those numbers will be used in the
budget. However, for now, we're using the March 2024 sales and use tax forecast.
Grants is our second largest source of revenue. So we only assume apportioned grants. So in this case,
it's mainly section 5307 preventive maintenance grants that are awarded by the Federal Transit
Administration. Those approximate $150 million to $160 million a year-- so a sizable chunk of money, but
we don't assume any other grant funding until we know it's certain. So again, being very conservative.
And I'd just like to point out that Senate Bill 230 oil and gas fees, we have not included any revenue for
that. Again, being conservative on the revenue side and being conservative on assuming higher
expenses to the extent possible on the expenditure side.
And one final item, you'll notice we do have large fund balances. We've been very adept at pulling that
money in from grants and other sources and getting it invested right away, trying to get as large of a yield
as we can while maintaining safety and liquidity. As those balances are used-- and I'll show you in the

fund balances as-- we use those to maintain primarily a state of good repair, we'll get smaller investment
yields-- not a huge dollar amount, but still significant enough to warrant discussing.
On the expenditure side, so what we've done on the-- we've built all of the expenditures, the operating
expenditures and all the supporting expenditures around the Comprehensive Operational Analysis, which
leads to the System Optimization Plan. So we're still planning on meeting that System Optimization Plan
and have forecasted accordingly.
Capital expenditures is one of the large item-- lots of discussion over the last couple of years of just
maintaining the assets that we do have in the system that we do have. I would point out, last month-excuse me, in July during the Finance and Planning Committee, we did give a presentation, a discussion
item about the Five-Year Financial Forecast. And you might remember we had three different generations
or phases that were going through as we implement a new financial planning process or an enhanced
planning process.
One of those items is continuing to gather more information on the inventory of assets and condition
assessments. So we're not completely there, but that's a long period, as you can imagine, with $9.3 billion
of assets and all their components and gathering the information about their usage and their wear. So
that's still an ongoing process. We'll have more about that with the budget presentation.
The other thing I'd mention-- I'll point this out in the cash flows-- is we still plan on cash funding
everything, meaning that we'll use cash on hand to pay for any capital expenditures rather than financing.
In the past, particularly not just with infrastructure projects, large infrastructure projects, issuing bonds for
those projects, which is a good way to pay for things, just like you would with your house, we've also
bought equipment with certificates of participation. We also built the in-line with certificates of
participation, which is a collateralized loan.
So we still have that option available to us as an agency to issue COPs. We do not have bonding
authority anymore without going to the voters. But if the necessity arises that we do need additional
funding, we can always switch over to a financing mechanism to buy some of these longer-term assets.
And then finally, I'll talk a little bit about fund balances. What you'll see in the cash flows through the fiveyear period through 2029 is that we forecast that we will continue to meet the fiscal policy requirements.
And I'll touch on each of those.
So these next three slides, we'll talk about the Base System, which is the 6/10 sales and use tax that we
collect. And then the 4/10, while a separate slide, FasTracks will have its own slide, and then we'll have a
combined looking at the entire agency as a whole.
So for the Base System, there's a lot of numbers here, so I'm going to refer to the blue numbers over on
the left by row number for some of the items that we wanted to point out. And I would just also like to
mention once again that the Base System can provide funding to FasTracks. But based on the 2004 voter
authorization, FasTracks money cannot be used on a Base System, with one exception, which is to
provide bus feeder service to the FasTracks lines.
So just beginning on the top line, I won't do this over and over for each one, but just to show you, the
fares are increasing modestly year over year, and that's based on ridership. No fare increases. There are
fares on FasTracks, and there are fares on base total. They accumulate to only about 5% of RTD's
revenue-- so a relatively small amount.

The item that I mentioned about the TABOR refund is shown on line 2, and you'll see this on each of the
slides. A portion belongs to Base System, and a portion belongs to FasTracks because it's only the
FasTracks 4/10 sales and use tax that is exempt from TABOR going forward through 2050. All their other
non-federal revenues are subject to TABOR growth limitations, including fare revenue as well as
investment income, for example.
So sales and use taxes-- oh, I should say, on the TABOR refund under current projections based on work
from the revenue diversification working group, based on our current projections, we don't anticipate
doing a TABOR refund until possibly 2027 and then again in 2029. And that's just because of the way the
TABOR calculation works regarding inflation plus change in property tax values. Now, that could change
significantly certainly if inflation changes or if our tax revenues change significantly.
But within the sales tax revenue forecast for March, it's really a fairly progressive growth throughout this
period of about 3% to 5% per year, which is below inflation, which is why you're not seeing a TABOR
refund except for those two years, and they're very small. These numbers, by the way, are in thousands.
So that first TABOR refund in 2027 really represents $1,544,000.
Moving down, I'd like to point out one anomaly that sticks out. We've discussed this also in the
assumptions document is on row 4, grants and contributions. So you'll see that in 2024, the projected
grants are $310 million.
Those drop down back to our normalized amount of about $160 million per year going forward. The
reason for the $310 million in 2024 is you may recall that we budgeted for a pass-through grant for Colfax
VRT. So that's money that's coming to RTD as a direct recipient of federal grants and then going right
back out to City and County of Denver to make those enhancements to the Colfax corridor.
Another item I'd like to point out is capital expenditures on row 14. So again, you'll see some big
fluctuations there. Number one, in 2024, again, that's the projected column.
And then the FYFF is the next five columns. So the projected year end is really the budget with a few
adjustments based on experience throughout this current year. But the budget for 2024-- capital
expenditures of $185,460,000.
That includes the downtown rail reconstruction project of $150 million. That's why that number is so large.
But generally, we can expect somewhere on the order of $50 million per year in capital expenditures, but
this is really our transit asset management plan. So each one of these years, the funding is timed to do
replacements when the transit TAM, the Transit Asset Management plan, indicates that that is warranted.
And I'd just point out, in 2027, the number shoots way back up to $207 million. That's due to scheduled
bus replacements during that year. So you'll see that number fluctuate. And I'll talk about fund balances
and how we support that and still maintain cash funding for these items.
Another item to point out is row 15. What you can see with debt service is it drops off precipitously going
forward. You may recall that's why we'll be subject to-- the Taxpayer Bill of Rights revenue growth
limitations is in November of this year.
The last payment on the basis of debt will be made. And then, really, the only debt that's held by RTD on
the Base System side past that is certificates of participation for equipment purchases, so that's a big
decrease. And you'll be able to see when we talk about fund balances why that's the main contributor to
the growing financial success on the Base System.

So finally, I'd just like to touch on the reserves. So the way this is laid out is rows 1 through 7 are revenue,
rows 8 through 16 are expenditures, money coming in, money going out. And then what's left over is
down in rows 17-- excuse me, rows 18 through 22. That's really an indicator of our fiscal health and our
financial position.
So we've broken that down according to the fiscal policy that has primarily four different fund balances,
where we categorize funding for specific uses that the Board has indicated. So number 1 is the operating
reserve in row 18. That's a three-month operating reserve.
So the Board has set forth the requirement that we maintain three months of operating expenses in
reserves. That's to be used for any economic shocks we may encounter or any emergencies as the Board
has decided. Because we're so susceptible to economic swings with 70% of our revenue is coming from
sales and use taxes, residents of the district stop spending, it could create a problem for us. But we have
these reserves to fall back on. So we're maintaining those three months of reserves throughout the fiveyear period.
Capital replacement funds-- so that fund really supports the notion of trying to maintain a cash funding
position rather than incurring more expensive debt to pay for things where we have to pay interest on that
debt. So what we're doing is we're building up that capital replacement reserve over the five-year period.
And what you don't see is, once we get beyond 2029, RTD is going to continue to replace, and repair,
and reconstruct assets as they become older, needing replacement.
So there will be some fairly large needs, including replacing buses, et cetera. So we're trying to build up
that fund so that we have the ability to cash fund, at least for a period beyond 2029. And we haven't really
forecasted too far out past that. So that's what the intent of that capital replacement reserve is.
And in turn, what we're doing is, as we build up that capital replacement reserve, we're pulling down the
unrestricted reserve. That's an undesignated reserve. It's really the general fund money that's left over.
So we're trying to put money into the fiscal policy funds, the capital replacement operating reserve on
Base System, and use up that excess money, again, so we don't have to borrow money.
But bottom line, you can see on line 22, our total reserves continue to grow throughout the period. And
even though we have FISA reserve on here, it doesn't apply to the Base System. I'll talk about that on
FasTracks. So a good story financially, fiscal sustainability on the Base System going forward.
I won't spend as much time on this slide, just hit some major items with FasTracks. So FasTracks is a
little bit different in terms of their fund balances. So a couple of items to point out is, essentially all the
revenues follow the same process that the Base System did in their revenues applicable to TABOR,
which are a little bit different in terms of the amount of sales and use taxes and the fares that are
allocated based on the types of modes that FasTracks provides versus majority of bus and light rail on
the light on the Base System side.
So again, you can see on line 2, TABOR reserve. There's a portion for TABOR refund. There's a portion
that would be attributable to the 4/10 separate entity of only $862,000 in 2027 and $1.3 million in 2029.
So we're accounting for those in the right buckets, at least at this point.
I'll just jump down to debt service, which is on row 15. So as you can see there, I showed you how the
Base System is being paid off. When RTD issued all the debt for FasTracks, the large build out of
FasTracks, it was structured in a manner that, for many of the first several years, that only interest would

be paid. The reason for this was because, as an entity, when you combine base and FasTracks as the
overall debt service, we wanted to maintain that at a fairly level amount when you add Base and
FasTracks together.
So some of the principal payments on FasTracks were delayed a few years until the Base System could
pay off its own debt, thereby freeing up cash flow to help support FasTracks, if necessary. And that's in
keeping with knowing that we couldn't have done the opposite way because FasTracks cannot use
money for Base, but the reverse is true.
So you can see the debt service is increasing from $177 million in 2024 all the way up to $254 million by
the end of the five-year period. So that's a significant constraint on FasTracks, obviously.
Moving down into the operating reserve-- so on row 18, it shows $52,850,000. We just kept that number
the same. It's still three months in every year. But because of the fluctuations up above in the cash flow,
we just wanted to demonstrate that every year we're meeting that. In some years, we have a little bit
more, but we kept it flat at $52,850,000.
And then moving down, let me just jump to row 21. And this is where one of the issues comes in
regarding finances. So we're using up that unrestricted reserve-- same with Base System-- but we're not
using it to move it into a capital replacement or other fund.
So we're using that funding up, and a lot of it's to go to pay off debt service. And one of the primary
reasons, as you can see in row 20, the FasTracks Internal Savings Account, or FISA-- that is scheduled
to be funded over in perpetuity, essentially. And it's based on a schedule that was put together back in
2013.
Now, the FISA is a Board directive to try to set money aside from certain sources to complete additional
FasTracks projects. But what's happening is you can see it's going from $190 million in 2024 up to $260
million-- so a $70 million increase. So that money's got to come from somewhere. So in the excess
monies going into that, we're building that up at the expense of pulling down the unrestricted reserve.
So I think the important thing to take away is we can still maintain the operating reserve, but the rest of
the funding available is as would appear here. And the last thing I'll point out is, because that is occurring- in row 13-- in order to maintain this $52,850,000 operating reserve, it's projected that the Base System
will have to provide $26,576,000 of funding to the FasTracks system just based on the way this math is
working. And again, it's a forecast, so it's going to change.
But I think the big takeaway here is that the fund balances for FasTracks are decreasing on row 22 from
$476 million down to $242 million. And if we're taking what's left of that $242 million and putting in certain
boxes in order to maintain those reserves, it's going to require funding from the Base System. OK.
So the final slide that I have is just to show what this looks like on a consolidated basis when you add
Base System and FasTracks together. It's still a good picture. We're maintaining reserves. I'll just go right
to the bottom line-- total available reserves on row 22-- $993 million, a relatively small decrease down to
$848 million-- still very solid position. Much of that money is going, as planned, to maintaining our system,
doing state-of-good-repair work and maintaining according to our TAM.
Again, we're meeting all of the fiscal policy requirements based on this forecast. So we've got the
operating reserves. We're maintaining the expectation that we target to only cash fund items. We've set

up the capital replacement reserve for long-term resiliency on the financing and then burning up some of
the unrestricted reserve just to maintain our system.
The last thing I'll point out is that bottom line there is another item that we have in our fiscal policies that
we target a net revenue coverage ratio of 1.2. So net revenue coverage from a borrowing perspective or
a credit rating perspective is basically taking all of your revenues minus your operating expenses and
then what's left over, comparing that to debt service. And what we said is an agency-- typically, just to
break even, you'd want that to be a 1.
You'd want enough money left over after operating expenses to pay every dollar of your debt service.
We've been a little conservative, and we've represented and included in our fiscal policy that we want to
be at 1.2 times to have a little bit of cushion there. And you can see in every year, we're exceeding that
1.2 times coverage based on this forecast.
So I think those are the highlights. I did have one more slide just to talk about next steps. Just as a
reminder, in October, at the October 8th Finance and Planning Committee, we'll bring the first look at the
2025 proposed budget. That will be a discussion item. There will be additional information, as was
discussed with the Finance and Planning Committee last year.
We'll have a full package, and that budget will be substantially final. State law requires that we post that
budget for public inspection by October 15. Then we'll come back in November and ask for a
recommended action to approve the 2025 budget, which would be in effect on January 1. So, Mr. Vice
Chair, that is all I have for this presentation. And Todd and I would be happy to take any questions.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you so much. At this time, I would ask those Directors who have questions or
wish to speak to raise your hands. I will call on you.
If you are on telephone, please toggle to raise your hand star 9. I do see Director Bob Broom's hand was
raised. You are recognized, sir.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I just had a question on the sales tax from vehicle sales. I wonder if you
could comment on the level. Is it going up or down? And then secondly, there's a lot of grants being given
to people when they buy a EV. Is the sales tax calculated before the grant or after the grant? Thanks.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: CFO MacLeod?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. And thank you for the question. I'm hoping that Todd is looking at our
industry sales by type of sale because we have several different vendors. So I'll ask him in a second if he
can give us information regarding vehicle sales.
But certainly, we do get vehicle sales. We actually get those reported to us from the Department of Motor
Vehicles each month in addition to the Department of Revenue, which reports and collects all of our other
sales taxes. So, Todd, I hate to put you on the spot, and this might be something we have to get back to
you on. But, Todd, do you happen to know how those are looking?
TODD NIKKEL: So this is Todd Nikkel, Senior Manager of Budget. And from a year-to-date standpoint, I
really can't off the top of my head. We did get our sales tax for July in today. And compared to last July,
new car sales were down 8% in our collections.

I didn't look at used car sales. And in terms of if the sales tax is calculated before a grant or a rebate, I'm
not familiar with that to answer that question. But auto sales year to date compared to last year in July,
we're down 8%. I could look at the year to date and get that information for you tomorrow if that would be
OK.
BOB BROOM: That'd be fine. Thank you. I won't take any more time.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Director Broom, for your question. Your hand is still raised, just so you
know. Director Dishell, your hand was up next. You are recognized.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Vice Chair Guzman. Question maybe for Doug, maybe for Jack Kroll,
which is, what is the Board's and our ability to amend the five-year plan for something around the FISA as
presented? Are we allowed to do a line item-- hey, FISA shouldn't be funded at that level because it's
eating away at our actual ability to run the transit agency? What is our wiggle room there?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: I'll defer first to CFO MacLeod. And if there's anything substantive I can add, I'll follow up.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Mr. MacLeod?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Great question. And what we request is, based on these numbers, the
FISA, we're requesting a recommended action, and it is a forecast.
What I would recommend is, going forward, that the Board potentially discuss the FISA and what the
policy should be for that going forward because we can always update the FISA. But without knowing
what that might look like, I would suggest that we have that discussion. And we can go into more detail
about what's going in, what's coming out, and then make an informed decision by the Board on how we
restructure our fund balances.
And incidentally, we will be bringing the fiscal policy to the Board in October for approval. That includes
things like provisions for TABOR refunds, et cetera. So I believe there's some time. And we can come
back with the fiscal policy and amend it any time. So if that's something we want to address over the
coming months, I would recommend that we maybe do that, especially after the election with the TABOR
ballot initiative and possibly readdress any changes that the Board may want to make to the fiscal policy,
which would drive changes to the numbers, and we can restate those.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Thanks, Doug. I think that makes sense to put that in the fiscal policy of funding
FISA only to the extent to should the extent the Board of the Committee agree that it doesn't harm the
agency. And on the TABOR refund numbers, is the cost-- who administers-- most TABOR is refunded
based on a property tax, which is much more straightforward than refunding based on a sales tax-- for
example, finding the tourist who came and bought a bottle of water at Union Station who paid in cash may
be a challenging effort to get that individual their money back. Is the cost of administering the TABOR
refund-- does that fall to RTD? Does it fall to the state? And is the cost of doing it included in the refund
number? Or is the agency expected to additionally come out of pocket in order to administer that refund?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Mr. MacLeod.

DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. My understanding-- and I'd ask general counsel to correct me if I'm wrong,
but my understanding is all the costs are borne by the agency doing the refunding. I don't know what that
might look like.
And as you saw with the current projected TABOR refunds, those are small enough with $3.1 million-- or
3.1 million residents within the district. And to your point, it's much more complicated to do a carveout for
the district and try to find people who actually spent the money than it is to do a statewide refund, where I
believe it's based on whoever submitted a tax return gets $750 or $1,500 back. So that would require
some additional discussion.
But based on the size of those refunds when we're talking about potentially $2 million combined in
refunds in 2027 spread over 3.1 million residents-- and I'm not even sure if that's how you do it or based
on taxpayers because you could have a family, for instance. So it would be relatively small. So probably,
what we would recommend to the board is doing something like free fares or something to return that
money to the taxpayers in substance if it was something larger, we'd have to talk about what that looks
like and how do we produce those checks. But I think it would really be a coordination with the
Department of Revenue and how do we facilitate that.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. That makes sense. And hopefully, it's not something we have to-- it may never
come to be. But it's an interesting intellectual exercise. Nothing further from me. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Director Dishell. Director Guissinger, I did see Eric's hand shoot up
really quickly. I don't know if he wanted to address something in that question. OK, sorry. Just making
sure. Director Guissinger, you are recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much, Mr. Vice Chair. And thank you, Doug and Todd, for all this
work. That's great.
I noticed that the language says that you're only including source and use projections with reasonable
certainty to occur. And the two big ones, of course, you pointed out are the SB-230 oil and gas fees and
the TABOR refund. What happens? I mean, refund, we'll in November, I guess. And the oil and gas fees,
I guess-- I don't know if you know at this point what constitutes reasonable certainty. But when you do, do
you amend this FYFF at that point? Or what do you do?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Go ahead, Mr MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Great question. And we certainly could. What I would propose is, if it's
material to the outcome of that projection, that we would come back to the Finance Planning Committee
and demonstrate what that might look like with the added results potentially of the ballot initiative. If
there's substantial changes, we'd certainly bring that back and report that to the Board, get this
Committee's input, comments, et cetera.
I believe-- so one of the things with the new potential fees-- one of the reasons why we didn't include that
is because we're not certain what the sizing of that looks like or the timing at this point in time. I didn't
want to speculate and include that. That's why we're being conservative.
In addition, obviously, if that money comes in, it will be expended on something. So it almost be an offset
regardless. So it probably wouldn't have much effect on our fund balances. There would be an
expectation, if we're getting oil and gas fees coming in, that money would be expended on something. But

yeah, I mean, from a gross basis, we would want to come back if that was material and present it to the
Committee and what that looks like.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, thanks so much. And then you have the generation 1, 2, and 3. It looks a to-do
list. Is that what that is? And it says it's 2024 through 2027. When would you expect to have the
generation 1 items completed?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. I'll go ahead and answer that. So yes, what we want to do is, through this
budget period, this budget cycle, October and November, we would want to have the majority of those
items in place, including additional information about the Transit Asset Management plan to provide to the
Finance and Planning Committee, additional narratives in terms of by department as well as just more
general information to be more informative. So those are the easy ones that we can do up front. So it's
really going to be those substantial types of substantive things that we can present to the Board with the
budget this year.
The generation 2 and 3 will spill into the next couple of years. And those are more behind-the-scenes
type of things, like maturing our TAM information as we go through the rail reconstruction project. As
they're pulling up rail, we get good information about what the condition of embedded track versus aboveground track. And we're really going to use that information going forward to really evaluate repairs and
replacements in the future throughout the system. So that's more of a longer-term project.
Another thing that comes with generation 3-- throughout generation 2, we're going to be refining our
processes as well regarding business justifications or business cases for individual projects. We've had
that in the past, but we want to go into a little more depth. And also, we're expanding that throughout the
agency where, in the past, what's happened is where we've gotten requests, they've come from several
different areas within the agency, different departments. And I think one of the visibility things that we've
been lacking throughout the year is not having those inter-departmental discussions until right before the
budget is put together. Then we all come together and discuss, all right, what are we going to work on?
What do we have the resources available to do? So that's going to be an ongoing cycle throughout the
year.
And then generation 3 is just making further refinements and possibly getting software to help with more
project planning software that takes into account not just when things need to be replaced, but it also
would be able to compare projects amongst each other. You may have a project that takes one year
versus one that takes a month. But the one that's a month has been prioritized down the road because it's
not as important. But it will help us really to evaluate resources. And should we just knock out the onemonther and start working on the one-year project at the same time? So that's where I think we can really
get some added benefit to our planning process, which will be a longer-term situation.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks so much.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Is that everything, Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: That is.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you so much. Director Davidson, you are recognized.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Vice Chair. Mr. MacLeod, thank you for the work here and for
presenting this. As always, very clear, very helpful. Also, delighted to see, again, that movement on net

coverage and our debt service coverage ratio. So again, thanks for the work that's gone into getting us to
that point.
I have a two-part question based around where our sales and use tax are currently. I believe-- I doublechecked that, I believe the FYFF is contemplating using the mid scenario that we're presented by CU
Leeds for sales and use tax. OK, I see the nodding. But what's interesting is, with this year, I think we're
down 6.7%, at least we were in August on year to date to budget. And we're actually trending closer to
the low scenario, which I think is somewhat reflected in the 2024 number here.
There's two things I'm wondering. I think one is, how do you think about that when you're looking at the
multi-year? What might be an adjustment down? And do we start to adjust to the low? So might we see
that, for example, in 2025 that we lower the budget expectations, depending on where we finish this year?
That's part 1 of just, how do you think about that in the multi-year plan?
And part 2 is, do you see any concerns if we do trend towards the low side in 2024, but we go back to the
mid? That could introduce some adjustments to some of our TABOR math by way of the ratchet down. So
have you seen any concerns with that? Have you talked about that? I just would be curious to get a little
bit of context around where we sit right now late in the year and trending closer to the low end, but as
we're planning for the mid. Would love just some context on that if you might. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: CFO MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Great questions. So regarding lower budget expectations with sales and
use tax-- so we have a few levers we can pull that we can adjust certainly on a short-term basis.
Some of those include not making certain expenditures. The last time we went through, we were facing
the COVID uncertainty, and we were very uncertain as to what our sales and use taxes would look like
going forward. Fortunately, they came back much better than what was expected.
Some of the things that we can do just on the surface is reduce discretionary spending, which has an
impact. So it's relatively small. There's certain discretionary spending things we can do to delay those
costs or cut out certain costs.
We can delay projects, for instance, that aren't critical. That would save money until we got into a better
place. And we can certainly use some of our reserves.
What we've experienced a lot in the past is, when the Board appropriates our expenditures for the year,
we typically underspend those amounts because of a variety of reasons. There's things that are very
certain. We have contractual increases in contracts that we know about.
And then we have to estimate based on certain other initiatives. For instance, there could be reasons why
those don't get off the ground, or they get delayed. We focus our resources elsewhere.
But one of the things we're trying to do in this financial planning improvement process is get our variance
down. We have typically about a 10% underspend on our operating expenses each year historically, so
that amounts to about 60$ million to $70 million. Those numbers, I think, we can probably tighten up.
There's an opportunity. There's some cushion there for us.
But within these numbers here that we're presenting, those are conservative, again, on the expenditure
side. So they're probably inflated over and above where we could really be if we just were austere without

digging into or punishing our actual operations, et cetera. I think the last gasp after we did some of those
adjustments to discretionary spending, delaying projects potentially using some of our reserves would be
to start reducing other expenses.
And the last thing that anybody wants to do is reduce operating expenses past the point of easy
opportune-- low-hanging fruit. So certainly, that would be a discussion. If we started seeing that trending
down to where we were concerned about it, General Manager Johnson would certainly discuss with the
Board, OK, what are we going to do? The great thing is, with the reserves that we have, we have enough
time to weather that storm and not make any rash decisions only for it to recover and have to put things
back. So I think we're in a good place financially from that perspective that we can make good strategic
decisions if we come under any financial constraints.
Second question, if it trends lower and then goes back up regarding TABOR-- that's a great question. Just
because CU Leeds, when they provide their forecast, it's really, as you know, very methodically moving
up over a long-term basis. And they don't forecast recessions. They don't forecast any big blips. It's pretty
straight-line going forward.
So if that were to occur, that would be certainly something that we'd want to discuss and how to deal with
that. One of the things we put in the fiscal policy is, I think we'd be experiencing that and be able to set
money aside to do TABOR refunds so that we weren't spending that money only to, six months later,
have to refund it and have to figure out where that money is coming from. So I think we can be a little bit
strategic in how we plan for those things. But certainly, it would come into play with the TABOR
calculation.
What we're seeing through July-- Todd mentioned we got the July tax numbers today. And we're still on
that trend where we're 7.3%-- excuse me, 6.7% below budget, which is almost $35 million. So we're
below budget this year. Our expenditures are below budget too, so it's a wash.
But year over year, for the first seven months, we compared to 2023, were 0.1% over-- $589,000 over
where we were at the same time last year. So it's really flat. So we're not meeting where we thought we
would be, but we're not seeing a large decrease at this point. So hopefully that answered your question a
roundabout way.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Davidson, is that-ERIK DAVIDSON: It does. Thanks. It does answer it. And just to echo back and just maybe a quick
confirmation, so I think what I hear you saying is, yes, we're going with the mid. Even if we're trending
down, we're not too worried about that because we're conservative on the expenditure side.
So in theory, slight adjustments down is a wash, and we have, then, the flexibility of reserves there. And
then on the TABOR aspect, this will factor into fiscal policy decisions that the Board would make around
the risk tolerance of what happens with a dip and a recovery. Have I echoed that back properly?
Great. Yeah. Thank you, Vice Chair. Appreciate it.
DOUG MACLEOD: And thank you for that. And the only thing I'd point out to you is, yeah, we've almost
always used the mid. There was a period of time three or four years ago where we did a combination of
the mid and the low. I think it might have been for the actual-- we shortened the mid-term financial plan
with COVID, and we also used the lower forecast based on revenue. I think that was the circumstance.

There's such a gap between the mid, and the high, and the low that I think we would be constraining
ourselves too much if we use the low and have to actually reduce the operating costs of we went with
high, I think that would be a much too optimistic and get ourselves in a bind. But certainly, yeah, it's a
policy decision that we would want to discuss with this body to make sure that, hey, we're seeing some
dark clouds on the horizon. Maybe we should implement a lower sales and use tax forecast before we
ask you to appropriate the funding associated with that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. So I want to circle back to something. Mr Kroll, you said you have the
fiscal policy available to discuss the FISA. Did you want to bring up that information?
JACK KROLL: Yeah, just to put a finer point on what CFO MacLeod stated earlier, I think the best way for
you all to address anything with respect to the FISA, as was discussed previously, is to hold a
conversation specific to that. And the best way to effectuate any change would be through your fiscal
policy.
The fiscal policy, with respect to fund balances, states as follows. "The FasTracks Internal Savings
Account will be used to provide funding to complete and operate additional FasTracks projects.
Expenditures from the FISA will be subject to Board approval. Funding of the FISA will be approved by
the Board."
So really, the Five-Year Financial Forecast is just that. It's a forecast. It's not an appropriation. You're not
going to actually fund the FISA for next year until you pass your budget for this year.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK.
JACK KROLL: Each subsequent year thereafter.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director Sloan, you had your hand up, then it went down, then it went
back up. Do you have a question before I return to Director Dishell?
MARJORIE SLOAN: No. I was really interested in all the TABOR-related questions, and they were mostly
asked. To me, it seems like the bottom line is, for individual taxpayers, nothing will happen until 2027 and
2029, and it will be minimal. However, it is meaningful revenue to the agency and will also require
additional planning-- so very long range in terms of most family planning, but medium range and maybe
short-term range for RTD planning.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you.
MARJORIE SLOAN: That's all.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great. Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. I appreciate the second bite here. My question is, on this Five-Year
Financial Plan-- or excuse me, Five-Year Financial Forecast, do we include operating expenses to match
the plans and studies that we've shown to the public, such as the System Optimization Plan, the Mobility
Plan For the Future, the Vehicle Clean Transition Plan that I know is still in the works?

And if we don't, can we touch on why? Because I think that might be a pretty big mismatch between the
policy that, as a Board and as a community, we're showing to people with the finances that come back to
either support or not support it.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Was there somebody that was directed to specifically?
BOBBY DISHELL: Whoever wants to take it and just to better understand that one.
DOUG MACLEOD: I can take that, Mr. Vice Chair.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Yes. So on the expenditure side, like I said, we're conservative in that
respect in that we try to include everything that we know of including partnership programs, et cetera. So
those are all embedded in those numbers.
And what we do typically is we use-- here's our current. So you saw the projected column for 2024. That's
based on budget and what our current experience is through this year. And we try to project through the
end of the year. That's our starting point.
Then, we add on to that things like inflationary factors, known changes that we're going to do. So for
instance, one of the things that you're all aware of is we're working towards a System Optimization Plan
through our Comprehensive Operational Analysis where we're not quite there yet due to staffing
shortages and other things. We've built those in in each successive year, so we try to account for all of
those things based on those known factors. So yes, we do include those.
BOBBY DISHELL: Got it. So it's reasonable for someone in the public to look at this and say, OK, if RTD's
funding is at this level, the System Optimization Plan should be fully funded.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes. Yes. And it's really based on current information. Of course, could change a
week from now.
BOBBY DISHELL: Right. CBA, et cetera, is all still-DOUG MACLEOD: But yeah. And I think because it's conservative, it's a pretty reasonable estimation.
And to Director Sloan's question, she pointed out the refund in 2027 and 2029. Those are just projected.
So that, too, could change, certainly.
And RTD would be subject to TABOR beginning in 2025. So potentially, a refund could happen in early
2026 once all those numbers are finalized-- so a lot of changes there. And if something changes
dramatically, we'd certainly want to talk to the Finance and Planning Committee about what that looks
like, what policy changes, what we should do moving forward.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. And you just referred to this, Mr. MacLeod. But the TABOR
numbers that we're looking at now, as you said, don't assume any sort of recession or significantly
lowering of our sales and use tax or additional state funding coming in or anything like that, right?

DOUG MACLEOD: Correct.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Because those things would make a big difference. OK, thanks.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Is that everything?
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's everything.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great. All right. I don't see any more hands raised. Just checking with the Board
Office staff. Since Director Catlin was on the call, has she chimed in at all?
JACK KROLL: She has not. She had to drop off the call and appreciated that CFO MacLeod presented
this item as a planning exercise and not an appropriation.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great. Thank you. I would like to call for the vote at this time. Just a quick time
check for everybody-- it is 6:38. So are there any no votes on this action? I do not see any-- which, I
believe we're at four, correct? So that would be four aye votes and zero no votes, with three absent from
the Committee.
OK. We have one item left. It is my hope that we can wrap this up pretty quickly so that we can get on
with our evenings. Thank you for your great questions and conversation. This is a discussion item only.
We're not taking any action here. And so we have one updated item listed on the agenda, and that is our
discussion for the 2025 investment policy. I would like to ask CFO Doug MacLeod and Brendan Morgan,
Senior manager of Debt and Investments, to present this item.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Yeah, very briefly on this one, there are really no substantive changes to
this policy. This is a discussion item. This investment policy, we will bring back to the Finance and
Planning Committee on October 8, along with the 2025 fiscal policy, and ask for approval of those
policies.
Again, these can be changed at any time. There have been no statutory changes, no investment industry
changes that would impact this policy over the past year. So what we've included in here are really just
minor grammar changes. So it's being presented in that vein.
And you also note that in the Board report, we did mention, too, that as a follow-up to the Revenue
Diversification Working Group. We are looking as an agency Brendan Morgan, , Senior manager of Debt
Investments, is working on looking at if the juice is worth the squeeze in terms changing the policy that we
fall under for statutes. There's a general policy for investment limitations that government agencies can
do within Colorado, but there are certain carveouts for things like higher education schools with their
endowments.
We're just looking at that to see if there's some opportunities that would benefit RTD. But again, safety,
liquidity, yield, in that order, is what we're going for as an agency. We want to protect the investment
through safety. We want to make sure it's liquid, so we can have the money available when we need it.
And then yield's a secondary concern. So this is kind of an aside project, but it may create some
opportunities, and we would return to the Board if that looked like it was going to bear fruit. So that's all I
have, Mr. Vice Chair. Thank you.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I just want to affirm that this is mostly clerical update to this document. I
have reviewed it. There's literally one word that has been changed, which makes more sense.
And the rest of it is really just changing numbers. The policy does remain the same as it was in the
previous years with no major changes. So are there any questions, any comments on this at this point
from Directors on the meeting? Director Davidson, you are recognized.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Vice Chair. I just simply want to say, Mr. MacLeod, Mr. Morgan, thank
you for taking a look at that and bringing that forward. And, Mr. Kroll, thank you for sharing your
experience as well with the Revenue Diversification Working Group based on your work with the region.
So I just want to say, thank you for looking at that, and we look forward to hearing an update. Appreciate
it.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Just one question for you, CFO MacLeod, and that is, do you need any
direction or any other feedback from this Committee about this item?
DOUG MACLEOD: No, thank you. It was really just a discussion item if there were any questions,
concerns. Really, most of what we put in this policy is guided by state statute or prudent financial
management. So no, unless anybody has any comments or suggestions.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great. One last opportunity, y'all. I see no hands raised. So thank you very much for
the presentation. And thank you for all of the hard work to get this done.
I will move on to other matters. Item G, are there any other matters to discuss? I see none. All right.
The next meeting date for the Finance and Planning Committee will be Tuesday, October 8, 2024. At that
meeting, we are slated to take action on the fiscal policy, [LAUGHS] on the investment policy, receive a
sales and use tax forecast update, and hold our initial discussion on the 2025 RTD fiscal year budget. So
read your documents, and come prepared with questions because we're going to have a lot to talk about.
Thank you so much for your work. I look forward to it. Thank you for letting me chair the meeting. We did
it. I seek a motion to adjourn, and we'll call the meeting closed.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right. We close this meeting, and adjourn it at 6:44 PM. Thank you so much.
Have a good night.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Great meeting.

