Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on June 14, 2011
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

June 15, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee held
June 14, 2011 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair James; Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Brohl,
Cohen, Deadwyler, Malpiede, McMullen, Tayer, and Tobiassen.
Directors Bagley, Daly, Hoy, O’Boyle, and Riley.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Bill Bell, Larry Buter, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Libby
Cox, Bob Downes, Sherry Ellebracht, Mike Gil, Kenn Hardin, Terry
Howerter, Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod, Brian Matthews, Barbara
McManus, Tony McCaulay, Anthony Menendez, Bob Mickelson, TaiShrae Parish, Dan Pearsall, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Trent Ratcliff,
Stephen Reilly, Steve Ruim, Jeanette Scarpino, Daria Serna, John
Shonsey, Chris Sills, Greg Smith, John Stark, John Tarbert, Christina
Tubb, and Mike Washington.

Others Present:

Chris Cruz – Celina Inc., Chuck Easterling – DTP, Stan Gronek – ATU
1001, Robyn McVicker – Urban League, Chris Robertson – Urban
League, and Katrina Wert – CCD
****

Call to Order:

I.

Committee Chair James called the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee meeting to order at 6:45 p.m.

Recommended Action
 Approval of Oracle ERP Developer Contract
Trent Ratcliff noted that as we add new capabilities around the ERP system this contract
features functionality to provide better financial accounting and reporting to streamline
business processes and enable new technology. This is a resource that is critical and
vital to that ongoing support.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on June 14, 2011
Page 2 of 4

Barbara Brohl inquired if this contract was for one person, and if the term was for three
years or three, plus an additional two. Trent Ratcliff indicated that it was for one person
and for three years, with two one-year extension options.
Marla Lien added that our contracts have a key personnel clause which name the
personnel for a particular contract and if any names identified are removed or changed
by the contractor, we have approval rights over any substitute.
Bruce Abel who filled in for General Manager Washington, explained that this is a
specialized skill set that is needed on a project basis, and when this specific module is up
and running this particular skill set may or may not be transferable to future projects.
Trent Ratcliff agreed, indicating that business demands could change after three years
and we would not have to exercise our extension options.
Director Cohen noting that this contract is good for 24/7 maintenance issues, and asked
how much we would pay an individual on an annual basis for 24/7 support including
benefits. Trent Ratcliff indicated that we would be paying an employee $140,000
annually (loaded rate). However, the three year contract allows for us to assess the
needs of the business and at that point decide if we need to hire on a full time employee.
Carla Perez added that if an individual were hired instead of exercising this contract, that
the position would continue to exist even though their skill set and expertise might not
be needed in the future.
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his delegate, to execute all documents
necessary to award a new 3 year contract, for the amount not to exceed of $495,000,
for Oracle ERP Developer services to Access Data Consulting Corporation, contract #
11DC001. The contract is being brought to the Board because it is a Personal Services
contract per RTD Resolution No. 27, Series of 1985.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion
to forward this item to the full Board
at the June 21, 2011 Board
Meeting.

Second:

Director
motion.

Vote on
Motion:

Malpiede

seconded

the

The Motion passed Unanimously.

 Approval of 2011 Amended Budget
Jeannette Scarpino noted that the Finance office had asked for foreseeable changes
from the department managers for both base and FasTracks and the result is a combined
increase in total appropriations of $234 Million to $1,372 Billion, and a decrease in total
appropriation of Capital Carryforward of $240 Million to $542 Million.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on June 14, 2011
Page 3 of 4

Director Deadwyler inquired about the $200,000 Civil Rights expense increase and
requested more detail for that item. Jeanette Scarpino noted that this amount would
accommodate growth in the Civil Rights office that General Manager Washington has
requested for the Civil Rights function. Carla Perez added that the reorganization would
include a Title VI Manager, and an EEO Specialist.
Director Deadwyler added that she had previously requested information from the Civil
Rights office on numerous occasions regarding objectives, goals and plans and her
request has yet to be satisfied. She does not wish to appropriate more funds to the Civil
Rights Office without knowing their purpose or strategic plan.
Bruce Abel noted that Carla Perez and her team will ensure that the information
requested is provided to Director Deadwyler.
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors adopt Resolution No. ___, Series of 2011 to amend and appropriate funds
for the proposed 2011 Amended Budget, to increase the appropriation by $234.049
million to $1,372.128 million as detailed below in the Overview of the 2011 Budget
Amendment, and to decrease the appropriation of Capital Carryforward (Previously
Approved Capital Funds) by $239.968 million to $542.266 million.
Motion:

Director Tayer made the motion to
move the 2011 amended budget to
the full Board meeting on June 21,
2011.

Second:

Director
motion.

Vote on
Motion:

II.

Malpiede

seconded

the

The Motion passed with nine (9) in
favor (Anderson, Brohl, Cohen,
James, Kemp, Malpiede, McMullen,
Tayer, and Tobiassen) and one (1)
against (Deadwyler).

April 2011 Monthly Financial Status Report
Doug MacLeod noted that these figures represent April 2011 and year to date, we are
25,000 below ridership from the same time frame last year; however Fare Revenue has
increased 3.4 Million and Sales and Use tax has increased $10 million for both base and
FasTracks. The Balance Sheet indicates the Base System currently maintains $63 million
which is essentially two months worth of operating expenses. However, that figure will
trend down as 2011 continues due to an interest payment in June, and a principal and
interest payment in December. FasTracks maintains $481 million, so they are in great
shape.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on June 14, 2011
Page 4 of 4

III.

Other Matters
Director McMullen inquired when 4 car trains would begin on the H Line. Bill Bell noted
that we are currently working with the city with the timing of the signals and the city
would like to work out a few issues before we officially begin to run the 4 car system.

IV.

Next Meeting Date – July 12, 2011

V.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 7:38 p.m.

