2024-09-16
Performance Committee
PEGGY CATLIN: Good morning. The Monday, September 16 Performance Committee will now come to
order. We are convened as of 8:30 AM, and I would respectfully ask anyone attending this meeting to
mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this morning. Please note that committee meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings,
along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's
website.
During today's meeting, we are also providing Communication Access Realtime Translation, also known
as CART. Anyone who would like access to this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided.
Additionally, the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like
access to a live transcript of this meeting in Spanish. A live stream of this meeting is also available via
RTD's YouTube page.
I would like to now call the roll for the committee members. Director Buzek is unavailable. Director
Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'm here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Rosenthal will no longer be on the committee due to work-- work scheduling
conflict. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I am Director Catlin, and I am present. So for the record, we have five directors
present, so we do have a quorum.
I would like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any
topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. If you wish
to speak and have not already done so, please raise your virtual hand or press Star 9 on your phone.
During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comment-- excuse me-- or responses. However, if
you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board Office at

rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Board Office Manager Kroll, are there any hands raised for public
comments?
JACK KROLL: Good morning, Committee Chair Catlin. This is Executive Manager Jack Kroll. There are
no hands raised at this time.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK then. Have we received any emails or comments in writing?
JACK KROLL: Not specifically to anything listed on the agenda, but we do have an email from Julian
Latch, who had asked to be present for this meeting, looking for an update on the state of the speed
restrictions. I don't see that on the agenda for today's meeting. We would be happy to correspond with Mr.
Latch via email to give him the most up-to-date information on the speed restrictions.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr Kroll. That would be helpful, and if you could keep us-- everyone on this
call apprised of the correspondence, that would be great. So with no other participants in the queue, we
will close the public comment period at this time.
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Catlin, I just wanted to also interject here and note for the record that
Director Lewis is also present at the meeting.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for the reminder. I didn't mean to overlook you, Director Lewis. And I don't
see any other Directors who are on the call.
There are two discussion items this morning. We had intended to have three discussion items, but we
were not able to make enough progress on the KPI conversation from last month to warrant returning the
item to the agenda. This matter needs to come back before us in October.
And suffice it to say that we've been working on it. Director Davidson and Director Guissinger and I have
worked on yet another draft of this, and we will be bringing it forward to Ms. Johnson and her team to try
and work through this item. But look for that item in October.
The first item-- discussion item is for the 2024-'25 strategic initiatives. Debra Johnson, General Manager
and CEO, and John McKay, Executive Business Partner, would you present this item to the committee?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Catlin. Good morning to all that are
assembled. I am Debra Johnson. I serve as the General Manager and Chief Executive Officer of the
Regional Transportation District. As indicated, I am joined with John McKay, the Executive Business
Partner. And we will provide an update relative to 2024-2025 strategic initiatives. So with that, if you could
advance the next slide, please.
What I intend to do this morning in conjunction with Mr. McKay is talk to you and orient you to our
performance cycle, which basically aligns with how we show up and do our work for all nonrepresented
employees. I will speak to you about Phase One of 2023 through 2024, and Mr. McKay will touch upon
Phase Two, and we'll continue on with next steps.
So advancing into the performance cycle. As you see before you with this diagram, it's critically important
to showcase how we utilize our strategic plan in relationship to our four strategic priorities, which are
customer excellence, community value, employee ownership, as well as financial success.

And within those four strategic priorities, we were collectively as a team-- and when I say we, the we is
identified by the Leadership team, Management team, and those individuals that comprise the teams at
various levels throughout the organization. We collectively plan our goals that are in alignment with the
strategic plan throughout the performance period. We monitor individuals' performance, and then we
review performance.
It's important to note that we as nonrepresented staff went forward with a performance review period
whereby we got on track and we had an 18-month period to bring us to a phase whereby we commence
our performance review cycle July 1 of each year and end on June 30. Recognizing the time frame I just
outlined, we just are in the process of finalizing the performance review process for all nonrepresented
employees.
This context is important as you'll understand the presentation as we go forward. And also in your Board
materials with the discussion item that's in your packet on page 3 and page 4, it gives you an outline of
what that is and how we went about that. Next slide, please.
So it's critically important here as we look at this pyramid to understand visually how this all feeds into
what we do collectively in reference to our individual performance. You can clearly see at the base of the
pyramid, we as individual employees have specific goals which are all tied into our performance.
Quite naturally, we outline how we're going to get there with tactics. i.e., leading indicators. Those leading
indicators run the gamut as we look at asset management, internal communication, employee
recruitment, employee retention, employee security as well as public security, because we've identified
key initiatives that basically we wanted to hone in on, recognizing that we do have a five-year strategic
plan and we couldn't tackle everything at once.
But those elements have been informed by the input we have garnered through our community surveys.
And so as we look at the strategic initiatives that is the third level within the pyramid, we can clearly see
Back to Basics, People Power, and Welcoming Transit Environment. Those elements are described on
packet page 4 in reference to how we identify what that means.
But you've heard us say constantly Back to Basics. We're focused on asset management. People Power.
How are we hiring and retaining employees, and how are those employees showing up?
And then a Welcoming Transit Environment, keeping in mind that our critical core mission is transit
service delivery. We want to ensure that people have an optimal experience when utilizing our system,
and more importantly for our employees who are performing the task to ensure that we can make good
on our core mission of delivering transit services as well as making lives better through connections.
So then as you look at the strategic priorities that you are familiar with, it's how we are going to
concentrate on the life of the plan. And those are the strategic priorities I mentioned at the outset of my
remarks. i.e., they're long-term goals captured in the agency performance scorecard that are centered
upon customer excellence, community value, employee ownership, and financial success.
Quite naturally, the next level is values. What do we stand for? And how are we showing up, doing our
work? If we weren't doing it with intention relative to being passionate about what we're doing, actually
showcasing respect, having diversity of thought, experience, and people, and standing in our truth and
being forthright in reference to what we do, and collaborating and taking a sense of ownership not only for

how we deliver work, but also in reference to taking ownership in ourselves for our personal growth and
development, it would be for not relative to how we would make lives better through connections.
And then this feeds into our vision, what we aspire to achieve, which is clearly to be the trusted leader in
mobility, delivering excellence and value to our customers and community.
And so when we go back to the strategic priorities, we basically look at short-term goals that are captured
in the annual scorecard, hence their orientation to the previous slide relative to the strat initiatives, as well
as the priorities relative to team members' performance goals. Next slide, please.
So as I indicated previously, as we talk about strategic initiatives, it's critically important to understand that
while we have these initiatives, I focused on Back to Basics. You may have received earlier this morning
a stakeholder communication where we showcased what we've been doing relative to Back to Basics.
We were able to complete the Coping Panels Project. We basically finished the five intersections of our
first light rail line relative to ensuring that's in a state of good repair with the five intersections. As we look
at internal communications here at the organization, recognizing that we garnered a lot of input from our
colleagues relative to ensuring that information is disseminated and they can understand what was
happening in the organization prior to learning about it in some external source.
We've been intentional with that through the means of various communications focused on our inside
connections, our newsletter. What we put up in the divisions relative to what's happening, communicating
out and even sending information to people's residences relative to the addresses that they have on file.
Quite naturally, we would be useless, in a sense, if we didn't have people that are providing the vast
services that RTD is known for. But we have to keep in mind while we have customers where we want to
serve, without our internal People Power, we would not be able to move people to and fro. So we've had
a laser-like focus on employee recruitment and employee retention, and we've seen some notable results.
And then certainly, last but not least is the Welcoming Transit Environment whereby we have laser-we've had a laser focus on employee security, because it's important if we're going to retain employees
that we can create an optimal work environment when people are out in their mobile offices.
We don't have control over who our customers are, recognizing the optimal word there is public as relates
to public transportation. But we basically can listen and lean in and do what we can to optimize that
environment. And taking care of the individuals that comprise the agency will in turn enable us to help
with our customers to create a more favorable experience when they're utilizing our system. Next slide.
So this is just an example of one of the initiatives and what we have done collectively. On August 10, we
had a Strategic Planning Workshop. And we've have had these several times throughout the year so we
can do a check-in relative to where we are collectively as a leadership and management team. And as I
indicated, this is just one of the strategic initiatives since the watermark sampled.
But what we've done is looked at our action steps and looked at our status, and then we can discern
where we are. And that helps feed into the individual performance goals relative to the performance
period with each contributor feeding into their division, feeding into their department, then feeding into the
agency, enabling us to be better at what we're doing to optimize those scores that we would like to see
relative to our net promoter score and community satisfaction.

So just as an example here, looking at action steps. We talked about relative to People Power with
employee recruitment being the specific tactic to establish monthly recurring meetings with hiring
managers. That is something that the HR department has done specifically when we look at some of the
areas where we've had challenges with our People Power.
So what does that mean in lay terms? It's meeting with Dave Jensen's staff in Maintenance of Way, for
instance, as we look at track maintainers. And basically, we have seen some great results with that
because they have been able to hone in on the numbers relative to who we're hiring, what the needs are.
What do the turnover rates look like?
And so while we have that as completed, that is something that we have completed, but that doesn't
mean that's going away. That means that it's going to basically set the foundation for how we go about
doing work relative to employee recruitment.
Next, as it relates to Workday. For your edification, Workday is our human resource management
software tool. And you guys have used that for some elements in reference to the Board members having
access to benefits and things of the like.
But what we did was create a dashboard within Workday so we understand where we are. Now, while it
says in progress, it's in progress because now that has been rolled into daily work. That will be
commonplace as we go forward.
Develop and implement an eSkills program, eSkills being electronic skills program whereby we have
training that's readily available, and individuals can go in and look at where they are and identify key
elements that they may want to hone in on for the betterment of their selves as we look at employee
ownership in reference to a value, because that's critically important.
We want to ensure that we have individuals that are equipped with the tools and the training and the
professional learning that they need to be their optimal selves. And that's something else that has been
rolled into our daily activities.
Build out the talent acquisition team. Charlene Polege, our Chief People Officer, has done a yeoman's
job, and we have had some dynamic hires that have come into the organization. Hence, that's why we're
able to look at that first action step relative to establishing monthly recurring meetings with hiring
managers because now we have Talent Acquisition team members and Human Resource business
partners that are readily available and assigned specifically to divisions within departments to help hone
in on our talent pool.
And then last but certainly not least as an example is review, analyze, and refine, RTD's current
recruitment and selection process. Being intentional in the beginning when we look to hire an individual
for a role, basically mapping out the timeline. So if you're going to have an external interview panel that
you have that shored up so you can let the candidate know, OK, we anticipate receiving applications on
September 15.
On October 15, there will be a panel interview comprised of three individuals, and we look to make a
decision no later than October 31. That way, if somebody is really honed in on wanting to work-- wanting
to work for the Regional Transportation District and they're weighing other options, they have an
understanding of what to expect relative to the timeline.

So going forward with the next slide, I will yield the floor to John McKay. And I'd like to basically give him
a shout-out. He has stepped in. He has leaned in and showed up and showed out as relates to taking this
on with his team of performance analysts.
Just at the workshop we had on August 10 received favorable feedback from employees that participated
and said this was the best one yet. So I wanted to take this opportunity and give John his flowers in the
presence of all of you and those that are assembled because he's done a yeoman's job. And with that,
Mr. McKay, I will yield the floor to you. Thank you.
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you for that introduction. As noted, am John McKay, Executive Business Partner,
talking through the second half of this presentation. As GM/CEO noted, we did just complete the 20232024 employee performance cycle. And so in order to launch into the next year's performance cycle, we
needed to take a look at the strategic initiatives to see where we could improve matters as related to the
strategic priorities and success outcomes related thereto.
So in order to do that, as she noted, in August we held an Employee Strategic Planning Session-Workshop, and identified areas where, as she noted a couple of slides ago, that there were items that we
did complete, items that we still need to work on, and then potentially other items that we didn't even have
on our menu at that point in time. So that's where these hashed boxes are for. They indicate that there
are other things that maybe we could be focusing on.
So with that, in order to determine where we needed to improve things, we took a look at some survey
data that we had collected over the last year. And in the responses to those surveys, if there were a key
driver-- and I'll speak to that in a moment-- that indicated importance to the customers of the community.
That's something that we took a look at.
If the responses were below 75%, that indicated an area that we could potentially take a look at. And then
if there were a favorable response decline year over year, that's another area. And in the Venn diagram
where those circles overlap, those really indicated where we needed to focus effort. Or alternatively, in
the areas where the response rate was lower than 50%, that's definitely an indicator that that's something
that we needed to work on.
And from that activity, we determined that there were four main focus areas that could use a little bit of
work, and I'll into those in a second. But just to name them, they are access to employment centers; ontime performance, both perceived and actual; personal security for customers and for community
members; and then tools to grow people's career within the agency.
We also took a look at the key driver analyses for each of the surveys over the last year. And just to walk
through this briefly-- so on the y-axis is the satisfaction rating. The higher the score, the higher the
indicator that people are happy with RTD's performance in that area.
And then the importance rating, the farther to the right on the x-axis, the more important it is to the people
who are responding. And a key driver analysis, just to note, is the methodology used in market research
to identify the key drivers, so-- or behaviors.
So looking at the light rail as an example, you can see from this that, A, item A, frequency, how often the
trains come is by far and away the most important thing to people who responded to the survey. So
because it is in the bottom right-hand quadrant, we can tell that this is an area where we could add effort

to receive more favorable ratings from the consumers or from the customers. If we were to improve
frequency, then we would definitely see an improvement in customer satisfaction.
So luckily, Chris Tatham from ETC Institute walked through this with us last week. So hopefully, everyone
is familiar with key driver analyses, so I won't go through each one. This is just a sample for light rail
specifically.
Alternatively, if you also look down at the bottom left quadrant-- so we also have the Q score there is for
personal security while riding the train. So we can tell that if this is not particularly important to the people
who responded to this survey-- and this is the 2023 data, we still haven't received the 2024 data. Those
surveys were just completed in September. But this shows that for item Q, their personal security, it is
both low in terms of satisfaction rating, but also low in terms of importance for customers.
As I noted before, those Venn diagrams where the areas intersected and where there was a key driver
that we've seen is important to people. That's where we determined these are the items that needed
focus for 2024 and '25 with respect to the employee's performance goals. So these are the things that we
will be working on individually and with respect to the strategic initiatives in 2024-'25. And we'll show you
a scorecard here at the end of this performance-- or this presentation to go through that.
So related to access to employment centers, we are focusing on increasing the percentage of community
that agrees or strongly agrees that RTD serves employment centers. For the 2024-'25-- the survey cycle,
we're actually changing that terminology to major activity centers, just to incorporate things like event
venues and major commercial hubs, things like that. Employment centers doesn't quite hit the mark, but
that's something we'll be tweaking slightly next year.
Related to on-time performance, we will be-- we're working on increasing the percent of services that
arrive within the current prescribed on-time performance metrics for each mode and increasing the
percentage of customers who agree or strongly agree that buses or trains usually run on time.
I'm noting here, these are the remaining focus areas on hold for 2024-'25. The response was that we're
looking at increasing the percentage of customers who agree or strongly agree that RTD's fares are
reasonable, given that the 2024 fare change just went into-- went into effect in January of this year. We're
not really sure how customers feel about the fares right now, and using that data would probably be
premature. We'll take a look at that once the customer survey data's come back-- data comes back.
Related to personal security, we're looking at increasing the percentage of customers who feel personally
secure and the number of community members who feel personally secure while using RTD's services.
And related to employee professional development, this was one of the items that was identified in the
employee survey, that we're increasing the percentage of employees who agree or strongly agree that
RTD provides them with the tools needed to grow their career.
And again, a note-- I think that date is wrong. But the Strategic Planning Workshop, we did take a look at
the 2023-'24 strategic initiatives. We took a data-driven process like I just walked through to identify the
elements to adjust. And then in addition to that, we also held breakout groups among all the senior
managers and department heads and leaders who were engaged in that workshop to see if there were
any other things that really needed to drive focus for the next year.

And there were some key items that were identified during that process. We had breakout sessions and
brainstorming to determine leading indicators-- and I'll go into that slide here in a moment-- leading
indicators to identify areas in which we could focus efforts in order to improve our outcomes.
On the following week, on August 14, the leadership team met to develop the 2024-'25 strategic initiatives
and tactics based on the feedback that we received from the workshop, the activities that we performed in
that workshop. And then over the course of the last month, I and my team have been developing the
annual scorecard and developing leading indicators to help us focus effort on those areas.
And a brief refresher on leading indicators versus lagging indicators. A leading indicator is a predictive
measure of future performance. It's something you have direct control over. It's measurable in the short
term. These are subject to change. A leading indicator is something that it's a predictive thing that you
may not know the answer. If you tweak y and then x happens, then you know that there's a pretty strong
correlation between those two things.
So we as staff need to be able to change those things because this is sort of like a little laboratory. We're
identifying where we can put effort. And if there's a positive change associated with that, then we know
that we can keep doing that.
A lagging indicator. These are the indicators that we capture on our agency performance scorecard that
would be in the middle of the strategic plan for 2021 through 2026. This is the scorecard that people are
familiar with, more than likely. And we'll be talking about that in a later item in this meeting.
A lagging indicator is something that provides a snapshot of performance and what has already
happened. So these are after the fact. The outcomes are not controlled directly. In RTD's case, these
tend to be annual metrics because they're predicated upon survey data by and large, and they're
communicated to larger audiences.
Moving on to next steps, again, this is a refresher on the pyramid of hierarchy here where employee
performance goals are at the bottom. This is the base of everything that we do here. That leads into the
tactics. Those are-- those employee goals are informed by the tactics, which are themselves informed by
the strategic initiatives, which support the strategic priorities established by the Board and the success
outcomes associated with those, which feed up to the values, the mission, and then the vision.
In a moment here, we'll be talking about the annual scorecard. I'll give a brief overview of that. This is still
in development. I just wanted to point that out. We are in the process of identifying a monitoring cadence
for these things. We're working with staff to determine how often these things can be measured. There's a
back end software product that we're looking at to enhance that process.
And here's a sneak preview of our 2024-'25 strategic initiatives for staff. In the next week or so, we'll be
communicating this with employees as they start to launch their new goal setting process for 2024-'25.
In your packet, there was a slight typo that the internal communications item was still on there. We've
determined that the internal communications items that were on the strategic initiatives for 2023-'24 were
largely accomplished. Those that weren't accomplished were rolled into daily work. And so under the
Back to Basics strategic initiative, we're focusing on asset management again for this year.
For People Power, the same. Both employee recruitment and retention will still remain. For Welcoming
Transit Environment, employee security and public security are still very important and still could use
some work. And then the new one, brand new in purple at the bottom, Customer and Community

Connections is our fourth strategic initiative, and there's a focus on customer experience and community
outreach.
And then the definitions for these things by and large were unchanged. The definition for Back to Basics,
the internal communications aspect is no longer contained there. But for community and-- sorry,
Customer and Community Connections, the definition is RTD is committed to fostering community
building and enriching the customer experience.
And for next steps, like I said, we will be communicating these strategic initiatives with staff. And we're
obviously doing that in this committee here, so this is now public. These are public for this year. The
annual scorecard will be disseminated so that employees can start performance planning for next year
and identifying personal goals related to their job that will also help improve employee-- agency
performance overall.
In the longer term, we will be holding more either quarterly or biannual workshops or meetings when
senior managers and directors and leads of departments, along with the leadership team, to track the
progress related to those strategic initiatives. And then employees will be holding performance check-ins
with their supervisors and managers to determine their progress against those goals that they've set
related to the strategic initiatives.
And with that, I will stop sharing this screen and then move over to my other screen here. And so this will
be a little small here, but I will zoom in to the extent I can.
OK. So here is the annual scorecard. As noted, there are four. They're the same four that I just went
through. Back to Basics, People Power, Welcoming Transit Environment, and customer and community
connections.
We have the tactics associated with those, an annual metric. These are the metrics that are in the agency
performance scorecard that will need to be improved by way of these leading indicators that we've
identified.
So under Back to Basics, we have one referencing the financial health ratios utilized by the Office of the
State Auditor. There are nine of those that were seen in the last performance audit or the governance
audit, rather, that was performed by the OSA. RTD's adopting those as measures of financial health. And
so the percentage of those that are met is now one of our metrics.
The nine financial-- the percentage will be measured on a regular basis. And if there are any of those
indicators that could use some support, then we will report on those to the General Manager and CEO so
that she will be fully apprised of that and can adjust course as necessary.
I won't go through all of these. This is a snapshot. It's in the packet. I'm happy to take questions on this at
the appropriate time. But let me zoom down here just for a moment here and focus on the new one that
we've identified as the Customer and Community Connection strategic initiative with focus on customer
experience and community outreach. We've identified these as the leading indicators in order to predict
where we can improve things.
We will engage in efforts to-- the percentage of operated trips versus scheduled. We think that if we
operate a high number of trips versus those scheduled, then we will improve the response to the question
in the survey of percentage of the community that agrees or strongly agrees that RTD serves employment
centers. And with that, I will stop sharing and take-- open the floor for questions.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. Johnson and Mr. McKay. That was a very good presentation. Very
thorough. Are there any comments from Directors? Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I wanted to direct your attention to page 13 of the
packet relative to this key driver analysis for light rail with the four boxes there. And I note in looking at
that that items F and Q are-- thank you for bringing up the screen-- F is personal security on the train and
Q is personal security while waiting for the train.
If you'll note there in the lower left quadrant of that box-- and that leads me to have less than high
confidence in this pictograph. I do not believe that it is low importance or a low priority. I know there's low
satisfaction as listed, but that it's a low priority for our customers for either personal security on the train or
personal security while waiting for the train.
So therefore, questioning that, I'm wondering, can you tell me-- and I recognize it says the word "sample"
across the whole thing here. What is the source for these data?
JOHN MCKAY: Madam Chair?
PEGGY CATLIN: Please.
JOHN MCKAY: So these are self-identified. These were from the-- this is actually the 2023 customer-- for
light rail 2023 responses. Customers are asked to rank their responses to these questions. So of the
people engaged with, these are hierarchical with A being the most important to individuals who
responded and the Q being the lowest response.
As noted, these are 2023 data. This could have changed over time. We will be receiving the 2024 data
here within the matter of days. Those surveys, as I noted, were just completed within the last month, and
so that could have shifted over time.
We've seen in other agencies that-- let's say train cleanliness. Even though it's in the middle of the pack
here for the 2023 cycle, we could see that this could jump all the way to the top for 2024, or vice versa.
The personal security could also jump high. But as of 2023, this was the customer's preferred ranking of
these items.
And not to say that anything is insignificant or important. Just, these are the most important things to the
customers that we engaged with with respect to that survey.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, I'm sorry. Please go on ahead, General Manager.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. I was just going to say, during next month's meeting
cycle we will see the results for 2024. And to amplify the point that Mr. McKay put forward, some of these
could have shifts. But recognizing the prioritization during the course of the snapshot in time being the
September time frame in 2023, this is what individuals saw as most important.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, thank you for that response. So the people who responded, however many there
were-- and I forget the number-- that's what they said. Thank you very much. I appreciate it.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Guissinger?

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. And thanks very much for this presentation and all the good
work. I just wanted to say, just so it's not one person asking, I had exactly the same question. That
seems-- and I hear that you've got more info coming. And also, I'm glad to see that it's still on your priority
list for addressing. But it just seemed weird to me that it would be low satisfaction and low importance in
terms of personal security, so thanks for looking at that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Ms. Johnson and Mr. McKay, for this. And
certainly, Mr. McKay, thank you for leaning in, as Ms. Johnson highlighted here. Helpful to really hear the
understanding. And I know this is something that we've talked about a couple of times in past meetings
about the forthcoming annual scorecard here, so it's really helpful.
I wanted to make sure that I'm following along OK with how this ties out, and then had one follow-up
question around the intersection between departments and the interplay. So actually, I'll take the example
of packet page 18, which is the key driver analysis of light rail, and recognizing that it's 2023 data and is
provided here as sample.
Highlighted in the areas of opportunity includes frequency, how often the train comes. Then when we go
to the scorecard, which is on packet page 30-- this is the annual scorecard-- I know one concern that this
committee has raised in terms of its analysis of agency performance is that we've been very heavy on
perception. If I look down on that sheet about 2/3 of the way down, I see percentage of customers who
agree or strongly agree that the service is on time.
But the leading indicator-- there are two that tie in to some of this on time, which is-- I'm sorry, there's one,
which is percent of on-time terminal departures. There is another around reliability, which is percent of
operated trips versus scheduled. So I'd imagine that the idea here is we've identified the key driver, as
we've seen on that packet page 18 or slide 13, tied that out into some actual leading metrics we can
measure with the hypothesis that, OK, if we improve that frequency, it's going to ultimately improve the
perception.
I guess I want to make sure that I'm tying that out correctly. You walked us through all of that, Mr. McKay.
I just want to make sure that I'm echoing it back properly.
And my follow-up question to that before handing off the floor there is if I'm tracking that correctly,
sometimes leading and lagging can be different depending on which angle you're coming from,
particularly different departments. And I would imagine that percentage of on-time terminal departures
has a lot of-- in many ways, that's lagging for the leading of other departments that might feed into that,
things that they need to be doing from a maintenance standpoint, staffing levels, our extra Board, all of
those types of things.
So I'm wondering if you can comment, first of all, whether I've characterized everything correctly. But then
second of all, what kinds of dialogues are happening in these workshops around the interdependencies of
departments and how their respective metrics tie in together? Which, I realize this particular report you
showed didn't get into that level of detail, but it'd be helpful to hear what kind of interaction is happening
between those departments.
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. McKay?
JOHN MCKAY: GM/CEO Johnson, did you have something to say first? It looked like--

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, so I just want to start out, and then I'll yield the floor to Mr. McKay. And I know
Mr. Jensen is on this call as well, because it's very important that we understand the direction in which
we're going, because everything we do is interdependent. Recognizing our core business function here at
this agency is to deliver transit service, if in fact we do not have vehicles, if we don't have facilities, then
it's for not.
What's critically important as we talk about changing the perception is honing in on the leading indicators.
So for instance, if we're going to change the perception of individuals-- and Mr. Jensen and I just talked
about this last week-- it's ensuring that we have gap trains available.
And what I mean by a gap train is if we're trying to clear a platform after a special event, we need to have
trains in a pocket, because you can easily lose the schedule. But if you can actually put a [INAUDIBLE] in
the midst of that, then to the average customer, it appears as if they did not miss a trip, even though we
may have missed the scheduled trip, right? Because basically what we're doing is utilizing and being
intentional and being strategic relative to delivering service to manage the expectation of the customer,
therefore creating a better customer experience.
And so as we talk about that-- and Mr. Jensen, I'm going to yield the floor to you momentarily-- as we look
at maintenance of way, we have to ensure that if we're doing preventative maintenance, we have a
window that's well enough, and we can power down in sufficient amount of time to get the crews out
there. Then we can power up so we can get all our colleagues off of the right of way so we can ensure
that we are leaving the terminal on time. So Mr. Jensen, would you like to further elaborate?
DAVE JENSEN: Yes. Yes, I will. And Chair Davidson, I think that you were tracking exactly right. The
internal-- I'm-- am I not-- am I not trans-- you-JOHN MCKAY: [INAUDIBLE]
DAVE JENSEN: You can hear me?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Mm-hmm.
DAVE JENSEN: OK. So exactly what you alluded to. The internal conversations, which in our minds can
be either leading or lagging-- mechanical, for instance. So the vehicle maintenance team is evaluating all
of the failures, all of the preventative maintenance programs, looking for where there may be delays. If a
train breaks down, there's a stronger likelihood that we'll drop a trip.
So in our efforts to reduce the number of mechanical failures, we can improve the level of service that we
can provide. And that's across the board. It's maintenance of way, even the preventative maintenance.
When we shut down, for instance, to do wire work or track work, we may lose some service initially. But
over the long haul, we gain that level of service. And so it's really identifying for us where those items are,
what they are that would cause us to lose service, whether it's personnel, whether it's maintenance,
whether it's state of good repair, and get ahead of those things in a proactive manner to increase the level
of service over the long term. And so I hope that answers your question, but that's the way we're working
on it internally.
DEBRA JOHNSON: And then Mr. Jensen, if I can just say for the record here, you mentioned mechanical
failure. So that is a lagging indicator that is commonplace within the industry, which is the mean distance
between failures. And hence, to the point that he just made, working with his relative divisions within, then

we can better increase our mean distance between failures that will yield to better schedule trip allocation,
but in such short time. Therefore, you could utilize a gap train, and then increases the perception of the
customer relative to experience and how many trips have been made.
DAVE JENSEN: Yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. McKay, I see your hand up. Did you want to add to that?
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you. Yeah, just adding on to those comments that Dave Jensen, Fred Worthen,
the Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations, they have the opportunity now, now that we have the
strategic initiatives for the next cycle, they can empower their employees, their superintendents and
managers within their divisions to take these goals on. They can work with them to craft goals for the
2024-2025 cycle that will impact these goals.
So Mr. Jensen could have an employee working for him who's solely focused on increasing the
percentage of operated trips versus scheduled so that we can see improvement in that area, which will in
turn improve the response to the community-- the percentage of the community that agrees or strongly
agrees that RTD is on time in the next performance cycle.
So it gets down to the granular level. It starts at the very bottom with the staff on the bottom of that
pyramid. They build goals that impact-- that are associated with the tactics that impact the strategic
initiatives, which in turn impact the strategic priorities. It's a cycle. It's a system.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. That well addresses what I was aiming at. And thank you,
Madam Chair, for indulging the discussion there. And I would just say thank you for that kind of united
approach. I know this is difficult and comprehensive, but I think this is-- I'm starting to see how this is
coming together in terms of a unified approach, in terms of the strategic initiatives, so I appreciate the
comments on that. Thank you very much. Appreciate it.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Lewis, please?
JAIME LEWIS: Yes. You were saying that we've been focusing on the rail. I'm just curious. Next month
when we get this 2024 numbers, will that include bus? Have we measured the bus customers?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Madam Chair. So Director Lewis, thank you for your question. Basically,
with our community value and customer surveys, we look at all modalities as we go forward. Last week,
you were able to see paratransits. You will see bus and you will see rail, and that will inform the data as
we go forward quite naturally relative to what it is that we're doing. And that's hence why this was a
sample. And so, Mr. McKay, if you could further expound.
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you very much. For this cycle, we did do the community and paratransit surveys
over the summertime, just because those are not intercept surveys, and so we're able to capture the
responses at a time when the survey consultant could take those. We do like to do the intercept surveys
during the time when school is in session so that we have the same sort of-- the metrics that we're able to
use over the course of the year. It provides a better snapshot for us.
In 2025, we will be shifting the timing of both the community and customer surveys as well as the
employee surveys earlier in the year so that we have this data earlier on in the cycle so that we can-- as
the budget is being developed, as the performance cycle for 2025-'26 is being developed, we'll have
better responses from our most recent surveys available for us.

JAIME LEWIS: I have a second question, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Please.
JAIME LEWIS: On the employee development, do we differentiate between the skills needed for the job
versus professional development? Because those are really two different things.
So when I think of special skills, I'm thinking-- and I apologize, there's some sirens outside my window
here-- special skills means specific to that job, whether it be computer skills or whatever, and professional
development's more like, oh, let's teach you how to do public speaking. Let's help you manage conflicts.
So I'm curious, do we differentiate between those two?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may?
PEGGY CATLIN: Please. Ms. Johnson, go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, we do, Director Lewis. Most certainly, because there could be a position-- if I
looked at a civil engineering position, we would want to register a professional engineer in the state of
Colorado.
On the flip side of it, if I have somebody in vehicle maintenance and we have Sieman railcars, we may
send them to a specific training relative to Sieman so they understand the mechanical portions of that
vehicle. Or if we have a New Flyer bus, they may need to go to New Flyer. So they wouldn't come in with
that skill set. We're providing them with the necessary skills to do their job.
More specifically, as we talk about various values, we just went through a manager and supervisorial
training that gave them the basic elements. But I did see Ms. Polege come on screen. I'm sorry I didn't
see you earlier. I will yield the floor to her so she can expound more greatly since this is her area of
expertise.
PEGGY CATLIN: Ms. Polege?
CHARLENE POLEGE: Thank you. Just how is my sound? Is my audio OK? Great. Charlene Polege, as
noted, Chief People Officer. I'll just add additional context. What GM Johnson indicated is correct. The
professional development is more geared-- it's more employee-driven. So it's their professional
development areas that they may want to grow, either moving along in their career or just enhancing the
skill sets that they already have.
And when there are specific skills that we require as an organization, as GM Johnson indicated, that's
different from professional development. That would be a mandated training that we then provide. So that
would be the answer I would give. Hopefully, that addresses your question, Director Lewis.
JAIME LEWIS: So I'm hearing the skill set is specific to the job, but we're not providing any professional
development outside of their job.
CHARLENE POLEGE: No, sir. I wouldn't-- I would say no. Professional development outside of their job
could be-- we have an electromechanic who is getting a master's degree-- or pardon me, a bachelor's
degree in science. That is their professional development. They are developing outside of their job, but it's
driven more by the employee, is the different-- is the difference.

JAIME LEWIS: OK. Yeah, I just like to see for professional development in general maybe classes offered
to them that would just increase their ability to maybe switch jobs within the organization. I think one of
the biggest issues for people is they get stuck in a job and they can't get out of it. They don't have the
money to go for that bachelor's degree. So maybe having professional development classes within the
organization would help them climb that ladder.
So something to consider for the future, that not all the training has to be specific to their job, but could be
skill sets that they could use to apply to other work that they would apply for within the organization. I
think that helps with retention. So I hope you guys take a peek at that. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So if I can just speak to that, Director Catlin, or Chair Catlin, please. We do have a
professional development program. We actually have monies that are set aside for professional
development, and every employee is allocated a certain amount of money.
And Ms. Polege can expound because we don't look at it as a career ladder. As she has eloquently said,
we look at it as career constellations. Because somebody could come in, garner a better understanding
through volunteerism, working on different projects, and have a desire to go in a totally different direction.
We do have individuals-- there is somebody in particular that's top of mind for me that works in Charlene's
area who is a human resources representative who started out as a bus operator.
So we have clear-cut examples of individuals that have able-- been able to leverage the constellations
and utilize the programs that we have readily available. Not only do we provide them internally where we
have a laser focus with a learning and development plan, whereby we're going to have micro credential
programs coming into the 2025 year. We also have opportunities external to the organization as well.
So Ms. Polege, I just wanted to say that because that was something critical as I came into the
organization that I wanted to see established. And I know you have been honing in on that and
shepherding that for the agency with Dr. McDowell's assistance.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Yeah. Chair, if I just may add-PEGGY CATLIN: Please.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Thank you. So just want to expand. What we are building out today, we have
many employees who have moved across the organization starting in one position and also one area,
and then moving in different areas, as GM Johnson has indicated. Previously, early in my tenure, which is
only a year and eight months, but we had identified these career constellations, but also the ability, given
the diversity of the agency, to actually have it be a differentiator that we could actually-- you could have a
full career at RTD.
So I want to be clear. If there's skill training required to do the job that you're in today, that is provided by
the agency. There are also internal programs that are being developed, like a manager and supervisor
certification training that every new supervisor and manager would take. But also, individuals could ask to
take some components of that training themselves, even if they're not a supervisor or a manager yet so
that they could develop themselves in that category.
So we are building constellations. The idea around constellations, just to be clear, is a ladder is I'm in bus
operations, and I-- bus operator, street supervisor. Like, I just go up that particular line.

The concept of constellations is you are an individual and we have many, many jobs that have a core
amount of skills. And you can go out in a variety of different directions within RTD, and we're developing
programs and pathways to get individuals there if they so choose. So just wanted to give that additional
clarity.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for that. Does that answer your question? Thank you, Director Lewis.
Director Guzman, I saw that your hand was raised earlier. Did you have-- I don't [INAUDIBLE] now.
[LAUGHS]
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director Lewis asked the question that I had at the top of mind, which is,
we'll see the bus and the other modalities brought forward in the same type of presentation so we can
understand comprehensively what's going on. We're one agency, but we have to take a look at different
parts, so that's great.
I would also just say for the record, Debra touched on this-- sorry, CEO Johnson touched on this, and it is
really important. There are affinity groups that are adjacent to what we do. I just returned from Portland
from the Latinos in Transit group, and they have an academy that you can sign up and go for if you are a
member. There is a fee and a cost to doing that. But we are as an agency members of the Latinos in
Transit. We support that work.
There's the National Transit Institute through Rutgers University and the US Department of
Transportation. There are many, many opportunities for employees and Board members to get training
and further their careers in a variety of ways that are also not necessarily tied just to being employed at
RTD, but also because we're in an industry that's so specific.
Some are free. Some do require a cost and a payment, but there are ways to help with that. And that's all,
to my knowledge, part of what we do as an agency. Having looked at the finances for the last year and a
half, I know that those line items are part of our budget, and so I'm excited to see that going forward. But
that was-- Debra touched on it, so that was all I was going to add to that conversation. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank-- thank you. Excuse me. Are there any other questions? I do have a comment. I
was really pleased to see the agency scorecard, the annual scorecard. Although it is September-- pardon
me-- I was wondering if you indicated, Mr. McKay, that the data for 2024 would be in this month. How
soon would we be able to see that 2024 annual scorecard in the detail that was suggested? Excuse me.
JOHN MCKAY: Madam Chair, I'm not sure if I'm following you. So this is-- the green scorecard that we
displayed earlier is the annual scorecard. The blue scorecard is the agency performance scorecard,
which will be forthcoming here in the next discussion item. Is that-- am I following you, or-PEGGY CATLIN: Both. And my question really is more about looking forward. And it's clear that you guys
have done some really thoughtful planning about-- about the scheduling and the cadence for this. And I
just am anxious to understand when we can expect both of those scorecards to be presented to the
Board.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Committee Chair Catlin, if I may.
PEGGY CATLIN: Sure.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So in regards to bus and rail as indicated, that survey has just been completed since
the [INAUDIBLE] of September. That's going to come forward in October.

What we're trying to do is sync all of this information up together, recognizing that it's optimal to do
intercepts. The ideal point of time in which to do that would be either in September or in the April-May
time frame before school is out because we need to ensure that we can capitalize on a large portion of
our workforce. 2/3 are represented, and they do their bids during the course of-- generally around April.
So as we go forward, we will bring this in a way that basically has all the information gathered so we can
inform and be intentional with budget planning, so we can do some refinements, recognizing that a
presentation will be provided to you all in October. So i.e., looking at light rail and the key drivers. There is
some tweaking that we can do to that. That's why it said sample.
We will also look relative to if the impact of fares has any underlying concern for our customer base,
recognizing that that was last year's data. And as Mr. McKay indicated, the new fare structure went in
play to January.
So we really don't know where we're going to get at this juncture, recognizing that we're supposed to get
the information in quick order. But we will be intentional as we go forward because this is incumbent upon
us as we move forward so we can be intentional with our planning and work towards a clearly defined
purpose. I know that was a lot, but I was trying to answer the question. [LAUGHS]
PEGGY CATLIN: And I did not phrase the question very well, but I guess going forward, it's just nice to
know when to expect some of these pieces of information as we go forward. This was a really good
presentation. It shows how deliberate you are in your strategic planning. I just-- just in the effort of
managing-- or in managing expectations just to understand what we can see going forward. Mr. McKay?
JOHN MCKAY: Just to follow up, so that is correct that the 2024 scorecards were predicated partially on
2023 data. Moving forward into 2025, the survey data for 2025 will impact the scorecard for 2025. So we'll
be able to be a little bit more nimble once we have our survey data come to us earlier in the year.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I like hearing that. [LAUGHS] All right. Are there any other questions on this
topic? And so the second item is for the financial success performance metrics. Once again, I'll turn it
over to GM/CEO Johnson and John McKay, Executive Business Partner, to present this item to the
committee.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Catlin. Once again, Debra Johnson, General
Manager, CEO, RTD. What we have before you is critically important as we talk about our financial
success outcomes. Last March, this body collectively as the Board had a discussion relative to what
might be optimal capturing how we are looking at our financial success. Just saying 50% of what we
spent wasn't necessarily something that was ideal for all of us, and we aligned around that going forward.
So what we intend to do today, Mr. McKay, and then we do have Mr. Morgan that is present as well who
is stepping in for Mr. MacLeod, who is on PTO this week, talk about how we incorporated what we saw
relative to the Office of the State Auditor. But more intentionally, what are we doing relative to our
wonderful ratings that we have got from Poor's. And all of those different elements. So with that, I will
yield the floor to Mr. McKay, and Mr. Morgan is here to address questions as well or add additional clarity.
PEGGY CATLIN: [INAUDIBLE]
JOHN MCKAY: Chair?
PEGGY CATLIN: Go ahead, please.

JOHN MCKAY: Thank you. So there's no great way to share this. Again, I'll zoom in to the extent that I'm
able to and try to show some of this information. So the scorecard, as printed and distributed in the
packet, is largely the same as that seen previously in May and June of this year. So I'm just bringing this
up right now.
So like I said, this portion of the scorecard in relation to the first three strategic priorities of customer-community value, customer excellence, and employee ownership are largely unchanged or entirely
unchanged, actually. The only addition is here on the second page under the financial success strategic
priority. And so I'll just walk through each of these metrics as we're capturing them or suggesting being
captured. So again, this is in development.
The first metric that we're looking at is budget variability. This was the one that was in the previous
scorecard, and the definition is the deviation from the adopted budget. And let me go backward just one
moment.
So these metrics are directly related to these two performance inquiries, as previously adopted by the
Board. So the questions are, how has RTD demonstrated good stewardship of taxpayer dollars? And how
has RTD developed trust as the leader in mobility? And answering those questions is where staff is
looking at these particular metrics to be able to define those things.
So next is cost per revenue hour, and the definition is the inflation-adjusted operating cost per revenue
hour. The inflation-adjusted part is not something that was in the previous scorecard. I think that is a
critical addition so that we can see over time. As inflation increases are as they are, I think it's important
that we are taking that into account as we're measuring this cost for revenue hour.
Next is monthly reserves. There is-- the Board's fiscal policy determines that a certain amount of reserves
be maintained. Right now, we're looking at three months if monthly reserves and we're measuring this on
a quarterly basis.
Next is debt service coverage, which is one time-- 1.2 times coverage. The next is the big one that we've
developed. This is an annual metric because part of it is predicated upon survey data. It is a three-part
composite.
It's called the weighted trust index. It's a measure of our financial trust external to the agency and includes
the parts of the nine state financial health ratios. These are the OSA, the Office of the State Auditor,
metrics that we just looked at in the green scorecard, the annual scorecard. I won't go through these, but
collectively our percentage of meeting these goals, these ratios, equates to 50% of the weighting for the
weighted trust index.
Next is a bond rating. This is going to be Standard and Poor's. That is the most probably relevant to us,
and that accounts for 20% of the weighting of this.
And then the average of community survey responses to these four questions, or prompts, rather. RTD
manages its financial resources well. RTD is a good financial steward of public funds. The community's
investment in transit provides value, and RTD's financial reporting is understandable and transparent. So
that equates to 30% of the overall score for this.
And as I mentioned, that is an annual measure. These other ones are more frequent than that. And then
this one and the last one, both because they are predicated upon survey data, they will have to be an
annual measure for now.

And then the last one is the fair value, the percent of customers who agree or strongly agree that fares
are reasonable. And I'm looking forward to seeing the survey data coming back from customers for bus
and rail in the next week or so so that we can see whether the implementation of the 2024 fare structure
will have a strong impact on people's agreement with that question. And so with that, I will leave this up
on the screen for discussion purposes, but I will yield the floor to Directors for questions.
PEGGY CATLIN: But first, Mr. Morgan, do you have anything to add to Mr. McKay?
BRENDEN MORGAN: Yes. Good morning. I'm Brenden Morgan, Senior Manager of Debt and Investment
Management here at RTD. I really have nothing to add. I think John walked through this well and hit on all
the details, but certainly happy to discuss or answer any questions the Board may have.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Appreciate it. I see Director Davidson's hand is raised.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you very much. Thank you for presenting this, and thanks to everybody
for the good work on this. I think that particularly what's on the screen right now in terms of expanding
upon this success outcome and having waiting be around more of our fiscal or financial health ratios is
really, really good work, so thank you for that.
Also, thank you for adding budget variants into this. I know I've talked about that a number of times. I
think that's an important thing for us to keep an eye on. Cost per revenue hour is great to see.
Quick question on variants. Do we foresee reporting on this in a way-- I think in the Board briefing
documents, if I'm not mistaken, we do look at the expenditure and revenue portion of this. Are we looking
at tracking that separately? And how granular do you foresee going on tracking and reporting on our
budget variants on a quarterly basis? And perhaps for General Manager and CEO Johnson, even to what
extent might that influence-- how granular would we get in setting any goals that may come out of that as
we progress?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So one thing that's very-- oh, excuse me. Madam Chair, if I may? Yes. Thank you
very much, Chair Davidson, for the question. So I think one thing that's critically important is we have
collectively looked at how we prepare our budgets. Having worked with a CFO, what has been intentional
and purposeful is meeting with the members of departments on a monthly basis as they go through their
line items for their budget so they can garner a better understanding of their expenditures, what has been
encumbered, and things of the like.
So there are certain elements which are taking place in conjunction with the budget analysts. I can't
speak specifically to how we're going to bring that forward. It has helped us better plan and prepare for
budgets. But I do know that there is additional work that has been done. Mr. Morgan, do you have any
additional information as it relates to that?
BRENDEN MORGAN: Thank you. I'd be happy to chime in. I know Doug has been working-- CFO Doug
MacLeod has been working on this. Specifically, I know his intent, at least his starting point, was that he's
hoping to clearly tie many of these metrics to our monthly financial statements and our annual audit so
that there is transparency and accountability for where these numbers are coming from, they can be
relied on, et cetera. I think the actual format is yet to come in the future.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Does that answer your question, Director Davidson?

ERIK DAVIDSON: It does. Thank you. Yeah, I look forward to seeing that again. Thank you. Huge step in
the right direction of putting that on the sheet and starting to really monitor on that, so thank you. And fully
appreciate that that's kind of chicken and egg influencing how we budget here. So appreciate that.
Again, I know, like the previous example I was asking about on the prior discussion item, has a lot of
interdependency. So thanks for looking at it. I think it's a place where the Board and the public can look-it's a sort of simple number that actually tells you how well those interdependencies are working together,
so thank you for that.
I do think-- I just had one other question. I know I see cause for revenue hour. We've talked at some
point-- I think this question is for General Manager and CEO Johnson-- around the concept of cost per
revenue mile. It's challenging with our district as we always talk about with the large service area and our
cost per revenue hour. There's some real intersection with also the distances and deadheading that we
do, and so forth.
So does it make sense-- have we had conversations as a team around tracking our cost per revenue mile
and how the intersection between revenue hour and revenue mile might inform us? I think this is one of
the areas that I struggle when we see things like the overall operating expenses on an unlinked
passenger trip basis. I think it's really difficult benchmarking against other agencies, like we've talked
about, because of the characteristics of our modes and our distances.
So I'm trying to find-- the root of my question is, are there places that we can have several metrics that
inform us how we're overall trending from an efficiency standpoint? And perhaps that's revenue hour with
revenue mile. I don't know, but I'm curious what conversations have happened at the staff level on that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Madam Chair, if I may proceed? So Chair Davidson, as it relates to cost per
revenue hour, I would say we've had conversations around that. When you look at cost per revenue mile,
you would see collectively that we're probably not as efficient just by virtue of the way our system is
designed.
And so as we talk about optimizing that, if there were a threshold-- and there have been conversations as
we looked at this. I was just meeting with Mr. Morgan just the other day about a different type of service
as we look at rail operations, i.e., light rail and commuter rail versus the community's desire for other
services that may not seem optimal just by virtue of the way the system is designed.
And so as we look at it holistically, I would say that for us, it is advantageous for cost per revenue hour. It
may put us in a very precarious position when you look at cost per revenue mile because there's only so
much density that this service area has, and it raises the question relative to the other services that are
provided.
And that's something that we could do, but what are we going to do with that data if we collect it? Are we
going to be intentional and actually utilize it to optimize our transit service delivery model for the
betterment of us being great fiduciaries? What is the core element that we're-- the core issue for which
we're trying to solve?
So I know I'm sort of talking around the issue, but I don't necessarily know with the way we're structured
here if that would yield something. It'd be different if we were a borough in New York where we could
clearly see-- or if we were a San Francisco that's 49 square miles that has a transit stop every two blocks.

And so basically, when we look at data points and we look at various performance indicators, we need to
be very intentional about what we're trying to solve for. And right now, as we look at our budget, it's more
or less ensuring that we can garner financial success because doing a cost per revenue mile won't yield
us that. That's in my humble opinion as somebody who's been in this space.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Madam Chair, if I may?
PEGGY CATLIN: Please.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you for the feedback on that, General Manager and CEO. This is-- so this
is a question that I've had especially as we head towards-- I know it's a couple months out here, but as
we're looking at our facilities and fleet transition plan and thinking about how our system operates.
If we set goals around cost per revenue hour, there's things that we could do to cut down on, for example,
deadhead miles. But we're the only game in town, as we talk about, with this 2,342-square-mile service
area. And so we have to serve a lot of areas where we have some of these cost inefficiencies.
So if we set goals at the intersection of something like miles and hours, I guess I've been wondering to
myself how that might influence the future of the system design as we look at where there's increased
density development plans around transit-oriented communities and so forth, and how we might plan our
facilities.
So I guess-- thank you for commenting on it. And just from a Board perspective, I'm trying to wrap my
head around, what are some of the things we could look at to not say, well, this is the one we're going to
optimize, and then it's sort of cut off our nose to spite our face, and they're just kind of cheating ways to
work some of these metrics, so to speak.
And so thanks for commenting on that. I think we maybe don't need to answer it here. I wanted to just
provide the context, that it's something I'm thinking about as we head towards that transition plan in the
way our system is designed of, what are the things we should be measuring and looking at to optimize
when we're starting to think about the future of facility. So if you have any further comments on that,
happy to hear it. That's the context and where I'm coming from, and I really appreciate the context you
just offered as well.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much. Madam Chair, if I can proceed and add a little additional
context. I think what would be optimal as we go forward is really leveraging a comprehensive operational
analysis. While that did start in 2019, that was branded as a system optimization plan. Utilizing a true
COA going forward is where we could capitalize on what might be optimal relative to our service delivery
model that takes into consideration land use and development and things of the like.
And as we look to do that, most likely gearing up in mid part of 2012-- ugh-- mid of 2025, we can outline
the scope of the COA relative to looking at the miles and other elements holistically as we want to ensure
that we're cutting down on deadhead miles or layover times, because that will be important especially as
we look at different propulsion systems, recognizing that we are somewhat limited just by the geographic
area in which we are located, and more specifically with the four seasons as well. So I just wanted to
provide that color. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms Johnson. Are there any other questions regarding this matter? OK.
[COUGHS] Excuse me. So Mr. Kroll had provided an email with a timeline on-- well, I guess we're moving
to other matters. Forgive me.

And this is on the 360 Assessment Tool. And I'd like to remind everyone that feedback on the tool for
which you were provided a draft is due by tomorrow, September 17. And comments can be emailed to the
Board Office Executive Manager Jack Kroll, and he'll compile all the comments and share with RKL, the
Board, and GM/CEO Johnson on Wednesday, September 18. So I know that I have received comments
from General Manager CEO Johnson, but I would encourage other committee members to provide any
feedback you have on the 360 Assessment Tool by tomorrow.
Also, Mr. Kroll provided a timeline with assistance from RKL. And as I said, the feedback is September 18
for the performance assessment or-- for the 360 Assessment Tool. And then deadline for feedback on the
assessment tool is actually October 2, and that's after we get the information compiled on the 18th.
And I envision that we'll have a dialogue with Ms. Johnson, with Directors, with Jack Kroll, and with RKL
to finalize this tool that's anticipated October 7. We'll discuss feedback during the Performance
Committee meeting and gain consensus on October 7. Then the GM/CEO self-evaluation will be
complete between October 15 and 18th.
And correct me if I'm getting these dates wrong. Distribution of final Board assessment and GM/CEO selfevaluation to all Board members, October 28. Closing of the Board assessment, November 6. Analysis of
results and finalization of the report, November 12. Delivery of the report to the Board Office, November
13.
And then we will hold an executive session to discuss all components of GM/CEO assessment on
November 18. That meeting will be an executive session with the complete Board. So Mr. Kroll, do you
have anything to add to that?
JACK KROLL: Yes. Thank you, Committee Chair Catlin. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the
Board Office. I just wanted to put an emphasis on what Director Catlin walked you all through was really
two separate things there. You have the 360 Assessment Tool, which is going to be completed by four
external reviewers-- raters, five internal staff members, and three Board members.
The Board members are going to be selected by Chair Davidson and Director Catlin to complete that.
That is separate from the Board's final assessment that will be developed and is under development in
the coming weeks. That final assessment, I think you all are used to getting in late November, mid
November. You're going to get that about two weeks earlier this year once we agree to the timeline and
get everything settled.
And so just please keep in mind that those are two separate things. The 360 results, the GM and CEO
self-evaluation, and the Board's initial assessment of the GM and CEO through that final assessment
form are all going to be discussed in an executive session in the evening on November 18.
What we haven't pinned down are the exact steps and dates after that. You all will need to complete a
final assessment rating, pass that, and then have that approved by the full Board as well. Those dates are
still TBD, but you can imagine just typically that time of year gets a little crowded with the Thanksgiving
holiday. You're probably looking at very late November, if not very early December for the ability to meet
as a Performance Committee to finalize the final assessment and then have that completed by the full
Board.
So what I'm looking for by tomorrow is feedback on the specific 360 tool. That tool was presented in part
by RKL at the meeting last week. I also emailed you documents related to that, so please go through and

review those and submit any feedback you have to me by tomorrow. And if there are any questions about
that, I think now's the time to hash it out so we're all on the same page.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. And I want to emphasize one thing, and that is this 360 tool will
not be used as a prescriptive point value for the evaluation. It's really meant to just inform, and it does not
serve as a calculation in the GM/CEO's performance. Are there any other comments about this? Jack?
JACK KROLL: Yes. Sorry. Thank you very much for the opportunity to say one more piece. I think what's
crucially important here to remember is that we are trying to design a process that you would use in
perpetuity here. So the 360 tool will be something that could potentially be reused next year, as would the
final assessment.
So when you're reviewing these things, please focus on the lens of not necessarily who's in the room right
now, although that matters. But you all-- everyone on this call will be succeeded by somebody eventually.
And have that lens as you look at this, and really try to be as objective and high level as possible as you
analyze these different tools.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. That's an excellent point. Are there-- excuse me-- any other comments
regarding the 360? Are there any other matters to come before this committee? Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you so much, Madam Chair. Really quickly, will we have an opportunity to
have a conversation with our employee CEO as we go into this review process period, just to have time to
have feedback with the employee? And that's usually an executive session. I know we have a lot on our
plate. I'm asking if it's possible or what's possible as we move forward. That's one thing.
And the second thing, just to put it on everybody's radar, Debra is literally Wonder Woman. I do not know
how she did it, but thank you. As the CEO and General Manager of our transportation agency, flew out to
Portland for a presentation and made time to be present with other transit professionals.
I have to-- I have to openly say this on the record. Often, we're told it's not what's said to you when you're
in the room. It's what's said about you when you leave. And Debra, you had so much praise given to you,
one, for showing up and being present, which was a big part of our conversation at this conference, but
also just the reminder that we are truly blessed to have Debra serving as our General Manager CEO.
And that's north, south, east, west. Pick a place in the country. Every professional, every CEO, every
manager of operations or trains or anything, they showered nothing but praise on you. They were
disappointed you had to leave so quickly, but totally understood. And I just wanted to bring that before
this committee since we do do-- we are responsible for the review process going forward.
I think it's re-- excuse me-- really important to make sure that we call out high achievements and
moments that are important for everybody to consider when we do that review process. So thank you,
Madam CEO, and thank you, Madam Chair, for letting me have that opportunity.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Guzman. To your first point, yes, there will be an ongoing dialogue,
particularly as it relates to development of the tool, and also the composition of the 360 reviewers.
And you reminded me of one other point, and that is that Chair Davidson and I will be appointing the three
Board members who will act as reviewers for the 360 process. And we have some thoughts about that,
and we'll be reaching out to individual Board members to gauge, number 1, their interest, and number 2,
their availability. So that will take place in the next couple days.

Are there any other matters? Seeing none, with no further discussion, we will adjourn this meeting at 9:55
AM. Thank you all for your participation and for indulging-- and for being patient with my voice and cold.
OK. Thank you.
JACK KROLL: Get well soon. Bye, everyone.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you.

