February 6, 2020
Planning Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
TROY WHITMORE: If I turn my microphone on. Good evening, everybody. I'm Troy Whitmore,
I'm the Chair of the Planning FasTracks-- Planning/Capital Programs and FasTracks Committee,
and our illustrious chair has asked for me to substitute for her tonight. I don't know quite why, but
I appreciate it, I think. I hope by the time the meeting is over, the rest of you appreciate it as well,
but it's likely she will be returning as chair very soon.
We have a number of items tonight to consider, shouldn't be too long of a meeting. Just want to let
you know that safety is a core value, as you all know, at RTD, and I'd like to begin the meeting
with short safety briefing. If we have a medical emergency and 911 one needs to be called, I'll ask
our RTD General Counsel to make that telephone call, his last opportunity to do so. Any medicallytrained individuals in the room are respectfully requested to assist. If needed, an automatic
emergency defibrillator, AED, is in a glass case located just outside this room on the wall to the
right.
And in the event we must evacuate the building for fire or any other emergency, please calmly exit
out the door you came in at the back of the room, go up the stairs to the first floor, around the
security desk, and exit through the front door. And our police and security officers will be there to
direct you to a safe meetup area. Anyone needing special assistance in the event of an evacuation
will be assisted by RTD staff as necessary.
While RTD takes every precaution to ensure the security of its passengers, vehicles, and facilities,
the agency relies on both staff and the general public to be aware of and alert to any suspicious or
dangerous activity on buses and trains and around stations, stops, and platforms. As such, I would
encourage all RTD employees and patrons to download the RTD Transit Watch app which allows
users to report suspicious or dangerous activity, and communicate directly with RTD transit
security personnel on a real-time basis in the event of an emergency situation. The transit app
watch is available via Google Play and the Apple App Store.
All right. We have, I would imagine, one or two board members on the phone with us tonight, is
that correct? Is Director Folska with us on the phone? OK. OK, she's at an event. All right. And
same with Director Lewis. All right, we have one recommended action tonight, and then two
updates. Let's see here.
The first recommended action-- the only recommend action-- is recommended by the
Planning/Capital Programs and FasTracks Committee that the Board of Directors authorized the
general manager or his or her designee to execute all documents necessary to execute the threeyear contract for 16th Street Mall Granite Paver Maintenance with Colorado Custom Rock
Corporation in the dollar amount of $3,565,821. Funding for the first year of the action is $1.1
million and is included in the 2020 adopted budget.

This recommendation supports the following general manager's goals. Core goal number 1,
successful delivery of transit services. Task goal 3, enhance current and future transportation
methods. Do I have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved.
TROY WHITMORE: I have a motion from-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second.
TROY WHITMORE: --from Williams, second from Rivera-Malpiede. Thank you. I believe that
we do have several members of staff that would like to present on this matter, so the floor is yours.
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Good evening, everyone. I am Jyotsna Vishwakarma, the Chief
Engineer, and with me is Ashland Vaughn, the Manager of Engineering Construction. And his
group manages the repairs of the transitory amongst other things. So we have a long history of
doing transit repairs, and along with the recommended action report, we have included a
PowerPoint explaining some of the history of where we had been, and the plan we have to control
these expenditures in the future.
So I wanted to ask the Board, would you like for us to go through the presentation or just go to
questions? Whatever you would prefer. Questions?
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you very much for your brevity questions from the Board
of Directors. And I have one waiting to speak, but I'm trying to find it. There we go. Director
Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Whitmore. I just wanted to clarify which is what I think is
going on, is that the $100,000 annual cost that I remember from what we approved is not yet time
for that to happen. And until that time, we're stuck with this million dollar stuff, is that correct?
Because I thought we were done with this million dollar stuff, but apparently not.
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: The obligation to maintain the transit rate under the current
intergovernmental agreement is in effect until the end of 2022.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. All right. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Other questions? Dr. Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: I just want to thank you all for the work that you've done on this, I know that
we've been round and round with the historical people and the city and county and the disability
community, and a great deal of input on this, and I think that you have done a great job of doing
the best with all of us and with all of them, so thank you for that.
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Thank you.

TROY WHITMORE: Any other questions from the Board? Apparently not. Thank you very much.
So the mover is Director Williams; seconder, Director Rivera-Malpiede. Will those two folks
please vote, and the rest of us as well. All right, we have two board members absent, so we have
12 votes in the affirmative, two in the negative, and the negative votes our Director Menten-where's the other one? Only one? OK. I guess I'm dyslexic, sorry about that. So motion passes 12
to 1.
All right, that's it for our action items. We have-- thank you, folks. We have two updates. First of
all, Reimagine RTD followed by Denver's Wedge Ramp Project at I-25 and Broadway. Mr. Sirois
is moving very quickly. Thank you. You can roll, roll with the punches. Floor is yours, gentlemen,
when you're ready.
BRIAN WELCH: Good evening, chair and members of the Board. With me tonight-- I'm Brian
Welch, Senior Manager for Planning Technical Services. With me on my left is Bill Sirois, Senior
Manager of Transit Oriented Communities. To my right, Bruce Abel, our Special Projects Director.
We have about a 45-minute presentation that we have shrunk down to four-and-a-half minutes.
[LAUGHTER]
TROY WHITMORE: Don't make me use this gavel!
[LAUGHTER]
BRIAN WELCH: We have met with many of you to kind of bring you up to speed, but we wanted
to formally do our every other month update. And so what we're going to do is we may skip some
slides, but if you want any further articulation, we certainly can do that. I'm going to jump actually
to this slide right-- I'm going to first just spend a moment on this.
We've spoken about in terms of a sequence the relationship between our system optimization plan
effort and the sooner work that you're going to be tackling related to the May 2020 service
adjustments. If there's any questions on that, we can certainly come back to that, but we just wanted
to-- Bruce's described this well as sort of a three-step process, which I think makes sense to people.
The next one that I would like to just spend a moment on, how does this all fit together? As we've
been out engaging and communicating and socializing this project, many questions have come up
about what are you going to cover as part of Reimagine RTD? And what are some other things
that are going on that are also related but not necessarily specifically part of the effort? So we put
this together in an effort to give you kind of just a succinct snapshot of what's going on right now
with the consultant teamwork effort, as well as other parallel RTD initiatives, and then of course,
we've got the service adjustments up there as well.
So I hope that gives you a little bit better feel for a big range of things that are going on for the
Board over the next couple of years, but in particular, what Reimagine RTD is intended to focus
on and where your consulting team will be assisting your staff.

Then finally, we wanted to just show you where we are on optimizing our system. We're right now
in this winter 2019-2020 moving ahead. One of the things I wanted to highlight is, we recognize
that given the potential scope that could be associated with a May 21 service change that
represented the Board's direction on system optimization, that is a big, big effort. We've got a task
force going already that Bruce is leading for us that's getting the district aligned and ready to tackle
that big effort, so we just wanted to pass that along as well.
So with that, I'm going to hand it over to Bruce to continue.
BRUCE ABEL: Thank you, Brian, thank you, Board for the opportunity to chat with you for a few
minutes this evening. I want to talk about a couple of the steps of the consultant effort that we are
currently engaged in under the systems optimization plan. Really, one of the first questions that
we asked ourselves is-- in the process is, how does RTD look relative to some of our peers?
And so one of our tasks was to take a look at-- develop a peer group that was comparable to RTD
in terms of service area population, population density, et cetera. And so you can see that the peers
that were chosen were Dallas, Houston, Portland, Salt Lake, San Jose, and San Diego.
Now for those of you that have very, very, very detailed memories, you may recall that a prior
conversation indicated that we were going to have Seattle as part of our peer group. The data source
for this effort is the National Transit Database. And when we looked at the National Transit
Database, if you take a look at Seattle, you've got King County providing bus service, Sound
Transit providing rail service and bus service in a number of smaller communities. So in trying to
get together an apples-to-apples comparison, we decided that we were going to replace Seattle
with San Diego. So I'll ask-- I'll try to answer that question before you ask it. That is why Seattle
is gone and San Diego is in from that which you saw last time.
And you can see the comparable statistics. We also wanted to provide some context for the Board
in terms of the size of the agent-- the sizes of the agencies that we're talking about. So you can see
the size of the agencies in terms of their peak pullout, in terms of motor bus, light rail, street cars,
commuter rail, demand response. And van pool we didn't have numbers on. So again, this
information is just provided to provide some context for the conversation regarding the peers.
BRIAN WELCH: I need to apologize. I wanted to mentioned at the very beginning that the peer
analysis section is updated from what was in your packet. So you probably noticed that-- sorry I
didn't say that sooner-- we were able to update some slides, it's basically the same materials, just
articulated a little bit more advanced. So sorry I didn't say that sooner.
BRUCE ABEL: Thank you. So one of the first things we took a gander at is operating expenses
by mode, ridership by mode for both RTD and the average of our peers. And essentially, the
takeaway is RTD, like our peers, the majority of our services-- the majority of our ridership is still
generated by our bus services, and the bus services constitute a slightly more than half of our
expenses as well.
Again, going back to the last time you all had this presentation, we just did an internal look at RTD
expenses. And you may recall that light rail looked to be a much larger percentage of our expense.

That's because internally, we were looking at fully allocated costs, which we again from our data
sources, we don't have fully allocated costs from others. But in terms of our fully allocated costs,
as you can imagine with the major investment in light rail, when you look at fully allocated costs,
light rail constitutes a larger percentage of our expense that you see here.
So again, for those of you that have burned in your brains the images from the last time this
presentation was made, this is one of the changes from that presentation as well to make sure that
we could compare apples to apples with our peer group.
So what are we looking at? We looked at some major metrics, such as fixed route bus revenue
hours per capita. What does that mean and what does this say to us? Basically it says that when
we look at our community relative to the other communities, we are providing more hours of
service per resident than our peer average. Now that's not to say that we're providing more than all
of them, but you can see that from the peer average, we are providing more hours of service per
resident than the peer average, and more than most of the peers.
Fixed route costs per revenue hour. We cannot produce ridership, but what we can produce is an
hour of service. We use hours because that constitutes the majority of the cost structure of the
services that we provide. So really, what this is looking at is looking at how much ridership-excuse me, how much does it cost us to put each hour of service on the street. And again, we're
essentially comparable to our peer average.
And what you can see here, although the two lines are pretty much overlapping, we did this
analysis with both the mall-- with and without the mall ride. Because none of our peers have a
service comparable to the mall ride, which is extremely productive, and in other charts we'll see,
the real impact of the mall ride. So we wanted to take a look at it both with and without the mall
ride because it has a major impact on how we look.
Essentially what this says is, we're essentially slightly below, but essentially comparable to our
peer group in terms of how much it costs us to put an hour of service on the street-- on the bus.
Boardings per revenue hour. Again, what we attempt to do is put our services on the street in such
a way as to attract and generate ridership, and what this measures is how well do we do that? How
well does an hour of service generate ridership?
And I want to say that this is like bowling. We want this number to be higher. We want more
boardings per hour of service, so it's like bowling is better, higher is better. So again, we can see
more pronounced here the impact of the mall ride on our ability to generate ridership for the
services that we provide.
It is the most productive service that we provide, the lowest cost per boarding, but what we can
see is that, again, in general, where we are is that we are slightly below the boardings per revenue
hour when we don't look at mall ride, and slightly better in terms of revenue per hour when we do
include the mall ride. But generally, we're comparable to our peers. Again, higher than some, lower
than others, but comparable to the average.

Operating expense per passenger. Again, this is a measure that we want to take a look at. And this
is more like golf. We want this to be lower. Lower is better. The less we pay for each person that
we carry, the better off. And what does this tell us? Well this tells us that in general, again, we can
see the impacts of the mall ride on our overall bus network, and that is that the mall ride is our
lowest cost per passenger. So you see the red line is below, the blue line shows it without the mall
ride, so our cost per passenger is higher, but essentially, we are comparable to our peers.
Now I want to switch over to the light rail side of the house, the same general analytics. And in
some cases, some of the same general findings. In terms of light rail, we are providing slightly
higher level of service per resident than our peer average. And you can see the impacts of the W
Line and the R Line, we're essentially right in line with the peers. 2012-2013, we opened the R
Line. 2017, we opened SERE. Excuse me, 2019, we opened SERE. 2017, we opened R. So you
can see that our service hours are growing to the point where today we're providing slightly more
service hours per resident than the peer average. Again, higher than some, lower than others.
Cost per revenue hour. Generally comparable. Again, higher than some, lower than others, but
overall to the peer average, generally comparable. Light rail passenger boardings per revenue hour.
Again, how many folks are using every hour of service that we're providing? And again, you can
see the impacts of the opening of the R line in 2013 and the opening of the-- excuse me, the W in
2013 and the R in 2017. You can see that we are providing more service than we had previously,
and the ridership was not as productive as previously.
Light rail operating expenses per passenger. Again, the cost to produce an hour, we're right in line
with our peer average. Again, higher than some, lower than others, but in line with the-comparable to the peer average.
So what are the key takeaways? RTD has one of the largest service areas and the lowest population
density of any of the peers. The only transit agency I could find initially with a larger service area
was Delaware as a state system, and the state of Delaware is slightly larger than our service area,
to put it into perspective, by a whopping 100 square miles. So we have only half the population
density of the next least dense peer. So I think that we're going to see that reflected in almost
everything we look at here forward.
The majority of the ridership at RTD, like the peers, is still carried on-- the essence the core of our
system is still a service. Both bus and rail, relative to our peers, we provide more hours of service
per resident. Ridership per revenue hour on rail is slightly lower than the peer average and is lower
than all of the peers with the exception of San Jose. Otherwise, RTD is essentially comparable on
all of the other-- on all of the other metrics. So those are the key takeaways to the commonly-asked
questions of, well how do you guys refer-- relate to your peers?
Are there any questions on that or we'll wait till the end? OK, we'll wait to the end. So the next
step of the process is understanding what are the trade-offs in terms of our investments? We've got
finite resources, and those resources are always attempting to respond to often competing interests.
So part of the SOP process is to really take a very explicit look at what are those competing
interests, and where do we as a community-- the public, the stakeholders, the Board-- want to fall

out in terms of the balance? So for a moment you'll hear me talk about some exaggerations and
some extremes to give examples, but in reality, when we're all done, we're going to be looking at
the balances between those and the outcome will be a balance between all of these competing
interests.
So based on conversations with the Board and advisory groups, we're in the process of preparing
four scenarios. A scenario that really focuses on, what would the system look like if we devoted
our resources essentially to providing fast, reliable frequent service? So with limited resources, a
constrained resource pool, we will be focusing more resources in fewer areas for fast, reliable,
frequent service. That's the service quality scenario. And again, please remember, I'm
exaggerating.
Social equity community scenario. What when our system look like if we focus our resources on
providing highest levels of service to communities of interests that need transit? Low income,
minority, no auto available, seniors? To the extent that we can get data, disability communities?
What would the network look like if we devoted our resources to serving those communities?
Cost efficiency. What would our network look like if we devoted our resources just to providing a
system that maximized ridership per hour? And then geographic coverage. What would our system
look like if we took those hours, the finite number of service hours, and spread them throughout
the district?
Now each of these scenarios will be evaluated relative to how much would it cost, what would the
ridership generated by these scenarios be, what would-- the cost per rider, and a variety of other
metrics. And that's really what this teeny tiny lettered graph or matrix is saying. And for once, I
don't have to take responsibility for providing that teeny tiny letters.
But basically what this says is we've got each of the four scenarios that I just described, and we
will be evaluating those in terms of what percent of the population is served by a 15-minute
service? What percent of the population-- I can't even read it myself-- what percent of the
population is served by-- is served by what? Is served, for example, in the coverage scenario, what
percentage of population in general is within a quarter mile of a transit route?
What percent of the district employment is within a quarter mile of a transit route? What are the
boardings per hour under each scenario? What's the cost per boarding under each scenario? The
percentage of equity population served by 15 minute or better service in each scenario? The
percentage of the transit dependent population served? And again, our definition of served is
essentially within a quarter mile of a normal transit service and perhaps a quarter mile of a premium
service, like a Park-n-Ride, for example, where folks come to the service. And also, transit travel
time versus auto travel time as a proxy for quality of service and attractiveness of service.
So we will be working with you, the technical advisory committees, the policy advisory
committees, and again, you, the community at large, so that we can hear what are the communities'
and the advisory committees' and the Board's takes on the different service designs so that the end
of the process, we have a consensus that this is the approach that we want-- and again, it's going
to represent a balance between the exaggerated positions that I described during the conversation.

How do we balance-- how do we design a system that balances the desire for coverage, frequency,
low travel times, communities that are dependent upon transit, et cetera? So that when we're all
done, we'll say, this is what the system would look like, and as Brian alluded to earlier, how does
it all fit together? There's conversation going on right now about service adjustments to address
the labor shortage.
Well this, I like to say, is this is the picture of what would be next, that we would have a community
decided upon picture of what we want this service designed to look like so that this is the next step
in the process, what do we want to become as we then merge into the longer-step process of
Reimagine? And I'll turn it over to Bill Sirois.
BILL SIROIS: Thanks, Bruce. This is Bill Sirois, Senior Manager Transit Oriented Communities.
And since Bruce took up all of my-BRUCE ABEL: Three minutes.
BILL SIROIS: Three minutes, I will go through my few slides very quickly. Many of you know,
we wanted to reach out to the Board in the last month to give people-- make sure that they were
up to speed in understanding of the process and some of the issues that we're facing. So we were
able to go and meet with much of the Board-- I think 12 of the 15 members. And here's some of
the themes that we heard, some of the things that we heard from the board members. There's a lot
of discussion about partnerships and the emphasis on partnerships and looking at those
partnerships as we know proceed with the system optimization plan, [INAUDIBLE] plan for the
future.
We also heard some things about the advisory committee and making sure that there was
communication between meetings, because I think there was some kind of things-- we're losing a
little momentum, because two months between meetings, there's kind of-- it's hard to remember
what you talked about two months ago.
So we're to be working on some of those things, so we just wanted to highlight some of those
things. On the public outreach side, some of the things that we wanted to point out-- and this was
discussed in many of the meetings we have with the board members-- is the fact that we are slowing
down a little bit our effort just to make sure that the focus right now is on the service adjustment
process, and we do not plan on having any kind of public-oriented outreach in the next month and
a half as that process happens because we think that may be confusing to the public.
We also have talked about the longer-term piece being a little pushback so that we can make sure
that our new-- ultimately new permanent CEO and a turnover in the Board can have more input
into that process. And that we will continue to work with the advisory committee members, and
we expect to have a lot of outreach-- extensive outreach, which will really pick up a spring. And
so kind of-- we will keep you updated, but that's kind of a heads up.
The last thing I just wanted to point out is kind of the next steps of where we're going. Many of
you know that we have a technical working group and advisory committee next week presenting
some information similar to this, our peer information and a few other things. And we do also have

a Board study session set for later this month. Here's a couple things we think we're going to talk
about. We may change those, but we talk about-- talking about the core network and some of the
other things in terms of policies and practices that influence kind of our service implementation.
And the last thing before I turn it over to questions. We do have a handout that we wanted to give
to the board members, and I'm going to give it over to Brian or to Bruce to hand out since I'm
mobility-challenged. Just really explains some of this stuff a little systemically. It really is, I think,
a reference for board members as you may get questions about Reimagine. We've also sent Barbara
and the Board office an electronic version so that you can have that as well. It's just something that
highlights some of things we talked about tonight. It talks about process, when we're going to talk
about stuff. We think it's important that you have this information as you may get questions about
this process.
So with that, I'll open it up to any questions board members may have.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you to the Killer B's down on this end of the table. Now's
our chance to ask questions. Director Williams, you're first in queue.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. Thanks, Bill. One of the things that I hear and I was out at
a group speaking this morning in Aurora is that people are really confused between system
optimization and service cuts. They just have that all kind of scrambled together. And we need to
maybe tease some more saying that optimization is a good thing and something that all agencies
and companies and the cleaning service might do optimization of what they're doing, that it's not
related necessarily to service cuts.
And so I would really like to hear us say that more. And then I would love to see this whole
presentation. I know that all this stuff is on under our Reimagine part of our website, but I'd like
to see this on the front page. Here's what we're talking about. Just put it up there, you can take it
down in three days or a week or whatever, but this is interesting data that people can get a hold of
that they can see the pie chart of, and I think we need to do more of that.
And lastly, I want to know, is there anybody from the union here tonight? OK. I just have asked
repeatedly that the union send a representative to all of our meetings so that they can hear and see
what we're saying and doing, and I would like it to be on public record that the union is here and
a part of everything that is happening. So thank you, that's all I had to say. Yes, Mr. Abel?
BRUCE ABEL: If I might just respond, one, to let the Board know that we have convened an
operators' roundtable in conjunction with the ATU, ATU leadership. And we had a meeting with
them-- I guess it was-- was it last week? Earlier this week? I don't know, it all runs together. But
we had a meeting with probably a dozen-and-a-half members of ATU to talk to them about the
process and get their input and feedback, and we will continue to convene that group throughout
the SOP process.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Would you ask them to clean up the front page of their website,
please? Thank you.

TROY WHITMORE: All right. Director Mihalik, you're next in queue.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank you gentlemen for this presentation. Just
going back to the disparate density of the peer agencies, is there other information that's available?
Things like-- thinking security-related, like number of we'll say incidences, reportable incidences?
For instance, Denver does better or worse than one of the other six or so cities? And I'm guessing
within the operating expense, is that security expense? And if that could be broken out-- again, I
don't know if this is available, if they're reporting this. And maybe Denver spends more or less on
security than these other cities? You don't have to answer it now, but-- OK, thanks.
BRUCE ABEL: --certainly see whether the data is available.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. That's all I got, thanks.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you, director. Madam Chair Rivera-Malpiede, you're next,
please.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. This is great, so thank you. A couple of
things. First of all, I want to take this opportunity to thank the team that is working on Reimagine
to take time out of their schedule to meet with every board member to brief them on this project. I
think that's been really, really beneficial, so thank you.
The second thing is when I read this first paragraph and it talks about the plan for this two-year
inclusive plan, I still think people get confused about system optimization plan being short-term
and then long-term. If there's some way we could just bullet those said that they know that it is
not-- it's just a really long thing, but there's a short-term period piece and then a long-term. I think
that would be really helpful. But thank you. That's it, Mr. Chair.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you. Director Lubow, the floor is yours.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I was daydreaming, so anyway. Thank you for the work. Certainly
up in my part of that territory, part of the problem is that RTD, quite often it seems to do arbitrary
decision-making, and I know what we're trying in Reimagine to be inclusive. I'm wondering, is
there any way that we can be sure that this is a inclusive timely inclusion of all the stakeholders
instead of just RTD telling it like this is how it's going to be? How do we ensure that that's
happening?
BILL SIROIS: Well, we ensure that by making sure that our processes has a very robust
engagement, which, again, it starts with, like I said, the core of it being the committees that we've
established, which we can-- we made a very conscious effort to be very geographically inclusive.
So we did make sure that all parts of the district are represented. But I would say that when we get
into some of our more public outreach process in terms of public meetings-- I'll call listening
sessions, we will be looking at different parts of the districts in different populations to make sure
that we are very inclusive.

So then again-- and if you have specific groups or people that you want us to talk to, please let me
know and we can reach out to them.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
BILL SIROIS: Our intent is to be as inclusive as we can be.
BRUCE ABEL: And if I might add, I think we're sensitive to the comments regarding arbitrariness,
et cetera. And I think that it's our desire to be as data-driven as possible.
And so through the scenarios that I discussed earlier, saying this is what it looks like under this
scenario and this under this scenario, we'll be in a position to provide a lot of data, which obviously
data is not the sole decision-making criteria because it needs to be balanced by the human
perspective of board members, et cetera, but we want to get away from people's perspectives of
arbitrariness and really provide data on what percentage of population is within a quarter-mile of
a bus route? What population-- and this is all done with census maps, et cetera, et cetera, so that
we can have some real data while we're weighing the trade-offs between some of the different
policy approaches.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. And I also wanted to ask, though, in the decision-making itself, is
there some way to be inclusive? Ultimately RTD decides, but the stakeholders I know want to be
involved with what is really going to impact them in the future. Can we include them in the
decision-making process somehow?
BILL SIROIS: I mean, they fully are included the decision-making process, but I will make an
emphasis that we made early on that the Board is the ultimate decision-maker in the process. And
we will be presenting all the feedback and input that we're getting throughout, but that ultimately,
the Board is the one where it comes down, we make a decision, because I do think that we are
going to be talking-- I think like Bruce talked about, trade-offs, and I'll be frank, that everybody's
going to like the trade-offs, and there'll be winners and there'll be losers. And so we will-- I'm sure
we'll hear from stakeholders that will be unhappy with parts of this.
And so we want, like Bruce said, to present you with objective information and feedback on that
information, and then have a robust discussion with the Board about what direction we want to go.
And so that's really the intent and the process, is to make sure that we're open and transparent and
we hear everybody's input, but we also have the objective data that we can look at and talk about
with the Board, with the advisory committee, with the technical working group, and with the public
about what that means and get feedback.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you. And one more question?
TROY WHITMORE: Go ahead.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I would think that it is highly possible that the SOP will indeed have
service reductions in them. And so I think, although it's important to state that it's not the same as
service reductions, it may indeed entail them.

BRUCE ABEL: I think it's fair to say that we are going to be putting together a system optimization
plan that is constrained by our financial-- our available financial resources as I said earlier. The
real question that we all deal with is how do we allocate our finite resources to provide the best
service in conformance with the Board's desire? So our financial stability, sustainability is very
much going to be a part of this process, and whether that's up, down, in the middle, I leave to our
CFO/acting interim.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I would echo that it's going to be constrained by the money we have,
but it's also going to look different, right? Potentially. So there will also be considerations. If you
had service in your area and that got changed, then that also could look like a service reduction to
you, too. So there's multiple ways that could be perceived as being different than what it is now.
JUDY LUBOW: So I think we can look forward to a pretty tumultuous experience. OK, thank
you.
BILL SIROIS: Well, the one thing I'll just remind everybody, if everybody remembers a
conversation with Jarrett Walker this summer, he said, if you don't generate controversy as part of
your planning process, you're doing your job, so we're just following his rules.
BRUCE ABEL: Not necessarily the [INAUDIBLE].
TROY WHITMORE: All right, thank you. Madam Second Vice President Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, I like the president part, that's good.
TROY WHITMORE: Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Second Vice Chair.
TROY WHITMORE: Second Vice Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair. So quick question about the scenarios that you built. Some
of them are pretty self-explanatory. I could see how you calculate ridership per service hour. When
you're running the scenario for social equity and community, are you using that based on census
data by domicile, for example? And if so, how do you know where they go, where they need to go
and so forth, and so that you're providing a system that's useful?
BRIAN WELCH: That is a very good question-- this is Brian Welch. We're using actually a
combination of data. So what I've come to realize is that we not only have the census data, but
we're going to use a combination of location-based service data and census data combined together
which will lead you-- the location-based data is, of course, the cell phone data. So we're going to
have multiple sets of data as well as our onboard survey which helps us as well.
So it will be-- some of it will be the cell phone, which is person by person; and then some of it will
be block groups built up to census tracks as well. So both will be part of this effort.

SHELLEY COOK: Do you know where they are, and then you know where they, generally
speaking, travel to from your data-- both from the surveys and the mobile?
BRIAN WELCH: That's exactly right, yeah. We're going to have the advantage in this effort-- one
of the few agencies in the United States is going to be able to use both of those types of data, and
not just the limited data that you get from place, but that the travel patterns from people's cell
phones.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thanks.
BRUCE ABEL: To answer the next part of the question, the cell phone travel patterns are not
attributed to any individual. They are aggregated so as to not generate any privacy concerns.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, that's a very good point to make. And then just wanted to stress
that hoping that to the extent we can, pull in some discussion about these alternative modes and
approaches and partnerships as we do this system optimization so we're not taking them in
isolation, and that one can inform the other one more directly.
BRUCE ABEL: I think that's the comment that we heard from many directors during the two-ontwos. The original game plan-- or the original thought was to let TNCs and partnerships wait till
the Reimagine. That's no longer the thought. The thought is to move that up into the system
optimization. How do we partner with TNCs, how do we partner with transportation management
associations, how do we partner with the City of Denver and the City of Boulder and their desires
to address their transit needs? So all of those things will be moved forward to the extent possible.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Director Walker, you're next.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Excuse me, thank you. I'm going to go back to something that Mr. Sirois
said earlier. I want to make it clear, at least in my mind, that there's no predetermined outcome,
there's absolutely no idea what's going to happen. Somebody will be upset, some folks will be
upset if nothing changes, some people will be upset if something changes, or if there's not
geographic dispersal, or if there's not concentration along specific routes. So in my mind, I know
what I'm anticipating and what I think I would prefer because of where I live. But it's a big region,
millions of different opinions, dozens of opinions even within the same person, because I go back
and forth, too.
So I have a couple of questions and an observation. So how-- in a geographic equity scenario, how
would-- how do you run a model that treats JeffCo-- southern JeffCo similar to Cap Hill or Five
Points? Because they're built so differently.
BRUCE ABEL: OK. Well again, please, I'm going to exaggerate for the perspective of illustration.
One way that we could do it is let's just say that we have 2.6-- or 2.1 million service hours to
distribute throughout the community. What would it look like if we just said, we're going to divide

2.1 million service hours by however many square miles is in the district? That's obviously an
exaggeration of everyone gets the same level of service.
So, I mean, obviously we're not going to go to that extent, but that's the exaggerated perspective
of what does equal distribution throughout the district mean or equal distribution if we've got X
households that we want to make sure that the 2.1 million hours of service is within a quarter mile
of each of the households? Because obviously in the first exaggeration, we don't want a service
out in the national forest. But those are the kinds of exaggerated-- certainly not going to end up in
that type of an exaggeration, but those are ways that statistically we can do it. And then we will
work.
JEFF WALKER: OK. OK. That answers my question. The other one is, which of the peer agencies
are served by other transit agencies outside of that core area?
BRUCE ABEL: Well again, Seattle has multiple agencies. San Jose is in-house. San Diego is inhouse, but there are some suburban entities that operate in the burbs.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, and that's what I'm getting toward, because we have such a large area, we
encompass all of the suburbs. I know in Minneapolis there's-- Washington County to the south has
a service, and it hits that county line, that's it, Cincinnati. TANK, it crosses the river to downtown
Cincinnati, then it turns around and heads back. And I think that-- I don't know of any buses from
Cincinnati cross south of the Mason-Dixon line.
So those types of services that don't overlap, that cover that other area. And the reason I'm saying
is because we do have a really, really big area and we provide really, really good service with the
amount of area and the really low density that we have. I'm wondering if we-- I'm wondering what
it would look like if we shrunk it down to 1,000 square miles, how-- I think it'd be phenomenal,
and I don't know if anybody would have anything to complain about.
BRUCE ABEL: You actually-- we initially looked at Minneapolis, but for the reason you just
mentioned, again, the data availability and creating an apples-to-apples comparison, we didn't put
Minneapolis in the comparison. Bill, do you have a-BILL SIROIS: Was just going to say, one of the things that we can do just to make sure that all
the Board is fully aware is look at these peer agencies and determine if there's any suburban
operators, because I do think there may be in a couple of cases some suburban operators or some
interface with-- I mean, obviously you have Dallas, you have Fort Worth, so there's some interact- there's a little interaction there.
So I think we could at least provide a little bit of nuance so the Board has that information as well,
because the one thing I did want to say that I don't-- we mentioned, we will have a separate peer
agency report that we'll produce as part of this. So there will be more detail, much more detail than
this. So we can have some of that, make sure that information is fully available for all the peers.
JEFF WALKER: Right. And just to finish up on that thought, is just because traveling from one
system to another, there's a cost to that. Some of them accept the other one's fares, but a lot of them

don't. So we charge $3 for a local fare, and that can be expensive if somebody's only going three
blocks, but if someone's going three miles-- but if someone's going three miles and across the
system, that's another fare, whatever the first fare is, then they've got to pay a second fare.
So that's what I'm trying-- I know it's hard to compare that stuff, but that's part of the conversation
that has to be had, and I hear that very often when I hear that our fares are so high. But if I can get
from Parker to Boulder or Longmont for $5.50, that's-- if I don't have time-- if I have the time,
that's great. If I don't have money, that's great, you know what I mean?
So that's the kind of stuff that I would like to see included in this-- with these other associated or
approximate transit agencies, that'll also help. That's just a suggestion. And that is it. Thank you
for the report, I thought it was fascinating.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Director Walker. Director Menten, the floor is yours.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Do you think that there might be possibly one volunteer
member within the technical working group and one volunteer member-- and I mean citizens,
perhaps-- in the advisory committee that you could ask to record by video the meetings?
BILL SIROIS: I will have to go back and think about that and probably talk to our consultant team
about the feasibility of that. It's not something we planned for. Obviously it would be huge
requirements, somebody willing to do that. Let me actually go back and kind of noodle with our
consultant team about that one, but right offhand, I would say that might be a challenge, but let me
check.
NATALIE MENTEN: How long have the meetings been running?
BILL SIROIS: They've been running on time. So the advisory committee-- or the technical
working group meetings are two hours, and the advisory committee meetings are two-and-a-half.
So a little bit longer for the advisory committee.
NATALIE MENTEN: I have three tripods. I will donate two of them.
BILL SIROIS: OK.
TROY WHITMORE: Just a moment, I think Ms. McManus had a comment.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So the advisory committees are being recorded by the Board office.
Depending on-- well, the venue is pretty easy. We've been monitoring what we have been
recording and we do have a pretty good recording of those sessions, but we're not doing the
technical session. So I just wanted the full Board to know that they would be able to listen to those
currently.
NATALIE MENTEN: Excellent. So all you have to worry about is the technical working group.
And I would guess that there might be one of the attendees who would love to videotape it, but
they feel uncomfortable bringing it up. So if they were asked, I would-- I'm just looking for zero

cost. I've seen what we pay for video production before, and citizens could do it. This is a really,
really important process, and if we could do it for zero cost, because YouTube is free, that would
be great.
Because what I'm concerned about is that the same way we did a poll in, what, November? From
the folks out-- the riders and the community and said, shall we reduce service? And they didn't
understand, they didn't take it personally when they filled that out and said, sure, reduce service.
You know why? Because they thought it was going to happen to the guy on the other route.
Same way with Reimagine. Oh, it's some glossy wizard vase thing that's going to happen and it
won't impact my life at all. And that is what I want to avoid. So I think that would be-- make it a
much more robust, Reimagine. Even if it's not professional, that's all right, it's all right. It's better
than nothing.
And so that's-- I'll just leave it at that. If you could let me know when I can bring in my tripods,
I'll be happy to loan my Goodwill, $3, but very, very high quality tripods out, OK?
BILL SIROIS: OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Director Menten. Looks like Secretary Buzek, you're next in
line.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I just-- I know we all know this, but just to remind
everybody, whether it's as part of the service optimization plan or service cuts, we do run the risk
of picking winners and losers. So the fact that there is always going to be controversy surrounding
service costs or even service optimization is one thing, it does not equal the selection of winners
and losers, and we should really work hard not to do that. Because you can pick winners and losers
on an individual basis-- I'm cutting your route, you're not going to get to work. You can also affect
communities, community-wide as far as-- the Target store's not coming your community because
employees can't get there.
So we have to be careful when we look at all these things, whether it's the service cuts or system
optimization, that we do it in a way that's not going to be picking winners and losers, but it's going
to be a little more mindful of communities and individuals that needs service to function. Thanks,
that's all I had.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, director. Let's move to Director Tisdale for his first comment,
then we'll come back to our second biters.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I want to thank all of you very much for
your thoughtful process in engaging with each of the directors about the Reimagine process, and
also for your presentation tonight. We have emphasized through this-- and I have a couple of
observations and one request, we've emphasized through this that this is a collaborative process,

and I think that's exceptional. It is a process without, as Director Walker mentioned, a
predetermined verdict. We're not working backwards to create a justification.
It is flexible enough to address the Board concerns that have been raised without being dictated by
one director or a small group of directors as to the product, but rather a process with all of us. And
that there is a commitment to transparent and continuing communication with all stakeholders
where the hallmark of that is the engaged listening process that you described-- not just to hear
them, but to listen to them.
So my request is that as we go forward, we continue to the greatest extent possible to promote and
celebrate this process through every communication avenue available to us so that people do
indeed learn what we are doing. You can tape all the meetings you want, but if people don't know
that that is available to them, it's really just creating excess data you store somewhere. So that's the
request, and I congratulate you and thank you on all the work you've done.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, director. Just want to make sure, the record shows the arrival of
Director Lewis a few moments ago. Next in line, Director Mihalik, the floor is yours.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. And yes, you guys are going to be very busy the next couple of years.
It's very thorough, no one will accuse you-- or accuse it not of-- say it wasn't thorough enough.
Going back to the cell phone data, though, this is a population or a data set that was representative- let's say just everyone in Denver, right? It's not just RTD riders, right?
BRIAN WELCH: Yes, that's correct. I believe the data set is either 50 million or 80 million data
points. And it includes all of our district plus parts of adjacent counties, so we could pick up those
travel patterns as well.
KEN MIHALIK: And I'm not saying don't do it or anything like that, I just think it's-- and maybe
it just-- we've crossed into a brave new world, but I just want to be a trivial matter that government
now has everywhere you've been, everywhere you go, and they're using it for decision-making. So
I just didn't want it to be a-- us to just gloss over that. Thanks.
TROY WHITMORE: All right, thank you, director. Director Williams, the floor is yours.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, chair. I just want to point out to Director Menten's point, Director
Tisdale's point-- I looked over, she wasn't there-- that we can very easily Zoom our meetings. We
can have Streetsblog come in and livestream them on Facebook. We can ask CPR to-- I mean,
there's a million ways-- I keep saying this, I run a very small nonprofit on a very small budget, and
we do those things. Our meetings have about the same number of people, and our-- and sometimes
very similar facilities, and we are able to make those live and available.
And I think that if we did that, we might have people feel more engaged about it. My guess is that
probably most people will have better things to do with their life than to watch RTD discussions
as evidenced by the number of people in the room, but it would show that we want people to be
involved in-- maybe it would be a new in thing, would be to watch our TV. I mean, you know?
Thank you.

TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, I think.
[LAUGHTER]
All right, I see no further speakers in queue. Going once, twice, three time-- all right. Thank you
to the Killer B's, good job. You do have a lot of work ahead of you as Director Mihalik stated. All
right, let's move to update 2 for the evening. Denver's Wedge Ramp Project and the I-25 and
Broadway Station. Looks like Mr. Sirois gets to stay. You've got a couple-- or at least one addition
here. So the floor is yours. Go ahead, folks.
BILL SIROIS: So I'll kick it off again. This is Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit Oriented
Communities. With me tonight is Chessy Brady, Manager of Transit Oriented Development. We're
going to give you a little bit of an update on the Wedge Ramp Project, which is at I-25 and
Broadway, and this is a precursor to an action that we'll be bringing in April. We have been in
discussions with the city and county of Denver over the past few years, I think, on this project, and
actually, they got the money now, so we are actually moving forward with-- or getting close to
construction. So I'll turn it over to Chessy at this point.
CHESSY BRADY: Thanks. So again, Chessy Brady, TOD Manager, and this is Denver's project.
Originally it was CDOT's idea. So important to note, there's a lot of partners in this project. Denver,
CDOT, DRCOG, there's FTA funds involved as well, and Denver needs RTD's partnership to get
this project done. So they have some particular asks, asks that we'll get to. And for any of those of
you who have a long memory as like Bruce was mentioning, this project has in the past had
different iterations, we've been going back and forth with Denver over many years long before I
got here, and we've gotten to a place that works for transit. And so we're hoping that this will go
through.
I also want to note that this project at the moment has nothing to do with development on RTD
land. You may have seen those plans in this area as well. This is just Wedge Ramp Transportation
Project with Denver. So I'm going to move through very quickly or try to, and if you have questions
at the end, please ask. I want to make sure that you all have all the information you need to fully
understand this project.
So Denver has the South Broadway Station Multi-Model and Safety Improvement Project, which
I will refer to as SBSMSIP.
[LAUGHTER]
Its goals are to improve congestion and safety in I-25 and Broadway area. There's some high crash
intersections there that they want to work on, and namely for us, the wedge ramp component of
the project which specifically reroutes access from southbound Broadway onto southbound I-25.
And we'll get into-- there's lots of maps in this presentation, so we can look at that more closely.
And what Denver really needs is to swap land with RTD to get this project done.
So there's a lot going on at I-25 and Broadway for RTD. We have a lot of trains, a lot of buses, a
lot of people transferring between trains and buses. We also have about 1,000 parking spaces, most

of which are utilized most on workdays. So it's a very busy station for us. You'll note on this map,
we have some parking underneath I-25 and Broadway. And if you're familiar with the site at all,
that's where I park, actually, most of the time, and those are the sites that will be focused on today.
In addition to what RTD has going on at I-25 and Broadway, we have the SBSMSIP project, which
includes extending exposition and enlarging Broadway as part of phase 1, shown in blue. And then
the Wedge Ramp Project is part of the pink and all of its surrounding improvements on Broadway
and the neighboring roads.
At the same time, there's a lot of development going on. So we have D4 in the north, we have BSP
in the west, and then Endeavor in the south. That's all happening privately, but it's happening
around us and it's impacting us, and over the next few years, I'm sure we'll be back to talk more
about those projects as they impact RTD.
So the wedge ramp in particular is a ramp that will wedge itself under I-25 between the existing
off-ramp and the highway, and then over Broadway where it will then rise up and connect to I-25.
So this-- as Bill said, this project has been in the works for many years. Denver now has the money
to do it, and they expect to do construction 2023 to 2025 on the wedge ramp specifically.
What they need from RTD are the parcels in red, A, B, and C, about 34,000 square feet of land. C
is that tiny little sliver in the bottom right. What they proposed to give to RTD in return is D in
green. There's a delta there about 4,000 square feet. They proposed to make that up in an improved
Park-n-Ride So essentially, we will give them A, B, C; they will give us D; and they will improve
D so that it's a nicer Park-n-Ride.
Another thing to note on this page that I mentioned, this was originally a CDOT idea. So
eventually, the wedge ramp project will be accepted by CDOT at the end of it. So we'll give the
land to Denver, and then they'll give most of it to CDOT. And most of the land in A, B, and C right
now is right of way, or it will be right of way. Our buses use it-- it's crucial for our access. As long
as that access is maintained in those areas or nearby, we're essentially whole in this transaction.
So a little bit more on our lovely Park-n-Ride here. It's not the most delightful. There's poor
lighting, no pedestrian pathways, no-- it's not paved, it's dirt. Denver proposes to pave it, stripe it,
put in some paths, improve the lighting, and also not lose any spaces. So that that's a-- for a Parkn-Ride that's largely full every day, that's really crucial here.
During construction, they proposed to temporarily relocate parking to the north in that red area.
They'll be acquiring those properties as part of the project and for the construction. And also, we
want to make sure they are going to provide safe pedestrian access for our parkers as they're
traveling from that red area to the station. So that will be part of our negotiations with them.
So a final rendering of the ramp wedging its way up there and the future condition of the station.
And then here's where we're going. So it's February-- wow, it's February 6, and we're giving you
an update. In February and March, we'll continue our negotiations with the city, and our engineers
will continue to review the plans in detail to make sure that the access points are provided for the
buses, that the parking works, that everything passes muster.

I'd also like to offer, this is a complicated site, there's lots of ups and downs. If any board members
would like more detail on which land we're talking about, I'm happy to go out there and organize
a visit. So then the plan is we would come back April 7 for an action, and we would ask you to
authorize us to enter into an IGA with Denver that would cover certain deal points which we would
expect, and of course, we'll bring more detail of this in April, but we would expect those deal
points to cover the approximate square footage to be exchanged, and then our requirements like
bus access and then for the parking.
So that's it. Again, went through pretty quickly, but open to any questions or feedback.
TROY WHITMORE: All right, thank you very much, Chessy, good presentation. Director Broom,
you're first in queue.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, chair. As I recall over the past years, there were major problems with
the I-25 bridge in that area. Has that all been addressed or are we going to put this ramp in and
then have to come back in a couple of years and tear this whole area up again?
BILL SIROIS: This is Bill Sirois. When they rebuilt it-- gosh, I'm trying to think when that was.
2000, it was-- I don't know if anybody in the audience remembers. 2006-ish? I thought they
addressed most of that. I know there's some ongoing drainage issues that they'll have to address as
part of this, but I know there's other issues to the south associated with some of the environmental
contamination, but I don't know of any-- I'm looking at the engineers in the audience-- of any
specific ongoing issues with the bridge of I-25 over Broadway.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Madam First Vice Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just a couple of things. The temporary parking to the
north, what is the distance from those parking spaces to this light rail station?
CHESSY BRADY: It's within our required radius, and it's actually closer than some of our other
existing parking on-site, but I can get you the exact numbers-PEGGY CATLIN: No, that's sufficient. And now this wedge ramp, the purpose of it is vehicular
access from southbound Broadway to southbound I-25, which is currently a double left turn onto
the ramp. What will become of those-CHESSY BRADY: The purpose is to remove that double left across traffic. So instead, those
people will go right and not have to cross Broadway in order to-- so the purpose is to relieve that
congestion.
PEGGY CATLIN: But there will be some surplus?
BILL SIROIS: You're asking what's going to be done with the space that's currently occupied by
the two left turns? I know if you look at the--

PEGGY CATLIN: --ramp that goes-BILL SIROIS: Yeah. If you look at the configuration, which I know is really, really small, on
these-- slide 4, packet number-- page 56, it does show you a little bit of that in terms of how it
works. But we can get you more detail if you want specifics, but it generally tells you they're just
kind of re-stripe. They did the improvement in the south a couple of years ago where they did all
that improvement. This is the last phase of that-- or it's not quite last phase, because they do have
the other ramp of the-- northbound ramp that they don't have money for that they want to do at
some point in the future.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So right now we have 1,000 parking spots?
BILL SIROIS: Approximately, yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: After this exchange, how many parking spots will we have? Because I know
it's the outdoor lot, but that means you can park really close to one another. What's going to be our
end result?
CHESSY BRADY: The end result is that we will have the same number of spaces. And I've gone
out there and counted them myself. Denver's also gone out there and counted them. We're going
to go out together and count them when the lot is full, and we're going to make sure that RTD is
getting the same number of spaces.
And yes, when you stripe a lot or when you add pedestrian pathways, you could lose square
footage, but what we have discussed with Denver is that we will not lose spaces.
NATALIE MENTEN: That's a surprising answer. I hope that's-- it sounds like you're going to go
out and you're going to walk it, you're going to do it, so I'm glad. But when we had the loss of
4,300 square feet in the trade, right? Yeah. And then add in all of these improvements-- OK, good.
It sounds like you're on top of it, so I'm good. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, chair. I have a question. I know we're losing a few thousand square
feet, and we're also giving easements, apparently. How can we ensure that what we're getting back
is at least a fair trade for what we've lost?
CHESSY BRADY: Right. And we are going to be doing appraisals and looking at the value of the
land, and we'll make sure that we're getting a fair trade. A lot of this land is under highways. So
the appraisal of that land, it's not developable, much of it. So the appraisals will come in-- we'll
see how they come in, but that's absolutely our goal, is to get a fair trade and do that based on
appraisal.

JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you.
SUSAN K. ALTES: Part of that fair trade-- I'm sorry. Senior Manager of Real Property. Part of
the trade will be the value of the improvements, the pavement, the lighting and that kind of thing
will be additional value to RTD.
JUDY LUBOW: Well I'm assuming it will be a fair trade, I just wanted to make sure that we're
doing the calculations. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you for the input, Susan. All right, next up, Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. This is an old project. I think it was around when I worked at CDOT
back 20 years ago. And that's why that off-ramp it on the Broadway, I believe, that's why it was
built like that, to make room for this wedge project. And that was constructed back in '06, and
design takes a few years anyway. So it's good to finally see this going on.
Has-- will the northbound buses, mainly the 0 and the 0L, be able to use the north exit-- a north
exit? So this exposition extension?
CHESSY BRADY: Yes.
JEFF WALKER: OK. Because I think that'll save some time at least from them having to backtrack
a quarter-mile then up a quarter-mile to get to that point of exposition. I think that's where the first
bus stop is now since the consolidation, on Lincoln street.
CHESSY BRADY: It could. And that was really crucial that we have the two points of access,
especially if there's an emergency and one gets closed, so yeah.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah. That'll save me time when I'm on the 0. And I know that RP uses that
southbound on-ramp at I-25, so it'll save, I imagine, this movement will save that bus and those
passengers some time because they won't have to wait for that light to turn green, that green arrow,
and then wait for all the other cycles to go through.
And then probably the-- well I guess that won't be a problem. Anyway, so yeah, as soon as you-I've been waiting 20 years for this because I go to this. So yeah. I'm not concerned about the
parking. Once in awhile I park there, and there are some spots that are almost up to Alameda
Station that folks backtrack down the Broadway because that gate is closed up in Alameda
sometimes.
So I think this is a win-win for our passengers, for our agency, we'll have a better service to
maintain from what I understand. Paved surfaces are easier to maintain and better to maintain than
gravel surfaces. It looks like the space will be managed better if we can lose 40,000 square feet
and maintain the same number of spaces, so it sounds like there's a lot of waste in there now.
So yeah, whenever it comes back around, you'll probably hear a yes from me. Thanks. That's it.

TROY WHITMORE: Thank you for your 20 years of patience, director. We all need that. Director
Tisdale, the floor is yours.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I just want to say that the planned
improvement of the Dark Hole of Calcutta buried beneath I-25 as depicted, the improvement at
page 60, that alone is worth the price of admission, and I support it. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, director. Directors, any other questions for Chessy or Bill or
even Susan? Looks like we are done with that matter, and thank you very much, good update.
All right, I think now we're moving to other matters. Are there other matters from any board
member? Looks like-- Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. You know what? I would like to take a
point of privilege this evening to talk a little bit about what an amazing innovation fair we've had
upstairs. And I would like to acknowledge and thank the Innovation Network teams from the light
rail operations and customer care for their innovation. And I know a lot of us went and visited
them, they were great. I'd like to ask them to stand so we can acknowledge their work, so could
you stand?
[APPLAUSE]
Thank you for coming down, that was really quite amazing.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you. Appreciate that recognition. Great job by the gang that
coordinated that event. Other matters? Continuing. Going once, going twice, and gone. So next
meeting, be there or be square, April 7, 2020. And we will take a short pause for the cause, let's
say five minutes, and then the next committee meeting will begin. Let's put it at five til 7:00. Thank
you. Six minutes.
BOB BROOM: You did a nice job.
TROY WHITMORE: Oh, I kind of mumbled.

