2021-08-25
GM Oversight and Performance Management
VINCE BUZEK: --everyone here. OK. Thanks, everybody, for being here. My camera's not working. So you
won't see me but you'll be hearing me.
I'm going to call to order the Wednesday, August 25, 2021 meeting of the GM Oversight and Performance
Management Committee. I'll take the roll quickly. Buzek is here. Vice Chair Sloan? I see you, but I didn't
hear you. So I'll take it as a yes. Director Lewis? Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: So we've got all present, with the exception of Directors Lewis and Dishell. If they pop in,
someone let me know who is present.
OK, let's start our agenda. I'm sorry?
BOBBY DISHELL: --Buzek, I'm here.
VINCE BUZEK: Oh, Director Dishell.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell is here.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. OK.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Rosenthal is on the line too.
VINCE BUZEK: Oh, I'm sorry, Paul. You're right.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: It's all good.
VINCE BUZEK: [INAUDIBLE] also here. Any other Directors that I'm missing.
SHELLEY COOK: Shelley Cook is here.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. OK. Saw you there. Thank you, Shelley.
OK. So let's just get the ball rolling. I'm going to turn it over to Mr. Aesch and his team to talk about the rest
of the agenda, which has to do with the net promoter score survey question, the sampling process, the GM
survey validation plan, compensation analysis overview. So Mr. Aesch, do you want to-DEBRA JOHNSON: So Director Buzek, if I may indulge and actually introduce the item in such a way with
the additional people, sir.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, General Manager Johnson. Please go right ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you so much, Mr. Chair.
So basically for all that is simple, Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO. This afternoon we have
TransPro that are with us. And basically, in recognizing that we have an adopted strategic plan, of which
you took action on August 10, some of the preliminary elements in ensuring that this plan comes to fruition
in the sense that we can effectuate it boils down to establishing baseline understanding of where we stand
as it relates to our strategic priorities, primarily as we look at our community value and additionally as relates
to customer excellence.
Some time ago, during the course of having a conversation with this body assembled here today, we had
a conversation that ensued relative to ascertaining how will that come to fruition. In the course of moving
forward, we collectively acted on a recommendation put forward by members of the General Manager
Oversight in the sense of basically garnering an understanding of how we get there.
One thing that's important to note, I have talked about ad nauseum in addition with the Chair, where we
talk about the importance of going to where the people are. And that came to fruition during the course of
leveraging a discussion of our Road to Recovery back in May during the course of actually talking about
being empathetic to our customer pain points. So with that, the TransPro team, which is headed up by Marc
Aesch, but specifically we'll be hearing from Chris Browning and Jason Pearl, who have been working in
tandem with our market research staff. And we have Palmo O'Neil that's present to orient you about the
process that is mainstream relative to seeing how we stack up to other entities from a customer service
vantage point.
In turn, while we do have demarcated on this agenda that there would be a GM survey validation plan, this
was all incorporated in the presentation, which they will put forth, that's customarily when you leverage
something of this caliber using a third party going forward to do the engagements that intercepts as I

proscribed a few moments ago. So with that, I thank you for your attention. And now I will yield the floor to
Mr. Aesch to formally introduced his team members, who are quite capable in this area of market research.
Thank you very kindly for the opportunity to introduce.
MARK AESCH: Thank you kindly, Madam CEO. And I'll just add three quick points. So it's very much a yes
and, so beautifully set up. As part of the strategic plan, which the Board recently adopted at the CEO's
recommendation, there were four outcomes by which you are evaluating the performance of the
organization. We're here today to talk about two of them, customer satisfaction and community value.
The second point that I would highlight to the Board as you're listening to the presentation is the process
that we utilize with clients nationally is distincting between customer service, which are the inputs that the
management team employs to drive the outcome of customer satisfaction. So the presentation you're going
to see today is how we measure customer satisfaction.
And it really is the third point that I would make is how you empower your customers to pick and prioritize
the elements of service that are the most important to them to drive their satisfaction level, that higher net
promoter score by which you're evaluating your CEO. The Board thinks about the net promoter score,
whereas the customers are empowered to identify which elements of service drive that experience for them.
So with that, let me turn to Christopher Browning from our team, who actually leads this work nationally
with other agencies and how you'll be able to use the results specific to RTD, both to evaluate your CEO
but also to be able to compare, [AUDIO OUT] I guess the industry as a whole.
Christopher.
CHRISTOPHER BROWNING: Thanks, Mark. Mr. Chairman and committee members, thank you so much
for the opportunity to be with you today. You all can see my screen, correct? Just want to confirm that
before I move forward.
DEBRA JOHNSON: We can. Can I suggest you put it in slide show mode, please?
CHRISTOPHER BROWNING: Yes, ma'am.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
CHRISTOPHER BROWNING: All right. Well, as Mark said, I'm Christopher Browning. I'm with TransPro.
I'm a principal with the firm and I've led numerous projects around the country around customer satisfaction
and community value. And our role today here is to walk through this process with you all as we've
established in a national capacity and how we can bring the same thinking to the Denver community as
well.

As I said, we've conducted this work around the country in communities such as Austin, Charlotte, Las
Vegas, Tampa, and others, in a way that really helps us understand what is the baseline for these
communities and then how can we improve in a consistent methodology.
And today I'm going to walk through these areas as you see on the screen. I'll walk through a little bit of
context and background that both Madam CEO and General Manager and Mark alluded to. I'll talk about
the process that we use, the instrument design, the sampling methodology, so how we come to survey the
number of people that we do, the analysis and recommendations after the survey is completed, and then
ultimately, the overall project timeline.
So as we've already heard this morning, or this afternoon, the Board adopted, unanimously adopted a
strategic plan on August 10. Two of those areas of highest importance, the strategic priorities, are
community value and customer excellence. So as we think about how do we measure that, your CEO began
a process to implement information systems to identify how we're going to measure those outcomes. So
as the Board is focused on that outcome level, what's the most important thing in these four areas, the
outcome that the Board seeks to see, understand, is how is the management team going to actually deliver
that.
In this case, two information systems that are put in place are for these two surveys, the customer survey,
the customer experience survey, and the community value survey. Ultimately, where both of these will lead
in this current edition is to establish the baseline. So as we think about both the performance of the agency
and measuring the performance of your General Manager and establishing the baseline today so that a
year from now we have something to compare it to.
There's kind of a four-step process that we use as part of our survey tool. We develop an instrument, and
that is a industry standard instrument that we use so that we can compare your agency to others around
the country. We use sampling methodology and survey execution in a way that's independent and make
sure that it's statistically valid so that there are a clear understanding of what's available and what the
impressions of the community and the customers are true.
Third, as we think about the results and analysis component-- so again, we take the results and what are
the industry, how do you all compare to other industry transit agencies, what does that look like? And then
lastly, taking the results, the industry benchmarks, and what are some clear actionable recommendations
that the management team could think about and incorporate into the operations to drive change and
increase the outcomes that the Board seeks to have.
So I'll move into the first piece of the process, and that's the instrument design. I'm going to narrate this in
a two-piece capacity. I'll start with the customer excellence survey on each of these sections and follow up
with the community values survey.
Excuse me. In this particular case, the instrument is consistent with other agencies so that we can
benchmark RTD's performance and impressions against others in the transit agency. We've also worked

with your market research team to make sure that we're focused on the right questions here so that there
is consistency with previous surveys that have been done on the customer side. We capture key
demographic information as we think about our population and make sure that we have a multilingual
approach to ensure that all of our customers are able to participate in the survey.
One of the most important components, as you all have identified in your strategic plan, is an outcome
around the net promoter score. The net promoter score, founded about 50 years ago, was created by the
Harvard Business Schools to really measure loyalty in service industries. So what is the ultimate loyalty
question? It is, how likely are you to recommend using RTD services to a friend or neighbor? And there's a
calculation behind that. We ask the question on a scale of 0 to 10, how likely are you to recommend using
RTD services to a friend or neighbor? Anyone who answers a 9 or a 10, as you can see on the right hand
side, is a promoter. They're people that are very loyal and are willing to recommend.
In the middle, you have your passive, customers that may say, maybe, maybe not. And then you have on
the left hand side from 0 to 6, you have your detractors. And those customers are against the service. We
calculate the score, the net promoter score, from the percent promoters minus the percent detractors. And
that gives us our NPS score. And that score can range from anywhere from a negative 100 to a positive
100.
There are agencies that excel at this. You think about the Costcos, the Disneys, the Apples of the world,
who just have a powerful NPS score in the 70s to 80s. On the flip side, you have organizations that have
terrible NPS scores, net promoter scores, such as internet service providers or banks, again, those that
have a disloyal customer base. And in the middle, for reference, the industry simple average for transit
agencies is 34%.
Mr. Chairman, I see a hand up. I just want to make sure that I'm responsive. Would you like me to take
questions throughout or would you like me to continue through?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, let's take them throughout. I think it might help if there's a question on this, so they
won't forget the question. So Director Catlin, go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Yeah, Christopher, I just am curious why the range of detractors is
so big, the range of positive, or whatever, it's just the previous slice, the promoters is small, and then that,
the neutral, or the passives, is rather small. I just was wondering why the detractors is such a broad range.
And I'm not an expert at all in this, but my instincts would tell me that you would have more passives in that
middle range and then have maybe three or four in the detractors. I just was curious how that plays out.
And then the second part of my question is, you have percent of promoters minus percent of detractors.
Are those weighted? So for example, if you have a lot of zeros, does that weigh more heavily than if you
have 4s or 5s? Thank you.

CHRISTOPHER BROWNING: Mr. Chairman, if I may. Director Catlin, to your first question, this is an
industry standard. We didn't create it. Harvard Business School did. So the reason, my understanding is
that there is a heavier weight on those that are against your service and that takes away the bias from
potentially overweighting on the positive side. So it weights against you just a little bit, but it makes sure
that the customer really is passionate and is loyal to your service. So that's why those passives and
promoters are such a small component of that.
And to your second question, the scoring is not weighted. So a detractor who indicates a 0 is the same
weight as a detractor who indicates a 6.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might, just to follow up to that, I fill out these surveys for other industries regularly. And
when I fill them out, if I do something on the 4, 5, or 6 range, that means I'm relatively passive, in my mind.
And that's just why I asked the question. So I'd really be interested to see some of the logic behind that, I
guess. I'm not doubting it. And I appreciate that you're using the industry standard. I'm just really kind of
curious how that Harvard study came about with those numbers, so-- Thank you.
MARK AESCH: There's a terrific book on the topic, which people like me enjoy. There's a book called The
Ultimate Question. And to the point, and I would want to be clear for the Board's benefit that this isn't unique
to transit, this is for service industries. So Ritz Carlton uses this, restaurants. It was built at Harvard back in
the '60s. But there's a great book-- I was actually looking on my bookshelf to see if I had it here-- called The
Ultimate Question, built by the Harvard team that, written by the Harvard team that designed this. And so
again, not unique to transit and certainly not ours, but it's the model that is used for service industries
globally.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Mark. I wrote that down. That's helpful.
MARK AESCH: Yup. The Ultimate Question.
VINCE BUZEK: Does that answer your question, Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: It sure does. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: You bet. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. This question may be more appropriate for General Manager
Johnson. But if I recall our sort of Board conversations correctly, the concerns that we had for the market
research team were sort of two-fold, that there were concerns about methodology, which, Christopher, it
sounds like you grasped. But there were also concerns that I, and, it sounds like, others had about our
ability or inability to get a sizable sample, statistically balanced sample, and to get people to actually answer
those questions. Is that included in your guys' scope? Or Ms. Johnson, is there-- how are we addressing
sort of the full--

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much. Mr. Chair, if I may?
VINCE BUZEK: Go right ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Director Dishell, upcoming in the presentation we will speak to that. We are going
to ensure that we do a sampling that is reflective of our ridership. It may take some time. And we have
strategies that we will employ. One thing that I will speak, having worked at other transit agencies, we did
leverage multitude of different ways so we can ensure that we are getting the accurate voice as we look at
going about this. And I don't want to take any of Christopher's thunder. But as I said before, we're going to
go to where the people are. So we will frame it around that. And if, in fact, Christopher gets to that slide and
your question isn't answered, I'll be more than happy to delve deeper in.
So with that, I will yield the floor back to Christopher, if there are no more questions. Thank you, sir.
CHRISTOPHER BROWNING: Thank you, Ms. Johnson.
So now I would like to turn our attention to the Community Value Survey. So it follows the same pattern,
where we want to understand the perception of the value that RTD brings to the community in a number of
different areas. So what's the perception there? And as you think about that, we want to make sure we're
talking to the investors of RTD, the entire community. It's not just the people who ride. It's not just the people
who don't ride. So we want to make sure that we're delivering measurable value to the entire RTD
community and service area. And so we do that using this survey. Again, we capture key demographic
information and we ensure that it is accessible to multilingual populations as well.
One of the ways that we ensure, on the Community Survey, because it is such a large population area, we
want to make sure that we're talking to-- since we're focused on customers in the Customer Satisfaction
Survey, the Customer Experience Survey, on the vehicles, when we do the Community Survey, we will talk
to everyone, but we also want to make sure we're capturing those who are both aware of the RTD system
and the public transportation service, as well as those that, whether they use the service or do not. And that
allows us to understand that, for those that are aware of the service but do not use the service will have
one set of answers, and those that have an awareness and do use the system have another set of answers.
And we're able to look at those in tandem. And that, again, is something for the management team to use
as it thinks about how it wants to reach the community and really display and deliver the message of the
community's value.
So ultimately, as we think about both the Customer Excellence Survey and the Community Value Survey,
we start with core questions facilitating industry-wide benchmarking, so again, allows us to compare RTD
to both itself as well as other transit agencies around the country. The instrument is informed by the strategic
plan and the scorecards that were created as a part of that process by the management team. And
ultimately, the findings will allow us from multiple survey waves to drive improvement and change on the
operational side to deliver greater value and greater level of success around the outcomes.

I'll move on. I'd like to move on next to the sampling methodology, the second part of this process. And the
way that we define a sample is it's a standard practice about how to draw conclusions from a broader
population. And the Customer Excellence Survey and the Community Value Survey are similar in nature.
They each have their own distinct populations. So the distinct population for the Customer Excellence
Survey is the ridership, everyone who is a customer of the service. On the Community Value Side, it is
everyone within the service area. So it's making sure that we understand who the population is. And then
we gather a subset of that population. So we use a statistically valid sample size of that population. And I'll
talk about each one of those in just a minute.
Focusing on the fixed route and rail customer experience surveys. How we've executed this nationally and
the model that we'll use here for RTD is, one, we weight the survey based on how your customers use the
service from a both day and time perspective. So as we think about who the customers are, where they're
riding, and when they're riding, that's what we use to define our survey methodology.
Second, we talk to customers on the vehicles. So whether we're on the bus, on the fixture outside, or on a
rail car, on the other side of a train, we get on the vehicle. Our surveyors get on the vehicle to talk to those
customers. We use a third party survey team. So TransPro oversees all of the modes of survey, but we
have other people going on. So there's a separation even between TransPro and who's collecting the
surveys to ensure that independent data collection.
Thirdly, we intercept every fourth customer. So we get on the vehicles, we intercept a customer, and our
surveyors talk to every fourth customer to prevent bias. So that means that if the fourth person to get on
the vehicle chooses not to take the survey, we wait for the next fourth person to enter the vehicle before
we ask them to participate in the survey. And that really allows us to have the understanding that this is
free of bias and there's clarity around how we're sampling.
One of the things that we've talked about as a part of this process is establishing baselines. And in staying
in the customer experience survey realm, your CEO asked us to also conduct a baseline for the paratransit
system, in addition to the fixed and rail. So this one looks about the same. It's a very similar survey. Because
the agency knows who All of the paratransit customers are, we use your data, we use your customer list,
and we randomize that list and do the same thing, where we reach out to the customer, we call the customer
to make sure, and we talk to either the customer or the personal care assistant to ensure that statistical
validity as well.
For paratransit that, specifically due to the population, we do administer these surveys over the phone
during service periods on weekdays, so that they know, they can be aware of that the surveys are coming.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Christopher, if I may. Mr. Chair, Director Sloan has her hand raised.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. I appreciate that. Vice Chair Sloan, do you have question?

MARJORIE SLOAN: I do. Thank you, Mr. Chair. My question is, I understand you can get the sample size,
but do you also randomize the bus routes? Because it seems like the easy way to do the survey would be
to reach the sample size by just stay on Colfax, Broadway, Alameda. So how do you get to other parts of
town and make sure you're getting different types of riders?
CHRISTOPHER BROWNING: That's a great question. Mr. Chairman, if I may.
Director Sloan, we use the ridership of the system to help us identify where we need to be surveying. So if
most of your-- if 3% of your ridership comes on a particular route, that's where we're going to do about 3%
of the surveys. So it's based on where your customers are. And that allows us to make sure we're not-- with
the TransPro team and the leadership team, we're not picking and choosing where we want to survey,
where we don't want to survey. We let the data tell us where we need to be surveying, to make sure that
we're reaching the entire service area, a sample of the entire service area.
MARK AESCH: It's important to note, I'll add to Christopher's comment, so we do, in a statistically valid
way, allocate surveys by routes. We also do it by day parts. So we will equal a certain percentage of
interviews in morning rush and evening rush, tied to the percentage of customers during that time, as well
as mid part of the days as well. So all of those are tied to a system, of which we don't get to have an opinion
around, the data decides how many surveys we need in each place.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Great answers. Thank you very much.
VINCE BUZEK: Does that take care of everything for you, Vice Chair Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: It does. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: And thanks for that question. Very good question.
CHRISTOPHER BROWNING: Moving to the sampling methodology for the Community Value Survey. We
use a third-party call center of the total population and we weight the data based on the gender and age to
represent the community demographics. So we use the independent study, the American Community
Survey of 2019 five-year estimates for the Denver area. And we used the sample size population to reweight that data. So that way, you have a better understanding of what the entire population believes.
So again, on the Community Value Survey side, it's all focused on-- we use an independent, nationally
recognized third-party call center. And they reach out to community members, so that, again, this is a
random sampling. We make sure we define the service area or the population area correctly. And then they
reach out to the customer- or to the community member, excuse me, to the investor, and then they're
offered the survey at that point.
We do have a quality assurance process in place both for the Customer Excellence Surveys and the
Community Value Survey, to make sure that we have valid results. We also have systems in place that

allow us to really make sure that we disqualify any incomplete or unacceptable responses. And when I say
unacceptable, I don't mean, what we want the answer to be. I mean that if there are things such as straight
lining, a customer has, or a community surveyor has gone all the way down on a particular answer, generally
we will weed those out.
Additionally, another example is unrealistic completion time. So if we estimate the survey to be six to eight
minutes, if it only takes two, we're going to look a lot more closely at that survey to ensure its validity and
go from there. So we do have a quality assurance process in place.
Once we've done the sampling and the execution, so we've actually gone on the buses, on the vehicles,
we've called the paratransit customers, and our third-party call center has conducted the survey with the
community, we get to the results and recommendations. So here-- and after we made sure that we have
that quality data-- we move to the final step, where we provide actionable results to the management team
to make those operational improvements. We look at existing trends. We identify what was most important
to the customers and the community separately, based on each survey. And we start to show where can
the agency move forward, where can it increase its NPS score, or its customer satisfaction or community
value, compared to what the customer or the community respectively found most important.
And so as we think about establishing the benchmarks in this initial survey, how do we begin to think about
making improvements to increase those outcomes. So as the Board is focused on those outcomes that
you've identified in the strategic plan, what is the management team going to focus on operationally to make
changes to positively impact those outcomes in the strategic plan that the Board is so passionate about.
What I'd like to do on the next several slides is show you an example of another agency. So these are not
RTD numbers. It's not RTD data. But it's really an example for you all to see what you as a Board and the
management team will see as a result of this.
VINCE BUZEK: Christopher, we're going to stop you here real quick. I just want to ask if there's any
questions so far up to this part of the presentation. No hands raised. Thanks. Go right ahead. I'm sorry for
the interruption.
CHRISTOPHER BROWNING: No. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
So this is the NPS. And as you can see here, this particular agency, which is a real agency, they had
particularly high promoters. Their customers are passionate about their service. They love it. And you can
see they have relatively few detractors. That results in, quite honestly, an industry leading net promoter
score of 53%. And you can see that's compared to the sampled average of 34%. This is the slide that you
as Board members will focus on. So as you think about what's most important for you all to keep track of,
this is it. This is one of the slides that is most important for you to be keenly aware of and keenly focused
on.

The management team will focused on the next several slides. In this particular agency, the customers
identified-- we ask the customers to rank their most important elements of service. What are your top three
elements of service? This particular agency focused on-- the customers identified frequency, hours of
operation, and travel time as the most important factors, the most important elements of service.
And you'll see this on the next slide, but as we think about what's going to drive the NPS, what's going to
drive that net promoter score up, it's going to be focusing on what's on the left side of the screen. If the
management team is focused on the trip planning tools and making sure that they're offering detour
notifications real time, that's great, that's good. But it's not going to move the needle. Because the
customers have said clearly, far and away, the three most important things for this management team to
focus on are the frequency, the hours of operation, and the travel time. So it really allows the opportunity
for the management team, and ultimately, the Board, to say, the customer says this is the most important
thing, let's focus on this to increase our net promoter score, our customer satisfaction, and our community
value.
VINCE BUZEK: Christopher, I'd like to have you pause there. Director Dishell, do you have a question,
please?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. And this more of a probably ask for your anecdotal advice, and maybe Ms.
Johnson has answers as well. But those three in particular, more so frequency and hours of operation, cost
real dollars. You can't solve to reorganize your way, I don't think, to more hours of operation without more
money, or more frequency without more money. Maybe you can with shifting operators and recruiting and
retaining operators. It's all interrelated. But I ask that to say, so it's these three things. OK, the budget reality
is we can't. We do not have enough operators to increase frequency or increase hours of operation. How
do we continue to move forward, as opposed to just, what is the next step, knowing that there's real
budgetary constraints here?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So if I may, Mr. Chairman?
So Director Dishell, from my past experience, what I would offer up, we see what the top important factors
are. And basically, when we look to manage our service delivery model, we basically utilize the opinions,
perception, and attitudes of the respondents to help make informed decisions. So recognizing you called
out some elements, there could be some factors we do that could be cost saving, right. So from my
experience at a different property, there's travel time. We could interline some routes in certain areas that
may not have the requisite number of boardings per revenue hour.
So there's a lot of different things creatively that could be done relative to delving a little deeper in
relationship to what's happening. And to the point that Christopher has raised, there is different waves as
we go forward. So hours of operation, what does that really mean in reference to what it is we're putting
forward? There could be follow-ons and there could be other techniques that we leverage. In past
experiences, I did mystery customer rides in reference to garnering a better perspective of what we could
be doing through the eyes of a third party who's giving direction or information directly to me and the

management team about their experiences. So everything isn't cut and dry in reference to being black or
white. They're shades of gray when you look at these different factors holistically.
BOBBY DISHELL: Got it. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
Go ahead.
CHRISTOPHER BROWNING: And Mr. Chairman, if I may, the only thing I would add to that is these are
examples of an agency. For RTD, the answers could be on-time performance, bus cleanliness, and safety,
right? So some items are certainly easier to implement change on from a management team and a decisionmaking perspective and not just a monetary, route service changes. Some things are. So I just want to
make sure I made that clear, that there are some distinctions based on the different agencies of where the
customers identify the priority.
MARK AESCH: I think it'll be fascinating, to Director Dishell's comment, there's one community, a large
community where we've worked for a number of years, and the number two metric that drives their customer
satisfaction-- it's unwavering, it hasn't moved in five years-- is the fare price. And it's the only community
that we see fare price being one of the top elements of customer satisfaction. And what that tells the Board
and the management team is fares just have to be off the table as they think about how to handle their
financial position because it's such a critical driver of customer satisfaction.
So this will tell us, once we establish the first several waves, and how we shouldn't lock in on what the first
wave tells us. But after we have several waves of data, we'll have a clear understanding of what are the
most important elements to drive customer satisfaction uniquely to your customer.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Mark. And Director Cook, before I go to you, I have a quick question.
So obviously, some of the things that scored lower in the middle, safety on the bus and bus cleanliness,
are important factors. How do you tell whether the score is low because people don't care or the score is
low because the buses are clean and safe?
CHRISTOPHER BROWNING: Director Buzek, that's a great question. So what we're not showing as a part
of in this example are the results of the customer's actual satisfaction with these areas. So in this case, bus
cleanliness over the last year and a half or so, almost every agency has been hyper focused, hyperaware
on ensuring that buses are clean and safe, largely around bus cleanliness. And so I don't know the numbers
off the top-- for this agency, they might have extremely high marks in customer satisfaction, or excuse me,
around bus cleanliness.

So as you think about what's most important, it could be that those areas are scored lower, as well as it just
may not be an issue. So in this case, trip planning tools, they might have a system in place that works and
it doesn't, it's just not going to move the needle on what the management team needs to do to make
improvements there. It's where the priority of the customer. They say, these are the three things that are
most important to us. If you want us to like your service more and be more willing to recommend it, then
these are the things we want to see you make improvements on.
MARK AESCH: One more piece to add to that, Mr. Chair, which I think will specifically speak to your point,
is when you begin to look at the cross tabs here-- we didn't take you to this level of depth for this
presentation-- but as you look at the cross tabs, clearly someone ranked bus cleanliness as one of the most
important parts of their experience. Clearly, someone rated trip planning tools in regards to this. We'll be
able to see their level of satisfaction, their net promoter score, with those topics that they specifically ranked
as important to them.
This just takes everyone in a statistically valid way to be able to drive satisfaction of all of your customers.
But you're able to pull these apart and look at cross tabs for each of these.
VINCE BUZEK: Got it. So the underlying data is going to give us more insight as to why we have these
scores. OK.
Director Cook, you're up.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks, everybody. And I'm running around bagging veggies. So forgive me for not
being present all the time. But a quick question that kind of pulls in what Marjorie Sloan had talked about,
but also this recent question from Bobby Dishell. If, in effect, we're sampling some routes more heavily
because they have higher ridership, and I think for those routes that she talked about, it's pretty significant.
So it feels like it would have the effect of weighting the views or the concerns or the priorities of the people
along that route. Do you then implement the improvements targeted to those areas or do you implement it
across the Board, General Manager?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much. Director Cook. So to the point that both Christopher and Mark
raised, it's looking at the cross tabulation to make an informed decision. And so this could also generate
further exploration by us with a targeted approach to garner a better understanding of what that may be.
So it's contingent upon the type of information we receive, and more so, what I will share in my past
experience is, when we saw something with certain routes, we could actually do a targeted approach to
that specific route or line to garner a better understanding of what might be due for that customer segment,
recognizing that we have a vast demographic area in which we serve relative to the service area being
2,342 square miles. While it's broad and it's unwieldy, there's different demographics associated with such.
So to the point that was raised, for example, when the TransPro team alluded to the one transit property
that has great fares, when we look at our fare study and equity analysis, and I use that, we'll be doing some

exploration as relates to what might work across the board. So compounded with all this information, we
can then tune in to what may be best for our customer segments relative to what we glean from this
experience here.
And specifically, as we speak about the certain waves, we want to ensure that we're improving aspects
going along so we can heighten that customer experience and then netting a better promoter score, but in
turn, we have to do some more in-depth analysis about the perceptions and attitudes. And there's different
elements we could use, mystery customers. We could use telephone town halls and things of the like as
we go forward. So this isn't the one all, be all. It gives us a snapshot about what we might do to enhance
the service collectively.
Does that address your question?
SHELLEY COOK: It does. And since I've got the floor, Mr. Chair, can I ask one other quick question aboutVINCE BUZEK: Yes, please do. Go ahead.
SHELLEY COOK: When you're doing every fourth person, are they within earshot of the driver? I mean, I
don't know what psychological effect it might have if they know they are saying, oh, it's a crappy service, or
it's a great service. Is that influenced by being in the presence of a driver they may see every day? I meanDEBRA JOHNSON: I will yield the floor to Chris, but keeping in mind there's different elements with the
intercepts. They could be on a station platform. You could be on a light rail vehicle, a commuter rail car,
where an operator is within a cab. Or recognizing we have bus operators as well, it's contingent upon that.
But I'll yield the floor to the expert that has more in-depth experience as opposed to me just having
experience from the periphery. Chris?
CHRISTOPHER BROWNING: Thank you, Madam CEO and Mr Chairman.
Director Cook, so we ask our surveyors to move throughout the vehicle. So there may be an occasion
where, if in a bus, that the surveyor is within earshot of a driver. I believe, Madam CEO Johnson, that I think
your drivers have the safety shields. And so that provides a layer of separation, if you will. So there is a
potential for that. However, in all of the agencies that we've done this before, we sure the operators are
aware that these surveyor surveyors are on the vehicles. And we've not had complaints from customers
taking the survey or from operators about there being an issue.
So certainly, if there is an uncomfort level with being too close to an operator, we would ask that customer
to shift or something. We would make accommodations for that.

SHELLEY COOK: So in other words, you don't think it's influencing the answers in any significant way. OK,
great. Thank you. That's all.
VINCE BUZEK: That's it? Great. And I just have a quick follow-up.
So when we're doing these surveys on our conveyances, is there any chance we can post notices that say,
we're doing a survey, we'd really love for you to participate, so that-- you don't want to do that? OK, tell me
why.
CHRISTOPHER BROWNING: So the reason we don't do that is because we want to make sure we're
reaching out to the customer. So by having that every fourth customer, it eliminates the opportunity for bias.
So if I'm a surveyor and Mark and Ms. Johnson were to get on the vehicle together, and one of them, Ms.
Johnson was the fourth customer that's on my list, I'm only going to ask questions to Ms. Johnson. I am not
going to ask Mr. Aesch his questions. If he would like to respond through her, I guess that's OK. But the
point is, they both don't get to take the survey. It's one survey. It's one response. And then the next fourth
person, so there's only one survey. So that's-- we want to make sure that we are approaching the customer.
That is key in making sure that we eliminate that bias.
VINCE BUZEK: I get that. But I think my point was not that you get odd answers, but that you validate that
the person on the bus is a legitimate surveyor that is working with RTD. That's the only reason I wondered
if you notice it. RTD's conducting a customer satisfaction survey. You may see people on the bus. They are
legitimate, that kind of a thing.
CHRISTOPHER BROWNING: I think that's a great point, Mr. Chairman. And we certainly use identification
badges for those surveyors. We'll work with Miss Johnson to ensure that the right notices and they're
wearing the right things to make sure customers know who they are.
VINCE BUZEK: I could imagine the cost getting out of hand.
DEBRA JOHNSON: And if I could, Mr. Chair, as I said before, having done something similar, there is a
way in which we could be highly communicative. Because going forward, apprising people, but I concede
the point that's been raised, we don't want this to be biased. We want to ensure that we're receiving true
data that's reflective of our ridership going forward. And recognizing there's always a chance for anything
to happen, in my experience being in this space, at least with surveying of this magnitude over the past 10,
15 years, I've never had that encountered.
But there is a way that we could have conversations. I would not support noticing on the vehicle, but
ensuring that we have our personnel that's apprise, i.e. through service delivery, that we will have
individuals on the buses and things of the like. So thank you very much for that question.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks so much. Director Cook, are you done? Your hand's still up. I think she is. Director
Catlin, you're next.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I was curious what ridership numbers you'll be using. And the
reason for my question is because most of the routes in my region were eliminated due to COVID. And so
I believe that the area that I represent would not really factor into this survey because they haven't had any
routes. Even though they were low ridership routes, I just was curious what year you're going to be using
as your baseline for ridership.
CHRISTOPHER BROWNING: Mr. Chairman, Director Catlin, that's a great question. We're working with
your data team now to pull the information. Right now, we're planning to use-- we use recent data. So we're
using the month of June for 2021. We want to make sure we have an understanding of who the customer
is today. Certainly understand that if you're in an area that has been impacted by COVID, this is a baseline,
right? So we're capturing the snapshot of the ridership today. We know in the future, as the agency conducts
another customer satisfaction survey, that that will be a new baseline, or it will be a new survey, right? So
there may be a slightly different modification based on service changes and the like.
So we survey based on the ridership that's in place to make sure that, again, talking to real customers.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, for the record, that means that my district will have zero representation on the
survey.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So if I may, Mr. Chair. Director Catlin, thank you very much for your comment. But as
we talk more specifically, recognizing that we do have the community value, the investors as well, that's
another component recognizing the understanding of the services that we provide. And this will garner
additional input that will be helpful to us about the perceptions, opinions, and attitudes of the service that
we deploy throughout the entire district. Because from that could spawn the need to say, oh, well, what I
do know about the service is I don't have any service in this area. So that will in turn allow us to delve more
deeply. So there are two different approaches in which we can garner feedback from the district wide.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I understand that. And I recognize that prior to posing my question and my rather
snarky response. But I think that there are a number of the factors that you've listed here that I received
feedback in the past from my constituents that they're not going to have an opportunity to comment on now.
So it's just a comment for the record. And I understand that next year there'll be another opportunity, since
some service will be reinstated in September. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Catlin. No further questions right now. So Christopher, if you could
continue, that'd be great.
CHRISTOPHER BROWNING: Yes, sir. Thank you.
So just as a follow up to the previous slides, where the Board's focused on the outcome of the net promoter
score, the management team sees what's most important to the customer. And this slide is really designed
for the management team to really be thinking about what's going to move that needle to increase the net
promoter score. So I just want to orient you to the slide a little bit. You can see on the x-axis is the

importance, the weighted importance ranking of the factors. On the y-axis, the vertical axis, is the
satisfaction.
So Director Buzek, as you were asking a question about, well, how do they actually perform in bus
cleanliness, you can see here, looking for L, this particular agency, it was a low priority, and it's up in that
upper left quadrant of, it's nice to have. So they had a net-- or excuse me, a bus cleanliness satisfaction of,
looks like, about 83%. That's pretty good. So it's a nice to have, right. It's a low priority so it doesn't really
matter. Whereas the management team is really focused on that bottom left quadrant, the areas of
opportunity, because they know that the things that are most important but have the lowest satisfaction,
those are the things that are going to-- those are the items, the elements of service that are going to drive
the increase in customer satisfaction and the net promoter score.
So again, as the Board thinks about the net promoter score, the management team looks at this and says,
OK, we want to increase that net promoter score and overall satisfaction, these are the areas that we need
to focus on. It may not be a one-month change, right? To Director Dishell's point, it might be changing the
hours of operation might be a bigger lift. It might take a longer term approach. But it's thinking about what
are we going to do to impact, positively impact the NPS and overall customer satisfaction.
We'd just like to quickly take you through a timeline of the process that we've discussed. The agency, the
Board of Directors adopted the strategic plan on August 10. At your direction, the CEO and General
Manager has implemented information systems for two of the success outcome areas, strategic priority
areas of customer excellence and community value. We'll be on site the week of September 7 to conduct
the Customer Excellence Survey for fixed route and rail. We'll also be conducting the paratransit survey
that week. In mid-September, we'll be working with our call center vendor to conduct the Community Value
Survey, and present the results to the management team the week of October 25.
Ultimately, what this leads is the establishment of baseline today so that there's time to begin making
changes. Ultimately, as the Board and the management team decides to measure again next year, and the
frequency that you choose next year, allows you to begin to measure against your baseline that we're
establishing today and begin making improvements based on that. So again, I just want to make sure that
we're clear, this is a progression or an outflow of the strategic plan, the information systems to develop and
define the outcomes, as the Board identified. Using these data points allows us to the baseline today to
work on improvements as we move forward, and as you begin to think about measuring your CEO/General
Manager against these items, and the items in the strategic plan, over the next year.
VINCE BUZEK: Christopher, can I stop you real quick? I've got a question. The Community Value Survey,
is that performed telephonically?
CHRISTOPHER BROWNING: Yes, sir. It's both telephone and web panel.

VINCE BUZEK: OK. So I know we've had this problem in the past with our telephone town halls in that
there's some kind of an issue that we only use landlines. And because no one has a landline, is that an
issue here or not?
CHRISTOPHER BROWNING: No, sir. We'll use both cell, landlines, and a web panel.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. That's great.
Chair Rivera-Malpiede, I see that your hand is raised.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. thank you, Mr. Chair. You made me think of something. On all of these,
will these also be available different languages?
CHRISTOPHER BROWNING: Yes, ma'am. We've been working with your-- I'm going to get the name
wrong-- but your Diversity-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Transit Equity-DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may-- if I may, Chris. Madam Chair, we have basically linked TransPro up with our
Transit Equity Manager. For certain, we're looking at Spanish. I'm looking at having them assess-- and Carl
is going to double back, we didn't get that information in time for this presentation-- to leverage any other
safe harbor language that has the percentage that would warrant us going further. So right now, for certain
English and Spanish. And prior to this commencing, we'll have more in-depth information relative to any
other languages that are germane for the demographic.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you. [AUDIO OUT]
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, we can't hear you.
VINCE BUZEK: You're cutting in and out, Angie.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --sign language or TTY, just to make sure, up here. Is this better?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, it is. And to the point that you raise, Madam Chair, that goes into our language
assistant program, which is part of Title VI, hence my comments as it relates to them linking up with our
Transit Equity Manager to make that determination as we go forward, because we do leverage those
services when necessary across the board. So in the absence of having Carl Green present, I can share
with you that that is the direction in which I provided to the TransPro team just last week when we met.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome, ma'am.

VINCE BUZEK: Great question.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: [INAUDIBLE].
VINCE BUZEK: Great question, Madam Chair. Thanks.
Director Cook, your hand's back up. [INAUDIBLE]
SHELLEY COOK: Yes. Thank you. And I had hoped to wait through the end to see if my question was
answered, but I've got to get going here. So we are using these surveys for a couple of different reasons.
We're using them to drive performance excellence, and then also it's directly linked to our evaluation of the
GM/CEO and her salary. And because of that, I think that, so that there wouldn't be any question that it was
all aboveboard, we've asked for greater Board engagement. So along those lines, in terms of the
community-VINCE BUZEK: Director Cook, we lost you.
SHELLEY COOK: Blame Freddie. He's all over the keyboard.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. In terms of-SHELLEY COOK: Yeah.
VINCE BUZEK: --then we lost you.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, OK. Is there a way that we can get copies or we can preview the questions,
especially for community value, because that's a piece that is more, I don't know, subjective, I guess, or
values laden. It's not a matter of having some pretty well defined and accepted metrics that define customer
excellence. It's more a matter of local priority or regional goals and so forth, as well as what the agency
hopes to provide us as a benefit to the community.
So just for the purposes of making sure people can't criticize this process as being out of the purview of the
Board, that the Board has appropriate engagement on it, can you provide us with the questions, allow the
GMOC to have some input into those?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, I think that question is better suited for me, as opposed to the consultant.
And I would defer to you. If that's the desire of the collective body, recognizing that the surveys holistically
are being generated based upon the data that we have that is indigenous to this organization and the
timeline before us, I would yield to you all, referencing what we did relative to the timeline. So I'm not certain
if I really understand the question regarding what we've done holistically in relationship to the strategic plan
and the other exercises that we have undertaken. So I will yield to you all.

VINCE BUZEK: Sure. And I had mentioned this earlier on, I would love to see some of these questions.
And I think what Director Cook is getting at, just to ensure that people looking at us from the outside can
say, yeah, the Board was involved in this. I do not want this to interfere with our timeline, because the
timeline is critical. But if there's any chance we can get those survey questions just to look at them and so
we can tell people that the survey doesn't consist of questions that say, do you love RTD or would you
rather be poked in the eye with a stick? We'd like to be able to say, we've looked at these, we've digested
them, we agree they look good. So if that's possible, I would support that request by Director Cook.
Director Cook, do you have anything further?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Just a-- it really is to protect you, as well, Debra. Because I think we don't-- if it
was purely your performance management system, that's your purview. That's all in your control. But if it
remains in your control and is what is used to set your salary, I think that creates a perception of a problem,
potentially. I don't want to leave you open to that kind of an illusion. So I just want to make sure we're seen
to be doing this in a way that's appropriate, given the dollars, given the salary setting, and the fact that this
is the Board's evaluation of you as well. So thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Cook. And I would just say, as relates to that, please
recognize my comments recognizing you're one member of 15. I was yielding to the Chairman to see what
the direction of the body. And I do recognize that there will be a classification and compensation analysis
as it relates to the position in which I hold. So as I was saying, relative to the timeline, if it is the desire of
this body to have those questions, so be it. I appreciate the earnest and open dialogue relative to protecting
me.
So with that, I will yield the floor. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. I actually, I think it's one thing for us to look at the questions. I think it's another
thing for us to opine on that and edit and approve them or not approve them. I think, looking at that for our
own situational awareness so that we're not caught flat footed when someone says, have you seen the
survey, absolutely, totally fine. When we get into our management of these survey questions, to me that
goes beyond the scope of the Board. And frankly, I have concern about if someone were to release the
survey, is there a concern about the validity of the survey, right, if we were to release all the questions out
into the world, right, what does all that look like?
So I don't necessarily agree that we should be so involved in the survey questions, versus just seeing that.
And maybe that's not the intent here. But I would caution us on becoming statisticians and surveyors.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for those comments.

Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I'm turning my camera off so that you can hear me. I want to thank
Director Dishell. I can not agree with you more. I think to look at the survey questions is one thing, but that
is not our area of expertise. That's why we hire outside folks, to help us put together the best data driven
types of questions. They're the experts. And then we work from there.
So I absolutely agree. If the Board feels like they need to look at it to feel more comfortable, that's one thing.
But we'll have to do it on a very, very short timeline, because we have too much work to get done in a short
period of time. But I absolutely agree, we should not be delving into any kind of edit or any of those things.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for those comments. Vice Chair Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair Buzek. I am interested in whether or not these questions
will be specifically crafted to RTD, particular the community value issues. For instance, the Denver metro
area is a non-attainment area on ozone, so people are very conscious of climate change and sustainability.
I know not every area, according to Mark at our retreat, is that focused on sustainability, but the Denver
area is. So I don't think we should be editing the questions, but we might comment on the content, on the
targets of the questions. You're specifically getting the right survey population, but if you're not asking the
right questions, the answers won't be that valuable for Denver.
VINCE BUZEK: Mr. Chairman, if I may. Director Sloan, we certainly use a broad benchmark list of questions
for the majority of our questions. There are others where we are actually reaching out to community leaders
in Denver and we have one-on-one sessions with them to help us identify what are the key areas that the
community sees as value and where RTD could improve, or they're doing, where is RTD already doing
well. So we use that to help us form the specific questions for the Denver community as well.
So from the TransPro side-- and I'll let CEO Johnson respond, if she would like, in a moment-- we use that
benchmarking questions across the Board. So there's clarity on what we're asking, with input from some of
those community members to ensure we're asking things that are relevant to the community as well.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you. I just raised my hand by mistake.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Sloan, does that-- yeah, and that's a great question, because it is a big deal in the
Denver metro area. And we are a non-attainment area and greenhouse gas emissions are a real problem
and transit is a big solution.
Who's up next? Chair Rivera-Malpiede, your hand's still up. You good? Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. I could not agree more with Directors Dishell and Chair RiveraMalpiede. We are not experts in survey instruments. And I just wanted to reiterate my appreciation for those
comments. But I also recognize Director Sloan's concern about having some questions that are particularly

tailored to this community, and you all answered it to my satisfaction about your outreach to the community
leaders. So thank you very much.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Catlin. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Apologize. Back. I know we had discussed a third-party validation or peer review or audit
of whatever language is used for someone else validating the results of the survey. Do we have an RFP
out, or RFU, or RFI, or whatever is the appropriate? And what is our plan to make sure that that piece also
gets done? Because I know that that came up a lot on our retreat. And I am satisfied personally, but I know
that it's important to other directors as well, the piece of survey validation.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. Director Dishell, that's next on the agenda. So I think we'll be talking about that a
little bit more in just a minute, if that's OK.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great.
VINCE BUZEK: Any other questions or comments with regard to getting the questions out to the Board?
And I guess I have a question for General Counsel Snyder. One of the comments that was raised was that- and I think it might have been Director Dishell-- that does releasing the questions ahead of time impact
the validity of the survey? And if so, the question that I would have to our General Counsel is that, can we
mark these as confidential and request the Board not disseminate them, as they do other confidential
matters?
MELANIE SNYDER: Mr. Chair. So I'll defer to the experts on whether there's any impact on [INAUDIBLE]
or outcomes of the survey in doing that. But I think that there are options to be able to protect those
documents, particularly when they're in draft form, or, as one example, we have the ability under provisions
related to elected official work product, when things are in draft form. So that's just one example of potential
places to protect that information.
Can you hear me?
VINCE BUZEK: No, your microphone is-- you're warbling, I guess. But I guess I'll just leave it at this. If
there's any way we can mark the questions as confidential in some fashion to help protect their
dissemination, I think we should just go ahead with that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Director, Mr. Chair, I will work and ensure that happens in reference to getting those
out to you in a timely fashion, recognizing that we are targeting our kickoff date soon. And we will work
expeditiously to disseminate that and work with counsel so we can protect the work product to ensure that
this is a valid survey. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Appreciate it.
Christopher, was there anything more you had on your presentation? Is that it?

CHRISTOPHER BROWNING: No, sir. That's it. I appreciate your time and your questions. Looking forward
to continuing this process and working with your leadership team and ultimately to provide you the results.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. And thanks to you and the team for your presentation.
So as I alluded to in my prior comment, next on our agenda is the GM survey validation plan. Who will be
presenting on that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So, Mr. Chair, if I can ask for a point of clarification? Because as I shared with some
others, I saw it said General Manager survey validation plan. And I'm slightly confused by that topic when
we had discussed previously, we were going to go through the net promoter score and talk about how that
information is compiled. We're looking at a baseline as we go forward. And recognizing that we have
contracted with TransPro for a limited period of time-- getting to Director Dishell's question-- we have our
internal staff that's on this call, from a market research perspective, that has been working in tandem.
Typically, in this realm of utilizing third-party entities, in reference to what Christopher has outlined in the
presentation, we're creating a baseline going forward. And as we look at validation and leveraging any type
of solicitation, that would come out of RTD to garner a different element relative to having resources on
hand to complete that going forward.
So I think I'm seeking from you clarification in reference to what it is with this item C, regarding the validation
plan as it relates to the General Manager.
VINCE BUZEK: Sure. I recall at one of our retreats, there was discussion about a third-party validation of
sort of, I think Director Dishell talked about it as well, and the thinking being that we're happy with TransPro
doing all this work, but it might make sense to have a third party look at the results, validate them as
appropriate and statistically valid.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. So with that as the backdrop, what I did ask TransPro at a high level to talk about,
recognizing that they may not be the entity to do this, but to frame it for everybody so they understand. But
when Director Dishell asked, do we have a solicitation in place? No, we do not. Because it was the direction
of this body early on, when we talked about creating a baseline, that we would go down this route. But it is
my intent, I will say in this forum, ultimately recognizing that we do have some gaps, to create a bench
whereby we have these things readily available if we need performance management, project management,
things of the like, that we would have that we could issue on a task order basis.
So with that as the backdrop, Mark, I don't know if you all are prepared to speak at a high level about thirdparty validation?
MARK AESCH: Sure. Happy to share thoughts. And I think as we have talked about at the retreat, Mr.
Chair, is with a number of our clients that have outcomes by which they are evaluating their CEO's
performance, and even more so when there is compensation tied to those results, by definition if only the

management team presents the results of those outcomes, there's a conflict that's built in, right? They are,
by definition, presenting the results of those outcomes of which there is compensation that's directly
connected to that.
What we have found for most of those boards, in particular, is they benefit from a third party validating that
those outcomes are indeed true, that the customer satisfaction score really is whatever is presented as,
that the financial results truly are what they are presented as, that the employee engagement score is
added up to exactly what management has presented it as.
So we do that for a number of our clients. And happy to have conversation if that makes sense here. You
could certainly think about an accounting firm. You could certainly think about a law firm, potentially. I think
the key point is that it's in the Board's interest, and really in the management team's interests, to ensure
that a third party has validated those outcomes at the end of the year as being true and actual.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. I think that was kind of the discussion. And my recollection of our discussion on this
topic is that we were thinking a third party might be better than having TransPro validate their own results.
It might give it a little more a little more credibility and separate you from that and not have people raising
any kind of questions.
My understanding was that that was what we were going to do when we had results. Any other Directors
want to weigh in on this? Is this what the GMOC would want to have happen? So let's weigh in on that. I'll
ask that question.
Vice Chair Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. I believe you correctly summarized some statements that were made at the
retreat, that there was concern about validating a survey conducted by the same party.
VINCE BUZEK: So would you be in favor of retaining a third party independent to validate the survey
results?
MARJORIE SLOAN: I would. I believe it's a more conservative approach.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Also in favor. And I'm assuming, and please correct me if I'm wrong, that should we be
in favor within the committee, it'll go to the Board to decide whether they are in favor. Yeah, I would be in
favor, certainly at least for the first-- I don't know that we need to validate multiple times, but certainly at
least the first outset.
VINCE BUZEK: First time around, sure.

Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, I think it would be a safe option and I would be in favor of it.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, you know what? I also would be in favor it. And I think that, you know,
the other thing I keep going back to is that we are doing this process. It's unprecedented the way that we've
gone to this point with a strategic plan that has been really open and inclusive and transparent. So it does
make sense to do it on this. So I am OK for this to go to the Board to make sure that they're OK with that
as well.
I think it does cover everybody. And I think that that's not a bad thing to do. But we're setting the basis for
going forward. So I think that that's really important to state, that we're doing a lot of things for the first time
under this General Manager's leadership. And so I just want to make sure that that's on the record. Thank
you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments.
Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I recall, as did Director Sloan, that this was raised at the retreat,
but I don't believe there was consensus among the Board. So I would be comfortable with having a neutral
third party validate the results for this first go around, but I also am in favor of having that, and then having
this committee take it to the Board before coming back to us.
VINCE BUZEK: Appreciate it. So it sounds like consensus, Madam General Manager, from the General
Manager Oversight Committee to get this moving through the process, to get it before the Board. Is that
something you all could take care of?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, sir. And I would say, yes, I will defer to Ms. McManus in reference to agendizing
this going forward appropriately, since there's no recommended action coming. It was no recommended
action that was agendized. So I would assume that we would have to bring this back to this committee and
then basically take it out of this committee and forward onto the Board.
But yes, I support what you all have said. I'm just clarifying in reference to our parliamentary procedure
aspect, because this is not agendized. So this action wouldn't stand. That's my only-VINCE BUZEK: No, I understand. So we've got a meeting scheduled for September 2. We talk about
whether we're going to have a need for that or not. We have a need for it now. So let's get that on the
agenda for September 2. Great.

BOBBY DISHELL: [INAUDIBLE] procedure. But could we also just do a Director, with the five of us who
are on the committee signing on to a Director action that just goes on and that everyone doesn't have to be
here on the 2nd? Not that I don't enjoy spending Thursday afternoon with you all, but-VINCE BUZEK: So the question is, yeah, can we do a Board initiated action item and not have it come out
of a committee? Is that doable?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, yes. But it still should come through committee, through a committee at some
point, unless we were going to have a special Board meeting, which we don't have scheduled.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. No, I understand what Director Dishell's trying to do. He's trying to get out-- he's
trying not to have us meet on the 2nd for one issue. But I think it's probably better procedurally to do it the
standard method to come through technical review, if that's OK. Well, I like the idea. Always thinking.
BOBBY DISHELL: Oh, good. Yeah, just trying to think creatively here.
VINCE BUZEK: No, that's good. OK. So we're good on that? Ms. McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Cool? OK, thanks. Let's move on. Compensation analysis overview. Who's presenting on
that?
MELANIE SNYDER: Mr. Chair, I'm happy to do so.
VINCE BUZEK: OK.
MELANIE SNYDER: Can you all hear me? I left and came back. Did that make a difference?
DEBRA JOHNSON: It's an echo. It's an echo, Melanie.
VINCE BUZEK: Like you cut in and out, and maybe get closer to your computer.
MELANIE SNYDER: OK. [INAUDIBLE]
VINCE BUZEK: Closer. Closer.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yeah, I've been in meetings on this all day and haven't had any mic issues. But
hopefully, you can hear me now.
On a high level, as you may recall, the Board did adopt a third amendment to the contract with the General
Manager and CEO that included a provision that would require that RTD will engage a third party through

a competitive solicitation to conduct a compensation and benchmarking analysis, and that that would be
used by the Board going forward to set the GM/CEO's base salary and incentive compensation starting in
January of 2023.
So I will be working with staff to put together the solicitation, statement of work documents. Of course, we're
not going to go into detail on those parameters here in this public forum. But I will be consulting with you,
Chair Buzek. And certainly, as we've discussed, my understanding is that Chair Buzek will be participating
on that selection panel to ensure that the Board does have a voice in that selection, as it is made based on
the established solicitation criteria.
And then we'll aim at having that selection and hopefully a contract in place by the end of this year. So that
should allow plenty of time for the analysis, as well as for the Board to review that analysis so we're ready
to go, or you all are ready to go in 2023.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for that.
MELANIE SNYDER: [INAUDIBLE].
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. Thanks for the update. Are there any questions for General Counsel Snyder on that?
Great. Thanks, Melanie. That's terrific.
MELANIE SNYDER: You're welcome.
VINCE BUZEK: Go ahead. I'm sorry. Oh, gotcha.
OK, so moving down the agenda, Other Matters. Are there any other matters to come before this
committee? Seeing none, our next meeting date, September 2, 2021, 3:00 PM. Any questions or comments
on that?
OK. Who would like to adjourn? We are adjourned. Unanimous consent. Thanks, everybody. Thanks, Mark
and your team. Thanks, Debra, and all of your peeps. We appreciate it.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks, everyone.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you guys. Appreciate the dialogue. Bye.

