Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
Tuesday, June 6, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
Chaired by Judy Lubow

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Lubow called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
5:31 PM

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

5:06 PM

Bob Broom

Director, District F

Present

5:21 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Absent

5:24 PM

Tina Francone

Director, District N

Absent

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

5:29 PM

Judy Lubow
Ken Mihalik

Committee Chair
Director, District G

Present
Absent

5:20 PM

Natalie Menten
Doug Tisdale
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District M
Director, District H
Director, District O
Director, District K

Absent
Present
Present
Absent

5:15 PM
5:25 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District D
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present

5:28 PM
5:06 PM

Directors Folska, Francone, Menten, Mihalik, and Solano were absent. Director Archuleta
left the meeting early.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Lacy Bell, Shirley Bennett, Nate Currey, Sherry
Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, Ken Fleck, David Genova, Bob Grado, Russ
Larson, John McKay, Heather McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike
Meader, Tai-Shrae Parish, Chris Quinn, Scott Reed, Jenifer RossAmato, Lindsey Smith, Greg Straight, Kirk Strand, Mark Tieman, Bill
Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Brian Welch, Susan Wood.

Others Present:

Dr. William Gross, Vivian Stovall, John Thompson, Joe Triplett, Gary
Van Dorn.

B. Recommended Actions

• RTD Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments
It is recommended by the Nominating Committee for the RTD Citizens
Advisory Committee of the Regional Transportation District (RTD) that the
RTD Board of Directors reappoint two members of the Committee to an
additional three-year term, appoint three new members to the Committee to
three-year terms and appoint one new member to the Committee to a oneyear term as identified in this Report.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the June 27, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning, stated
that solicitation for citizens interested in serving was opened
up in the spring and there were a total of 23 applications. He
noted that the committee is recommending reappointing two
members Vivian Stovall and Darcy Wilson, for an additional
three-year term, appointing three new members to a three-year
term, and appointing one new member to a one-year term. He
added that the detail, background, and bios for the
recommended committee members are provided in the Board
Report.

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager of Communications,
added that the nominating committee was unanimous in the
selections and feels that the makeup of the members will
create a good group.
Committee Chair Lubow thanked Directors Broom and Tisdale
for their service on the nominating committee.
Director Tisdale said he and Director Broom had the pleasure
of serving on the nominating committee and the process of
selection was done by paper and through in person or phone
interviews, and urged adoption of the action.
Director Sisk recognized everyone that had applied for the
Citizen’s Advisory Committee (CAC) and thanked Vivian
Stovall for her service. He added that her granddaughter
graduated from Wellesley College, where his daughter
attended.
Director Deadwyler thanked Vivian Stovall and Darcy Wilson
for their service and said she had worked with them for
several years and she was happy to know that they would be
retained on the committee.
Director Anderson thanked everyone for their service to RTD
and all that they do for no pay, as good solid community
members.
Committee Chair Lubow declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Hoy, Lubow, Tisdale, Sisk,
Walker, Williams
ABSENT:
Folska, Francone, Mihalik, Menten, Solano

• Approval of 2017-2021 Bridge Inspections Budget Request
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee,
to execute all documents necessary to execute a three-year contract, with
two one-year optional extensions, for On-Call Bridge Inspections with Alfred
Benesch & Company, in a dollar amount not to exceed $1,560,900.
Funding for the first year of this action is $205,700 and is included in the
2017 Adopted Budget.

Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the June 27, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Chief Engineer, remarked that staff
was asking for approval to award the On-Call Bridge
Inspections to Alfred Benesch & Company for the inspection
of 100 bridges. She noted that the bridge types include
freight, light rail, and pedestrian and added that there are
various mandates and agreements that require RTD to inspect
the bridges periodically.
Director Williams asked what the outcome of the recent
General Obligation (GO) bond, which denied funding for the
Alameda underpass, will have on RTD.
Ms. Vishwakarma indicated that staff does not have an
answer at this time, but they would review and get back to
the Board.
Director Anderson stated that bridge inspections are an
integral part of the State of Good Repair. She added that
transportation bridges throughout the country are not in the
shape that they should be in, and she was happy to see that
RTD is maintaining its bridges.
Chair Hoy asked whether one agency takes the lead with
inspections, or whether multiple agencies inspect the bridges.
Ken Fleck, Structural Engineer, indicated that RTD will inspect
all of the bridges that it owns.
Chair Hoy asked if the inspections only covered light rail
bridges.
Mr. Fleck stated these inspections would cover light rail,
commuter rail, and other RTD owned bridges.
Chair Hoy asked staff to contact him off-line to discuss and
provide additional details concerning a particular bridge.

Director Tisdale asked who was responsible for the inspection
of the 14 freight rail bridges on the Southwest corridor.
Director Deadwyler stated that she too, would like to know
the answer to Director Tisdale’s question and asked if other
agencies are contributing to the inspection costs, or if it is
solely RTD’s responsibility.
Mr. Fleck commented that RTD inspects the 14 freight rail
bridges by agreements with the railroad. He stated that RTD
has to inspect them as part of the agreement during
construction of the corridor so that the railroads would accept
ownership of the bridges. He added that RTD does not get
money from any other entity to help pay for the inspections.
General Manager Genova remarked that the agreements for
the Southwest line were made during the railroad negotiation
contracts or the operations and maintenance agreements. He
added that staff will double check the agreements and follow
up with the Board.
Director Broom asked who would be responsible for fixing a
bridge if there was a deficiency.
Mr. Fleck stated that there are various responsibilities but
typically the railroad would fix the issue.
Director Williams asked staff to provide the Board with a
summary of the various bridges, including RTD’s ownership
and responsibilities, for both freight and pedestrian bridges.
Mr. Fleck indicated that staff has a bridge management
program write up that includes all of that information that will
be provided to the Board.
Committee Chair Lubow noted that the first year’s cost is
$205,700, whereas the entire contract is much more than
that.
Mr. Fleck stated that pedestrian bridge inspections are more
expensive and they occur every other year.
Committee Chair Lubow declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
SECONDER: Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Hoy, Lubow, Tisdale, Sisk,
Walker, Williams
ABSENT:
Folska, Francone, Mihalik, Menten, Solano

• Contract Award to Parsons Transportation Group for the SH 119 Bus Rapid
Transit Corridor
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager to approve a professional services contract award to Parsons
Transportation Group to serve as the Contractor for assistance in the
preparation of National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) review and
Preliminary Engineering (PE) services for the SH 119 Bus Rapid Transit
(BRT) corridor for an amount not to exceed $3,250,000. Funding for this
contract is included in the 2017 Adopted Budget for the SH 119 BRT
project.
Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the June 27, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Chris Quinn, Planning Project Manager, stated that several
years ago the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT),
and the Northwest-area stakeholders conducted the Northwest
Area Mobility Study (NAMS). The purpose of that study was
to examine mobility improvements in that area, and the final
product of that study was endorsed by the RTD Board in 2014
which established Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) in the 119 corridor.
He indicated a selection committee was established to review
the five proposals and the committee chose Parsons
Transportation Group to help with this effort.
Director Broom asked if the National Environmental Policy Act
(NEPA) review and preliminary engineering would determine
the project cost.
Mr. Quinn stated that, after staff completes the NEPA
analysis, a final work product will include the overall cost
estimate.

Director Sisk noted that the award came from the consensus
from the stakeholders. He said that this is perfectly positioned
due to a lot of work that has already been done and he looks
forward to the outcome.
Director Anderson said she is excited to see this finally come
before the Board. She added that she is pleased to be voting
for this tonight and is excited to see its completion.
Committee Chair Lubow commented that she would be voting
in favor of this item as it would be beneficial for Longmont and
Boulder. She noted however, that people in her district want
rail, but no one at this point in time knows when that will be
constructed. She said because of that, it is important to have
something to provide her constituents.
Committee Chair Lubow declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Hoy, Lubow, Tisdale, Sisk,
Walker, Williams
ABSENT:
Folska, Francone, Mihalik, Menten, Solano

• Approval to enter into an IGA with the City and County of Denver to fund
improvements to the Free MetroRide
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
that the Board of Directors approve this action to enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City and County of Denver for
up to $1,500,000 to fund the implementation of transit priority measures
that will improve the travel time and reliability of the Free MetroRide service.
Funding for this IGA is included in the 2017 Adopted Budget for the Free
MetroRide project.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the June 27, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Lacy Bell, Corridor Planning Manager, said that this item was a
follow up to the update provided in April 2017. She said that
staff had been working with the City of Denver and staff has
agreed on the terms of the Intergovernmental Agreement

(IGA), which would allow RTD to contribute up to $1.5 million
dollars for the implementation of transit priorty measures that
will improve the travel time and reliability of the Free
MetroRide. She noted that the five transit priority measures
are: Bus priority and queue jump traffic signals, Traffic signal
optimization, Transit only lane on Broadway, and 18th and 19th
street design changes.
Director Deadwyler asked if the City of Denver was
contributing any money.
Ms. Bell stated that RTD will contribute up to $1.5 million.
She said that if the costs are in excess of that amount, the
City of Denver would contribute the rest.
Director Tisdale asked if there was anything of substance that
had changed since the presentation in April.
Ms. Bell said no and commented that staff only finalized the
IGA language.
Director Broom inquired as to how many routes currently use
18th Street.
Ms. Bell remarked that there are a number of routes that use
18th Street. She said that staff would provide the Board with
a full list of busses and routes.
\
Director Anderson stated that this is another part of what
makes RTD’s transit system work. She said that the Free
MetroRide serves the City of Denver, as well as the suburban
population that use Union Station as a hub. She noted that it
is important that everyone get to their jobs or have the ability
to transfer to other places so that they can reach their jobs in
the suburbs. She added that this service is an important part
of making the entire system work.
Committee Chair Lubow inquired as to how the project fund
distribution was decided since the difference between the
original budget and the actual expenditures was $5.8 million.
She noted that $2.5 million of that was put into the FasTracks
Internal Savings Account (FISA) and $1.5 million of the
remaining $3.3 million was allocated to the IGA.

Mr. Van Meter stated that the 2015 contribution to FISA was
accomplished as part of the Annual Program Evaluation (APE).
He added that the $1.5 million was withheld for this purpose
and it will benefit RTD’s passengers and operations.
Ms. Bell indicated that in 2015 staff knew that there would be
a need for additional funding, but they were unsure of how
much would be needed. She noted that the $1.5 million is
being spent on recommendations that are feasible.
Committee Chair Lubow remarked that this will benefit a lot of
different routes and that she will vote in favor of this, even
though she would prefer to save the funds for FasTracks.
Director Deadwyler said that she would be a no vote on this
item since there are a lot of Board members absent and they
might want to discuss this at the Board meeting.
Committee Chair Lubow declared the motion PASSED.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [8 TO 2]
MOVER:
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Broom, Hoy, Lubow, Tisdale, Sisk, Walker, Williams
NAYS: Ernest Archuleta, Barbara Deadwyler
ABSENT:
Folska, Francone, Mihalik, Menten, Solano

• Southwest Chief and Front Range Passenger Rail Commission Appointee
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to appoint William
C. Van Meter as the Regional Transportation District Commissioner to the
Southwest Chief and Front Range Passenger Rail Commission, created by
the Colorado General Assembly during the 2017 session.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the June 27, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

Discussion:

General Manager Genova stated that this recommended action
is a result of SB153. He said that the commission will reside
in the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) and
consists of eleven commissioners. He noted that RTD will
need to appoint a commissioner and Bill Van Meter was

chosen because the commission wanted someone intrinsically
involved in transit planning.
Mr. Van Meter added that he would keep the Board apprised
of deliberations and, if there were important decisions, he
would provide information as appropriate.
Director Deadwyler said she would be proud to support Mr.
Van Meter in this appointment.
Committee Chair Lubow congratulated Mr. Van Meter and
asked if the Front Range Passenger Rail Commission will
determine how the front range rail will interact with RTD.
Mr. Van Meter stated that in 2013 CDOT’s transit and rail
division completed an Interregional Connectivity Study (ICS)
that focused on rail alignments, technology, financing and
ridership for front range rail. He said that one of the key
pieces of the study was how it would interface with RTD’s
system. He added that, since there is already prior work to
build on, he is interested to see the direction that the
commission chooses.
Committee Chair Lubow declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
SECONDER: Kate Williams, Committee Vice-Chair
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Hoy, Lubow, Tisdale, Sisk,
Walker, Williams
ABSENT:
Folska, Francone, Mihalik, Menten, Solano

C. Updates

• 16th Street Mall Alternatives Analysis and Environmental Clearance Project;
Process (Verbal/No Backup)
Susan Wood, Planning Project Manager, stated that staff is embarking on this effort to
look at a broader study of the mall itself. She said that staff is working with the City of
Denver and the Downtown Denver Partnership (DDP) to look at the alignment, livability
factors, and uses of the mall, all of which are important to the city. She noted that the
project is moving at a fast pace because there are funds that need to be spent by 2022.
She commented that staff kicked off the project on May 2, 2017, and an alternative
design will be presented at the end of the year, followed by an environmental assessment
that will be presented to the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) in the first half of the

next year. She said that, in order to keep the timeline in place, a project leadership team
has been formed that is meeting on a weekly basis. She added that one of the more
crucial parts of this process is outreach to ensure everyone’s ideas have been noted. She
further added that a series of three workshops will be held to reach common agreement,
and later this summer, there will be a public open house for further input. She said that
staff will continue to provide periodic updates to keep the Board informed.
Director Deadwyler indicated that she wanted staff to continue to discuss alternatives to
the mall. She said that she did not want to spend a lot of money and do a lot of work for
someone else to tell RTD to leave the mall as it currently is.
Ms. Wood remarked that staff is discussing alternatives and everyone understands that a
change needs to be made.
Director Tisdale commented that he was happy to hear that safety and security are two
elements being explored. He added that the issue of homelessness along the mall impacts
and detours RTD’s riders. He said that it is not a grave problem, but failure to address it
now means that it could impact RTD in the future.
Ms. Vishwakarma noted that the primary concern for the City of Denver is that they want
the mall to be a more desirable place to go to, instead of a place to go through. She
added that Denver wants this to be a broad conversation and staff is happy with the
progress so far.

D. Other Matters
Director Anderson stated that she attended a West Connect meeting earlier in the day and
since she had not been to a meeting in eight years she had a feeling of déjà vu. She
thanked Chair Hoy for the appointment and said it was great to be back there. She noted
that she would like to meet with Mr. Van Meter so that she could know more about RTD’s
issues there and added that she would not be at the next committee meeting as she would
be attending the Colorado Municipal League (CML) conference.
Committee Chair Lubow said that she had received two complaints about the Flatiron
Flyer: One person complained that the bus driver did not know how to operate the air
conditioning system, and another person complained that there are never enough seats.
She said that she had heard these complaints before and asked if there were any plans to
address these issues.
General Manager Genova said that both issues will be investigated and staff will get back
to the Board.
General Manager Genova added that the second meeting of the Pass Program working
group was held earlier in the day in Boulder and staff received great input from the
community. He said that there is a great group of stakeholders working on this and they

are providing a lot of valuable input. Secondly, he noted that RTD has made significant
progress with the FRA and there had been positive movements in the past few days.
Director Williams thanked Bruce Abel acting Chief Operations Officer/Assistant General
Manager of Bus Operations for his presentation at the Local Coordinating Council meeting
where he covered RTD’s polices.
Director Anderson asked if there were any updates on when the G Line could begin
testing.
General Manager Genova said that the FRA approved limited testing of the G Line and
stated the Public Utilities Commission (PUC) should approve the testing request by the end
of the week. He added that trains could begin testing as soon as the following week.
Director Anderson asked if the PUC meeting was public.
General Manager Genova said that it is an action in front of the Board, not a major public
hearing.

E. Next Meeting Date - July 11, 2017
F. Motion to Move into Executive Session
Committee Chair Lubow stated that she would entertain a motion to move into Executive
Session for the purpose of discussing regulatory and legal matters relating to the Eagle
Project Concession Agreement, CRS 24-6-402 (4) (b) (conferences with attorney for
purposes of receiving legal advice).
Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to move
into Executive Session for the purposes of
discussing CRS 24-6-402 (4) (b) (conferences
with attorney for purposes of receiving legal
advice).
Director Tisdale seconded the motion.

Committee Chair Lubow declared that the Board had moved into Executive Session at
6:35 p.m.
1. Motion To:

Move into Executive Session CRS 24-6-402(4)(b)

RESULT:
ADOPTED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
SECONDER: Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Hoy, Lubow, Tisdale, Sisk, Walker,
Williams
ABSENT:
Folska, Francone, Mihalik, Menten, Solano

G. Adjourn
Committee Chair Lubow adjourned the meeting at 8:05 p.m. directly from the Executive
Session.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

