March 31, 2020
RTD Study Session
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Welcome, everybody. This is our second official meeting by
remote. And I'm telling you, this is just a whole different world for us. I'd like to just start by saying
that today, I really have been thinking a lot about all of us and how we are not seeing each other,
but I'm feeling the impact of all of us collectively.
So I found two quotes I'd like to do. And I'd like to call them Tisdalians because I could think of
Director Tisdale doing this. But there was a quote I found that I didn't have a name for that said,
"Great things never come from comfort zones." And I think we can all kind of connect to that.
But the second one is from Mark Twain. And he said, "The two most important days in your life
are the day that you are born and then the day that you find out why." And I can't help but wonder
if today's one of the days we're finding out why. Because I think we're all in this together for some
reason. And I cannot be prouder or feel more confident that I am moving forward in such a surreal
world with all of you. So I want to thank you for that.
Let me start this meeting. I would like to now call the study session for Tuesday, March 31st to
order. We are convened at the 5:30 PM Mountain Standard Time. I would respectfully ask
everyone connected to this call to mute your phones and to set your ringers to silent.
Please note that under the certain current circumstances, the official meetings of the RTD Board
of Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. During
this time, meetings will be primarily audio recorded. The audio recordings along with the
unofficial minutes of the meetings will be posted as soon as practicable on the board's website. So
please visit www.RTD-denver.com and scroll to the bottom of that page for the link to the Board
of Directors page. Again, that's www.RTD-denver.com.
Directors and members of the staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged
during tonight's proceedings, I would ask for you to please announce your name and wait for me
to call you before you proceed to speak. We have a lot of people on the phone line with us tonight.
And speaking out of turn will only confuse the record and the proceedings.
Please note that at the appropriate time during the discussion later on this evening, I will call on
each director in turn. So please know that your time to speak will come. And if possible, please
hold your comments until that time.
In lieu of our safety training meeting, I would like to ask our interim General Manager, Paul
Ballard, to do a briefing over driver safety. Mr. Ballard.
PAUL BALLARD: Yes, Madam Chair. I actually have Mike Meader as prepared to make that
briefing.

MIKE MEADER: Sure.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Mr. Meter?
MIKE MEADER: Hi. Thank you, Paul. This is Mike Meader. And thank you, Chair. This is Mike
Meader, Chief Safety Officer. I did want to give you just a quick overview briefing of what we're
doing right now out there in the system. And specifically answer some questions I know that were
raised at the Board Meeting last time as well as some inquiries by some of the directors regarding
a couple of practices that may or may not be instituted.
So right now, we are providing personal protective equipment, hand sanitizer and gloves to all of
the operators out in the system. We do have plenty of disinfectant right now. And everybody has
access to that to wipe down, clean their workstations. We are performing daily deep cleaning of
all of the vehicles.
And in fact, we've got right now on the light rail vehicles, people who are riding on the system
right now. Some of the newer folks that we're hiring as we're putting the training classes together,
are riding on the system and actually wiping the trains down when they've reached the end of the
stations throughout the day as well.
So we are disinfecting just as often as we possibly can on the vehicles right now. We do face some
challenges like everyone else in the world does right now, on the masks. The N95 mask, which
I'm sure you've all heard of, is the most discussed, talked about mask that really would provide
that protection. The N95, 95 stands for about 95% of all of those contaminants out there that would
help contain.
There's a huge shortage. And of course, when they are getting produced, the federal government
has directed all of that production towards health care. So it is a challenge for anyone outside of
health care right now to get a hold of those masks.
We do have significant numbers on order. And there is some chance we might be getting something
as early as next week. So once we do that, we're going to be prioritizing those masks towards the
service and cleaning folks who need them the most. And then we will look at getting those out to
other parts of the organization as required.
The masks, I know, there's a lot of speculation out there right now. The CDC and the World Health
Organization has said and they still continue to say that no one who is healthy should wear the
mask. It doesn't really provide any kind of particular protection for people who are healthy right
now. There's no scientific evidence that it's going to stop the spread, so to speak, wearing it at this
particular point in time.
They would recommend people who were showing symptoms to wear a mask. That mask that they
recommend would be more of a surgical type mask. The surgical type masks are designed to keep
any kind of infection inside of you from getting out to other people. They don't provide protection
necessarily for inhaling any kind of virus that's out there.

So those are the two masks that they talk about. Still, the recommendation is that if you're healthy,
you don't wear a mask, only if you are infected or you're showing some symptoms at this particular
point in time. You probably have seen in the last day or so, the CDC is kind of re-evaluating that.
You'll certainly see from a lot of government experts from around the world, different cities or
different countries, talking about how they recommend everybody should wear a mask. We're
following the recommendations of the CDC and the World Health Organization still, who hasn't
taken that step at this particular point in time.
So if that does change, we'll follow that recommendation along with the Public Health
recommendation from the state and the counties here around the metro area. So we'll see if that
changes. There are some operators, you may have seen if you're out on the buses and out in the
system, wearing masks that they may have brought from home, bandannas, those kinds of things
over their faces. We're not telling them they can't do that, certainly, if it makes them feel better.
But we are trying to educate and help people understand that at this particular point in time, it
doesn't necessarily protect them from the virus.
The other concerns that the CDC has around the masks is that there's some concerns about it
creating a false sense of security. Perhaps people might get a little closer to one another where
they're still saying the best practice is social distancing, the personal hygiene and the social
distancing.
The other concern with the masks that are discussed is that, unless you really properly understand
how to wear the mask, it may not provide that same protection. In other words, is it fitted correctly.
And also, if you wear it too much and it becomes contaminated with any kind of droplets of the
virus or anything like that, you run the risk if you're not handling it correctly, in other words
donning it and disposing of it correctly, you could actually transfer the virus onto your hands.
So that's the discussion around the masks right now. The other pieces, as I said, we're waiting for
the masks to come in. We've got a lot on order right now, both the N95 and the surgical masks.
We just don't have those in stock at the moment.
I think it's important just to note that the latest CDC guidance that they've kind of put together
about how the COVID-19 virus is spread, it's almost exclusively they're saying kind of hand to
face. Most of the cases they're looking at, they believe are more transference of the virus onto
someone's hands and then touching it to their face, their nose, their mouth, those kinds of things.
They're saying that this is a airborne virus but it's not aerosolized. So what that means, basically,
is it's the larger droplets of the virus that if you cough or something like that, that contain the
infectious part of the virus. It doesn't maintain itself in the air for a long period of time. Typically,
the heavier droplets will fall.
And they're saying still that really, you have to have some long, sustained exposure to those
droplets. And what they define as close contact or long exposure, it's a prolonged period of time.
This is a CDC definition. A prolonged period of time spent within six feet of the infected person
or direct contact with secretions on a surface such as sharing or eating or drinking, close
conversation for a long period of time, 15 to 30 minutes, kissing, direct physical contact. They say

that your chance of getting it by walking by someone or having someone walk by you is very, very
slim.
So that's the reason some of their recommendations for masks just walking around in general kind
of come from. Because you really do have to be exposed to it for a specific amount of time, they
believe, for you to contract the virus. So that's just a little bit of background on that particular piece
of it.
So we do also have the Clorox wipes, I will say, on order as well. Those are really hard to come
by right now. Pretty much everyone we talk to within the city, the state, has probably a three to
four week wait still back order on those Clorox sanitizing type wipes.
We did recently get in some Lysol spray, which would be similar to what those wipes are. We can
mix up and provide to our operators that they can use with wipes to spray it on a surface and then
wipe it off if they so choose to do that, to just disinfect their areas regularly while they're out on
the routes.
So the last part of the PPE is the hand sanitizer. Hand sanitizer, we're really in good shape on that
right now. We just had about a couple thousand more come in this week. Each one of the divisions
has several hundred. In addition to those, we've got about 5,000 more coming in next week. And
we also just received earlier than expected about 200 gallons of sanitizer refill. So we're in good
shape there on the hand sanitizer. And we'll continue to get that out to our operators as that product
comes in.
So we're also, of course, educating as much as we can, encouraging the social distancing. Again,
that's the most important piece that we can do. So in the operator break rooms, in meetings,
continuing to just really encourage and enforce as much as we can that social distancing. When
people are sitting around waiting, standing around, that's the best way to try to avoid the
transmission.
So that's on the PPE. I know there was another question that came up from a couple of directors
regarding the rear door boarding of our buses. And it is true that there are a number of agencies
around the country who have started instituting some rear door boarding. We have not here at
RTD, and there's a number of reasons why, around safety.
Rear door boarding, obviously, it's a somewhat unfamiliar movement. There are some agencies
out there that typically do use the rear door to board passengers. A lot of those transit systems, the
bus stops and the systems are designed to accommodate that.
RTD system is not so much. So it's somewhat of an unfamiliar movement for our operators out
there in the system overall. Less visibility by the driver to kind of see what's back there and people
moving in and out of the bus there. Some of the weather conditions we have here, if you've been
on any of the buses after a snowstorm or something like that, I know the snow is not out there right
now, it gets pushed up against the curb. Creates an unsafe condition trying to walk over that and
there's some concern about falling and sliding down near the rear of the bus. That's a concern for

us and a lot of the bus stops, as I said, aren't set up that way to do that, which could potentially put
the bus in a position in an intersection or a driveway where we normally wouldn't be.
And then, of course, there's the ADA consideration. So those are kind of those physical safety
concerns we have right there. From a security perspective, too, one of the other reasons is, you
really don't have as much control and visibility to who's coming on the bus as you would when
you are boarding them from the front of the bus.
What we're finding, and what the agencies I talked with the folks in Minneapolis, I talked with the
folks in Washington at WMATA. And what they're finding through all of this is more aggressive
behaviors on the bus, some more higher risk individuals that are boarding the bus. And they don't
have as much control and visibility to that, which is creating, as I said, more of that aggressive
behavior. And even some more aggressive behavior towards some of the operators.
So that's a concern we certainly have around that as well. It really isn't from the perspective of
public health a major risk. It's not even considered a medium to high risk from the transit operator
perspective with people coming in and walking by the operator. So that's why they haven't
recommended it really.
And that's one of the reasons, or another part of the reason we haven't decided to head in that
direction. We're concerned about the safety of our operators, concerned about the safety of our
customers, and we feel minimizing those risks is more important at this particular point in time.
So that's kind of a nutshell, I guess, high level summary of what we're doing right now. If you have
any questions, I'm happy to take them.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Meader.
MIKE MEADER: Yeah.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: What I'd like to do is ask Board Members to hold those questions,
write them down. And if you have them at the end of the presentation, then maybe we can come
back and address them. Otherwise, I would like to ask that we put it on hold and maybe have a
subsequent meeting offline just to get briefed on any other additional questions that you might
have. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Hi, this is Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis, can I ask you to hold that till other new business?
SHONTEL LEWIS: So when you and I spoke, I thought that this was going to be the opportunity
to ask those questions.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, we had talked about holding it till new business. If you
didn't feel like your questions were answered, we'd talk about it at the end just because we have
all of this discussion to go over with the finances, if you don't mind.

SHONTEL LEWIS: I do mind, because when I brought it up last week, I was told that we needed
to take it offline, which I respectfully did. And now we are, again, not addressing the questions.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I do believe though, that this afternoon I said to you that if you
were not satisfied with this report, then I would personally set up a meeting for you and I, Mr.
Ballard, and his team to meet afterwards. And I still hold by that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I appreciate that. I'm not dissatisfied. I just had some questions.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. So I'm asking you if you can hold it till the end and just
write them down.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. Sure.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you. OK.
With that in mind, tonight we have a potential financial scenario for the system optimization. And
we were going to be hearing a presentation this evening from our Chief Financial Officer in AGM
of Finance and Administration, Heather McKillop regarding the potential financial scenarios for
the system optimization planning currently underway. I'm going to ask her to come forward-- well,
you don't see her-- to do her presentation. So Ms. McKillop, the floor is yours.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Heather McKillop, Chief Financial
Officer and Assistant General Manager for Finance and Administration. I was just going to lay out
the flow really quickly since we're on the phone. I thought I'd take about 30 minutes to walk
through the information that was in the packet. I'm not going to go line by line, but talk about some
of the things that we want to point out specifically regarding revenue, debt service operations, and
projects, both on the base and fast track.
Then Bill Van Meter is going to take a few minutes to talk about how this plays directly into the
system optimization plan going forward. And then the Chair, I know you're going to open it up
then for questions and answers.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes I will.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So a little-- yeah. So I'm just going to go ahead and get started. I know
there's a lot of questions and concerns over how this financial picture changes, post-COVID-19, is
what I'm calling it. So we have pre-COVID-19 and post-COVID-19. And tonight, I'm going to talk
in generalities about post-COVID-19 and kind of when we might be able to update you going
forward on what that looks like. But right now, I wanted to concentrate on where we stood prior
to all the disruption that's happening due to the virus.
And why we think that's important is because it sets a baseline for moving forward and what
implications that what we're going through with the COVID-19 virus as far as increased
expenditures, and also, large decreases in revenues might have on us. So with that, I'll just touch
on that as I go through. And then we'll have a much more in-depth discussion about that at a later

time when I have some more information available. And I'll talk a little bit about when that might
be.
So with that, I want to start on the handout that was potential financial scenarios. And with that,
we sent a narrative. And I do want to apologize. In the narrative, I talk about the asset management
plan first off, which I forgot to delete. We did not include that in the packet tonight. That will be
presented at future meetings as we move forward with additional scenarios going forward based
on what 2021 and 2026. Might look like, talk about revenue post-COVID-19. If anybody wants a
copy of that, though, I can send that to them. Again, I apologize for not taking that out of the
narrative.
As the Chair mentioned, we're really here to talk about what the financial scenario looked like preCOVID-19 as it relates to the mid-term financial plan, long range plan, and what we'll be using for
the system optimization plan. And some of the concerns that staff had and things that we wanted
to point out moving forward that the Board will probably need to make policy decisions on over
the next three to six months, as we move forward to adopt a mid-term, a long range plan, a system
optimization plan, and the 2021 budget. So you have a lot of things in front of you that we're trying
to share with you earlier rather than later.
So with that, I'm going to lead off with the revenue sources. So we've laid out in the format of
2021 through 2026. And we have changed the format from the mid-term financial plan based on
some input that I had received from board members in the past, trying to lay out revenues and then
deducting from that the things that we need to pay. And then those things, the dollars that are
remaining that the board and RTD has flexibility in how we allocate.
Now, in some areas we have a lot more flexibility than in other areas. And so, that hopefully will
become evident as we move through the worksheet.
So under revenue, the first thing I want to talk about really briefly is fare box revenue. These were
pre-COVID-19 numbers. As you know, those are changing rapidly, unfortunately, in a very
negative way. But we used our 2020 estimated fare box revenue. And we did include a fare box
increase equivalent to inflation in both 2022 and 2025.
Moving down under non-operating revenue on line 5, we have sales and use tax. This again, is a
pre-COVID-19 number. This came from September of 2019 leads forecast. And so we use those
numbers to project out to 2026.
For grants, which is on line 6 of the format, we have both federal and state dollars in that grant
line. And those were based on 2020 appropriations. So that will give you an idea of the amount of
grants that we're anticipating going forward. That does change by year just based on the grants that
we anticipate getting, both from a federal and state standpoint. So that does vary a little bit year to
year.
And then on line 11 is your total revenue. So if we take everything that's in line 1 through line 10
and we add that up, we were estimating that we would have about $638 million available for
allocation in 2021.

We then deducted debt service. And a couple things that you need to know about debt service, and
we did take this off the top because there is an implication that we would pay debt service. And
then in case of revenue bonds, the money actually-- our funds actually go directly to a trustee who
then takes out the money that we for revenue bonds. And then the rest is allocated for us. So that's
an additional stopgap we have for the bond holders.
But the assumption is, we will pay for debt service, which includes revenue bonds on line 12 and
certificates of participation line 13. The one thing to keep in mind in the base system on line 12, is
that there's no revenue bond payments after 2024. These are when the TREX bonds are paid off.
That is a really good thing that the bonds are paid off.
The not so good thing is that associated with those bonds are the Tabor exemptions for spending
limitations, which also go away in 2026. So the board cannot take action to go to the voters to get
an exemption from Tabor on the Base System. In 2024, we will have to do a calculation that may
result in us having to refund that tax revenue.. I think somebody is not on mute. Sorry.
We'll have to go to the voters and ask for an exemption from Tabor spending limits. If not, we'll
have to then do a calculation in 2024 that could result in its refunding revenue, sales and use tax
revenue, in 2025 and 2026 and beyond.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Hey, Heather, hold on. I still hear people. Please put your phone
on mute. OK, go ahead.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you, Madam Chair. So on line 15, we had a line for other
financing payments. We don't have other financing payments on the base system. When we get to
fast tracks, I'll point out what that line is on fast tracks. But that doesn't exist on the base system
right now.
So on line 16, we have total debt service and lease payments. And in 2021, we're estimating that
to be $78 million. And then, line 17 shows you what funds are available to program for operating
projects, reserves, everything else that we need to do which in 2021, we're estimating again, preCOVID, $560 million.
Starting from this point forward are allocations of those revenues. So, where are we potentially
going to spend this money? And again, this is a staff analysis. This could change as we have
conversations with the board. Will change, most likely, after we get additional numbers, postCOVID numbers.
But even before that, would have changed as we have conversations with the Board about how the
Board might want to allocate its revenue.
But for right now, on line 18, we have the current operations and maintenance forecast. This was
taken from 2020 and inflated by CPI. I want to remind everybody that 2020 numbers did have a
significant decrease in administrative expenditures of about 10% or about $10 million. Those were
not added back into 2021. So that lower base was assumed to carry forward into 2021 and beyond.

We then, on line 19, subtracted the May 2020 service changes as it relates to the base system. This
is what the Board adopted last week. And then we have come up with a calculation that is other
cost reduction. So we have not made an assumption necessarily where those might come from. But
it would need to include something in the way of additional service changes, some additional
administrative cost reductions, or reductions in asset replacement, which we'll get to in a minute.
The reason we need to take these additional adjustments starting in 2021 is because, when we get
down to being able to fund our asset management list or any other projects, there are not sufficient
funds on either a one time basis or an ongoing basis to do that unless we look at additional
reduction. Now, when we get to fast track, we'll talk about some options that might be available to
the Board. But right now, this is what we have in current board policy. And so, based on current
board policy, we needed to show additional reductions to be able to balance.
On line 22-- oh, I'm sorry. On line 21 then is the adjusted current O&M forecast. So that's basically
lines 18, 19, and 20. And then on line 22, we made an assumption about additional contributions
to reserves. We assume $3 million a year. $3 million will keep the reserves at six weeks of
operating reserves. Right now, the Board policy is three months, which is 12 weeks. So it's roughly
half of what the Board recommended reserves are. And that would keep us at about six weeks out
through 2026.
If we wanted to put in a higher amount, it would need to be about between $6 and $9 million as
we go out into future years to be able to get us to a point where we had 12 weeks in reserves. But
at this point in time, the staff felt that we couldn't afford that. That it was as important to fund our
current asset management list, which we'll get to in a second. And therefore, our recommendation
was to keep it at $3 million.
So then after you take that into consideration and you subtract that from line 21, line 23 gives you
the amount of money available. In 2021, that would be $23.6 million dollars. As you will see, that
is not anywhere near enough to be able to fund the things that we need to fund. And so, we have a
proposal about how to deal with that.
On the other projects, I'm not going to go into detail. But I do want to just mention them. On the
narrative, it talks a little bit more about the individual projects that are listed here and why we
pulled those out. But in 2021, I wanted to point out line 27, which is electric vehicles and charging
infrastructure.
That is specifically pulled out of our asset management list out of buses so that we could identify
those separately, because we do have in the grant line, which is grant line 6, the dollars that go
with that. So the grants that are funding that, which is both a low no emissions grant and both
Volkwagon settlement, both of those grants are above. So if we were to not do this project on line
27, we'd need to pull out the corresponding revenue on line 6.
We then created an allowance for new projects. This would be for any new project that was nonasset related, so anything new that somebody would want to do. So I've been using the example, I
know one of the things that people are interested in is the para transit scheduling system. That

would be an example of something that we currently don't have as an asset. So it would not be
under asset replacement or upgrade. It would be a new project.
We are working on a case management system for workman's comp, et cetera, and replacing our
Star system. That would have been an example of a new project that came in through this line item.
So this line item is extremely low dollar amount. As an organization our size, we would probably
need something closer to $10 million plus. But due to the funding constraints, we kept that at a
rather low dollar amount of $3 million per year.
The next line, line 29, is based on our asset management list. We took the list that was provided to
us by asset management. And ideally, we would fund 100% of the list every year. However, we
do not have sufficient funds either in the near term or the long term to be able to fund at that level.
So ideally, you would fund 80% to 90% if you can't do 100%. We can't even do 80% of the list at
this time. So our recommendation is that we fund at least 70% of the current asset management
list. So basically, what we did is we just took the asset management list, multiplied it by 70%, and
those are the dollar amounts that are reflected.
The numbers do vary by year because it depends on the assets, any given assets that need to be
fixed and repaired or actually replaced in any given year. The numbers are quite large in the first
year, 2021, 2022 because we have a significant number of buses that are recommended to be
replaced. Versus in 2023, if we were able to replace all those buses in 2021 and 2022, we wouldn't
need to replace any buses in that year. And so the list of projects that need to be replaced are quite
small. So it will continue to vary like that all the way out through the 2050 horizon.
So we added up those items in lines 24 through 29 and we come up with a total for other projects
in line 30. Now, as you can see, and if you compared line 23, which is how much money we have
available, and line 30, they don't match. We have significantly more project needs than we have
funding available.
But what we were able to do is if we spread those over the six year period of time, so between
2021 and 2026-- so we couldn't fund the asset list in the year that it was recommended. But between
2021 and 2026, we have been able, with those reductions listed on line 20, to be able to fund 70%
of the list over the six year period of time.
That leaves this then on line 32. You can see how much money we have available, which is a
negative balance each year until we get to 2026. In 2026, we have a $54 million funding
availability. And there's a reason for that. In order to balance past 2026, we needed to be able to
carry forward at least $50 million in the base system to be able to make 2027 through 2050 balance.
So we didn't want to present something to you that couldn't balance all the way through the long
term financial plan that you are being asked to adopt also this fall.
So with that, that is how it's laid out for the base system. On the next page in your packet, it is the
FasTracks System. And that's at the top of the page. It's labeled that way. The FasTracks format is
the same as the base except there are several things that I need to point out to you.

On the FasTrack System, we did include a fare increase, just like the base system in 2022 and
2025. Under line 5, which is sales and use tax, the same assumptions apply from September of
2019, which those, of course, will change.
In the grant line, which is line 6, you will see that there is no grant money in 2021. And the reason
for that is because we don't become eligible for certain operating state of good repair type grants
until 2021 on FasTrack. The first project that becomes eligible is the West Corridor. And then
from that point, we make assumptions on the other corridors becoming eligible.
And you can see, that number goes up significantly in 2025 from $4.6 million to $18.1 And then
it continues to go up as we have implemented projects and the waiting time from when you open
the project to when you're eligible to receive funds expires.
So with that then, we go down to line 11, which is total revenue. And we've estimated it, again,
pre-COVID, $322.2 million. We then go down to debt. You can see that the debt is significantly
higher proportionately in FasTrack. We used a tremendous amount of debt to be able to move
those projects forward, both in the form of revenue bonds on line 12, certificates of participation
on line 13, and those are issued for buses and mainly rail cars.
And then on line 15, I want to point out this one other financing payments. We don't have this in
the Base system. But on the FasTrack, we have a TIFIA loan for the Eagle project and we have
the Tabor payment that we make to DTP each month. That's what consists of line 15. And you can
see, that number does vary a little bit year by year. And that just depends on how much we have
to make in payments and the calculation for those payments each year.
That brings us to line 16, which is total debt service and payments of $185 million. If you subtract
that from our total revenue on line 11, you are left with $136 million, almost $137 million in 2021.
If you look at the first line under operating and maintenance costs, if we make assumptions that
we would inflate our 2020 operating cost to 2021 by CPI, you can see that we have more operating
expenses than we do revenue available with our very first line item. So that is problematic.
So what we had to look at were, what were the reductions that were potentially needed on
FasTrack? And what other funding sources could we use to fund FasTrack in the near term?
So on line 20, we included the maid service changes on an ongoing basis. And then we also, as we
did on the Base system, came up with other cost reductions that would be needed on FasTrack of
$3 million per year inflated.
Then that brings us to a new section, well, a section that's much more detailed on FasTrack. And
that's the contribution to reserves. So line 23 is our FISA, or internal savings account contribution.
So this amount is the amount that is required per the board action in 2012 that said we were going
to cap the enhanced and bus service that we're providing on the Base system. In support of
FasTracks, we're going to cap that at the 2012 level. And then the difference would be put into the
internal savings account each year. Those are the calculations that you see on line 23. And those
go on in perpetuity.

On line 24, though, we had to take money out of the existing balance that we have in the internal
savings account to balance FasTrack on a yearly basis for the near-term, 2021 through 2025. We
currently have at the end of 2019, $92 million the FISA reserves. Between 2021 and 2025, we use
up that $92 million to balance FasTrack.
We then have other reserves, and then we have a line item of total contributions to reserves. The
one thing I want to mention about line 23 is that one of the things that staff is proposing that the
Board consider is reversing the 2012 decision that was made to put the additional money into the
FISA. And rather use some, a part, all of that to offset the reductions that otherwise would have to
be taken on the bus side on the Base system. And that's line 19 and 20.
So if you used a portion of that-- you wouldn't have to use the whole thing-- used a portion of that,
you could not only eliminate the need for additional reductions on line 20 in the Base system. But
you could also start adding service back, assuming we had the need to add service back and also
had the labor force to do that in 2021.
Now, I know there's a lot of caveats there. But again, if conditions support it. So that is one of the
funding options. In addition to taking these cuts that we are putting in here, one of the options
would be to use the FISA to offset those reductions on the Base system, since it was originally
designed for bus service on the Base system to support FasTrack.
I'm sorry, what?
SPEAKER 2: Future FISA.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Future FISA. I'm sorry. Yes. not existing FISA If you take those
numbers and go to line 27, so we take our total funds available, subtract debt service, O&M, and
reserve contribution, you have $4.4 million. And that miraculously equals what we need to fund
70% of the current asset management list. So as you can tell, we backed into that number.
We then did that exercise each year until we get to 2026. As you will notice in line 34 where we
talk about accumulating funds, we do have a balance in 2026 of $14.7 million. Those funds are
needed to carry over into future years to be able to balance FasTrack going forward between 2027
and 2050.
So I know I just covered that very quickly. I do want to mention a couple things about, again, this
is what we're calling pre-COVID. So before we've suffered the large amounts of revenue lost in
just the last couple weeks. We know that on a fare box standpoint, we are getting those numbers
daily. From the beginning of March through yesterday, we're down about 85% in fare box revenue.
The other thing that we are looking at is sales and use tax. That is a little more difficult to predict
because we don't get sales tax numbers for March until the second week in May. And so a lot of
time will have transpired between when this has been occurring and when we actually start seeing
those figures. So what we've done from a staff perspective is, we're looking at what are the main
generators of sales and use tax revenue for RTD. And what are we seeing out there as far as what

is being closed, what is still allowed to operate, the shift potentially to online sales, and those type
of things.
We also know that the federal government passed the CARES Act on Friday of last week as well
as, the president actually signed it on Friday. Our understanding from both the Secretary of
Transportation as well as our local FTA office is that they have seven days to get us the numbers
as far as how much we can expect. We are expecting it to be quite a good number, just based on
the fact that it's supposed to be based on our appropriations from 2020. And based on those
appropriations, the numbers on the national level that has been appropriated to transit is about
double.
Now, we don't know what they're going to take off the top, because they have the ability to take
money off the top. So we'll have to wait and see what those numbers look like. What we're planning
on doing is, once we see those numbers, we have also been working internally on putting together
where can we save money as far as deferring projects, programs, activities that we were going to
do, administrative costs, travel. Anything else that we have on a line by line basis, we're going
through our budgets and scrubbing those to see how much money is available.
We've identified the money in our reserves. And we'll be putting together some scenarios that I'll
be presenting to Paul. And then ultimately, we'll be discussing with the Board in how we might
move forward.
I did want to let you know that Leeds School of Business is going to come here on April 14th.
They will not have a forecast available for us. We have deferred that to May so that they could
participate-- Moody's Analytical is working on a pandemic forecast which Leeds is going to be
using to put together their forecast.
But they will be here on April 14th to take questions from the Board. And also just give a brief
update of where they see things as of April 14th. So they want to make it clear that they probably
won't have a lot of good projections. But they will know where they are on April 14th. And they
will be able to share that with the Board.
Also, just want to remind you that Paul had sent out last Friday a written briefing on the CARES
Act and what it might mean to us. And we also continue to look at everything else internally,
including salaries and other things that we might need to take into consideration to be able to
weather this storm moving forward. I think it needs to be clear that there's a lot of uncertainty. It's
changing daily. And the two big unknowns, of course, that directly impact revenue are going to
be, how long does this last and based on how long it lasts, how fast will it recover. So those two
things we've had to make assumptions around. And we'll continue as things change daily.
So with that, I'm going to turn it over to Bill Van Meter to talk a little bit about how these factor
into the system optimization plan and what that looks like going forward.
BILL VAN METER: Thank you, Heather. This is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of
Planning. And that was a perfect setup for what I want to do, just spend a couple of minutes, a few

minutes talking about how our schedule and plans for the system optimization plan relate to the
information you just heard.
So we've informed the Board before that the system optimization plan target date is for mid 2021.
We are targeting to have a service scenario and run Board ready for implementation what we are
titling the system optimization plan in mid 2021.
So backing up, to achieve that target date, it means that our need and goal is for the current Board
of Directors, the people we're addressing tonight, to approve the system optimization plan by the
end of the year 2020. We know that's desirable because the currency to Board will have been
involved throughout this year in reviewing the development of the plan and understanding the
impacts of the alternatives being developed. And providing informed direction to the Reimagined
team. They'll have been engaged with and heard from the public and stakeholders throughout this
year. And we're working towards a goal of having the Board consider this information and reach
that target date this fall, as I said, by the end of the year.
So with that in mind, RTD staff and our consultant team are using the financial forecasts that
Heather just presented as the basis for the targeted levels of service for the 2021 system
optimization-run Board. That represents a level of service that's about 8% lower compared with
the August 2019 or January 2020 run Boards. Given the financial constraints pre-COVID-19 that
Heather just ran through, that is our target levels of service.
We recognize that the rapidly developing challenges presented by the COVID-19 pandemic have
caused Board members and stakeholders to ask whether we should be continuing with our system
optimization effort at this time or putting it on hold. I just want to let the Board know that we have
every intention right now to continue our efforts, our Reimagine RTD efforts towards the system
optimization plan, recognizing the opportunities that the system optimization plan presents to
improve our service offerings regardless of the exact level of service.
So the intent is to have a better plan for service provision to restore our services to through the
system optimization plan effort, even if other financial or real world constraints mean that we don't
fully reach our targets by mid 2021. We're looking to achieve a better optimized system based on
the various considerations that our stakeholders and importantly, the Board, and our citizens are
considering through this process. Those don't change regardless of our financial capacity and the
impacts of COVID-19 longer term.
We also want you to understand that part of the opportunity that the system optimization plan is
addressing is in response to the metro area and the built environment and growth that has happened
over the past decade. That will still look very similar this time next year, regardless of the impacts
of COVID-19. We're optimizing toward what the travel patterns and the development of the metro
area are today and will be in 2021. Development patterns and the main trip generators and the
tractors in the region are going to be the same next year as they are now, regardless of the horrible
impacts of COVID-19 pandemic.
On the upside, we're also preparing an unconstrained system optimization plan, which we can use
as a guide if and when revenues improve over the base scenario that we're putting together for next

year. That unconstrained system optimization plan can be used to help the Board, stakeholders,
and public understand the effectiveness of potential future investments in transit service if those
opportunities arise.
Finally, just one last point here to make. I want to discuss the plans for our Reimagine RTD
stakeholder and public engagement in the near term in face of the challenges posed by the COVID19 pandemic. RTD has technical and advisory committee meetings scheduled for next week. These
meetings will be held remotely using Zoom video conferencing.
Staff have completed a dry run, a test. And we're pretty confident that over the next couple months,
this will be a good forum for communicating with these committees. Much of what we're planning
to do is to provide information to these committees and to the Board, and to answer questions
pertaining to the information we're providing. This will set these groups up for the dialogue and
recommendations to come in the June and July time frame, which is also when we are planning to
next start proactively engaging the public.
So if in that time, couple months hence, we're still in a shelter in place remote meeting mode, then
we will need to seriously reconsider the schedule that I've just discussed and lay it out for the
system optimization plan. Because at that point, the level of dialogue and discussion required will
be more in-depth and will not be easily facilitated through remote discussions.
So in summary, we're staying the course. We think we have good, solid reasons for that in
preparation of the system optimization plan. And in terms of engaging our stakeholders and
moving the process forward towards that fall of 2020 decision goal post and deadline. If however,
within a couple of months, the impacts in terms of communication engaging the public and our
stakeholders of the COVID-19 pandemic are still such that they're putting constraints on us, we
will have to seriously have discussions with the Board, with our consultant team, and with our
stakeholders regarding what impacts that will have on our schedule and decision making process.
That wraps up what I wanted to say. Thank you, Chair and Board.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Van Meter. OK. That's the end of the presentation.
Is that not correct, Mr. Ballard?
PAUL BALLARD: That is correct, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. What I'd like to do now is to call on every director
in alphabetical order to ask whether there's any questions or discussions. Please have all your
questions and comments ready when I call on you, as I will cycle through the entire Directors only
once. Please be as brief as possible in your remarks. So with that, I'd like to start with Director
Broom.
BOB BROOM: Madam.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Broom, do you have any questions or comments?

BOB BROOM: Not at this time, no.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Broom. Secretary Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Madam Chair, I asked all my questions of Ms. McKillop and Mr. Van Meter
during our two on two meeting. So I appreciate their input again here tonight. I have no questions
or comments.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Secretary. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I too had most of my questions answered in my
meeting with Ms. McKillop and Mr. Van Meter. I did want to make-- I just have one question,
though, that I didn't realize at that time. The total operating, I believe it said that the total operating
reserves are six weeks for the Base system but three months for FasTrack. And I was just curious
why they were different.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather. And I may need to call on Susan Cohen
on the FasTrack side. But on the base side, our goal is to get to three months. But we have never
been there in the last five years. And so it currently sits at six weeks. On the FasTrack side, we had
been able to reach the three month. But over time, we did bring that down I believe. And this is
where I need Susan to chime in. We brought that down to six weeks also, to free up some additional
revenue in the out years. But I'm going to ask Susan to address FasTrack.
SUSAN COHEN: OK. This is Susan, Susan Cohen. Yeah. We actually were able to bring it back
to three months. The original FISA in December 2012 had brought the reserves for FasTracks
down to two months to fund the FISA. And in 2017, we restored it to three months given that
FasTracks was actually entering operations.
That being said, the contributions to reserves that Heather showed earlier would maintain the three
months at this point.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Susan. First Vice Chair Catlin, does that answer your
question?
PEGGY CATLIN: It does. I just was questioning the lack of consistency among the two programs
given that the FISA account borrowed from the enhanced bus service for the Base system. And
we're looking at a much more harsh reduction in the Base service plan than FasTracks. And then I
was just questioning some of those decisions. But I think we'll have further discussions about this.
And I won't take any more time. But thank you for answering that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, First Vice Chair. Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I likewise had talked previously and then again
today with Heather McKillop. So mostly answered. There were a couple of quick things. One is
that I believe Bill Van Meter was saying that we were considering a level of service that represents

an 8% reduction. And that was based on the January 2020. So if I recall, the May service changes
were about 3%. Just wanting to clarify, is he then talking about an additional 5%?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Van Meter?
BILL VAN METER: Yes, Chair. This is Bill Van Meter, AGM Planning. That is correct. So the
May run Board has approximately a 3% cut. This would be approximately an additional 5% over
the May run Board.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Does that answer your question, Second Vice Chair?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. And just one second thing it. Sounded like, this is sort of being put out
there was the question about whether the Board is [INAUDIBLE] revisiting the FISA policies.
And I did want to respond to that, if that's the case. It seems almost unavoidable. And I'm worried
that with the COVID impact, that may not be even sufficient or close to it.
So I know we're looking at the other pieces. Just the one question to put out there, no need for
response today, is whether the assumptions that the Reimagined effort is considering including the
trip generators might not be shifting on a permanent basis simply because of behavioral changes
that'll last beyond the current situation. You know, we may see for some years now a change in
how people go to special events or in how learning is conducted, et cetera.
So anyway, that's all. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Second Vice Chair Cook. Director Folska. Director
Folska? Seeing nothing from Director Folska, I'd like to call on Treasure Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair. I also had a lot of my questions answered in our meeting
and today with Heather, talking to her. Heather, when would you be coming to us to make
decisions, reversing part of the 2012 decision and returning some of the money from FISA to the
Base system? When do you envision that kind of decision being made?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Sometime this summer around the June, July time frame.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And I think also though, the COVID-19 preparations as far as financing
might accelerate that slightly. So just to let you know that. That was our original plan was the Juneish frame, when we were developing the mid-term and long term financial plan. But it may be
sooner than that based on what we're going to do.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Great. I guess when we get to that, it would help me to have more
detail about what that takes away from FISA and what that does with the basic system. Although
I have to say, I love the way you put it out here where we could follow it so easily. This was nice.

And then for Bill Van Meter, so the plan is next week to take these numbers to the advisory and
technical committees. Is that right?
BILL VAN METER: We will be presenting the basic information. We don't anticipate going into
as much detail as we are with the Board tonight. But that is correct. We will be presenting this
information and providing it to our technical and advisory groups next week. And I'm sorry. This
was Bill Van Meter, AGM Planning.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thanks. And I understood what you were saying about why we're
moving forward. I guess I'm concerned that there would be some push back at those meetings if
we don't have at least some preliminary numbers and projections from the changed world that
we're in.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Treasurer Guissinger, does that conclude your
comments?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Let's see. I think it does, yeah. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Treasurer. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Hi. This is Shontel Lewis. I have a few questions. One of the first questions
I have for you, Mr. Meter, our Van Meter, excuse me, was about the Reimagined process. I think
one of the critiques that I've had, or the concerns that I've had is that RTD is literally on fire and
we are buying a new car. And you talked about that there was a criteria on which you use to
evaluate us moving forward in this process and that it made sense. I'm just curious on how you
and staff had arrived at that decision.
BILL VAN METER: Thank you. This is Assistant General Manager Bill Van Meter. Yeah. So we
had a number of discussions internally and with our consultant team playing through the
commitments and the time schedule we're on, trying to identify whether a delay would significantly
change or impact the core recommendations and policy decisions that the Board would need to
make.
And also taking a perspective, one of hope, frankly, that by this time or over a year from now, that
much of the worst of the pandemic will be in our rear view mirror and that we will be in a place
where we can be implementing much or all of the recommendations from the system optimization
plan. And that delaying this now puts us further behind the opportunities to optimize and improve
our service that this effort presents. And delaying it doesn't really serve anyone under those
scenarios.
If within a couple few months, that scenario is changed, as I note, if we're still under shelter in
place, remain at home, remote meeting, and financial duress and the path forward is not as clear
and we can't get meaningful input from stakeholders, from the Board, and from citizens, then we
will reconsider that direction.

But optimistically, over a year from now when be one we would be-- or realistically, I should say,
when we would be thinking about implementing the system optimization plan, run Board, and
service changes. That gives us time, hopefully, to be in a much better place than we are today.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. I appreciate that. I know Heather pulled out the 3% and then the
addition of the 5% reductions and the amount of money that we would need to save. I do wonder,
we've talked about the cost of this process, if we might re-evaluate based on where we are and
we're seeing that significant decline in ridership and fare revenue, if that money might be utilized
in a different way considering all those factors outlined in Heather's presentation.
BILL VAN METER: If I may, this is Bill Van Meter, AGM Planning again. I understand that
perspective and those points. I think that is a serious consideration that we need to be making kind
of in parallel as we move forward. And if and when we do reach that less optimistic and scarier,
in my opinion, place a couple of months from now, hopefully we do have a better handle and grasp
on where we need to go. And we can redirect the effort. That's my best shot at an answer to that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No, that's cool. That's cool, Bill. I appreciate that. So my guess is that you
would have embedded in this process something that would trigger you all needing to have that
conversation to say, hey, obviously in partnership with Heather, hey, this is what we anticipated
in terms of best case scenario. And where we actually are, we might need to steer in a different
direction. Is there a trigger that you anticipate that you all would get to?
BILL VAN METER: This is Bill Van Meter again. Yeah, and I believe that trigger is the early part
of this summer and having a better handle on what's happening to our financial resources as well
as our ridership and a better understanding of what the course of the pandemic and its impacts to
us are. So I think we do have the capability to stay the course until then. And that decision point
in time is early summer.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thanks, though. That's really helpful. And then summer-- I'm sorry.
Heather, I have two questions for you. You mentioned, or maybe you talked about the CARES
Act, but I didn't $see when you bring the budget back to us, are those numbers going to be
represented somewhere in the scenarios you provided to us?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather McKillop, CFO and AGM of Finance Administration.
So yes, at some point in time, we'll be bringing those back. I haven't talked about this with Paul,
but probably what we'll be doing is trying to figure out how we can present that separate to the
Board as to where we think we are. Because it will change on a regular basis.
And then at some point, yes, we'll have to make the determination to incorporate that into this
spreadsheet and what that's going to look like for 2021 through 2026. Because the Board's going
to have to make, again, some decisions in the June time frame, June, July to be able to adopt a
mid-term long range plan and a 2021 budget.
So it'll all get rolled together. But I'm thinking because of the complexity of the situation we're in,
that we'll probably want to spend some time with the Board just talking about 2020 and the impact
and then what that might have going forward, if that makes sense.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Yes, it does make sense. I appreciate that. And then my final
question for you, based on the email that we chatted about today for the base and FasTrack reserve,
I tried to find that within the scenario that you've outlined. And maybe I just don't see it. Can you
point me to which line I should be looking at this?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So director, those reserve balances aren't listed. This is just, the
contributions going forward are listed on line 22 and also line 25 on FasTrack. But those balances
aren't listed. Starting balances aren't in here, just like we don't have a starting balance for the FISA
or the carry forward money.
SHONTEL LEWIS: All right. It makes sense. I guess I'm trying to wrap my head around, one,
again, back to trigger, what would trigger the use of those funds?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, COVID-19 could be a good trigger, unfortunately. This is exactly
why we put money into reserves. I mean, the goal would be to not use them because there might
always be something worse that could be around the corner. But originally, when I first started,
the reason we were starting to put money into a reserve because we had very little five years ago,
and we've been slowly building that up, is for some type of recessionary or a really negative
situation.
So that is what the money is there for. Of course, as little as we can use, the better off we'll be in
the future. So that's going to be some of the decisions that the Board is going to have to make and
that we're going to bring forward.
And as I mentioned, presenting different scenarios most likely to say, OK. If this is how bad it
gets, this is what we would recommend using. If it's not that bad, this is what we would use first.
And a lot of that's going to be dependent on how much federal money we get will be how much
we use out of our own reserves.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That makes sense I'm trying to make the connections between the CARES
Act, the reserve, the FISA account, and also what Mr. Meter presented to us in the tiered approach
with the pandemic plan and to understand how those are connected, and do those trigger one
another? So if you were to reach level 4 in the pandemic plan, does that mean you trigger
something else in the budget that would say, hey, we're going to pull money from this area or we
will pull from a different area.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Potentially, yes. So it would be more of a situation of, if sales and use
tax didn't return to the existing levels by November, let's say, that would cause us to access certain
reserves that we wouldn't otherwise access, something like that just as an example.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it. Yeah, [that helps. And that's all the questions. I really appreciate you.
And wonderful job on this document. Really appreciate it.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Does that include your questions, Director Lewis?

SHONTEL LEWIS: Yep. That's it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I've got a question and a couple of comments. The question is, the
8% reduction in service which we're going to be thinking about with the system optimization that
Bill Van Meter mentioned, was that pre-COVID, pre- adding the COVID decreases in revenue?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather McKillop.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Ms. McKillop.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. And that's why we're calling our baseline assumption. Those were
the reductions we thought we needed to take just to balance 2021 through '26 and beyond, so preCOVID.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Excellent. Thank you. I just wanted to comment. I just find it very distressing
that after a period of pretty good economic expansion, we have created a debt portfolio and a O&M
requirement that-- it just seems that we're living beyond our means and we have to reduce things
significantly. I just find that very distressing.
I know we have to deal with the reality. We're not the federal government. We can't create money.
But I just find that pretty upsetting.
And the other thing is that I understand the discussion around the FISA and the money that was
steered towards the FISA. But I do have to say that it's one more instance, if we take money from
it, it's one more instance of telling the people in the north, primarily, but not just the north, the
folks in the unfunded corridors that they have to wait again. So I know it's kind of a naysaying
stance. But I did want to express those comments.
Anyway, thank you for the work. And Heather, thank you for the very useful explanation.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lubow. Does that conclude all of your
questions and comments?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. Yes, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, ma'am. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I want to go to the figure of 85%, which was the number we
were given as a drop for collections. And so if I got that number wrong, let me know. But that's
what I noted. And that would be a daily treasury count from the system, is that we're getting that
from?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair this is Heather McKillop, CFO. Yes, so that 85%, we're
tracking it on a daily basis. And that comparison is to our collections for the first week in March

versus where we are with this last week that we just went through in March. So we're down 85%.
We have higher decreases in TVm's mobile ticketing, and smart card use. We're still seeing about
a reduction of 50% on fare box. So we are still seeing quite a bit of money coming in through the
fare box. But overall, the reduction is 85% compared to the beginning of March.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. All right. Chair, is it OK if I just go back and forth? I've got some
very brief questions, but without going back to you, can I just have a back and forth with Heather
from this point?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Absolutely. Go ahead, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So with that then, are we still from spot checks or another
method? Do we believe their ridership is sitting at about 30% or a little bit less of what our normal
amount of riders is?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So, I would need to look at those numbers. But it's higher than that, the
reductions in ridership. But I don't have those numbers right in front of me.
PAUL BALLARD: Actually, Madam Chair, this is Paul Ballard, General Manager.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please, Mr. Ballard.
PAUL BALLARD: Yes. Heather has been focused on the money and a number of us have been
following the actual reports. We're getting reports from street supervisors from our RTD police
officers and others who are monitoring the ridership. And Director Menten's estimate of 30% of
the ridership is accurate. That's where we're deriving the number that we believe we're transporting
about 100,000 passengers per day throughout the system, which is about 30% of the 350,000 that
we were carrying prior to this event. So if that provides some operating background, hopefully
that's helpful.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten, does that answer your question?
NATALIE MENTEN: For that specific one, yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. You can keep moving on.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. In regards to-- I'll go to EcoPass for a moment. And from what
I've been able to search in the past, that's about, let's say, 10% for the business EcoPass, maybe
17% if we're throwing in the college passes.
I'm wondering, has there been any kickback from EcoPass holders in light of the service changes?
And are they all built at the beginning of the year, like, let's say they're in their second year. Do
they all get billed year to year? Is it from date of start? I'm just wondering if we're seeing in the
impact, feedback from those EcoPass holders, that they're not going to renew, basically.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather McKillop. So we have a variety of payment plans. Some
people pay all upfront in January. And then a lot of people pay over time. So we do have several
different payment plans, depending on it. But we tend to see the most revenue at the beginning of
the year.
So that's why some of it may not be captured in the comparison of beginning of March to end of
March. Although, some of that is in the smart card data. So that is helpful that we have collected
a lot of those funds upfront.
I think regarding the question of, are we getting requests to cancel their contract? We have had
several requests to cancel contracts. Right now, it is from these smaller employers. We've had
about four, I think, four or five from smaller employers.
So we have not seen any large employers at this point in time ask to cancel their contracts. And
we have honored those who want to. There's a 60 day cancellation period. So those contracts
wouldn't be canceled. If they went on April 1st, it'd be the end of May before they were canceled.
But yes, we have gotten some of those requests. But they have been limited at this point in time.
Now, where we are seeing people move is on the FlexPass. Remember, a FlexPass is flexible in
that the employer and the employee can choose on a month to month basis whether or not they are
going to receive their monthly pass. And in that case, we have seen quite a large drop off for the
month of April. So people not getting passes for April.
And I would expect that to continue, if this stay at home order's in place, as long as that continues.
So that might even go into May. But that's where we're seeing the bulk of people not getting their
monthly pass through April is through the FlexPass program.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you that was helpful. That answers that one. Next one real quick, so
with the Reimagine and Bill might want to chime in on this one. So I've attended one of the tech
meetings, listened to one of the advisory meetings. There really wasn't talk of dollars at that point.
So let me just make sure I understand, they have not been presented with any of the hard numbers,
even estimates on what we need to adjust.
BILL VAN METER: This Bill Van Meter, yeah, at AGM Planning. That is correct. To date, they
have not been given this information. We wanted to review it with the Board first. Our plan is to
share this information with both the technical and advisory committees in April. And frankly, we
didn't have this detailed level of understanding available for the last meeting, unfortunately. They
will have it for the next meeting.
DOUG TISDALE: Testing, one, two, three.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you.
BILL VAN METER: It works, Doug.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It does work, Doug. OK.

DOUG TISDALE: I thought I was on mute.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, and I-- just one more and that is, in the depth of both Base and
FasTracks, is all of the voter approved debt outside of COPs, everything with in COPs is non-voter
approved. Do I understand that correctly?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct. So anything on the line that says, revenue bond payments on
both Base and FasTracks, which is line 12 on Base and line 12 on FasTrack is voter approved. And
so is line 15 on FasTrack is voter approved. Line 13 on FasTrack, with the COP payments on line
13 on Base system, which is COP payments are asset backed. So those are based on the assets. We
pledge the assets for those.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Thank you. That was all my questions.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. No, just a comment about the quality of the report.
I'm thankful for it. It was easy to understand. It's a shame that a lot of it's going to change. But a
lot of good information. And thanks to Mr. Meter and his team for what they're doing in that report
as well. That's it. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Mihalik. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. At least I know the phone microphone
works. I appreciate the opportunity. And let me commence by saying, first of all, the same thing
that has been said by a number of the directors right now. And that is, the report is excellent. It
really helps give a clear, cogent visual statement of where we stand, as depressing as that is.
Several comments, I think four or five. First, I do want to just note for the sake of the record that
yes, I would like to come back to Director Lewis's question at the end that she had proposed
regarding Mr. Meter's report. Because I think that's something that it would help if we had a little
additional discussion on the record for the benefit of the public, including the media, so as to
respond to a number of inquiries that we have received from constituents, from the union, and so
forth.
Secondly, as I understand it, Ms. McKillop, in looking at these data, I mean, I spent an hour on the
telephone today in a conference call with the Leeds School. And Richard Wobekind was giving
the data relative to the projections from financial houses as to what we expect to see in the economy
for the balance of Q3 and Q4. Because it's just very sobering.
So I guess my observation, and I want to see if you agree with this, the picture that is presented
here is in effect the most wildly optimistic scenario that we have right now. In other words, it
really, in fact we know, will be worse than we see here. And the question is, do you have at this
point in time or do you think you'll be able to develop in the next several weeks, a picture as to
how much worse this picture will be?

HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather McKillop, CFO. So yes. As I mentioned previously,
we're going to be working on that. Really waiting for the numbers from FTA since that could have
a significant impact on which direction we go. And then as we get that information, we're going
to probably discuss that with the Board separately. And then ultimately, once we have the scenarios
laid out for the Board and let them know, we'll then incorporate that into this information.
But probably we'll wait a month or two to be able to do that. Because things are changing so rapidly
right now. And want to really figure out the impact to 2020 and then what that rolling up might be
to 2021 through 2026.
DOUG TISDALE: And I appreciate that. And that's what I expected. But I just want to be able to
state that for the record so that people understand, this is not the kind of information we can just
turn on a dime and say, oh, well, yeah. We're going to assume that in fact, all these numbers will
be depressed 10%, 15%, 20%. That we have to judge a lot of things. And so, I think it's just fair
that we tell people that. And I appreciate your sharing that estimate with us.
The next comment is relative to the FISA issue. It is obviously very sobering, very concerning
when we discuss the possibility of eliminating the continued contributions to FISA. But for the
sake of the Directors who are impacted by that, and I'm not certain this is the case, but at least
understand that statutorily, this may actually be a 10 director vote in order to do that because it
deals with specific capital projects. So that's at least a thought.
The last thing is, I'd like to put into context the percentages of service reductions that we've been
talking about. Because I think many people are confused. And I have looked at news reports saying
that we adopted service changes and that they're going to go into effect in April rather than May.
People don't seem to understand that we actually adopted a May run Board plan and then separately
adopted a pandemic service plan, which will go into effect April 19.
The idea that some people have I think is, that's the quote, May run Board changes that we move
forward. That's not the case. The May run Board exists as something that we hope we would be
able to build back up to. That hope is obviously diminished by a lot of the realities that we face
today.
But to put it to the whole 3%, 8% May run Board, pandemic run Board into context, the 3%
reduction that was adopted in the May run Board is what we talked about and what we have
accomplished. This service optimization plan that we're discussing anticipates an additional 5%
reduction for a total of an 8% reduction. Am I correct, first of all, in understanding that, Mr. Van
Meter?
BILL VAN METER: That is correct, if I follow the logic. Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Yes. That's fine. And I'm not trying to make it complicated. I'm
hopefully trying to make it clearer so people understand that-- put aside the pandemic run Board,
because that's my next question. Put that aside. The May run Board represented a 3% service
reduction. The service optimization plan budgetary information and projections you provided here

anticipate ultimately that that SOP would constitute a total of an 8% reduction, 3% of which has
already been accomplished through the May run Board.
BILL VAN METER: Correct.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Thank you. So the question that I have is, what is the amount of service
reduction that has actually now been implemented by the pandemic service plan which is to go
into effect on April 19?
BRUCE ABEL: Madam Chair, this is Bruce Abel, if I might?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
BRUCE ABEL: The service reduction, the level of service that corresponds to the pandemic plan
would be roughly a 40% reduction in the level of service. It takes our weekday level of service to
a level of service that we normally would provide on a Saturday. So we are reducing our January
level of service by approximately 40% from pre-May run Board level.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Abel. I appreciate that. Again, I just think it helps
to put some of these things in context. Because we tend to throw these percentages around. And
we sort of, hopefully, know what we're talking about. But there are a whole lot of other people
who will look at these minutes and will wonder exactly what do we mean. So, I'm sorry for taking
so much time. But I wanted to have an opportunity to lay some of that out in hopefully a clearer
fashion.
So I thank you, Madam Chair. That's all of my questions and comments at this time. And I will be
chiming in with Director Lewis at the end of the meeting when we bring up new business.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Hello. Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can.
JEFF WALKER: OK, great. So thank you for the presentation. It was really easy to read on my
own and then also to follow along with you. I don't have any questions. But I do have a couple of
comments or maybe observations.
One is, I imagine that we've looked to Toronto when they were going through their SARS epidemic
in the early, oh, I don't remember what year. It was '03 or '04, something like that. And they had a
similar situation where they had an epidemic, I guess. It was pretty much contained to there and I
think Vancouver. And if you have had a chance or if you haven't had a chance to look at whatever
charts there were to see how quickly their revenues came back and ridership came back also. So I
guess that is a question. Have you had a chance to look at that?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, I have not.

JEFF WALKER: OK. Yeah, so you know, what separates this from our downturn in '07, '08 is this
is medically based and '07, '08 was a financial based downturn. I'm sure just like you and
everybody else, we have a lot of questions about what's going to happen in 2021. When things
open, will there still be an appetite for living the way we did four months ago or three months ago.
Now that pretty much everybody who can work from home knows they can work from home, there
might not be a need to go back to work or at least not in the numbers that we had. That might be
reflected in the fare box taps. If I heard you correctly, looked like the smart card, the free paid
media we're down more than the cash. Is that correct?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather McKillop. Yes, that's correct.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah. So it might be a good thing that we're looking at this optimization. Because
there might not even be a need for some of the service that we had out there before. But at any
rate, thank you for the presentation. It's an interesting time. So I appreciate all the work that you
guys have done and especially to our drivers and our maintenance folks who are out there every
day. That's it. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Walker. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Hearkening back to the very beginning of the
meeting and your eloquent quotes, I just want to say that I appreciate my colleagues tonight more
than ever. Tremendous questions and comments, concerns shared by my fellow Board members.
So I don't have any more to ask or to add. Do appreciate the presentation, both on the two and two
meeting and tonight by Heather and Bill. Great job. Very concise to sink to the point.
And also, especially appreciate the safety briefing from Mr. Meter. You know, with all the news
coverage and all the things that we hear about COVID, I certainly learned some new things tonight
thanks to him. And I think those points need to be shared widely. So thank you so much. And I'll
yield the rest of my time to Director Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair and Director Whitmore. I appreciate it. I have one
question and two comments. So my question is, does our charter that forms RTD require a certain
amount or a certain percent of reserved funds, Heather?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, it does not. The only thing that is required by law is Tabor reserves.
And I did not include those when I've been putting out the reserve numbers because even in this
situation, we are probably not allowed to spend those dollars. But the other reserves are in your
fiscal policy.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super. Thank you. I didn't see anything that required us there. And then I
have two little bits of information. One is good, one is bad. Stranahan's, our local whiskey
company, thanks us very much for providing service that allows their employees to come to work.
And they have switched from making whiskey to making hand sanitizers, which we have asked
them to share with us. So that might be a, we'll scratch their back and they'll scratch ours situation.

And the other interesting one is, there's something called the shadow effect which happens in areas
where there are droughts and people have water restrictions. And in some of those places, the water
used never comes back to what it was before the drought. And so I just think we need to be aware
that we may have a shadow effect on transportation use. And that's all I have to say, except to
thank everybody for the work that you continue to do in this situation. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Williams. I would just like to end this piece
with a couple of things. And the first thing is, for years I think that transportation demand
management professionals have been trying to, along with RTD, promote the use of mass transit
and the reduction of VMT, so vehicle miles traveled.
And I don't know if you've been watching it, but there's been a significant climate change that
seems to be occurring with all of these folks not driving any longer. And we're starting to see our
climate and our pollution to ease up, which I think is kind of like the silver lining, if there is a
silver lining. That's number one.
Number two, the mayor of Denver has just announced that he's extending the stay at home through
April 30th, which I think will give us more pause in terms on how we move forward and serve in
terms of serving the community.
And you know, all of my questions were answered. I'd like to thank Heather and her team and Mr.
Van Meter for the two on two meetings because I learned a great deal. And I think that this has
been a most fascinating study session that has really given me a lot of information that I need to
go and just kind of ponder upon.
So with that, I'm going to conclude this study session. So I will entertain a motion to adjourn this
study session. Do I have one?
BOB BROOM: Madam Chair, I have an other matter.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, yeah. But this is just the study session. Are we closed with
the study session? Because the next thing is other matters.
KATE WILLIAMS: I move that we adjourn the study session, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Second?
VINCE BUZEK: Movement second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you so much. I have a movement of Director
Williams and a second of Secretary Buzek. All in favor? I'm going to just assume it's aye unless
there's any opposition.
Seeing none, what I'd like to do now is adjourn that. And the Board meeting is adjourned. And
we're going to be meeting again on Tuesday, April 7th for the communications and government

relations planning capital programs and FasTracks and civil rights committees. And the call in
number will be the same you used to connect to tonight's meeting. Thank you all for this evening.
But with that, what I'd like to do is go into other matters. Do I have any other matters?
BOB BROOM: Madam Chair, this is Bob Broom.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: This is a comment I guess, and a question. Let's make the right assumption that
the federal government is going to step in and they're going to give us a large infusion of cash.
And maybe we'll even get that $29 million that they owe us on the Union Station, that service
reserve fund.
That would put us into a position to financially reopen all of the service, the 40% that we had to
cut. But I don't think that's the way we want to look at it. I think we should look at it on the basis
of ridership to restore service. What is going to be our policy?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Ballard, can I throw that back to you?
PAUL BALLARD: Yes, Madam Chair. Paul Ballard, General Manager. As we discussed at the
Board meeting, our plan is to monitor ridership and restore service as it comes back. So it's in
complete agreement with Director Broom's assertion. So that would be our plan. We'll monitor
ridership and as it comes back, we'll restore service. I don't see us restoring service where there's
not ridership. But it's hard to tell right now at what rate it's going to come back. We're just going
to monitor it as we are now on a day by day basis.
We're also monitoring on a day by day basis if we have any situations where we have too many
people on a bus or a train for social distancing. I was updated today. We've not had any situations
like that. So it's going to be, monitored it and make decisions based on ridership. So Director
Broom is accurate.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Broom, does that answer your question?
BOB BROOM: It does, Madam Chair. Thank you very much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much. Any other matters?
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, ma'am. Two things. Number one, that I can advise
Director Broom that I did have a conversation along with about 8 or 10 other people with Senator
Gardner last Thursday. And he told me that he was bringing that issue forward on the credit risk
premium with Senator Bennet when the Senate returns. And he didn't know if it would be handled

sometime this summer or this fall. But he understands the importance and now the increased
urgency of that.
So our two senators are there and our House delegation has been unanimous in the past in support
of that. So I sincerely hope that they will be able to encourage that passage for the return of the
credit risk premium.
That was my comment. The second thing was, to go back to Director Lewis's question, which I
think was really focused on the rear boarding. And if I may, a number of us have received emails
and other communications, telephone calls, from people asking about rear boarding.
And one of the issues they address is safety of the operator in terms of doing that, understanding
that we don't have access for handicapped boarding in the rear. Obviously, that's something that
would be separate. But nonetheless it's a question.
And I think Mr. Meter, to your credit, you gave a very good response to that. But I just wanted to
make sure that we gave an opportunity for any other Directors who wanted to weigh in on that and
ask further questions at this time, so that we could demonstrate that this Board has considered the
issue. And that for reasons that are good and substantive, as Mr. Meter relates them to us, has
declined to follow the lead of a couple of other transit agencies in the country who have done that.
So that's my preface. And I leave it to Director Lewis and Mr. Meter if there are further comments
on that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. I do have a few questions. Thank you so much, Director Tisdale. I do
really appreciate that.
Mr. Meter, I had a question a few questions about the PPE. You said that most of the folks in
service including and also the folks that are operating our services had the PPE. And I wanted to
know what the percentage of our workforce had that and what percentage did not?
BILL VAN METER: And I'm sorry, Director Lewis. You said the percentage of who? The
percentage of our workers overall, you mean?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. I just want to know who actually has PPE.
BILL VAN METER: Sure. All of the people who are in jobs where they would require that
protection, the service and cleaning folks, they're using chemicals to clean the buses. They're
obviously in close proximity to the entire vehicle where the virus could be spread on surfaces and
whatnot. So we are providing the masks for them. The very limited supply of masks, so they're the
priority right now obviously, for the masks.
As far as the other PPE goes, the gloves, the hand sanitizer, the Lysol disinfectant sprays, which
we did just get in, those are available to everyone. All of the divisions have them. They've been

shipped out to-- in fact, we just shipped out a supply to every division today as it came in. So all
of that PPE is available to anybody in the divisions who needs it. We're obviously focusing on our
front line employees, the operators, the service and cleaning folks, as I said, the people in the
mechanics, all of the people that are touching those vehicles have that equipment available to them
right now.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. OK. So I've heard, and you know this. And I brought it up a few times,
I have some grave concerns about the safety and the well-being of our operators, service and
cleaning, and even those who from our ADA community who talk about being checkers on our
buses and their exposure to the virus. And it's of deep concern to me, particularly as it pertains to
social thinking.
So a week ago-- I mean, a number of things. A week ago we talked about monitoring our buses to
ensure that folks were properly social distancing. And last week, you all said that you had been
monitoring and hadn't any instances where you had seen folks not properly social distancing. To
which Dr. Cook gave an example, And I also have examples as well as operators.
I think one of the easy things that we could do is adjust our low standards during the pandemic to
ensure that no more, per the executive order from our governor, no more than 10 people are on bus
or rail at a time. That seems like a solution that protects both our passengers and our operators.
And I and I'm curious as to why we aren't doing that proactively?
BILL VAN METER: So we are actually, Director Lewis. After you and I spoke, we've started kind
of looking at-- obviously, we've got APC's that count the people getting on and off the buses.
There's some delay in consolidating some of that information. So we've got our security officers
as well as supervisors and operators reporting basically what the loads are on the buses.
We have a process in place right now for any operator. What we've done is we've said, if you come
upon a situation where picking more people up will create a more loaded bus, and we're kind of
looking at that number around let's say 10 to 12 people, where they see they're going to have that
kind of a load on a bus on a route, that they call dispatch and let us know. So we can identify those
areas, those routes where we're starting to see a little more of that crowding that would prevent
some of that really good social distancing on the bus. So we can account for that. And then make
plans to get additional buses out there.
Now, the service level that we're at currently right now is utilizing, obviously, most of our buses.
When we drop that service level down, we'll be able to assign more buses out there. But we're
monitoring that right now and when possible, getting additional buses out there so we can do that.
One of the things that's very evident, and the operators certainly will have validated this for us in
many, many instances, is people are getting on the buses and kind of policing themselves. So if
you notice and when I get a chance to get on the buses or just observe, and you'll see the people
are spread out pretty well on the buses. So they get on and they're really trying to recognize that
separation.

We've entertained some other ideas if we need to get to that point. And so far, based upon the
reports from the operators, we haven't really needed to kind of look at some of these other things.
But potentially cordoning off some areas of the buses so that we can force some of that. But so far,
we haven't had to do that.
There are some buses that are going to have more. And we're actually monitoring the stops as well,
where we're seeing that to see if we see large numbers of people standing around to make sure that
we're not allowing those buses to get overcrowded.
So we are proactively looking at that, monitoring the numbers. We've instructed the operators to
call dispatch and let us know if they're starting to see that so that we can accommodate the need of
our customers with additional buses.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. It seems to me that it would make sense for us to have operators be
empowered, right? To make that call themselves or for us to have buses maybe one behind another.
We've talked about steep declines in ridership. We've also talked about fare box revenue. And what
we probably know about many of the folks who are riding is that, at this point, it's probably the
most transit dependent, the poor who are utilizing our services to go to these jobs.
I mean, so exposing them to this virus and not being proactive about that approach, I guess I'm not
following the logic.
BILL VAN METER: Yeah. We are. We're absolutely monitoring those things. Because one of the
concerns about a service reduction, is you put less buses out there, if there is a large demand, you're
going to kind of force the overcrowding. MBTA immediately when this started off, they reduced
their service. And what they found was they were putting a lot of people in danger because they
were just having crammed full buses and trains in those instances.
One of the things you mentioned about having the operators be more empowered, I don't want the
operators playing police to say, you can get on, you can't get on. What that does is, it creates
scenarios where there could be some aggressive behavior. And I don't want our operators put in
that position.
So what I would want them to do is to call us and let us know where they're seeing those crowds
and where there's that potential so that we can accommodate the customers with additional buses.
As I mentioned at the very beginning, I'm always very concerned, obviously, about the operators,
particularly at this point in time.
And based upon guidance from the CDC and the experts out there that are talking about how this
virus is spread, there doesn't seem to be as high a risk for the operator boarding people on the bus
because of the requirement to have some close contact for an extended period of time. As long as
people are moving onto the bus and sitting down and policing themselves, it creates a better
environment versus us trying to regulate that and potentially have confrontations there at the bus.
So that's why we're doing the things we're doing.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, with the public, yes and if we were to have the folks in our
communications team proactively communicate to the general public, say hey, if a bus passes you
up, it's probably not because the operator is a jerk. It's probably because the operator is trying to
operationalize social distancing. And that operator had enough people on their bus to ensure that
they were being safe, right?
And if we have multiple buses, you all have said that the ridership is down. And so I would
imagine, and prior to the pandemic, we had routes that were not productive, that should not have
been in existence. So we could literally take those buses and put those buses behind routes that are
productive to operationalize tomorrow social distancing and to not expose the public or our
operators to the virus, no matter how you contract it.
What I know from the data you all have given us is that 40% of-- a large percentage, it's like 86%
of our operators on the rail and bus side, fall between the ages of 40 and 74. I just would imagine
we would do some additional safety measures to ensure their protection and well-being. And I'm
not trying to be that heavy, here. I'm just genuinely concerned about the lives of our operators and
the general public, at this point, who are needing to choose between their life and going to work.
BILL VAN METER: You know, that's an excellent idea you brought up. I think that's a great idea.
We can't educate enough, both internally and externally. I think that's a great idea that we talk
about that, that in the interest of practicing social distancing, and we're seeing our customers do it,
that we put some information and just education around that out there. So I think it's something
we can certainly entertain doing.
But as you know, you and I have spoken many times. My absolute first priority is ensuring the
health and safety of our employees. And if I thought for a minute the situation we have right now
is endangering them or making a change to the processes would improve upon that health and
safety, I wouldn't hesitate to make it.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director. Thank you, Mr. Meter. Director Lewis, are
you done? I have other people in the queue.
SHONTEL LEWIS: We don't have a queue, and I'm not done.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: May I ask how many more questions? You've had like five.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. I have a few more questions. It seems to me that I am the only person
that you try to constrain. And so-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, that is not true, ma'am. That is not true. I'm so sorry you feel
that way. But Director Catlin's been on hold for quite some time.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Can I finish?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. So another one of the questions that I've had for staff is around
the mandating. And so, can you talk to me a bit more about how we might get closer to not
requiring our operators to be mandated?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis, I think we should take this offline. This is a little
much. We're really just trying to talk about the finances here. We did talk about the drivers' safety
at the beginning. And it seems to me this might be a little bit longer of a discussion than we need
to hold people online for. So if you wouldn't mind, I'd like to take this offline.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I think the general public is actually really interested in this discussion.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think we can go ahead and disburse that information at a later
time. But we really have had people on hold for a very long time.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's 7:30 and our Board meetings typically run much longer than 7:30.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Ma'am, I'm trying to be respectful.
SHONTEL LEWIS: But I will accept the silencing of my voice.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm not silencing your voice. I'm just asking you to allow other
Board members to speak. Thank you. So Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just had a couple of points to make. Mr. Meter, I
really appreciated your explanation about the data that show that the distancing is working. But
also, that there is some evidence that shows that masks don't reduce the risk for some of this casual
contact.
It was encouraging to me to hear that you are scheduled to receive some additional masks. So I
really appreciate your efforts in trying to procure through all of those supply chains as best as
possible. But I need to point out to you that I have a daughter who works in a hospital, frequently
in the emergency room.
They have not been able to get masks for their doctors, nurses, and physicians assistants. And she
went into the emergency room to treat a patient the other day, a place where they did have positive
COVID-19 cases, and there were not enough masks for all the doctors, nurses, and physician's
assistants to wear in that kind of environment. And they don't have the distance or the shorter time
frame to interact with somebody that may or may not be infected.
So I hope that, given the fact that you're optimistic about receipt of those supplies, that I can hold
out hope that also our front line medical providers are going to find some relief pretty soon. Sorry
for getting on my soapbox.

BILL VAN METER: So that's fine. And that's what I'm hearing, is they're funneling them there
first. So if we get those, I can only assume they're funneling more to the hospitals first.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's my hope as well.
BILL VAN METER: Yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: But that being said, I hope that we get them, too, because I know some operators
have expressed some concern.
I also wanted to point out that I did get a call from a light rail operator at 7:30 on Sunday morning
expressing concern regarding a couple members of our homeless population that had positive tests.
And the fear among him and his peers of a greater increase in cases among that group of people
who tend to congregate and share utensils and cigarettes, among other things.
And he was wondering what steps we were taking or more particularly, our transit police, in
enforcing some of the all night rides on the trains, riding down, for example, on the F line and then
riding back from RidgeGate and back and forth all night.
And he said that he's personally experienced quite a number of those circumstances and was
wondering if we'd had a discussion with our transit police about a higher level of enforcement.
And certainly, the transit police are probably just as uncomfortable as our riders are about personal
protective equipment in enforcing some of that stuff.
So I just didn't know what was-- and we could have this discussion offline as well. But I did want
to bring it to your attention. But I said, I would bring it forward on his behalf. Thank you.
BILL VAN METER: Sure. I can give the short answer very quickly. We are addressing that at the
locations particularly down at RidgeGate, Union Station, Mineral Station, the ends of those where
we're seeing more of that activity. So we do have transit police and security down there in the early
morning hours, in the later evening hours, at the ends when we typically see the movement from
downtown to the outer edges in the evening.
So we are we are putting security and police in those locations to make sure that we can better
police that particular activity, making sure they're off the trains, moved away from our stations as
well, before we pull trains into tail tracks and whatnot.
But there is a concern, certainly, amongst the law enforcement agencies as a whole about the close
contact. We're doing more visual fare enforcement and actually moving some of the fare
enforcement outside of the vehicle, too, to try to mitigate some of the round trip, all night,
sheltering in place riders.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. That was the term I was looking for, sheltering in place. But I just
felt that I owed it to him. He's a light rail operator, but also my constituent. And he wanted to share
with me his concerns as well as those of his peers. So I appreciate that, that you're stepping that
up. Thank you very much. That's all I had.

BILL VAN METER: Yep.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, First Vice Chair. Treasurer Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Madam Chair. And Mike Meader, thank you for that safety
report. That was really helpful.
You mentioned just as an additional factor that in terms of not moving to rear boarding, the ADA
considerations. And CCDC that represents some of our disability community was one of the groups
that's written, asking for rear boarding and other measures to protect the drivers. And are there
ADA reasons not to go to rear boarding? I know there are other reasons, but in particular, are there
ADA reasons?
BILL VAN METER: Just because primary, the front is where it's designed. The operator can
facilitate the help with that better at that particular point. Also, just trying to line up. So the bus
stops, a lot of them are grandfathered in to not being necessarily greatly ADA compliant. So there's
some concern about the alignment of the bus and the operator going back there and trying to assist
anybody doing any kind of boarding from the rear, as well.
So those are all concerns, obviously, that we have around any of the boarding, and particularly
when we start talking about ADA compliance.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I know that CCDC often does not feel like they've been heard. And it also
came to us through the ATU, not the local, but other. And I've been hearing the question about
rear boarding and all of that from some of my local electeds and others.
I'm wondering if we could put together sort of a response. Is it something we may still consider?
You sort of said that we haven't decided to go that direction. I personally think, I mean, there are
a lot of agencies in the country that have gone to that. And it seems like it does provide some
protection where we're not getting masks and things like that. Is it something we may still consider?
BILL VAN METER: You know, at this particular point in time based upon all the evidence, we
haven't really gone down that path. You know, I reached out to some consultants that we use as
well, who consult with a lot of the agencies around the country and just kind of get their feedback
on it. And they are generally opposed to the action for many of the reasons that I described.
Many of the actions-- one of the other things that I didn't mention, and I'm actually working on
getting some specific data. And I'm happy to share it when I get it. A lot of the actions that do
occur, it's typically not when the buses are sitting at the bus stop, but when they're moving away
from the bus stops, occur at the rear of the bus. So that's another concern that the consultants
brought up to me, along with some of the security and some of the other safety concerns that I
mentioned earlier.
I'm happy, if you'd like, to chat about this a little bit further offline just kind of some more detail
about the reasoning behind the decision that we've made.

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. And maybe coming up with a written response that we can respond
to the people. Because they're important people that are asking about it.
BILL VAN METER: Absolutely.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I'd like to be sure that we get a response to them. I think that would
be helpful. And I would be interested, if Director Lewis, Shontel, if you're meeting separately on
some of the other questions you were asking, I'm interested to hear some of that as well.
BILL VAN METER: Sure.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks. That's it.
BILL VAN METER: Yep.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Folska. Or, Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: I think Director Folska wants to speak, too. She can go next. I will go after
her.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. Excuse me, thank you, Madam Chair. I appreciate it. I had some
technical difficulties. So Mr. Meter, I think it would be excellent to have a written response, as
Director Guissinger had suggested, to those constituencies, the CCDC, the ITU and the ATU, or
the international ATU, IATU, is that right? Is that what we call it? For those concerns, and they
are legitimate.
I know in my hometown, Santa Monika, California, the Big Blue Bus is currently free. And they
do the back rear boarding. And people are really loving it. And that's a pretty dense area these
days. Although, a much smaller footprint. I think it's about eight square miles.
Also, I wanted to congratulate our Chair, Rivera-Malpiede, for her huge achievement and award
for the Canto Award of moving people for-- I'm sorry, I don't remember the exact name of it right
now. But that's a national award. And we should all take great pride in not only RTD, but our First
Latina Chair receiving that award. So congratulations. That's all, Madam Chair. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Hear, hear.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have a couple of things I want to point out. It's
interesting to me. I had also received comments from CCDC. And it's interesting to me that they
did not include any comments in there about the additional service that we are providing,

unsolicited, from Access-a-Ride That we have really, really bent over backwards to improve the
Access-a-Ride experience to the disabled community. And I personally have heard thank you from
people. But haven't heard it from CCDC. Just a point there.
And a number of constituents have talked to me about the fact that they're not boarding through
the rear door, but that people are self-isolating. And one of the comments I heard was that the seats
at the front of the bus that normally are holding people-- that are designed to be put up so that
people in wheelchairs can use that space have been put up so that people don't sit close to the
driver.
Because many people that are in wheelchairs are trying very hard to not ride the bus at this time
and exposed themselves. So that's a kind of self-perpetrating situation that I think is helping the
drivers. And I've heard good comments from passengers about that and had calls about it. So I just
wanted to point that out. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Williams. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair. Quick question and then comment. Mr. Meter, you had said
that many of the agencies or other agencies use different kinds of buses. Are you saying that most
of those that have been able to go to a low floor boarding buses, or did you already answer that
previously? I was just waiting to get a little bit of detail about how their buses tend to differ from
ours.
BILL VAN METER: It wasn't about the buses. I can't speak to-- the buses they use exactly. It's
just the processes in the system, the way they typically will pick up customers involves back door,
rear door boarding in instances much more so than we do. So it's a more familiar process to those
agencies.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Good. And I'm glad to hear the detail that you provided about how you
are monitoring. Because as you've noted, it's with sustained contact that you have the higher
concern. And that's the case, depending upon the route, for people who are riding. So I'm glad and
also pleased to see that you're open to other ways to continue to monitor those high frequency bus
routes. So just expressing that and saying thank you.
And then finally, I wanted to-- I don't know if it's in your area, forgive me, or Michael Ford's. But
just wanted to say thanks for the grocery delivery. That, I think, is such a good thing to be offering
to people who probably, in terms of their nature, they're qualified for Access-a-Ride or at greater
risk anyway for venturing out. So it just made all the sense in the world to bring food to them
rather than bring them to the grocer. And so I just wanted to say how much I appreciated the effort
to put that together quickly.
And then, would add my congratulations to the Chair for that honor. I'm proud to serve with you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Second Vice Chair Cook. Just a couple of things for
me before we sign off. The first one is that, I've been going down to Blake Street to really just go
do some different things. And I ride the 32 all the time. And the last couple of times I've been on

the bus, it's literally just been me and the bus driver. So I have experienced that more than 85%
reduction in terms of how many folks are riding our buses currently.
I want to take my hat off to our Civil Rights Division and our Access-a-Ride also for the grocery
delivery service that we are now providing to our most vulnerable population. And on behalf of
everybody that has called me, they are beyond thrilled that this service has been implemented by
RTD and by our staff. I think that this is really what it is about serving community.
And then thirdly, I just want to let you know that I am so very honored that Secretary of
Transportation, former Secretary of Transportation, Pena, has appointed me to sit on a committee
for him and the governor on infrastructure, utilities, and telecom to talk about issues regarding the
recovery of the economy for mass transit. And I'm very thrilled to be sitting on that committee.
And I look forward to working with him and the committee to bring forward ideas and some
suggested resolutions. I'm working very diligently with the staff and I just wanted to say thank you
to them for taking the time to meet with me whenever I have any questions.
With that, I will-NATALIE MENTEN: But ma'am, ma'am. Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Whoa, whoa. One at a time. Director Menten, was that you?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. I would just like to state that some of these questions that have been
pushed on offline may very well be of interest to the majority of the Board.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Agreed. Agreed. We'll get them to you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Well, how did-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And this-SHONTEL LEWIS: How? How?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So Director Lewis, I had mentioned earlier, I would really offer
the opportunity to meet with you and set up a meeting with Mr. Ballard and his team to get those
questions answered. And then we could provide a document to the rest of the Board with the outline
of what the questions and what the responses are, if that's OK. Director Lewis, is that OK with
you?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, I'm not speaking for the rest of the Board. If they'd like to participate in
that meeting, I'm more than happy to have them participate.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. That's great. All right, then.
NATALIE MENTEN: So then.

[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry?
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So would we be best if there's multiple people instead of getting an
outline, that we have another meeting and just have the Board office post that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Sure. Miss McManus, are you on the phone? Miss McManus?
SUSAN COHEN: Apparently not.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. McKay, are you on the phone?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No, I am on the line.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, OK. Could we set up a subsequent meeting to have these
questions answered?
BARBARA MCMANUS: We can certainly set up anything the Board needs to get all their
questions answered on any subject.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, great.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We will just work together and figure out the best time that that should
happen. And we will treat it as a regular meeting where my team will poll for that meeting, set up
a meeting, poll for that meeting, and know who is going to be attending.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Great. Does that work for everybody?
SUSAN COHEN: Yes, ma'am.
DOUG TISDALE: Aye.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Let me go down the line. That might be the way to do this.
Director Broom, are you OK with that?
NATALIE MENTEN: Madam Chair, why don't you just take nos? It might be shorter.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: This is Barbara McManus. I think the best way to make this meeting as
succinct as it can be and still address all of the questions that the Board has is that they submit all
of their questions in advance to the Board Office. That way, we can set up a script for the Chair.
We can organize it in alphabetical order the way we have been doing the speaker queue, so that
everybody gets an opportunity to speak to the questions that they bring forward.

And then based on that, we can ask staff to put together a one or two pager answering all of these
questions that we think the public needs to hear. And depending on what comes out of that meeting
as well, we might want to put out a press release on it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think that sounds like a good idea.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Madam Chair, this is Lynn.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: May I speak?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Next week is our communications and government relations committee.
And I would volunteer to get with Pauletta tomorrow morning and see if there's some way to
engage-- a lot of this is communications and government relations. See if there's some way to
incorporate at least some of that. It's you know it's hard to have a great conversation when we're
all on the line like this. But maybe we could-- it may not work, but we could talk in the morning
and talk to Barbara about her idea of getting questions in advance and maybe do some of this in
our meeting next week, if that's helpful.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You know what? And Treasurer Guissinger, thank you for that. I
think that we need to understand this is our second remote meeting. There was a lot of questions
that are going around and concerns about what's happening in our community, and rightfully so.
So I really appreciate that.
What I'd like to do is take the opportunity to meet with Miss McManus in the morning. And then
maybe do an outreach call to all of the chairs for the next meeting, which would be civil rights and
communications, and there's a third one.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Planning.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Planning, to see if we can utilize any of those to do this, if that's
OK with everybody.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That sounds great.
PAULETTA TONILAS: And Madam Chair, this is Pauletta Tonilas.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, go ahead, Miss Tonilas.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes, thank you. Absolutely what Director Guissinger said, we can do
next week. One thing I will point out is just having listened to many of the questions that Board
members have, we have a tremendous amount of information on our website right now. Our staff

has worked really hard to try to keep this updated. And there are various ways that you can get
into the information from the RTD home page.
I did send you a couple of links today in your daily update about the COVID page that we keep
updated and the COVID service plan, which some of you have asked about. We have a separate
page on the COVID service plan that is developed.
And so yes, we will continue to formulate, if there are other FAQ sheets that we can put up there.
And then address many of these items next week.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So, this is Barbara McManus.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Barbara.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So, SLT has been meeting intermittently, but will be meeting more on
a regular basis. And pushing out a lot of information. And I think it's important. You don't ever
know what it's going to say. Things are moving really, really quickly with the COVID-19. We try
to get the daily information from Pauletta out there, but we also are sending individual
communications on specific subjects.
And if everybody could just try to make an effort to read everything, and then if you have questions
on the information that staff is putting out, if you could just send those questions to the Board
Office ahead of time, we can get them answered. And we can, every other day or based on those
communications, the Board Office can put together all the responses from staff and try to get some
of these things answered up front.
Yes, it's important that some of these things be spoken about in a public meeting. But I think that
the more understanding that everybody has of what's going on and the timing that is moving
forward helps us all, the Directors, the staff bring forward all of the information that the public is
needing to hear in a more succinct way.
So we're in a new world right now. And we're not used to this venue of meetings. So we're learning
as we go. And I just would hope that we can all work together and bring all the information
forward, that not only the Directors need to be able to deal with their constituents, but bring
everything forward in a public venue vis-a-vis the meetings, the committee meetings and the Board
meeting, in a more succinct way.
Because there's a lot of confusion out there. And I think that it's our job to bring it forward to the
public, not in segments, but in full thoughts and with-- I don't know what the words that I need to
bring forward. But we just need to be more succinct and cohesive in how we're bringing it forward
to the public.
I mean, there were a lot of questions that were asked tonight that I think brought forward more
confusion. And we can work with Pauletta's team and get all the questions answered and single,
one or two pagers out to all the Directors before meetings, if those questions are asked and

answered, that will make it more understandable for our employees, other staff members,
constituents, and the Board members.
And this is an opportunity for us. And I think we should embrace it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Miss McManus. I would just say this, that we
currently have a daily COVID-19 daily brief from Pauletta. And that has really got a lot of pertinent
information for us of what's happening on that day. And so, I'm really appreciative of that.
But I also know that we're in a really fluid time right now that is just so uncertain. And I would
ask that Board members, if you have a question or a concern, that you e-mail the Board Office to
have it addressed. Then that way, we can deal with it. And then maybe we can get that incorporated
into the daily COVID-19 report. So that we're getting one document with all the information that
we can get for you at any given time.
And I know that-JUDY LUBOW: Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Pardon?
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah, Chair, this is Judy Lubow. I just wanted to say that I've been waiting for a
half an hour to talk to Mike Meader. And there seems like there's no way to get through. There's
no queue that I can tell. There's no process for a queue.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, Director Lubow, go ahead.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. And I don't want to waste anybody's time, because I think we're going
to have another meeting dealing with these issues next week, apparently, which is good. But I
wanted to thank Mike. I really wanted a report like this. And I was going to request one. And there
it is. He's doing it anyway. So I just really wanted to thank you. Job well done.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lubow. Thank you so much. Anyway, I think
that we're going to get this down. But we're just at the beginning of this process. And we just need
to be patient with each other a little bit to make sure we get the questions out there so that we allow
the staff to research it and get back to us. And then give us their information about best practices
across the country, what's happening there.
But I would just say, please be a little bit patient. Because this is really tough, working remotely
and trying to figure out the logistics. But I am available any time of the day or the evening. And I
know Miss McManus is, Mr. Ballard, and so is our senior leadership team.
So with that, I'm going to have Miss McManus do a poll tomorrow to get us together to figure out
how we want to move forward in terms of questions. And we'll be in touch with you in the morning,
OK? Thanks, good night, and have a good evening.

JUDY LUBOW: Good night.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Night. Thank you.

