Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Julien Bouquet, District G
First Vice Chair – Patrick O’Keefe, District H
Second Vice Chair – Troy Whitmore, District K
Secretary – Chris Nicholson, District A
Treasurer – Karen Benker, District I
Vince Buzek, District J
Peggy Catlin, District N
Kathleen Chandler, District F
Lynn Guissinger, District O
Chris Gutschenritter, District D

Michael Guzman, District C
Ian Harwick, District L
Matt Larsen, District E
Brett Paglieri, District M
JoyAnn Ruscha, District B

SPECIAL BOARD MEETING
Wednesday, May 28, 2025
IN-PERSON/REMOTE MEETING
3:30 PM
To join the meeting Register Here
(connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 858 8982 9073#
Passcode: 1660#
For Public Participation in the meeting: raise your virtual hand
in Zoom or indicate you wish to speak via phone by pressing *9
If you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment(s),
please email the RTD Board office using the address below.
Public Comments can be emailed in advance to be
included in the record to
RTD.Directors@rtd-denver.com

I.

Call to Order

II.

Roll Call

III.

External Entities Report
•

External Entities Report: Joint Rail Service Update

IV.

Executive Session
Executive Session pursuant to § 24-6-402(4)(e), C.R.S., for determining positions relative
to matters that may be subject to negotiations, developing strategy for negotiations and
instructing negotiators and § 24-6-402(4)(b), C.R.S., for legal advice, regarding proposed
intergovernmental agreement and joint service for the Northwest Rail corridor.

V.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assistive hearing devices
• Documents in alternative formats and language translations
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

3.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Committee Meeting Date:
External Entities Report: Joint Rail Service Update

May 28, 2025

REPRESENTATIVE
Diane Barrett, Special Advisor to the Governor for Joint Rail Service
PRESENTATION LENGTH
20 minutes
BACKGROUND
The Colorado General Assembly passed Senate Bill 24-184, Support Surface Transportation
Infrastructure Development, and it was signed into law by Governor Jared Polis on May 16, 2024.
Senate Bill 24-184 created collaboration, planning, and reporting requirements for various entities
involved in developing and providing surface transportation in the State, including the Colorado
Department of Transportation (CDOT), the Clean Transit Enterprise (CTE), the Colorado Transportation
Investment Office (CTIO), Front Range Passenger Rail (FRPR), and RTD.
DISCUSSION
The external presenters will provide an update to the RTD Board of Directors regarding on-going joint rail
planning and reporting efforts required by SB24-184. Specifically, the presenters will share updates
related to a draft Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) to form a Joint Service Executive Oversight
Committee to negotiate an access agreement on behalf of the Joint Service Parties with the BNSF
Railway.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no financial impact associated with this presentation.
ATTACHMENTS:
•

Joint Service_IGAPresentation_RTD

(PPTX)

•

FACT SHEET- IGA Joint Service Update

(DOCX)

Prepared by:
Jack Kroll, Executive Manager, Board Office
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 3

3.A

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 4

2025

Joint Service IGA

How the Parties Collaborate and Advance Joint Service
Attachment: Joint Service_IGAPresentation_RTD (5135 : External Entities Report: Joint Rail Service

3.A.a

Packet Pg. 5

Joint Service Background
• SB24-184, Supporting Surface Transportation, passed the General Assembly and was signed into
law May 2024:
• Created new Congestion Fee, with daily rental car fee of $3 a day.
• The estimated revenue is $57M in FY26 before growing to more than $110M by 2050
• Directed the Regional Transportation District, Front Range Passenger Rail District, and Colorado
Department of Transportation to collaborate and deliver a starter intercity passenger rail service
from Denver to Ft. Collins by January 2029
• Allowed the Joint Service entities – RTD, FRPRD, and CDOT – to examine options and decide
how best to work together:
• An Intergovernmental Agreement (“IGA”), or
• A new Colorado Rail Authority, or
• A new legal entity

Packet Pg. 6

Attachment: Joint Service_IGAPresentation_RTD (5135 : External Entities Report: Joint Rail Service

3.A.a

Joint Service Background (cont.)
• SB-230, Oil and Gas Production Fees, passed the General Assembly and was signed into law
May 2024:
• The Passenger Rail Program alotts 20% of the fee revenue towards Passenger Rail projects in
Colorado
• The 20% set aside for Passenger Rail is estimated $20M for Passenger Rail on NW Line
and N Line
• The 70% formula set aside is for new service to expand transit and increase ridership
• The 70% set aside for this portion of the fund is estimated to equal $77M

Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: Joint Service_IGAPresentation_RTD (5135 : External Entities Report: Joint Rail Service

3.A.a

Overview of Joint Service Project Timeline to Date:
• May 2024: SB-184 and SB-230 signed into law
• Aug 2024: RTD, FRPR, CDOT and Governor meet and agreed to bring on Diane Barrett to lead
interagency coordination for joint service
• March 1 Report:
• Initial cost estimate, review of available revenue, and review of governance models
• Conclusion: There is enough existing revenue and IGA is preferred governance model
• April Refinement:
• Joint Service Principals refine the study based upon Boards feedback, input on the March 1
findings and BNSF engagement
• April - May IGA Drafting and Workshops:
• General counsels from RTD, FRPRD, and the Attorney General's office have engaged in drafting
the IGA
• Workshops on IGA with governing Boards
• June - July IGA Adoption:
• Following Board workshops, the IGA will be adopted by Governing Boards in June and July

Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: Joint Service_IGAPresentation_RTD (5135 : External Entities Report: Joint Rail Service

3.A.a

Overview of Joint Service Project Timeline Moving Forward:
• Next Steps:
• June: Final draft of IGA shared with all boards

• July: Form Joint Service Executive Committee through an Interagency Agreement (“IGA”)
• Aug-Winter: Negotiate an Access Agreement to include needed infrastructure with BNSF

• Winter 25/26: Create financial model based off actual costs from the Access Agreement to inform
project budget
•

Governing Boards - RTD, CTIO, CTE, FRPRD, CDOT - then appropriate funds off financial
model and access agreement details

• Summer 2026: Begin procurement of an operator
•

2026-2029: Execute financing, NEPA, construction, and safety testing

• January 2029: Commence service

Packet Pg. 9

Attachment: Joint Service_IGAPresentation_RTD (5135 : External Entities Report: Joint Rail Service

3.A.a

Key Takeaways From March 1st Report:
• There are enough existing resources from Congestion Impact Fee (SB184), Production Fee
(SB230), and RTD’s sales tax to cover the cost of 3 daily round trips
• Any appropriation is subject to policy and budget decisions of governing boards
• 3 daily roundtrips is estimated to cost $83M in the first year of operations ($32M in O&M plus
$51M in Debt Service)
• Updated estimates coming in June presentation
• If the State contributes $42M annually (from daily rental car fee and oil and gas fee) , there is a
gap of $41M to be filled by RTD
• Peak Rail (3 trains) from Denver to Longmont costs $52-56M annually for RTD alone, $41M is
significantly less and the service would be connecting twice the amount of population going to
Fort Collins

Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: Joint Service_IGAPresentation_RTD (5135 : External Entities Report: Joint Rail Service

3.A.a

Key Takeaways From March 1st Report (Cont.)
• Nearly all infrastructure investments for joint service would benefit the eventual Front Range
Passenger Rail Service
• Further Study is needed to define the service, negotiate an access agreement with BNSF, develop
an interagency agreement and finance plan

Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: Joint Service_IGAPresentation_RTD (5135 : External Entities Report: Joint Rail Service

3.A.a

Why an Intergovernmental Agreement?
The Colorado General Assembly, via SB24-184, directed the State’s three leading transit entities to use their
statutory authority to study collaboratively how they could deliver the first phase of Front Range Passenger
Rail.
This approach:
• Allows collaboration among the public entities and provides a governance structure for their activities
• Creates a Joint Service Executive Oversight Committee (JSEOC) that acts on behalf of the group of
public entities (Executives or their designee of RTD, FRPRD, CTIO, CTE, CDOT, and the Colorado
Governor)
• The JSEOC is the single entity that will negotiate the access agreement and construction
agreement with BNSF

Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: Joint Service_IGAPresentation_RTD (5135 : External Entities Report: Joint Rail Service

3.A.a

Overview of the IGA
• The IGA does not supersede or impact the authority of each individual public entity. The governing body
of each public entity makes all decisions regarding appropriations and funding, unless such decisions
have been expressly delegated by the individual governing body
• Individual governing bodies will still need to vote and approve any investment in Joint Service once an
access agreement has been negotiated by the JSEOC and BNSF
• It is expected that the JSEOC will initially make decisions by the 50%+1 rule
• Upon adoption of a financial plan, a weighted voting mechanism could be added for protection for the
interests of the public entities making large financial contributions to the Joint Service Project

Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: Joint Service_IGAPresentation_RTD (5135 : External Entities Report: Joint Rail Service

3.A.a

Overview of the IGA (continued)
• The JSEOC will steer negotiations with BNSF, and solicit an operator for passenger rail service, while
laying the foundation for the future expansion of Front Range Passenger Rail.
• The JSEOC will strive to implement the Joint Service Project in such a way that it will not render
infeasible the existing operations of RTD or future plans for Front Range Passenger Rail.

• The IGA provides a process for transfer of interests, assets, and obligations of any Party, with a goal
of ensuring that there always will be only one access agreement and one operator on the northern
front range sub owned by BNSF.

Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: Joint Service_IGAPresentation_RTD (5135 : External Entities Report: Joint Rail Service

3.A.a

Joint Service Timeline
• May 2025: All Boards Workshop Draft IGA
• June: RTD Board Update
• June & July 2025: The following Boards begin voting and approving the IGA, as well as a
resolution of an intent to appropriate:
• June: CTIO, CTE, TC
• June: FRPR
• July: RTD
• August 2025 - January 2026: JSEOC to negotiate with BNSF an access agreement
• Winter 2026: All Boards to adopt financial plan based on a successful access agreement and
construction agreement
• Summer 2026:
• JSEOC conducts procurement for rolling stock and operator
• JSEOC executes a construction agreement with BNSF on needed infrastructure
investments
• January 2029: Joint Service train begins

Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: Joint Service_IGAPresentation_RTD (5135 : External Entities Report: Joint Rail Service

3.A.a

June RTD Board Update & Roadmap
• June Board Update:
• Send out finalized IGA draft based on all Board workshops
• New cost estimate by HNTB
• New financial scenario based on new cost estimate and would include farebox collections with
ridership scenarios
• Ridership model completed
• Operations Report providing analysis to date

Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: Joint Service_IGAPresentation_RTD (5135 : External Entities Report: Joint Rail Service

3.A.a

Joint Service: Intergovernmental
Agreement Fact Sheet
Wednesday, May 14, 2025
Diane Barrett I dianebarrett25@msn.com

●

●

Why should we workshop the IGA in May for eventual Summer adoption?
○ In order to get the best value for the public, BNSF needs to see an affirming
action that shows the six public entities have agreed to govern one service
together instead of providing multiple different services, separately, on BNSF’s
northern front range rail line. Adoption and execution of the IGA by the Members
of the JSEOC will demonstrate their commitment to providing one joint service.
○ The public entities’ Boards are being asked to authorize their JSEOC Member to
act in this matter. The Boards are being asked to authorize: 1) the execution of
the IGA and 2) the adoption of a resolution committing to fund the joint service.
Both actions are fully contingent on the completion of the joint service study, the
successful completion of an access agreement negotiation with BNSF, and the
availability of funds as required by the Financial Plan (defined in the IGA.)
○ The Board authorizations described here are needed to set up for a successful
negotiation with BNSF.
○ An appropriation vote will not be required until after a successful negotiation with
BNSF. That negotiation will determine the terms and costs for the access
agreement and the infrastructure upgrades needed for the characteristics of
service that match the access agreement. These final costs then will be
presented to the Boards for a binding appropriation vote. At this time, we are
seeking a fully contingent resolution of intent to appropriate funds to joint service,
without a dollar amount.
○ After completion of a successful negotiation with BNSF, the Boards will be asked
to adopt the Financial Plan (as defined in the IGA) which will be based on the
actual costs of the Joint Service Project. Only then will the Boards be considering
and approving definitive financial amounts.
What is in the IGA?
○ Members of the Joint Service Executive Oversight Committee (JSEOC) are the
following: The Governor or their designee, the General Manager and CEO of
RTD or their designee, the Interim General Manager of FRPRD or their designee,
the Executive Director of CDOT of their designee, the Director of CTIO or their
designee, and the Director of Clean Transit Enterprise or their designee.
○ Decisions regarding the actions and operations of Joint Service will be made by
the Members of the JSEOC, with 50%+1 voting rules during the continuation of
the Joint Service study and into the negotiations with BNSF. In other words, In
any vote during this time period the vote of 5 voting members will prevail.

1
Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: FACT SHEET- IGA Joint Service Update (5135 : External Entities Report: Joint Rail Service Update)

3.A.b

3.A.b

●

●

Appropriations or contracts entered into by the JSEOC for the Joint Service
Project will still need action by the public entities’ Boards unless a Board has
delegated its own authority to its JSEOC Member.
■ For example:
● If CTIO were to issue bonds to finance the PTC on the line, then
CTIO’s Board would still need to approve that Bond issuance.
● The joint service IGA cannot compel CTIO’s Board to act.
● Nothing in the joint service IGA can compel or impede actions by
the CTIO Board. The CTIO Board maintains its statutory authority
and its fiduciary duties.
■ Another example:
● If RTD is to change its existing contract with DTO to
accommodate the joint service trains on the B Line, or if RTD is
contractually obligated to make an annual contribution to the
operators of the joint service then the RTD Board would still need
to make that appropriation and follow their own procedures for that
action.
○ Once the public entities’ Boards have adopted the Financial Plan and made an
appropriation to the Joint Service Project, then the JSEOC will make decisions by
majority rule, but may ask for a weighted vote based on Contributions made to
the Joint Service Project (all capitalized terms as defined in the IGA.)
■ This weighted voting mechanism will be for added protection for the
interests of the public entities making large financial contributions to the
Joint Service Project to ensure fiduciary fidelity to their organizations. The
details of weighted voting are still under discussion.
When are Governing Boards expected to adopt the IGA?
○ The Joint Service Project team will conduct workshops with each Board – CTIO,
CTE, TC, RTD, FRPRD – in the month of May to introduce the IGA and
workshop it with each Board and their corresponding Counsel.
○ Counsel from each entity is helping draft the IGA. It is a collaborative effort.
○ Beginning in April and through mid-May, Members of the JSEOC have been
providing direct feedback on the IGA through multiple iterations.
○ Following the workshops, the IGA will be updated based upon further feedback,
and adoption of the IGA will occur between June and July for each entity.
○ The dates of the workshops:
■ May 14: CDOT Transportation Commission, CTIO, and CTE Boards
■ May 23: Front Range Passenger Rail Board (“FRPRD”)
■ May 28: Regional Transportation District (“RTD”)
What is the JSEOC Doing?
○ The JSEOC will jointly design the study, steer negotiations with BNSF, and solicit
an operator for passenger rail service. The JSEOC has one mission: to provide
passenger rail service as soon as possible to the northern communities while
laying the foundation for expansion of passenger rail once Front Range
Passenger Rail successfully passes a ballot initiative to expand the service.

2
Packet Pg. 18

Attachment: FACT SHEET- IGA Joint Service Update (5135 : External Entities Report: Joint Rail Service Update)

○

○

○

The JSEOC will strive to approve designs for and implement the Project in a
manner that will not render infeasible the interface of the Project with the existing
operations of RTD and will not be inconsistent with the future plans for Front
Range Passenger Rail.
The IGA provides for transfer of interests, assets, and obligations of any Party,
the intent of which is to ensure that there always will be only one access
agreement and one operator on the northern front range sub owned by BNSF.

FAQ:
● Why are these the Members of the Joint Service Executive Oversight Committee?
○ The Members of the JSEOC are the Governor and the executives of each of the
5 subdivisions of the state that are coming together to finance and govern a
passenger rail service. The public entities are all legally independent entities.
Each of the public entities has its own governance board. These governing
boards are charged in state law with making the policy decisions, preparing and
adopting the budget and appropriating funds for those entities. Each of these
entities is contributing to the joint service or has a stake in the future of joint
service.
○ Just as RTD is a subdivision of the state but has its own board and makes
independent appropriations with its own revenue sources, so are the other
entities that make up the JSEOC. Two of the public entities, CTIO and CTE, also
are “enterprises” for TABOR purposes. Unlike RTD, these enterprises must use
their revenue generated from fees for the sole purpose of benefiting the payers of
those fees.
● What happens if one entity chooses not to adopt the Financial Plan and fund the
service?
○ Upon completion of a successful negotiation for access with BNSF, which would
aim to include the negotiation list of needed infrastructure improvements for the
characteristics of service agreed upon by all parties, each of the JSEOC
Members will be asked to adopt the Financial Plan and make a binding
appropriation for joint service. The Members must have the authorization of their
Boards to adopt the plan and make the appropriation. If one of the public entities
fails to do one or both of these things, it is unlikely that the remaining public
entities would proceed, as there would likely not be enough funding to
commence joint service.
● What happens if there is a dispute among the Members of the JSEOC?
○ Votes can be called to make a decision on how to execute the project. For
instance, a decision to adopt the BNSF access agreement or to pursue
purchases of rolling stock can be made by a 50% +1 vote, a majority vote, or a
weighted vote, depending on the timing of the vote.
○ Disputes related to the IGA terms and conditions or powers of the JSEOC would
go through the dispute resolution process set forth in the IGA.

3
Packet Pg. 19

Attachment: FACT SHEET- IGA Joint Service Update (5135 : External Entities Report: Joint Rail Service Update)

3.A.b

