1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, October 8, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Larry Hoy

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
5:28 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Absent

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

5:29 PM
5:10 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Chair

Present
Present

5:09 PM
5:25 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Vice Chair

Present
Present
Present

5:22 PM
5:29 PM
5:20 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

5:26 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

5:09 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:12 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:19 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:22 PM
5:22 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Roy Asphaug, Frank Buczkowski, Rick Clarke, Jeff
Cluphf, Susan Cohen, Ignacio Correa-Ortiz, Lee Cryer, Kevin Diviness,
John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Kenn Hardin, Terry
Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Barbara
McManus, Doug MacLeod, Jerry Nery, Paula Perdue, Chris Quinn,
Scott Reed, Bill Sirois, Jim Starling, Henry Stopplecamp, Kirk Strand,
Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Brenda Tierney, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa
Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Brian Welch, Phil Washington

Other Present:

Greg Amparano, Dana Chaves, Trevor Clifford, ZJ Czupor, Jane
Donovan, Joni Goheen, Doug Gragg, Watkins Fulk-Gray, Stan Gronek,
David Lewis, Jim Martinez, Johanna Medina, Susan Monard, Daniel
Navarro, Mike Okinsky, Maxine Pryor, Liz Rao , Mei-Ling Rodriguez,
Darron Rolle, Roger Sherman, Larry Silva, Marta Sipeki, Joe Triplett,
Gary Van Dorn

B. Citizens Advisory Committee
David Lewis, Co-chair of the FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee, shared that
they had their quarterly meeting on September 16th, 2013. He thanked Committee
Chair Hoy for attending; also in attendance were Mayor Downing and Council
Member Wieneke. David Lewis noted that there was not a lot of public turnout but
believes this is attributed to the positive momentum we have from the Northwest
Area Mobility Study and North Metro Request for Proposal.
David Lewis shared that the next CAC Work Session is October 16th, 2013. He
said that they will be getting a comprehensive update from program staff.
Additionally, the final CAC Quarterly Meeting will be held on December 11th, 2013
at the Stapleton Foundation which is a change in the originally scheduled location.
Director Tobiassen thanked the CAC members for their help in the public outreach
on the I-225 corridor. He said that several CAC members have been doing
presentations to various civic groups and participating in the monthly updates.
Director Tobiassen appreciates all their hard work. David Lewis noted that they will
be discussing outreach efforts as their upcoming meetings as they are finding that
going out in small groups may be a more effective way to do outreach.
Director Lasater asked how many seats are available to new participants as part of
the upcoming application and selection process. Roger Sherman stated that there
are five members whose terms expire at the end of the year. Two are first term
members who have indicated they want to be considered for reappointment so
there will be three vacancies.
Director Lubow reminded everyone that several Board members had asked if the
CAC would explore the concept of having more socioeconomic diversity because it
is heavily professional. She feels that while the CAC members do have excellent

qualifications and experience, the Committee needs to more accurately reflect our
riders as a whole. Roger Sherman explained that there has been a call for
applications that are due at the end of this month; the Nominating Committee will
then review all applications. Roger Sherman said that he will meet with the
Nominating Committee prior to review of the applications because there are several
things that he has taken note of that the Board wanted considered.
Director Rivera-Malpiede suggested that if Director Lubow knows someone who
would be interested in making the commitment to the CAC she should encourage
them to apply. She shared that she will be asking people from her District to apply
as well.
Committee Chair Hoy thanked David Lewis and Roger Sherman for their report.
Director Menten noted that we have citizen input into FasTracks through the CAC
but she wonders how we receive citizen input on the bus side. She also asked how
we will gather citizen input now that we are looking at restructuring our fare. Scott
Reed, Assistant General Manager of Communications, shared that RTD has a
Customer Panel that meets quarterly and is more focused on the bus side. He said
that we get their input on fares, routes, marketing, etc. General Manager
Washington explained that we have just begun the process of putting together an
internal Fare Task Force but have not yet begun the review of our fare. He stated
that there will be public comment opportunities as part of the process. General
Manager Washington also reminded the Board that as part of every service change
we have Public Hearings where staff hears not just about the routes that will be
changing but also about other bus suggestions.

C. Recommended Actions

• North Metro Rail Line Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City and
County of Denver
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between the City and County of
Denver (CCD) and the Regional Transportation District. The agreement
includes specific terms defining CCD’s local agency contribution,
coordination, and the rights and responsibilities of each party associated
with construction of the North Metro Rail Line within the City’s boundaries.
Motion:

Director Rivera-Malpiede made the motion
to move this item to the full Board at the
October 29, 2013 Board meeting.
Director Walker seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Rick Clarke, Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs,
explained that an important part of the North Metro line goes
through the City and County of Denver (CCD) from Denver
Union Station (DUS) to just north of the Stock Show Station.

He stated that this is the fourth IGA that has been executed
with CCD as part of FasTracks; we have also done one for the
West, East and Gold lines. Rick Clarke noted that we have
used many of the sections from those IGAs that worked well.
He said this will be the first IGA of several for the North Metro
corridor; staff expects to come back next month for the
remaining IGAs with the other jurisdictions.
Jane Donovan stated that the majority of the IGA documents
are how RTD is going to coordinate with CCD. She said this is
almost three years of successful negotiations with the City
and staff is very happy with the outcome. Jane Donovan
noted that CCD will take this to their Board next month for
approval.
Director Lubow asked for clarification of some of the bullet
points listed on Packet Page 5 of the October 8, 2013
FasTracks Monitoring Committee Agenda Packet. She wanted
clarification on the following:



The parties agree to a process for determining and funding
improvements related to project construction.
RTD to provide funding toward future improvements on
Brighton Boulevard as RTD’s contribution to this work.

Jane Donovan stated that the first bullet point indicates that if
there are any items identified that Denver would like to see
put in place that they have funding for, RTD has agreed to do
that. The second bullet point relates to RTD providing funding
to install curb and gutter along Brighton Boulevard; this cost
will be determined by the developer and split 50/50 between
RTD and CCD. She noted it is very common when there is
development adjacent to city streets for the developer to
assist with improvements.
Director Sisk asked for the formula used for the overmatch
and how it is determined. He wondered if there was a
numerical value for the overmatch that could be provided to
the Board. Jane Donovan stated that she does not have the
exact numbers but even just looking at the West corridor, CCD
provided quite a bit above what was required. She noted that
in reference to the land we will be getting from the City, there
will be no money changing hands except for a small amount
for park land. Rick Clarke explained that CCD has
overmatched on three quarters; they have overmatched to an

amount that would cover this overmatch but they are still
providing their Right-of-Way at no cost to RTD.
Director Menten commented that the RTD Board was being
asked to approve this but the City and County of Denver
would not approve the IGA until next month. She expressed
concern that with contracts we get these add-ins but can then
go months or years before it is even fulfilled. Director Menten
also expressed concern that later on an entity could demand
more money or claim that something was not fulfilled. Rick
Clarke explained that this agreement is a binding agreement
that we can use to make sure CCD fulfills their obligation
which is primarily to provide RTD the public Right-of-Way. He
stated that we have never known CCD not to fulfill their
obligations/agreements; however, if they do not, RTD has a
binding legal document that says they have to.
Director Menten noted that she has discussed some IGAs with
Terry Howerter, Assistant General Manager of Finance &
Administration, in which we are not quite clear on
compensation that we are owed. She expressed concern that
this could end up being the case with this IGA. General
Manager Washington said that we have many partners around
the District that we do Intergovernmental Agreements with.
He stated that there have been clarifications within IGAs in the
past but those have always been worked out. General
Manager explained that the City and County of Denver
approving this through their Board was really just a timing
issue. He reiterated that we have had a good experience with
our IGAs and feel comfortable about this IGA with CCD.
Committee Chair Hoy stated that it is a very key and pivotal
item to get all of the IGAs sorted out with each jurisdiction
before beginning construction because of the issues that could
arise that have not been discussed; this provides a mechanism
to have all those issues sorted out before we lay track. Rick
Clarke agreed that this IGA provides RTD with a lot of
protection. General Manager Washington explained that this is
also part of RTD’s lessons learned. In the past we would give
notice to proceed and not have the IGAs signed with the city
or local jurisdictions; then we would have issues after
construction began.
Director Menten stated that in looking at recent history she is
still concerned about IGAs. She explained that there is still

Accounts Receivable (AR) that RTD is owed from IGAs.
Director Menten wants to make sure that in three or four years
RTD does not have a dispute with CCD. Terry Howerter
explained that when RTD has an IGA we will bill that entity
and have those bills in our AR; once we bill the entity there
can be additional negotiations and we will come to a final
settlement with the entity. He noted that has happened on
some of the P3 IGAs as well as a few in Lakewood.
Director Deadwyler expressed concern that RTD continues to
take the lead with the votes. She feels that RTD has to vote
early so that the City can get the vote on their end. Director
Deadwyler stated that she would like to see a time where the
City would vote first rather than using the RTD Board as a
way to influence others who do not agree. She asked if
CCD’s contribution of $5 million, or 22%, is a maximum
contribution amount. Director Deadwyler also asked what the
contribution would pay for. She is worried that if anything
came up, CCD would not have to make any additional
contribution. Jane Donovan stated that was the maximum
they would be contributing to the North Metro Rail Project;
however, there are additional things CCD would like to see get
done but that will need to be funded by CCD. Jane Donovan
said that Denver is different than some of our other
jurisdictions because they are overmatched. She said that
because of this we will not see any further contribution. She
explained that the IGA agrees to things like the properties CCD
with give use, aerial easements, etc.
Director Walker wonders if in the IGAs either party ever
requires a letter of credit from the other party. Marla Lien,
General Counsel, said that generally the IGAs that we have
done with local governments recognize that all local
governments in Colorado either have to appropriate present
funds or have funds available subject to appropriation. She
explained that we have to work with all of the entities in our
District so we have to develop a history of trust; RTD has to
exchange property, have plans reviewed, get permits, etc. on
a constant basis. She stated that RTD does trust those
entities to fulfill their obligations.
Director Lasater shared with the other Board members that
traditionally RTD is viewed by the municipalities as the
applicant. Each municipality requires the applicant to have
their ducks in a row before the council will vote on an item.

He explained that this is why the Board has to take the lead
because RTD is viewed as the applicant.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 2]
MOVER:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
SECONDER: Jeff Walker, Director, District D
AYES: Anderson, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Barbara Deadwyler, Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Kent Bagley
Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.

D. Updates

• North Metro Competitive Procurement Update
Jim Starling, Project Manager, reviewed a Power Point presentation with the
Board that is available in the October 8, 2013 FasTracks Monitoring
Committee Agenda Packet. General Manager Washington reiterated to the
Board that there will be a Special FasTracks meeting on November 14, 2013
that will include a public comment period.
Director Folska thanked Jim Starling for his presentation. She wondered
how the scoring of the proposals would work. She asked if the Evaluation
Committee would be selecting someone in the 90th percentile or just the best
score. Jim Starling explained that the Evaluation Committee will make the
best choice based on all the input they receive from the teams. It will not
strictly be getting a certain number but the best value for RTD. He stated
that the proposers have to meet certain minimum requirements to make sure
they are responsive so all proposals would go through that check first. Rick
Clarke noted that the teams strive to get consensus in their group before
submitting their evaluations to the Evaluation Committee. Marla Lien stated
that any RFP issued by RTD contains a proviso that RTD can chose to reject
all bids.
Committee Chair Hoy believes the scores are so that the Evaluation
Committee can know which one is best, which one is worst, and where the
others fall in between.
Director Daly asked how many trips per week the freight service will be
using the shared track. He also wondered if RTD would operate and
maintain the service or if it would be contracted out. Jim Starling explained
that there is one customer that is served on the line. The current agreement
is that the freight service cannot interfere with RTD operations so their

service would be at night. Rick Clarke stated that we would most likely
contract out operations as it is commuter rail service.
Director Lubow wonders if the evaluation teams will give more points to a
proposal that says they can get to the end of line quickly with low cost
versus a proposal that says they cannot. Jim Starling explained that all
proposals are required to have a cost for Phase II. The Financial Evaluation
Committee will rank the proposals based on the cost and schedule. Terry
Howerter explained that there is a calculation that compares the proposal
cost to the internal cost estimates that determines how many points a
proposal receives.
General Manager Washington reminded the Board that there is an Executive
Session scheduled for November 5, 2013 and requested that any questions
other than general questions be asked then.
Director Deadwyler requested that the Board members be able to review the
score sheets once they are complete. General Manager Washington said
that staff will have a breakdown of all the scores by team in a table
approach for the November 5, 2013 meeting.
Director Sisk requested that staff have a detailed background of the four
proposing entities and their subgroups available for the November 5, 2013
meeting. General Manager Washington stated that staff would put that
together.

• US 36 Bus Rapid Transit Update
Nadine Lee, Project Manager, reviewed a Power Point presentation with the
Board that is available in the October 8, 2013 FasTracks Monitoring
Committee Agenda Packet.
General Manager Washington highlighted the RTD contribution of $120
million for Phase I (Federal to 88th). He reminded the Board that RTD was
able to make this contribution from the Eagle project where we came in
below budget.
Director Lubow thanked Nadine Lee for all her hard work. She wonders if
the term Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) applies only to the non-stop buses because
the all-stop buses go in the general purpose lanes. Nadine Lee stated that
BRT applies to both services since both services will benefit from the
changes RTD is making. The all-stop buses may use the managed lanes for
a portion of the route but RTD is also doing a lot of things within the
corridor to make this a true BRT.

Director Solano asked for further details on the HOV 3+ agreement with
Plenary Roads Denver. Nadine Lee stated that Plenary Roads Denver is the
concessionaire who has been selected by CDOT for the Public-Private
Partnership to construct Phase II. They will also be operating and
maintaining the managed lanes for a 50 year time period.
Director Sisk thanked the entire team for what they have done with the BRT.
He feels the working relationships that have been forged are really amazing.
Director Sisk did express concern about the completion date as he thought it
would be done at the end of 2015. He also encouraged his fellow Board
members to look at the Bus-on-Shoulder videos. General Manager
Washington explained that the construction would be complete in 2015 but
there is testing that needs to be done before opening.
Director Folska commented that when she has taken the BX up to Boulder it
is moving very fast. She expressed concerns over the 35 mph speed limit
and asked how long it would take the BRT to get from Denver Union Station
to Table Mesa. Director Folska also asked if the BRT was being considered
for naming rights. Nadine Lee stated that the managed lane will have a
speed limit of 55 to 65 mph; it is only the Bus-on-Shoulder buses that will
have to maintain the 35 mph speed limit. She said that travel time is
predicted to be about 30 minutes. General Manager Washington stated that
the BRT is in the inventory of assets to be considered for naming rights.
Committee Chair Hoy noted that the present time to go from Market Street
Station to the Boulder Transit Center is 43 minutes.

E. Other Matters


Director James shared that he and Director Walker had received an email from
Councilman Nevitt asking about naming rights for a person as opposed to
corporate entities. He wondered if there was anything in RTD’s policy that
addresses the topic. Scott Reed stated that RTD typically does not name
anything after an individual; however, we have done several commemorations
at specific stations. He noted that the goal of the naming rights is to generate
revenue. He said that if we began naming something after an individual versus
the location it will be a big change in the process we have used thus far.



Director Menten asked for further information on an email that was sent from
the Jewish Community Relations Council of Colorado (JCRC). Marla Lien
explained that the JCRC is requesting that RTD not run an advertisement that is
sponsored by a non-profit organization that talks about the peace process in the
Middle East and the Palestinians. She stated that based on RTD’s advertising
policy of having limited public forum for advertising space we have taken a
number of ads that are political that some groups find offensive. Marla Lien
explained once RTD has designated a space as a limited public forum, unless

the ad is clearly obscene or defamatory we do make space available without
making content or viewpoint decisions. Scott Reed said that the Board will
receive a copy of the response to the JCRC. He stated that 10 light rail and 10
bus ads were purchased. Scott Reed explained that the group’s goal is to
generate some level of publicity; when other transit agencies have tried to
prohibit the ads they have ended up in court which generates much more
publicity for the organization than just running the ads.


General Manager Washington stated that staff wants to take the opportunity to
address an issue that has come before the Board, Rocky Mountain
Reinforcement. He said that as the Board may remember from previous
discussions, RTD’s Civil Rights Department is responsible for labor compliance
and Davis-Bacon wage requirements. The Labor Compliance Officers routinely
conduct weekly project site visits to interview and observe workers in the field.
General Manager Washington noted that to date RTD has done about 2,500
work force interviews on FasTracks projects. He explained that all contractors
are required to submit certified payroll reports that get compared to the worker
interviews; when issues are found, the labor compliance officer notifies the
prime contractor in writing of the restitution amount and they have 30 days to
make sure the issue is resolved.
General Manager Washington stated that as part of the compliance monitoring,
RTD found that RMR was classifying workers that were performing iron work as
laborers in September of 2012 on the Eagle P3 project. RMR was given notice
and directed to pay restitution, which they did in October but they did not
adjust the workers’ wages. He said that in November of 2012 the Department
of Labor (DOL) began an independent investigation and concluded that RMR
workers were misclassified and required RMR to pay restitution and reclassify
the workers. RMR did pay restitution and adjust the workers wage rates. To
date there have been no other misclassifications or restitution payments on the
Eagle P3 project. General Manager Washington said that RTD received a letter
from the DOL that confirms that RMR needed to reclassify the workers and pay
restitution, which RMR has done; DOL has closed its file on the matter since all
issues were corrected.
General Manager Washington said that on the Denver Union Station (DUS)
project, RTD requested RMR reclassify all its workers for restitution to be paid.
To date there have been no other misclassifications or restitution payments on
the DUS project.
Rick Clarke reiterated that as the Board heard from the General Manager, RTD
requires in all of our contracts that workers be paid a fair Davis-Bacon wage.
He explained that on a major construction contract there are thousands of
pieces of work that need to be done so it is easy for misclassification to

happen. He stated that he can give many examples of this happening on other
projects.
Rick Clarke said that the issue with RMR has to do with workers carrying the
rebar. In the contractors mind that did not take any additional skill so they were
classified as laborers. Rick Clarke stated that he would have a problem with
excluding or removing a contractor because they made a judgment call.
Rick Clarke stated that the Board has also heard discussions about unsafe work
practices or sites. He said that he really struggles with that because RTD puts a
lot of our people in the field; the contractors have empowered RTD to stop work
if we see an unsafe practice. He stated that our team has not observed those
conditions on our projects.
Rick Clarke introduced Darron Rolle from Kiewit, Greg Amparano from DTP, and
Jim Martinez from RMR.
Darron Rolle reiterated Kiewit’s commitment to safety. He stated that the
company views the slogan ‘No One Get Hurt’ as literal. Darron Rolle said that it
is not okay for anyone to come to their job site and get hurt. Darron Rolle
explained that they have asked RMR to believe the same things as Kiewit with
regards to safety. He stated that Jim Martinez and his team agree. RMR
continues to plan safety into their operations. Darron Rolle shared that RMR
has sent more than 100 of their employees to Kiewit’s Project Orientations. He
said that RMR has experienced one recordable issue in more than fifty thousand
man hours of work, one first aid case, and one loss time accident. Darron Rolle
stated that they began working with RMR in 2009; any issues that they have
had with respect to safety, compliance, schedule, etc. have all been answered
by RMR. He said that any time there was an issue Jim Martinez has jumped in
to get it resolved.
Darron Rolle stated that further illustration of RMR’s commitment to safety is
their participation in Kiewit’s Speak Up Listen Up program. This program
empowers the workers to talk to other workers if at any time they see a safety
issue. He shared that they also participate in the Play of the Day program
where every morning there is a 6:30 a.m. meeting to talk about what actions
need to be done that day and how they can be done safely. Darron Rolle
informed the Board that RMR has won a Safety Crew of the Month award on
the DUS project.
Darron Rolle stated that Kiewit looks forward to partnering with RMR in the
future and values their working relationship Jim Martinez and his team.
Greg Amparano stated that safety is the most important focus of any project.
DTP sets very high safety standards; their total recordable incident rate goal is

.4 per two hundred thousand work hours. He said that their rate is 1.2;
however, while they have not met their aggressive target, compared to the
industry norm of 3.2 they are doing very well. Greg Amparano said that RMR
has had just one recordable incident in over sixty-three hours on the project.
Greg Amparano said that to ensure safety DTP conducts the following:









Daily safety test planning by crew; every crew has a team book that sets
out any hazard in the morning before they begin work
Management in Action where he and his senior staff do safety tours every
week
Weekly joint safety audits with RTD
Monthly All Hands meetings where everyone on the project meets to discuss
safety
Employee recognition program to encourage safety reporting and near miss
reporting
Incentive plan with safety target thresholds
High Five Hand Safety Awareness program to address a recent trend of hand
injury incidences
DTP safety training program

Greg Amparano reiterated that DTP takes safety and compliance seriously.
Jim Martinez stated that it is a privilege to work with RTD, Kiewit and DTP in
helping to build the infrastructure of the metropolitan area. He said the number
one commodity is their labor doing ties and rebar for large construction jobs. He
explained that rebar work is the type of work where people need to be cautious.
Jim Martinez shared that RMR gives their employees needed training and works
with contractors to make sure they are complaint with their safety
requirements. He noted that RMR had close to 150 people out in the field tying
rebar. Jim Martinez recognized that they did make a few mistakes but they also
corrected them right away.
Committee Chair Hoy expressed that this shows that RMR and Jim Martinez do
have concern and dedication to their employees.
Director Folska thanked General Manager Washington and Rick Clarke for all the
time they are willing to spend to review this issue with the board. She feels
this is an issue that could go on forever and really does not have an end in
sight. She noted that the individuals who are coming to the Board are
requesting a policy as to how we work with our contractors. Director Folska
recommended that RTD makes a clear policy that supports our contractors and
subcontractors. She expressed her hope that this is not a personal vendetta
that these individuals are wasting the Board’s time with.

Director Malpiede extended her appreciation to Darron Rolle, Greg Amparano
and Jim Martinez for taking time to meet with the Board. She asked if Louis
Apolinar, Ricky Martinez and Jose Dominguez are employees of RMR. She also
asked if RMR has water available on-site for their employees. Jim Martinez
stated that those individuals are not current RMR employees. He stated that
the allegations that he would not have water available to his employees are
ludicrous. Jim Martinez shared that he worked for Mayor Webb for 12 years
first as the Director of Workforce Housing and eventually as the Director of
Economic Development; he was also an 11 year member of the Denver Urban
Renewal Authority. He said that he has always worked to represent the
underprivileged and underserved.
Director Lubow extended her gratitude and appreciation for everyone coming to
speak with the Board. She noted that this has been a long standing problem.
Director Lubow asked if anyone has talked to the individuals making the
allegations. Jim Martinez stated that on December 4, 2012 he met with the
national organizers for the people who are making the allegations. He said if
they could convince him that their organization could do a better job
representing his employees then RMR would consider joining them. Jim
Martinez stated that he still has not received one email or letter from them.
Jim Martinez shared that he has people following him around town with signs
accusing him of abusing his employees; as Chair of the Urban Renewal
Authority he had people come and sit in the front row with shirts saying that he
has abused his employees. He believes this is a campaign to try to force RMR
to do something that is not in their business model. He has asked his
employees if they would like to join an organization and they do not. Jim
Martinez explained that most of RMR’s employees are legal Mexican
immigrants; most take their check to a check cashing company which takes a
cut, they send money through Western Union which takes a cut, and they do
not want to pay any more. He reiterated that RMR has signs at every jobs site
informing them of their right to join the organization but they do not want to
join.
Director Deadwyler thanked everyone for coming. She stated that she knows
DTP is big on safety. She asked if RMR is a union organization as the
gentlemen that come to the meetings are claiming to be on strike. Jim Martinez
stated that RMR is not a union organization. He said that he does not
understand how you can be on strike when someone is not an employee of
RMR and RMR is not a union shop. He also said that at the time they were
hired they were not union employees. Director Deadwyler commented that it
appears these gentlemen are trying to turn RMR into a union shop.
Chair Anderson thanked everyone for their time. She stated that she has been
on the worksites and seen the safety precautions. Chair Anderson recognizes

how tough the contractors are on safety. She thanks them for enforcing their
high safety standards with their subcontractors. Chair Anderson commended
staff for all they do in delivering projects safely.
Director Daly stated that he agrees with Director Deadwyler that this is an
organizing effort. He said that if the employees do not want to organize there is
not much that can be done.
Director Solano commented that normally in a union shop an employee goes
through an apprenticeship before becoming a journeyman. He asked how RMR
determines if someone is a journeyman. He also wonders how it could be
missed at the beginning that someone was a journeyman but was classified as a
laborer. Jim Martinez explained that RMR has two supervisors that have been
in the business for about 20 years. They go through an interview and testing
process with all employees to determine their qualification level. He stated that
the period of misclassification happened when RMR had 150 people working on
various job sites. He said that RMR hired some people who said they were not
qualified as journeyman; however, RMR made a policy that everyone that comes
on the job would be paid as a journeyman until they are classified appropriately.
Jim Martinez stated that everyone on the job site now are journeymen.
Committee Chair Hoy thanked Jim Martinez, Darron Rolle and Greg Amparano
for their time. He stated that this has been a long process and it is nice to see
everyone’s involvement. He believes it is very helpful for the Board to hear
from them.
Jim Martinez apologized to the Board for having to go through this. He shared
that he has been going through this since September 4, 2012. Jim Martinez
had to turn down another term on the Denver Urban Renewal Authority because
other members were getting harassed. He stated that he has been standing up
for the underserved and underprivileged his whole life.

F. Next Meeting Date - November 5, 2013
G. Adjourn
Committee Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 7:35 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

