Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 15, 2010, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 1 of 4
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of
Directors

Date:

April 15, 2010

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 15, 2010
at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room
***
Board Members Present:
Chair Pro-Tem Martinez, Treasurer Tayer and Secretary
Bagley.
Subject:

Board Member Absent:

Chair Kemp; Second Vice-Chair Busck

Other Board Members
Present:

Director Tobiassen

Others Present:

Paula Perdue, Phil Washington, Scott Reed, Bill Holmes

Call to Order:

Chair Pro Tem Martinez called the meeting to order at
12:01 p.m.

I.

April Board Meeting Agenda Review
General Manager Phil Washington presented the April Board meeting agenda.
All of the items had cleared the committees unanimously.
Motion:

Director Tayer made the motion to move the
April Board meeting agenda as amended to the
full Board for vote on April 20, 2010.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion:


The Motion PASSED.

Unanimous Consent


Contract Award to Aconex for Construction Management Software as a
Service
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to
execute all documents necessary to award a three-year contract in the
amount of $560,000, with four one-year options in the amount of
$600,000 for a total of $1,160,000 to Aconex for Construction
Management Software as a Service. Funding for this contract in 2010 is
included in the 2010 Adopted Budget, and future year funding will be

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 15, 2010, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 2 of 4
appropriated on an annual basis.

II.



IT Contingency Work Order Contract Fourth and Final Year Option
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all
documents necessary to award Booz Allen Hamilton (Booz Allen) the
fourth and final-option year to a current contract for IT Technical and
Management Support Services (15DK004). This contract was originally
awarded in 2006 to Booz Allen through the competitive bid process. The
contract allowed for an initial-year plus four (4) one-year options to
renew based on positive performance by the vendor. Execution of the
third-option year extended the period of performance but did into
increase the contract not-to-exceed limit of $1,000,000. The initial oneyear contract was not-to-exceed $250,000. With increased needs for
Booz Allen Services, IT requested the final-option year be exercised and
the annual not-to-exceed was increased by $500,000 to a contract
amount of $1,500,000. The final-option year is to begin on September
15, 2010 and remain in effect for one year until September 14, 2011
and increases the contract amount to $1,500,000.00.



Resolution No. __, expressing the intent of the Board to be reimbursed
for certain expenses relating to two structured parking facilities on the
District’s West Corridor light rail line prior to the time the facilities are
financed
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors adopt Resolution No. __, (the
“Reimbursement Resolution”) expressing the intent of the Board to be
reimbursed for certain expenses relating to two structured parking
facilities on the District’s West Corridor light rail line prior to the time the
facilities are financed.



Adoption of 2011 Performance Measures
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee
that the Board of Directors adopt the 2011 Performance Measures for
Goals 1-7.



Recommendation for Authorization of RTD-DUSPA TIFIA and RRIF Loan
Agreements for Denver Union Station
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee
that the Board of Directors pass the attached resolution authorizing the
General Manager to enter into loan agreements with the Transportation
Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) and Railroad
Rehabilitation and Improvement Financing (RRIF) offices of the US
Department of Transportation and the Federal Railroad Administration
respectively for the funding of Denver Union Station (DUS). RTD will not
be named as a borrower and will not have any direct funding obligation
to TIFIA or RRIF under either agreement.

Debrief-Legislative State Audit Hearing
Scott Reed facilitated this discussion on the follow-up to the Legislative State

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 15, 2010, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 3 of 4
Audit hearing on March 30, 2010. The proposed date for a follow-up before
the Legislative is July 12 or 13, 2010. Paula Perdue provided a spreadsheet of
the items she captured form this meeting including the follow-up from the state
audit recommendations. The Committee reviewed this spreadsheet, noted
some of the items were outside the scope of the formal audit request and
provided the following requests:
 Actions items listed for the GM Oversight and Performance Management
Committee will be added to the agenda for the April 27, 2010 meeting of
that committee.
 Need to align all the various dates from the GM Oversight and
Performance Management sub-committees (i.e. goal setting and
evaluation) with the dates RTD committed to in the State audit response
and any applicable dates identified in the General Manager’s contract.
The goal is to ensure that no critical dates are dropped or overlooked in
this process.
 Paula Perdue to send a draft committee charter to the Chairs/Vice-Chairs
of the committees for review and comments.
 Scott Reed will prepare a Board report for action before the May
Financial Administration and Audit Committee which will formally change
the name of the Financial Administration Committee to include Audit and
to also add dotted line reporting of Audit Manager to the Board including
Board input to annual evaluations.
The following motion was made by the Committee.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion for
Paula Perdue to provide the Executive
Committee with a one page proposal on
resources needed to develop a Board
governance manual as recommended by
the state audit findings.
Director Tayer seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion:

V.

The motion passed 3 in favor and 0
against. Chair Pro Tem Martinez declared
the motion passed.

Other Matters
 Director Bagley requested a transcript of the public speaking when
former Director Jack McCroskey spoke during the special Board meeting
April 13, 2010.
 Director Bagley raised the question if the Board should adopt a policy
around Board members and senior leadership traveling on the same
plane in light of the recent tragic accident in Poland. The other
Committee members thought this was a good idea. Director Tayer
shared that his current company has such a policy.
 Director Bagley has requested that the DUSPA meeting calendar is
added to the Board calendar.
 Director Bagley wanted a sense of the schedule in the upcoming months

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 15, 2010, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 4 of 4









VII.

since we are approaching holidays and vacation schedules. General
Manager Washington indicated he will be working with the Board office
but a couple of planned dates to remember for the Eagle P3 are:
o May 18—Public presentation of P-3 Technical Proposals,
Paramount Theatre
o May 25—Special Board Meeting (Public hearing of feedback from
P-3 presentation), RTD room
o June 1—DBE/F&AA/Operations & Customer Service (note switch
of days)
o June 15-FasTracks/P&D --staff recommendation on P3 during
Executive Session. Possibility of Special Board meeting and vote
afterwards.
o June 22-Board meeting for a vote on recommendation.
Director Bagley asked if there might be an appropriate time for a semiannual update from the General Counsel on legal activities. The
Committee thought this was a good idea.
Director Tayer complimented Scott Reed and his team on a very good
communications plan that was clear and succinct.
Director Tayer also provided thanks to Jim Starling and the West
Corridor team who provided a tour of the West Corridor. He thinks this
is a great story to tell as everywhere you turn there is work in process.
FasTracks is about stimulating the economy and providing jobs.
Director Tayer feels we need to look at an upgrade of the sound system
at the very minimum for the RTD room and put equipment in place that
will provide quality sound for the room and for anyone trying to call into
the meetings. Paula Perdue will continue to explore this item with the
appropriate people. Director Tayer feels this is a facilities issue and the
whole organization can benefit from better sound.
Scott Reed provided an update on the latest media inquiries about the
accident, in particular the one that occurred in Lafayette where the
police have decided to charge the RTD bus driver with reckless driving.
He noted that RTD does a review of all drivers’ records seven years
prior to hiring and his record for this period was clean. He has also
received a request from The Denver Post for the record of all accidents
RTD drivers have been involved in involving fatalities over the last ten
years regardless of fault.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 1:20 p.m.

