1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, July 1, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Judy Lubow

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Lubow called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m. She introduced Bruce
Abel, Assistant Manager for Bus Operations, who would act for General Manager Phil
Washington during the committee meetings.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Arrived
Lorraine Anderson
Kent Bagley

Director, District L
Director, District H

Present
Present

5:17 PM
4:54 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

5:25 PM
5:05 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

5:00 PM
5:28 PM

Bill James

Director, District A

Present

5:16 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Present

5:06 PM

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Committee Chair
Director, District M

Present
Present

5:24 PM
5:29 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Chuck Sisk

Director, District C
Director, District O

Present
Absent

5:27 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District F

Present
Absent

5:28 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:26 PM

Chair Sisk and Director Tobiassen were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Lacy Bell, Shirley Bennett, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke,
Carolyn Conover, Sherry Ellebracht, Steve Gieske, Mike Gil, Cory
Granrud, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien,
Barbara McManus, Vivian Morales, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Zamy
Silva, Bill Sirois, Greg Smith, Walt Stringer, Stan Szabelak, John
Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Michael
Washington, Susan Wood

Others Present:

Ron Boshman, Eugene Howard, Ryan Murphy, Jacob Rogers, Larry
Tenenholz, Monte Whaley, Greg Yates

B. Recommended Actions

• Award of “Group 25” Contracted Fixed-Route Services
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
enter into a contract for the provision of “Group 25” contracted fixed-route
transit services with Veolia Transportation. This contract is for three years
for an amount not to exceed $66,874,659 with two (2) one-year options in
the amount of $24,271,326 (option year 1) and $25,140,353 (option year
2), for a total five year not-to-exceed amount of $116,286,338. In addition,
RTD will reimburse the contractor’s direct fuel costs in an amount estimated
to be approximately $13,799,677 for the initial three year contract term,
$4,816,129 for option year 1, and $4,929,152 for option year 2, for a total
of $23,544,958 for the five year period. This results in a total not-toexceed contract amount of $80,674,336 for the initial three year contract
period and $139,831,296 for the five year period. This proposal represents
the most responsive and responsible proposal received in response to
Request for Proposals (RFP) 14-DH-021, to provide “Group 25” Public
Transportation Services. The contract to provide this service is scheduled to
be effective on January 4, 2015.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the July 15, 2014
Board meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel mentioned that RTD received three (3) proposals in
response to Request for Proposal (RFP) 14-DH-021 for the

Provision of Group 25 Public Transportation Services: First
Transit, MV Transportation, and Veolia Transportation. The
final ranking represents the evaluation team’s conclusion that
the strengths of the Veolia Transportation technical and Small
Business Enterprise (SBE) proposal outweighed the strengths
of the MV Transportation and First Transit proposals and more
than offset the slight difference in cost.
Director Folska asked if RTD had an SBE requirement due to
federal funding. Bruce Abel introduced Zamy Silva, Small
Business Office Manager. She replied that if this was a federal
funded project, there would be a Disadvantaged Business
Enterprise (DBE) requirement. The SBE goal is 5% because
this is a locally funded project. Director Folska further inquired
about the fuel and refund costs, value of buses provided to
Veolia and RTD’s hourly rate for internal employees. Bruce
Abel answered that the average bus costs $450,000. New
buses are distributed throughout all the RTD and contracted
garages. Greg Smith, Manager for Competitive Services,
pointed out the comparison cost chart on page 6 of the
Operations & Customer Service/Planning &
Development/Government Relations Committee Meetings
packet for July 1, 2014 illustrating RTD’s costs versus Veolia
Transportation’s.
Director Solano asked for clarification on the identity of Group
25. Greg Smith answered that the “Group XX” is a naming
convention which helps identify the services provided by each
contracted group. Director Solano asked how Veolia
Transportation received new buses and which area they serve.
Bruce Abel answered that the entire fleet of new buses is
distributed to all garages (RTD and contracted) as needed.
Veolia Transportation is located in Englewood and mostly
serves the southeast and southwest areas. For a listing of
specific routes served, Bruce Abel pointed the Directors to the
chart on pages 8 and 9 of the Operations & Customer
Service/Planning & Development/Government Relations
Committee Meetings packet for July 1, 2014.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede, Solano, Walker
ABSENT:
Chuck Sisk, Tom Tobiassen

Committee Chair Lubow declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates
There were no updates presented to the Committee.

D. Other Matters
Bruce Abel updated the Board on the steps taken by the Fare Review Task Force to
address the Directors’ question from the June 10, 2014 Operations & Customers
Service Committee Meeting. Numerous interfaces with customers have been added
to receive input regarding the fare structure:
 Besides the non-profit community, the task force will convene five (5)
Formal Public Meetings through August: east, south, northwest, northeast,
and central.
 A Customer Panel representing all 15 Districts will convene on July 16th and
will address the topic.
 The Online Customer Community will be asked for feedback in July.
 RTD Fare Review Web Page will include a description of the Fare Review
Task Force and an email address to submit feedback. Periodic updates on
progress will be added to the web page and advertised on RTD’s home page.
 Using social media (i.e. Facebook and Twitter) to ask for feedback.
 Transit Management Associations (TMAs)/Organizations (TMOs) and local
governments will be asked to participate in one focus group meeting on July
24th.
 Reports to the Board of Directors will be done bimonthly instead of
quarterly.
Director Bagley updated the Directors on the most recent General Manager’s
Oversight and Performance Management Committee Meeting held on July 1, 2014
at 3:00 p.m. prior to the Operations and Customer Service Committee Meeting. He
mentioned the GM Oversight and Performance Committee, while discussing
changes to the 2015 General Manager’s Strategic Goals, had an extensive
conversation about the Fare Review Task Force and recommended an open public
process with individuals from all fifteen (15) Districts having input. He asked
Director Anderson to speak on behalf of the committee. Director Anderson
reiterated the importance of being inclusive and for all Districts to be represented.
The committee feels the fare Review is not a single item issue and it is an important
matter to everyone.
Director Folska acknowledged and applauded the staff for their responsiveness to
the Director’s requests. She also asked about fare box evasion rate and asked
Bruce Abel to speak about people with disabilities possibly evading rates. Bruce
Abel said that the light rail evasion rate is at 3% (three percent). Fare evasion in
buses and paratransit services is non-existent as customers have to interface with
the operator. Staff has heard stories of abled-people recruiting disabled people so
they can serve as their Personal Care Assistant (PCA). PCAs are not charged for

fare. These stories are anecdotal, not overwhelming nor pose a problem to
services. Director Folska asked Bruce Abel to expound on if phony PCAs support is
an issue on paratransit services. He responded it would be much more challenging
given the process that paratransit uses for ticketing.
Director Menten asked if the Customer Panel who will participate in the Fare
Review is the same public Customer Panel that currently meets monthly. Bruce
Abel confirmed it is the same panel. Their next meeting will be on July 16th.
Meetings are typically at 5:30 p.m. and they have attendance confirmation from 13
out of the 15 members. Director Menten also asked for details on the
TMOs/TMAs/local government meeting and public meetings. Bruce Abel answered
that the local government meeting will be on July 24, time to be determined. The
5 public meetings are still to be determined. Director Menten asked to have the
information on all meetings added to the Director’s calendar as it becomes
available. She asked if a consultant has been chosen for the Fare Review Task
Force had been chosen. Bruce Abel answered that currently the Task Force is
evaluating the proposals received from the RFP.
Director Rivera-Malpiede echoed Director Folska’s sentiment for the responsiveness
and the inclusivity across the District. She also asked for the structure of the July
24th meeting. Bruce Abel said it would be a panel with representatives.
Director Lubow asked Bruce Abel to provide the Fare Review Public Engagement
Outline in report form to the Board. She also asked if the outline was in response
to the GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee conversation.
Bruce Abel answered the plan was developed as a response to the Operations &
Customer Service Committee Meeting on June 10th. Noting the recent
recommendations from the GM Oversight Committee, Director Lubow asked if there
could still be any changes to the outline as a response to those recommendations.
Bruce Abel answered that there could be changes. Director Lubow thanked staff
for their responsiveness to the Director’s request. She shared a stakeholder’s
suggestion: creating a Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) which could share
input throughout the process, not just at the beginning and at the end. She noted
the TAC’s involvement does not have to be extensive. Bruce Abel answered that
experience shows it is counterproductive to go the public with a blank slate. The
current process allows for public feedback before the Task Force works with the
consultant and once a proposal is created. He acknowledged Director Lubow’s
request of more public involvement during the process.

E. Next Meeting Date - August 12, 2014
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Lubow adjourned to the Planning and Development Committee
Meeting at 5:59 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

