December 10, 2019
Operations & Customer Service Committee
KATE WILLIAMS: available to the public via the Board's website. As always, safety is our core
value. And if we have a medical emergency and 911 needs to be called, I will ask our General
Counsel, hi, Rolf. We'll get to the introductions in a minute. Dave, you look different, too.
Any medically trained individuals in the room are respectfully requested to assist. If needed, an
automatic emergency defibrillator is in a glass case located just outside of this room on the wall
to the right.
In the event that we must evacuate the building for fire or any other emergency, please exit out
the door you came in at the back of the room, go calmly up the stairs to the first floor around the
security desk, and exit through the front door. Police and security officers will be there to direct
you to safe meetup. Anyone needing special assistance in the event of evacuation would be
assisted by RTD staff as necessary. Dr. Gross, I'll come and get you.
While RTD takes every precaution to ensure the security of its passengers, vehicles, and
facilities, the agency relies on staff, and on all of you, and the general public, to be aware of and
alert to any suspicious or dangerous activity on buses, trains, around the station, stops, platforms,
and at meetings. As such, I encourage all RTD employees and patrons to download the RTD
Transit Watch app, which allows users to report suspicious or dangerous activity and
communicate directly with RTD's transit security personnel on a real-time basis in the event of
an emergency situation. The Transit Watch app is available via Google Play and the Apple App
Store.
OK. So far so good. So we could have a moment. We have some unusual people. Our General
Counsel, I'm sorry, people not who are normally there. Could you introduce yourself for the
record, please?
ROGER KANE: This is Roger Kane, Senior Associate General Counsel, here for Rolf Asphaug.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir.
MIKE MEADER: And this is Mike Meader for Dave Genova.
KATE WILLIAMS: How's that chair feel?
MIKE MEADER: It's very comfortable.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, then. OK. Now I sidetracked myself. We have a number of
recommended actions and updates tonight.

We're going to start with the recommended action number one, which is, according to my paper,
cost sharing agreement with the City of Boulder for the HOP for 2020. I'm going to read the
action, and then I'll ask for some action on the action.
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to
enter into a cost sharing agreement with the City of Boulder to provide RTD financial support for
the operation of the HOP circulator bus service in the commercial areas of the City of Boulder,
the University of Colorado at Boulder, and adjacent businesses and residential areas. This
agreement is for the calendar year 2020, and is for an amount not to exceed $1,901,675. This
recommended action supports the General Manager's 2020 task goal of successful delivery of
transit services.
OK. Good evening, gentlemen. Do we have any questions? I was waiting. Somebody move?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Guissinger, Director Walker. Now we can go to
discussion.
FRED WORTHEN: Good evening, ma'am. Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations. So RTD
and the City of Boulder have partnered with the funding services for the HOP within the City of
Boulder since 1994. There is information there with regard to the statistics and how they are
actually performing, which they're doing quite well.
Every year when we go through these cost sharing agreements, we look at the performance of the
service before we renew a contract. We believe this is an item that the Board, we're
recommending to the Board, that we take this forward for an amount not to exceed $1,901,675.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. No discussion? Seeing no discussion, thank you, I'll call.
Thank you all for reading your packets. Oh, I'm sorry, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Super quickly, the HOP is a great example of working together with the
City of Boulder, and Via, one of our contractors, who are then responsible for getting all the
operators and all of that. So it's been real successful, and I hope we do more in the future.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just one point of clarification. The
recommended action, I believe, says this agreement is for calendar year 2019. And in the
discussion it's indicated that it's for the year 2020. And I just thought that, and I did not hear if
that clarification had been made, so forgive me if it has. But I just thought I'd note for the record
that we are voting on 2020.

KATE WILLIAMS: That is correct. There was a misprint. It does say 2019 in the print, but I
specifically said it was for 2020. And so we will have the records so corrected. Thank you for
that.
Seeing no other discussion, I'll call for the vote. Would Director Guissinger please vote, and then
Director Walker? And the rest of us can vote. OK. It looks like we have 14 yeses. Nobody
abstained. And I guess we're counting Director Lubow as a no vote, because she's not here.
Not voting. It's not a no vote. Maybe we should fix that so it says "not voting" instead of "no
vote." There were no no's. There was one person who did not vote. Thank you. Director Folska is
correct. It was unanimous.
OK. We're going to move on to the second recommended action, which is cost sharing
agreements for non-urbanized funding for 2020. It is recommended by the Operations and
Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his
designee to execute all documents necessary to enter into funding agreements with Via Mobility
services and the Seniors Resource Center to provide RTD financial support for non-urbanized
services for Boulder County, Adams County, and Jefferson County. These agreements are for
calendar year 2020 and for amounts not to exceed $395,752 for Boulder County, $389,148 for
Adams County, and $138,204 for Jefferson County.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager's goals for 2020: core goal
number one, successful delivery of transit services.
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: Second.
KATE WILLIAMS: Whoa. OK. I have Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Sorry.
KATE WILLIAMS: I know. And Director Buzek. OK. Director Broom, I recognize your right to
speak.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. Just a question, do these routes connect with any of
our lines, or are they totally separate?
GREG SMITH: This is Greg Smith, Senior Manager of Contracted Services. The RTD
contribution contributes to the paratransit service provided by Senior Resource Center and Via
Mobility. So it's primarily trips into Denver for medical appointments and such.
BOB BROOM: So it doesn't take people to RTD stops?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]

GREG SMITH: No.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Broom. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Williams. The Senior Resource Center in Jefferson County
is really a vital service for many of the community members up there. And it really fills the gap
where we don't have fixed route service, so it's really an essential service for the aging
population up there. And they really like it. I can't speak for Adams County or Boulder County,
but for Jefferson County it's very important. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that input. Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I, too, have a Senior Resource Center
in District C, and I have to say that I've been out and have visited several times with the
community members out there. This is incredibly a viable service for our senior population. I
shared that feeling with Director Catlin. And that there's no cost really says to me it's a great
service to our community members. And I'm really pleased to be voting yes on this.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that input. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Briefly just want to echo the comments of the former two Board members
in regards to Adams County. I had a call this afternoon in regard to this very issue, and they're
very appreciative and think that it's a very well-run service and serves a lot of folks that have no
other alternative. So I urge a yes vote.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that input. Seeing nobody else in the queue, I'll withhold my
comments on SRC and Via Mobility that I could say wonderful things about all the time. If we
have no other discussion, let us move to a vote. I believe Director Whitmore would vote, and
Director Buzek would vote second.
OK. Looks to me like again we have a unanimous Board on this subject, I thank you all for that,
with Director Lubow, who is absent, not voting.
OK. We're moving right along here.
The third the cost sharing agreement is with the City of Englewood for the Englewood Trolley
for 2020. It's recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary
to enter into a cost sharing agreement with the City of Englewood to provide RTD financial
support for the operation of the Englewood Trolley circulator bus service in the City of
Englewood. This agreement is for calendar year 2020 and is for an amount not to exceed
$394,284.

This recommended action supports the following General Manager's goals for 2020: task goal
number one, successful delivery of transit services. Do I have a,
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Walker and Director Folska. OK. I see that we have some
discussion on the subject. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, I just want to encourage everyone to vote for this. It's a really well used
and really important service in the City of Englewood. It's used heavily by the folks who work in
the hospital district, Swedish Hospital, Craig Hospital, in their path. And especially since the 35
was rerouted and the 27 was split in half, this area isn't served as well as it used to be. So it's
really an important service, especially during the time of day when it is operable and when it is
sustainable. So I will be supporting it, and encourage everyone else to. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Walker. Seeing no other discussion, I think we'll move
to a vote. That would be Director Walker first and Director Folska.
We're just cranking along here. This is great. Thank you all. We have a, no editorial, no editorial.
OK. We have a unanimous vote, 14 yeses, and one Director that is absent.
We move now to the recommended action number four, which is a van pooling agreement with
DRCOG for 2020. It's recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an agreement with the Denver Regional Council of Governments, a.k.a.
DRCOG, to provide RTD financial support and expansion of the DRCOG Way to Go van pool
program in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year 2020 and shall be
in an amount not to exceed $780,000.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager's goals for 2020: task goal
number one, successful delivery of transit services. Do I have a motion?
BOB BROOM: Move approval.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: I have Director Rivera-Malpiede as the mover. And who wants to be the
second? OK. Director Lewis would like to be the second. Sorry, everybody else. Do we have any
discussion? Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Well, if there's any, I've got some questions. Is there any discussion first?
KATE WILLIAMS: Have at it.
KEN MIHALIK: Just like last year, I won't be supporting this, because within the rationale it
talks about how there are existing desirable substitutes that RTD is trying to compete with, or

compete against. And so I don't think that should be our mission is to compete against possibly
other private carriers or what other substitutes there might be. But so for that reason, I understand
it's popular, and that it carries pretty good usage. But still, for that reason I won't be supporting it.
Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. I'm supporting this, because in the service planning public
meetings that have been held in my district, when a route is dropped, the suggested alternative is
to form a van pool and provide resources in exchange for a fixed route service. So again, it's a
fallback that we otherwise would not have. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that input. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Williams. Can you tell me how many vans are
wheelchair accessible now?
FRED WORTHEN: I can't you how many are in operation. I can't tell you that VPSI, which is
the managing contractor of this, can make wheelchair accessible vehicles available as needed on
demand.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: With how much notice?
FRED WORTHEN: Is it 72 hours?
GREG SMITH: This is Greg Smith, Senior Manager of Contracted Services. The short answer
is, it depends. If a member of a van pool requests an accommodation such as a wheelchair lift,
that request will be accommodated at no additional cost. The timing depends on availability of
parts.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So right now you don't have any?
GREG SMITH: We would have to get that information for you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, we talked about this last year. And nothing has changed. So for that
reason, I won't support it. I understand I believe what Director Catlin is talking about, all these
things are really important, it's popular, it's a backup, that's great. But it's nothing to people in
wheelchairs.
And, you know, I think that people in wheelchairs need to be able to go to work, or people with
disabilities that can't really rely on paratransit for in-time, real-time transportation solution to get
them to work on a regular basis in a reliable way. And so if you had them available, then people
would start riding them. It's kind of like, why would they try to get on a bus if it wasn't
inaccessible and I'm in a chair? You need to make the buses accessible, then I'll show up and ride
them.

FRED WORTHEN: May I respond to that, ma'am?
KATE WILLIAMS: Absolutely.
FRED WORTHEN: So van pools are not on demand services. Van pools are actually scheduled
services, where individuals who cluster together, either through work, or through their employer,
or through their geographic location, they ride on a regular basis. This is not an on demand
service. Like I said, we can make vehicles available. We don't manage the program, VPSI does.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: We pay for it, right?
FRED WORTHEN: We subsidize the program. We don't pay for it.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So it's almost $800,000. And in the year 2020 coming up, they don't have
one accessible van ready to go, and then somebody shows up for the van pool and says, I want to
ride this every day, I'll be part of the pool, it's unacceptable.
FRED WORTHEN: As we said, we
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I'm sorry, it's unacceptable, so I'm saying no.
FRED WORTHEN: OK, I understand. I don't know if they have any accessible vehicles in
operation right now or not, but we'll definitely check and get an answer back to you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Mr. Worthen, I think that we could ask that DRCOG come
sometime and give us a little brief on this. So OK. Anybody else? If there's no further discussion,
then we'll go to, I'm sorry, Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: I'm sorry. Just to draw out a point that I think Fred Worthen was making,
once you engage with a carpool, then that car, that vehicle, is pretty much that group's to own or
operate and maintain day by day. So it wouldn't be a matter of continually having to request a
wheelchair accessible. It's located, I think it can be done pretty quickly from my past
conversations with them, and then that vehicle becomes that group's shared ride.
And so I think it works better than it may sound to Director Folska. But I'll be supporting it, too.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Cook, for that. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I guess what I'm trying, thank you, Chair. The point here is this, when you
create services that are for another other, like after the fact, it's just not acceptable. I don't care if
it's a law or, you get in there, if it's not there, I'm going to not even ask. Or, some people will.
But it needs to be there. Just, they all need to be accessible or at a certain percentage, so if
somebody shows up in a wheelchair, then they have access to it, and they don't have to beg for it.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that insight. And we appreciate your viewpoint on that.
Seeing nobody else right now, gentlemen, if you want to discuss it further we can. If you want to
go to a vote, I think that's maybe what we should do at this point. OK. Let's do that. I have
Director Rivera-Malpiede as the mover and Director Lewis as the second.
BARBARA MCMANUS: If the Chair would vote. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: I did. Sorry. I'm looking at Director Tisdale. He's the chair.
I did. OK. So the motion passes committee with 11 yeses and three nos. The no votes were
Director Menten, Director Mihalik, and Director Folska.
OK. We have another recommended action. This is on the Access-A-Cab service agreement.
And I'm going to read it, and then we're going to talk about it.
It's recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorized the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary in
order to continue providing a subsidy for the Access-A-Cab program for the calendar year 2020.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager goals for 2020: core goal
number three, strong financial management, and task goal number three, enhancement of current
and future transportation methods.
And I think that I would like to have a motion first of all, and then we'll have some discussion.
SHELLEY COOK: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: Second.
KATE WILLIAMS: Cook and Buzek. Gentlemen?
MICHAEL FORD: This is Michael Ford, COO. I would only just add that this is an annual
renewal that we typically do. The only thing I would make note of is there is a risk management
portion, where the insurance has been adjusted to meet standard industry practices to bring it up
to speed. This went through our legal review and our risk management department so we could
be consistent with industry practices.
So that's the only other difference to this renewal that typically comes before you at this time
every year.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Ford. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I guess I was just concerned with some material later in the
package about customer complaints for this service. And I will be supporting this, because it is a
significant savings to RTD, but I would like to see if there's something that can be done with
regard to performance metrics so that we can reduce the number of customer complaints.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. Let's move. I have something I want to speak to that,
but I'll come back to it. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Larry, since you're up here at the table, can you let me know,
do we see any movement for either Uber or Lyft coming to the Denver area with the wheelchair
accessible vehicle? So I think it was Uber WAV, or maybe it was Lyft. It as Uber WAV? This
came up that one of the recent meetings, but since we're on the Access-A-Cab, I think it's a good
timing. Can you tell me if there's anything progressing towards that coming here?
LARRY BUTER: Certainly. Thank you for that question. This is Larry Buter, Manager of
Paratransit Services. I am happy to report that for the past almost eight months now, between
Michael, Paul Hamilton, and myself, we've been in conversations with Uber, almost on a weekly
basis, trying to develop a pilot for 2020.
I will let you know that the pilot will not consist of a WAV element. We want to make sure that
we work through any of the kinks that might be out there that we aren't aware of. Once the pilot
has been thoroughly digested, then we'll move over to that WAV element. It'll probably be about
a year after we start.
We're hoping to start some time in the first quarter, early second quarter of 2020. We're working
with risk management, working with legal. Obviously procurement's involved. But it has been
encouraging to watch Uber navigate through the system, because for years it's almost been
impossible for them, or for us, to get them to the table. And now it's almost like they're pulling
our arm to get this process started.
So it's very encouraging. We're going to start off by identifying, and we have already identified,
a portion of the city that's very populated, that have a lot of Access-A-Ride trips, and we're going
to migrate a lot of the Access-A-Ride and a lot of the Access-A-Cab trips to the Uber pilot to see
how it works out.
And we will obviously come to the Board and explain the pilot, because it is a little different
than the Access-A-Cab program.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm so excited to hear about that. So let me just make sure I understood
that correctly. This pilot at first would envision paratransit trips, but without wheelchair. Then
the hope is to move towards a wheelchair accessible vehicle?
LARRY BUTER: Absolutely.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And in some way, this might resemble the Access-A-Cab program.
LARRY BUTER: I'd like to call it the Access-A-Cab Plus program.
NATALIE MENTEN: AC Plus, got it.
LARRY BUTER: A better program.

NATALIE MENTEN: OK. All right. Great. Thank you for having that information readily there.
Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, a quick question. In regard to complaints, I don't see it in the current
report, but I seem to recall from a prior one that while there were greater numbers of complaints
about a rude operator or something like that, that it demonstrated a quicker response time, am I
correct, compared to some of the other Access-A-Ride type services. Is my memory right on
that? I thought it was at least compensating somewhat for the difference in those ratings.
LARRY BUTER: Right. The Access-A-Cab, those numbers are actually on the Access-ARide/Access-A-Cab quarterly reports that we'll go over in a little while. But it suggests that third
quarter compared with 2018, the complaints did decrease a bit, a touch.
But we're still dealing with the fact that, similar to RTD and our contractors, the cab industry,
especially here in Denver, is facing the same issues. And that's the lack of operators. A lot of
their folks tend to try to go through to Uber and to Lyft. Some of them stay, some of them
migrate back. But the reality is, we're all faced with the same issue, lack of operators. And that is
driving the complaints.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Williams. Larry, can you describe the type of person
who's going to be using this pilot? I mean, they're not in wheelchairs, right?
LARRY BUTER: Right.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So these are the people that could use Access-A-Cab?
LARRY BUTER: Correct.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So it's not really Access-A-Ride. It's Access-A-Cab.
LARRY BUTER: Well, we have to remember that those who use Access-A-Cab are folks from
the Access-A-Ride pool. You need to be eligible for Access-A-Ride to use Access-A-Cab. So
what we're going to do is we're focusing on a set geographic area. We'll be reaching out to them
through the efforts of marketing, explaining how this Uber pilot's going to work. Obviously, we
want to focus on folks who are cognitively able to navigate on their own; folks who, if they're
using a manual chair, we need to make sure that the chair is foldable, fits in the trunk.
Other than that, it's going to be open to anyone in those zip codes who want to participate. We're
not to force anyone to participate, obviously. In lieu of using Access-A-Ride Access-A-Cab, they
will have the choice of using the, whatever project name we choose to use.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I'd just like to point out that Access-A-Cab is not mandated. It's
an addendum. It's an additional service that we provide to try and enhance the paratransit
services that we do provide. And so I'm very much excited to see if we can add a TNC to this.
And that might take some work to make it work, but every little bit helps.
I'm sorry. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I forgot one thing. And I just wanted to enhance your comments about it,
no, it isn't mandated, and it does enhance. But what it does is allows RTD, and this is what I
learned from Bruce Abel when he installed it, it first was a subsidy of $7, now it's up to $12, but
that it holds down our paratransit costs. Because we can shift people from the paratransit AccessA-Ride, $57, $58 each way versus $12.
So that's why we've been able to maintain the cost right now with 10% of our budget. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you very much for that input. OK. Seeing nobody else, I think we'll
move to a vote. And that would be Director Cook and Director Buzek. And I will vote this time.
OK, this passes unanimously. Thanks, everybody, for that.
We have one more recommended action tonight. And that is the approval of the 2020 public
agency transportation safety plan. I'm going to read it, and we're going to talk about it, and then
I'm going to ask for some input. Let me read the motion and get some input from the directors on
it.
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the 2020 public transportation agency safety plan, I'm not going to say that,
PTASP, I guess, as required by 49 CFR part 674, state safety oversight regulations. This
recommended action supports the following General Manager's goals: task goal number one,
enhanced safety and security.
Do I have a motion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Malpiede.
PEGGY CATLIN: And seconded.
KATE WILLIAMS: And second from Director Catlin. And I think we have some discussion that
we want to bring to the Board immediately.
MIKE MEADER: Madam Chair, this is Mike Meader. I've asked that Dan McClain, the Senior
Manager of Safety to come up and just give you a brief summary of the PTASP, SMS, the
regulations, and then just clearly what the role of the Board is in this.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. That would be great. Speak to Us
DAN MCCLAIN: This is Dan McClain, Senior Manager, Safety and Environmental. So this is a
fairly new FTA requirement. Not only 674, which is under the State Safety Oversight, which
applies to our PUC, but 673 is what defines what the PTASP is.
673 is one of the only regulations that actually call out the Board of Directors to be accountable
for compliance with all of the elements of 673, which is the construction of the Safety
Management System and the PTASP along with the accountable executive. In the other ones, it's
usually just the accountable executive. 673 regulation requires that the Board review and
approve.
And what does that mean? Part of the Board's responsibility is to make sure that we have
adequate resources to comply with what's set in the PTASP, both human and financial, and hold
us the agency responsible for continual improvement in our safety metrics, our performance
measures. So we have to know what our injury rates are, the number of vehicle accidents or
crashes we have, and then work to continually improve those, not meet the same number every
year. And that's what this safety management system is designed for.
So any questions?
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd like to note, and see Director Broom, stand by one second. I'd like to
note for the record that Director Lubow has joined us. And then I will go to Director Broom for
his question.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. Does this include slip and falls versus crashes?
DAN MCCLAIN: It includes everything, Director Broom, as part of the safety management of
RTD of the agency, everything. That applies to rail, it applies to commuter rail, it applies to bus
crashes, and it applies to employ injuries, it applies to passenger injuries. It applies to all of the
things that affect safety and impact the safety of our passengers and our employees.
BOB BROOM: How long does it typically take us to remove snow at stations?
DAN MCCLAIN: So we usually have a good snow force that's out. I know that the bus, Gina
and Tim Lucero monitor that for us and see where our platforms. FM both and our Public
Facilities Groups are on it right away. They're on top of it with the weather forecast.
I would say it depends on the area we are at, the amount of snowfall that's going. But we try to
get that as actively as possible.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair. A week ago yesterday, I was getting an Uber, but I was
across the street at the bus stop right in front. I think it's the one, is that the one?
DAN MCCLAIN: Yeah
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. Were you nodding your head?
DAN MCCLAIN: Yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Don't do that. I can't see you.
[LAUGHTER]
I meant it seriously, even though it's funny. But it is serious. So there was a woman there in a
wheelchair trying to get on the bus. And the guy that was driving, it was about 3 o'clock. He was
fantastic. His name is Kai. That's his nickname. I don't know the rest. But then there were too
many people in wheelchairs on the bus, and so somebody got off and then she got on.
The biggest problem was big snow that was there and ice, all around the bus stop, around the
driveway. So that's across from our headquarters, right? So I'm thinking we probably need to pay
more attention to that. Because folks in wheelchairs have a really hard time getting on the bus.
And it's good to have sidewalks. But they can't pile the snow up on them and around the bus stop
so then the ramp doesn't get out there and they can't get on.
And I know you know that, but I just happened to crash into that myself, actually, because of the
snow. So it's not just on street, right? It's the sidewalk and right around there.
I was wondering about, we have those, I forget what they're called exactly. But they're either
accidents that we could have prevented or unpreventable?
DAN MCCLAIN: Yeah, preventable and non-preventable. And those go to the motor vehicle.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And they're all lumped. It doesn't matter, right?
DAN MCCLAIN: They're determined, you have a total number of accidents. And of those you
have a certain number that are deemed preventable by experienced drivers that says that this
could have been prevented, or non-preventable, where the driver couldn't prevent that accident.
So if somebody runs into the driver, it's considered non-preventable most of the time. Somebody
rear-ends a bus, the bus driver, it's generally deemed non-preventable.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And how many fatalities have we had this year on our trains?
DAN MCCLAIN: On our trains, on the commuter rail, we have had two suicides and two
pedestrians. And on our light rail we've had one trespasser fatality on the light rail.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And so we would include all of those when somebody intentionally does
that?
DAN MCCLAIN: Correct. That's part of our metrics that we measure. And that's in the PTASP
that we have said that we shoot for zero on the fatalities.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And so you're going to discuss how we're going to avoid all those?
DAN MCCLAIN: That's all in part and parcel of how we address the safety from how we make
sure that the driver or the operators of trains are there, what we're doing. We've met with our
concessionaire out on the commuter rail to discuss issues. We've spent many hours there looking
at the Central Park Station, the Peoria Station, where they've happened to see if we could do any
changes to the physical infrastructure, but also what we can do as far as campaigns to keep
people alert, to keep from crossing in front of the trains when the bells are crossing.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And I was just wondering, does this happen any time during the day? Or
is it at nighttime? Or?
DAN MCCLAIN: It's all different times of the day. In fact, we had two back to back at Central
Park. We had a pedestrian, and then we had a suicide at Central Park Station, just when the G
line was opening. So that was in April, I believe.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So sometimes it could be the sun, and sometimes it could be the lighting,
or signage and sounds.
DAN MCCLAIN: Yeah, the most recent one we had on light rail was, we had two individuals
that were pushing a grocery cart across the crossing, the bells came down, the arms came down.
One ran one way, and one ran the other way right in front of our train.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I'm so sorry for that. Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Folska. Thank you, Dan. OK. Seeing nobody else in
the queue, I think we can move to a vote. And that would be Director Rivera-Malpiede and
Director Catlin.
We have a total unanimous vote this time. We have 15 yeses and no nos. Thank you. Thank you,
gentlemen. OK. We have 10 updates tonight. So I'm hoping that everybody had a chance to look
through them. And we will discuss as needed. But we have the experts in the room. So I'm going
to allow us to start with this. Let me get where I'm going.
And the first update we have is the service availability for November of 2019. I don't know.
Gentlemen, do you have anything you want to speak to?
FRED WORTHEN: Fred Worthen, AGM Bus Ops. Just very quickly, we did have a little harder
month than usual due to four extended days of inclement weather. So we were at 99.3% percent

this month. And it was primarily due to headcount. We had a lot of people that booked sick
during the adverse weather conditions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Directors, if there are any questions this would be the time.
Director Buzek. What is it?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek.
KATE WILLIAMS: Buzek. I have a terrible time. I apologize for saying your name poorly.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. Just a quick question on the report. The first full
paragraph has four bullet points. And I want to ask a question about the third and fourth bullet
points, just to make sure I understand them.
As I read it, it appears to me that, year to date in 2019, when we look at lost service for personnel
related reasons, versus year to date in 2018, in 2018 we're nearly three times more hours lost to
personnel related reasons than this year. Is that a correct way to read that?
FRED WORTHEN: Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations. That is correct. We had a very
difficult, late 2017 through the spring of 2018 was probably our all-time high for lost service.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks very much. All yours.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I actually just have one question. From packet page 135,
it says for November we hired 22 folks, and of those 22 folks on the bus side, 20 of those folks
separated from the agency. And my request is that next time you all come to give us this update
that you bring HR with you so we can truly understand what's happening with this retention. So
we have yet to receive that data from you all, and I've requested it a few times. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. I was looking at the page that Director Buzek was looking
at, where we had all the years worth of lost runs, one year after another. And what's interesting to
me is that this year, 2019, is so much less than last year. Yet the exposure is so much worse. I
mean, the PR is so much more negative, it seems to me.
And I'm just wondering, is it, as we had heard before, maybe just because it was the rail, that
people were not showing up? Or, what is the deal that, with so many less lost runs, we have so
much more negative exposure about it?
FRED WORTHEN: So I can't speak to negative exposure, but I can speak to some of my
experience. When I first came to work here, we were getting a significant amount of GMRs and
non-GMRs related to lost service. We are getting virtually none now on the bus side.

I can't speak to how much the rail side is impacting us. But I can give you an order of magnitude
though. We operate over 10,100 trips a day on a 99.6% service delivery. That means we lost
about 40 trips in that day. On a 99.8%, we lost about 20, 21 trips in a day.
So I think sometimes it gets lost in how many trips we operate. But I do want to recognize that,
even though it may only be 20 or 40 out of those, we could have anywhere from 15 to 100
people on that one trip that are operated.
So I can't speak to what you're hearing. I can say that I'm hearing a lot less on the bus side of the
house.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I have more than I want to say. Thank you. I guess you just keep, I
keep seeing in the newspaper clippings that we get, this one, that one, that one, all these rail trips
are being lost. And that's in the newspapers.
Maybe they just didn't have that about the bus, even though apparently there were so many more.
FRED WORTHEN: I wasn't here when we were at the all-time loss, so I would have to look to
other staff for those types of things.
JUDY LUBOW: Can somebody deal with that? Or someone can answer it?
FRED WORTHEN: Sure.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
MICHAEL FORD: I just want to offer, Michael Ford, COO. I mean, we've also increased our
number of services on the rail side, too. So I think that's exacerbated the situation. And we're
about 60 operators short right now.
So I think the cumulative effect of trying to put more service out and also the issue with our
driver shortage is a little bit more severe on the rail side. That's probably creating some of the
issue. And bus has a little bit more flexibility in terms of recovering of service, where rail may
have a little bit more difficulty in that area.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. It's just very curious to me that it's almost more than double last
year in terms of the lost runs than what we have this year, but this year it's magnified so much
more in terms of public exposure. I just find that interesting.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lubow, I'd like to speak to that for a minute, I think that,
generically speaking as somebody in District A, where we don't have a lot of trains and we do
have a lot of buses, that it has been much more common for people's bus to be late or a bus to not
show. That's bus service, I think, nationally. Whereas, the attitude that people have toward train
service is that that train runs on that track, and it will be there on time.

And so I think that part of the attitude of that exposure is that people just assume that the train is
the train and it's going to be there. And it isn't true. There are missed runs based on operators or
situations just as much as there are in buses. But that it's a perception, and that's just what I think.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Jensen.
DAVE JENSEN: This is Dave Jensen, AGM of Rail Operations. If I could add to that, I think the
perception, and what we're discussing is exactly right. So on rail we hadn't dropped a trip up until
July. And so that is dramatic for us to be dropping trips. And then the subsequent months up until
now, where we could be dropping hundreds of trips a month because of the situation we're in. It's
a dramatic change.
And to Mr. Worthen's point, and one of the Director's and I were speaking previous to that, if
you extrapolate those numbers, there's a significant number of people that are impacted by any
one trip that we might miss. For instance, I don't have the numbers in front of me, but I don't
think it's unfair to say that we might have several hundred people on one train on the H line or E
line during rush hour. And if that trip is missed, then we've impacted hundreds of people just for
that one trip. And if we're missing hundreds of trips, there's an extraordinary number of people
that are being impacted by that.
And I think that's why we're hearing so much from them, because there's so many people being
impacted. I also think it's important for us to keep things in context. So we're running 1,000 train
trips a day. And so today, for instance, was not a good day for us, and we may have missed in the
neighborhood of 100. Over the weekend, though, we might have only missed a couple of trips.
Tomorrow we don't know.
And so our average is, when we get to the rail service availability, it's going to average itself out.
But I think an answer to your question is I think that there is a significant change on the rail side,
and that's probably brought attention to all of it.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you. Can I have a little more time? Or do you want to go to
someone else?
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. You didn't have an opportunity to have any of these questions
answered before just now?
JUDY LUBOW: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: You didn't get my email that asked you?
JUDY LUBOW: I got your email, but I just read the packet, so I read it when I can.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Because I think everybody else in the room kind of did their homework
beforehand. But go ahead.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. You know, I just wanted to comment on something. Quite often, it's
get stated that you know we've had compliance of 99.6%, whatever. And so it sounds like it's a
really wonderful thing.
But at the same time when that happens, we also see that sometimes we don't even meet our own
performance standards. And I just wanted to raise that it came up before at a meeting that, there's
some doubt about the accuracy of those standards that say we make 99.8%, when we have so
many problems.
For instance, I mean, I think we have said that we've made, what, 99-whatever percent. But if
you look at our present performance standards, there's a lot of problems this month. And so I just
wanted to say that it doesn't really help me to be told, well, we had 99-point-whatever percent
performance of our runs, if that doesn't really address the problem areas. And I just wanted to
share that, because we hear it every time. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Williams. Gentlemen, I have a question maybe for both
of you. But it seems to me, and correct me if I'm wrong, and I think I understand, we really didn't
start having this problem with the trains in particular until we opened SERE. And when we
opened SERE, we really didn't have the human capital to support that extension and all the
additional increased service. Is that about fair?
DAVE JENSEN: So this is Dave Jensen, AGM of Rail Operations. So I suppose that depends on
what we're talking about specifically. We've been mandating our operators well before we
opened SERE. We were seeing progress, but it was nowhere near what we wanted or what we
would have liked.
When we opened SERE, there was a significant increase in the workload requirements that we
couldn't match. And that is, also if we look at the numbers, we look at the charts around that
May, June, July time period where we're seeing the significant change. And it is attributable to
that opening.
But I don't want to diminish the fact that we were already mandating, and it was already a
problem we were trying to solve.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Right. And is it correct that we are 60 people short for the train on the
train side?
DAVE JENSEN: This is Dave Jensen. Yes, roughly 60 operators short.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And how many people do you think we are going to need to operate the N
line?
DAVE JENSEN: We will need, well, we've budgeted for 28 right now. We've got 10 already on
in service or already here.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I know it's a different technology, right? So the people that you do on the
light rail aren't transferable to the heavy rail.
DAVE JENSEN: No, that's correct. It's completely different. The last class, I don't want to give
wrong numbers, but to my recollection we lost four operators from light rail to commuter rail.
We've got another class that we're hiring now. I don't know what those numbers will be.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. So in order to provide the service that you've committed to for the N
line, you think 28 people, don't you think you should give some wiggle room, maybe like a 30%
contingency for humans, add a few more just in case?
DAVE JENSEN: So in the budgeting of in the budgeting of or creating that number, that's all
taking into account is how many trains we're running, what the hours of service are, how many
people we will need, what their vacation time will be, how many people we anticipate being sick.
That's already been figured out.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And are they mandated already when they begin?
DAVE JENSEN: Not on N line. Well, they're still in training. We have an open service.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah, but will they be mandated?
DAVE JENSEN: No, our expectation is that we'll be fully staffed and we won't have to.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, that'll be interesting. OK. Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Folska. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Because there may be a potential
misinterpretation by some of prior remarks made here this evening, I'd like to make it clear that
there is no reason to believe, there is no evidence, that staff is giving us anything other than the
actual numbers for how much service is being provided. And the notion somehow, that when we
say 99.31% percent of all scheduled hours of bus service, because that's the update we're on,
we'll get to rail in a minute. I know we've conflated the two, but we're on the bus update, that
when you say it's 99.31%, it's 99.31%. And that's how much is actually being provided.
And the implication somehow that staff has inflated or misstated numbers is, I think, unfortunate.
And I don't think it was intended. But I think it was understood that way by others who are not
experienced in looking at these numbers and understanding the information. So I speak on behalf
of and in defense of staff in saying, the information they give us is accurate.
Now, the difficulties that we have encountered, and that's why that second full paragraph, or
perhaps it's the third, I guess, that has the underlining language is so important. We only do this
because we're mandating. So let's understand that, too. But the point is, when it says 99.31%,
that's because it's been 99.31%. Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that clarification, Chair Tisdale. And I'd like to speak to that.
I owe Mr. Sirois an apology from last week when I asked him a similar point. I questioned some
statistics that he gave us. And he did make a very distinct effort to go and validate those
numbers.
So I think Chair Tisdale's point is well made, that normally when staff brings information to us
they've done their homework beforehand. That's been my experience. But I don't want anybody's
feelings to be hurt if, perhaps, somebody in the Board feels like they need a little more
clarification. And I think that that's something that we are walking as a group who are running
this agency.
So thank you for that statement. And thank you, gentlemen, for your patience with all this.
Director Lubow. Thank you for waiting.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, yes. Thank you, Chair Williams. And I want to reiterate that there wasn't
any belief that intentional numbers were made up. I think what I was trying to say was, it didn't
help me to hear 99% performance and then to hear there were a lot of other problems, that I
needed more explanation. So there wasn't any belief that there was anything untoward going on.
So I thank you for all your work. Yeah.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger, are you related to bus, or are we going to try, we've
kind of been walking into KPIs and rail and everything all together, anyhow, so.
LYNN GUISSINGER: It's just about one specific statement here that there's a certain number of
shifts for the six-day persons, 21,896 hours of service being provided by six-day RTD operator.
And it just reminded me of the conversation that several members of the SLT, I know Bill Van
Meter and Pauletta and Bill Sirois and Dave Genova and others were at the 36 Mayors &
Commissioners Coalition quarterly meeting a couple of weeks ago, and the Mayor of
Westminster was asking about us, if we've hit our max of contracting. And it sounded like we
have.
And I'd just be interested, I'm not asking for this tonight, but I'd be interested to know, he was
offering to see if we could make a difference with the legislature on that, and if that would be
helpful. So it gets into the questions of our contractors mandating as much, would they be
interested in taking over more of this work, would we save money or come out equal on not
paying as much overtime by paying contractors, and things like that. I'll take that offline, but I
just wanted to sort of flag it as something that has come up and people seemed interested in at
least considering further, and would like to hear and talk about it some more. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Just a question out of curiosity. Is
there a paid differentiation for driving a light rail as opposed to a bus driver?
DAVE JENSEN: This is Dave Jensen, AGM of Rail Operations. And the answer is, no. It's not.
It's on the CBA agreement. The pay is equal.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: In commuter rail as well?
DAVE JENSEN: That's correct.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I think we can move along. We have 10 updates tonight, people. And a
lot of what we're talking about falls within all of them. So let us move on to Mr. Jensen's
purview. And that is the rail operations update. If there's something you'd like to tell us beyond
what we got in our packet, and thank you, Mr. Worthen. Nice job on bus side of the house.
If there's anything anybody would like to ask, and if there's anything Mr. Jensen would like to
tell us beyond what we've had.
DAVE JENSEN: So this is Dave Jensen, AGM of Rail Operations. I would just bring one thing
to the Board's attention that may or may not be necessary. And that is, the numbers that we're
providing are our monthly here.
So for instance, we're showing 96.36% service availability. That was for the month of October.
What we'll be seeing later are our KPIs for the quarter. And so those numbers are cumulative for
that third quarter. That's why there'll be a difference in those numbers. And I just wanted to point
that out.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. That did trip me up earlier. OK. We are going to move
on to the third quarter KPIs. And who's going to speak to that? Hi, Jannette.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Hello, Jannette Scarpino, Finance. The KPIs, let me clarify, these are
year to date numbers, third quarter, for the nine months, end at September 30th. Briefly, the
exception areas 3.1, we are seeing regional and light rail on-time performance down from quarter
two and below goal. We want to note that this has been impacted by the US 36 collapse, 18th
Street construction, signal sequencing incidents, large events, and also the operator shortage.
System wide OTP is on target. 3.2, system wide service availability is below goal in light rail.
This is a direct effect of the operator shortage.
And then the only other one I really wanted to highlight is 6.2, ridership. It is down less than 1%
on a year to date basis, because we are seeing a pickup from the G line and southeast rail
extension. Are there questions for us?
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Jannette, there was something on page 149 of the packet that, it's
6.4, monitor selected internal function for efficiency, and it didn't meet target. And I didn't know
what it was.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Are you looking at 6.4?

JUDY LUBOW: Yeah.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: This is an indication of whether the number of audits performed to
date have met the annual goal. In the third quarter we are at 75% of target. So really, this is better
measured on an annual basis. What we would like to see is that at year end we meet 100% of
target for the year.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Seeing nobody else. Thank you, Jannette. We're going to go on to the
next update, which is the contracted fixed route quarterly report for the third quarter of 2019. Let
us keep our years straight this late into it.
And I see Mr. Worthen approaching. If you have anything you'd like to tell us beyond the report
that you gave us, or if any of the Directors have questions.
FRED WORTHEN: Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations. I will only say that this is an
elaboration of a more detailed discussion of the information that Jannette has pretty much
brought forth. So unless there are questions, I'll defer.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Oh, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, thank you. I'm trying to just figure out the best place to answer a
question regarding an upcoming contract. I think this is a good spot. We have an upcoming
solicitation for public transportation service Group 30 for fixed bus route service.
Since I could not find any reference to Group 30, and I don't know if that's a new title or I just
wasn't finding it, can you tell me which of these contractors under the performance here are right
now covering the group 30?
FRED WORTHEN: So each time we issue a new RFP, there is a new contract number that is
also replacing that. That is the old Longmont contract, which was Group 26.
NATALIE MENTEN: So the upcoming one will be for the Longmont Group?
FRED WORTHEN: Right.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. That's my only question. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Menten. OK. Seeing nobody else. Let's go on. The
next update, number five, is the customer comment analysis for the third quarter of 2019. Ladies
and gentlemen, anybody have questions or comments on that?
I am so proud. Everybody read, everybody spoke. Director Folska. It's OK. That's great.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Bit of a quicky. Thank you, Chair. And every three years, I think, we have
to perform a customer satisfaction survey. Is that right?
FRED WORTHEN: Pauletta?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Hello, this is Pauletta Assistant General Manager of Communications.
So we used to do that. But this year we started doing it annually. So the customer satisfaction
survey we did this year, but we'll be doing it again next year. And our plan is to do that every
year.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So I remember one time we paid $1.4 million for a contractor out of,
maybe, Kansas City to do that for us. And I'm wondering, are you going to be conducting it inhouse through these kinds of information data that you collect? Because to me, we shouldn't pay
a dime for it. We have the talent to do this.
PAULETTA TONILAS: We don't pay anything near that for our annual customer satisfaction
survey. And off the top of my head, I want to say it's maybe $80,000 to do it. Our market
research team does a substantial amount of work working with our contractor, BBC Research.
There is a lot of work that a contractor is set up to do that our staff isn't, and then, of course,
doing the analysis that they then share with us and then complete the whole report.
So it is of value for us to utilize a contractor, and we work in partnership with them. But it's
substantially less than that.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Right. Because I can assure you it was $1.4 million, that's for sure. And so
what you're doing annually will satisfy the FTA requirements?
PAULETTA TONILAS: So well, we aren't up against an FTA requirement to do a customer
satisfaction survey every year. We typically did it every three years. Now, we are required to do
the Access-A-Ride customer survey every three years, and this was the year to do it. And that
was what was briefed to the Board last month. And so that, we are required to do about every
three years.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So let me just be clear. The FTA requires this agency to do a customer
satisfaction survey once every three years. However, we are doing it, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Agency wide, $1.4 million. We absolutely paid that. And now we're doing it once a year, and
that will satisfy the one every three year to the FTA requirement.
I mean, we're not going to go out, I understand that you need the expertise, but $80,000 a year
seems much more reasonable than $1.4 million every three years.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Right. So we do the Access-A-Ride customer satisfaction survey every
three years. We moved up doing our general rider customer satisfaction survey every year,
because the information that we get each year is of value to help us make sure that we're
reflecting what our customers are saying. And it gives us the opportunity to be more nimble and

even how we plan services. And so I think doing the customer satisfaction survey every year
provides us with substantial information.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Absolutely, absolutely. I totally agree with you. So you're saying the FTA
does not require the agency to do a customer service satisfaction survey every three years, except
for Access-A-Ride.
PAULETTA TONILAS: That's correct.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And we spent $1.4 million on that? And we did. I promise you.
PAULETTA TONILAS: We did not spend that, we don't have that much money in our research
budget.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: We paid $1.4 million. Believe, because I jumped up and down about it. It
was ridiculous. But we're not doing that anymore, right?
PAULETTA TONILAS: We're not paying $1.4 million for our surveys, no.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. That was an interesting discussion. Director Angie Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Pauletta, just two questions. The first
one is, those surveys, are they done in multiple languages?
PAULETTA TONILAS: They're not done in multiple languages. We do them in Spanish. We do
have some that we distribute those on buses and at stations. And so we do distribute some of
those in Spanish at locations. We do not do them in multiple languages.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So as you're moving forward, would you consider having them
available in some different languages?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes. I know this is an interest of many of the Board members. And it's
something our team has actually been talking about as we look ahead in our planning for 2020 is,
how do we look at the opportunities to do a translation when it accommodates the constituents as
necessary.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Williams wants to speak. Yes, Pauletta, we have had some
conversation about, there are partner agencies that would be willing to help with distributing the
surveys in other languages. And I think a number of the Directors have been involved in that. So
thank you for that clarification.

PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Make her go away. She's done talking.
[LAUGHTER]
OK. We'll move on to update number six, which is our drug and alcohol compliance monitoring
report for the third quarter of 2019. Anybody that would like to speak to that? Gentleman,
anything you want to add to the great information that you gave us in our Board packet?
FRED WORTHEN: No, ma'am.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. We're moving right along. Update number seven. We've already had
some discussion on Access-A-Ride and Access-A-Cab third quarter report. If there are questions
on that topic that we did not address earlier, we're happy to have them now. If there's anything
that the staff would like to add, we're happy to have that now.
MICHAEL FORD: No other comments at this time.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I don't see any of the directors-- found that they got all the
information that they needed in the Board packet, which is great. We'll go on to update number
eight, which is the special services third quarter report. And again, I think we have the experts on
the subject around.
Directors, anybody have questions on that, special services? I'm happy to entertain anybody who
wants to press their Speak button. There we go. Have at it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: On page 177 of our packet under Commuter Rail, it talks about
first quarter, second quarter, and third quarter. I think second quarter, percentage of evasion is
incorrect, I think. That's supposed to be, maybe, 6%.
FRED WORTHEN: I'm sorry, what are you referencing?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So under quarterly, this report.
FRED WORTHEN: OK. So that would be the next one.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Sorry, I'm ahead of myself. Never mind.
KATE WILLIAMS: It's all right.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: We're moving it along.

KATE WILLIAMS: All right. And it's a simple misprint that we will fix when we get there. OK.
Seeing nobody else in the queue. We are now on update number nine, which is security statistics
and fare inspection summary.
Director Rivera-Malpiede, if you would like to speak. Good evening, Mr. Grado. How are you?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I would just like to ask that there be a
slight correction on our packet page 177 under Second Quarter of Commuter Rail for percentage
of evasion.
KATE WILLIAMS: The original first number is 0.07%, the next number is 0.68%. We believe
that there is a zero missing after the point before the 6. Everybody with us?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, it could be.
BOB GRADO: Yeah. Hi, this is Bob Grado, Chief of Police. I will look into that for you. I'm
scratching my head here looking at that. So I'm not sure. But I'll follow up for you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Malpiede. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Williams. I've never really been too concerned about
fare evaders, because there's always going to be somebody jumping over the fence, or doing this
or that. And like a lost leader, it's kind of the cost of doing business.
However, I heard, and I did say that I heard, from another Director by the name of Lubow, and I
hope that she will share her story about a friend whose kids play a game of how to ride the train
for free.
JUDY LUBOW: Well, I already raised that before. But yes. And apparently, according to, well,
it wasn't, So her working son, who's in his mid-30s, so it makes it sound like it's a bunch of kids
skipping, but no, these are high-tech people who, with their cell phones or whatever and using
the app, don't buy anything until they see an inspector on the car, and then will buy a ticket for
the stop right before where they were coming, where they were found.
And apparently, according to one of these guys, he saved $80 in one month. I don't know if that's
true. That might have just been bragging.
BOB GRADO: Yeah. I'm not sure. Director Lubow and I did discuss this, and she's going to get
me in contact with that person. I will say that it is difficult to do that. When someone buys fair
onboard, there's a color scheme that shows up when they first buy the fare, and there's a dancing
date on there. And there's several things that happen on that app. So that's a visual reference.

And then when our fair inspectors scan with their mobile citation devices, it'll tell them when
they hit the button to purchase the fare or to activate it. So if they know that that fare was
purchased a minute ago, and they just bought the train, then we go ahead and cite them.
So we've been doing that so far. Nothing has been challenged so far. So it's going to be
interesting to see if we do wind up getting into a trial situation, see how that plays out. But we're
following the lead of other agencies that are using the same technology, and so far so good.
So I find it really hard to believe what Director Lubow was told, but we definitely want to look
into it.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lubow, is this the mother of these, could you speak to them about
how they raise their children?
[LAUGHTER]
JUDY LUBOW: No, no no, he was not pleased by this. He was hearing this from other people.
He's a good guy.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good. I'd have to speak to my kids if they were doing that. OK. Director
Lewis, thank you for your patience.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. Your comment caught me off guard, so I may have lost
my page.
KATE WILLIAMS: It's all right. We can move on. You can come back in a minute if you'd like.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, sure. I'd do that.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. We'll do that. That would be Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I just wanted to point out that if you
divide 1,044 by 1,529,367, the answer is 0.068%. It is simply, on page 176 in the second quarter
statistics in the second measure relative to commuter rail, a typo.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. I'm still digesting it. Are you ready? OK. We're going to
come back. Director Boom, we'll come to you in just a minute. We're going to let Director Lewis
speak.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I'm so sorry about that. So I have a question. On packet
page 177, it looks like we've seen some increases from the first quarter, to the second quarter,
and to the third quarter patrons check both on the light rail and the commuter rail. And Director
Cook pointed out that it could be because of the opening of a new line. And I just wanted to
BOB GRADO: Yeah, there's actually several reasons. I'm glad you asked that. And that was the
one thing I just going to toss out there tonight, was a couple of things happened. You know,

during these months we have sporting events, we have other things, where we're doing more
intensified fare enforcement.
And we went into a new contract with the current provider. Under the new agreement, we've
added a fare enforcement task force. So we have a group of transit security officers that are
100% focused on fare enforcement. So moving forward you should see higher numbers there.
So really, that's why we're seeing that right now.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, just a follow-up. You mentioned this fare enforcement task force. This
task force is because we're seeing more folks tried to evade fares?
BOB GRADO: Well, it was one of the GM goals, was to increase fare enforcement. Our goal
was over, I think, a five-year period to get to a better system, kind of like what we have on
commuter rail, where we have more compliance, a lot more officers. So we're trying to mimic
that on the light rail system. We couldn't just do it all at once, so we've been transitioning slowly
over a five-year period to increase that coverage.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd like to comment that the last time I went to a Broncos game, the
gentlemen that were running security at the gate there addressed me by name. I was very
surprised. I thought, do I have my name tag on me?
OK. Director Broom, thank you for waiting.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I noticed recently that there doesn't seem to be as
many fare checkers around. Have we decided to let up a little bit in view of all the problems, the
dropped runs?
BOB GRADO: No, they're there. We're still running at the same numbers. We're not
experiencing the same issues we are in other areas. We're pretty well staffed right now in our
security group. So it may just be luck of the draw.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Seeing nobody else in the queue. Thank you, gentlemen. I think we're
going to move on to our last update of the night, which is the private carrier access to Union
Station. I think we'll switch personnel appear at the subject matter expert desk. And I think
perhaps Mr. Van Meter would like to say something to us about this.
BILL VAN METER: I would. This is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning
and Doug Monroe and I are here to answer any questions you might have regarding the
information in your package on private carrier access to Union Station.

We did update you earlier this year that, in response to the requests for expressions of interest,
we had entered into discussions with Greyhound regarding private carrier access. There are other
carriers that have also expressed interest in access to Union Station. At this point, we have
included in your package pricing and general terms for proceeding forward with potentially
entering into negotiations and granting to private carriers access to Denver Union Station. Those
terms and pricing are included in the package for your information.
I wanted to highlight that information for you and some of our estimates regarding potential
revenue, particularly important in those estimates would be Greyhound's entry into Union
Station, the benefits that would accrue there, too-- and inform you that the path that we are
currently proceeding on would be towards entering into, potentially, if these private carriers
continue to express interest, a license agreement with them, which would be within the General
Manager's authority. So it would not require affirmative action of the Board. And in that interest
we wanted to be very clear, upfront, and open with you early in this process, as to what the terms
and conditions, benefits, and some of the challenges might be. And that's what this presentation
provided to you.
We won't go through it. It was in your package. But Doug and I would be happy to attempt to
answer any questions that you might have.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Van Meter. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So I will move quickly through the slides to note some items.
First of all, page 183, of course, has the fees. Moving on to page 184, I'm noting additional
terms. What it looks like later in the packet is Greyhound would like a 10-year, but you're
suggesting a five-year, with two one-year options after that. But I do see, provided by RTD
we've got of course a facility, law enforcement, custodial services. I do note the restroom
attendant. I remember foggy that we talked a little bit about that.
And then page 185 in the packet, where it reaffirms that the 10-year that Greyhound looks like it
wants, a five-year is what you're recommending. So I'll start with that, that I would personally
prefer to see a two-year. Where else are they going to go? I don't think they're going to go along
with that. Two-year, though, protects us, so that we can evaluate what are the impacts and what
are the financial issues that come about from that.
Because what I see here in this document is I see the expected revenue, but I do not see the
expected cost. Unless I missed it.
BILL VAN METER: Yeah, no. We did not provide that, kind of in the interest of trying to hold
some information from a public negotiation. But I'll share that the projected revenues depicted in
this document do exceed the projected costs, with some margin or buffer.
NATALIE MENTEN: So in that same line, I would like to see a dedicated fund, where whatever
that margin is goes into a secure account to cover capital cost repairs to Denver Union Station, so
that it is not spent elsewhere when budget appropriations come about. But I do feel that two

years puts us in a better position to be able to evaluate these impacts, get the better cost idea.
While you may have it and it's not in this presentation, I don't have it, so.
Let me make sure I don't have any other highlighted parts in the PDF. That looks like all I've
highlighted.
BILL VAN METER: Chair, if I may?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
BILL VAN METER: I'll note that staff's original discussions with Greyhound, original
discussion was a two or three-year term. They requested more time because of the commitment
that they would have to make to go elsewhere and the time that that would take.
I will note that we are proposing that the agreement would be terminable within 180 days' of
notice by either party. So that we see as kind of our key core protection in case of breach or other
issues, as you see.
So I understand the two years, but just wanted to let you know we were thinking along those
same lines and identifying a mechanism to address that.
NATALIE MENTEN: So speaking to setting aside any margin into capital repairs, what is the
deal again with the bathroom? Because we've just got the one on the one end downstairs in the
bus lines, right? We can add on one I missed, right?
BILL VAN METER: Correct.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. All right. Are they providing, going to build another bathroom? Or
we have to be providing an attendant all the way down?
BILL VAN METER: The terms would be that we would be providing custodial services and
attendants, increased custodial services, we already have custodial services and attendants, at the
current restrooms. No additional restrooms. When we looked at the cost and the potential
negative impacts to the facility of trying to plumb another line for water access and waste
removal into what is a floating bathtub almost, our engineering team did not like that option. We
believe this option will give a higher level of service to both our patrons as well as private carrier
patrons. And it would be at the cost of the private carriers in this instance.
NATALIE MENTEN: Well, I would be very, very serious about taking the money and making
sure that it's going to be going into the capital repairs, and it's set aside for that facility.
BILL VAN METER: Understood. Appreciate that concept.
KATE WILLIAMS: Ms. McKillop, do you want to speak to that at all?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No.

KATE WILLIAMS: OK, Thank you. Thank you, Director Menten, for that. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Williams. I was just wondering, page 182, where we have the
trip fees, I was just wondering what the basis is for these fees. You must have some analysis of
similar fees elsewhere.
BILL VAN METER: I'll ask Doug Monroe. Introduce yourself.
DOUG MONROE: This is Doug Monroe. Those fees are based on what was necessary for us to
recover the costs of providing additional security and additional custodial services and restroom
attendants down there, based on the fact that long distance passengers would probably have a
bigger impact on the station than the passengers of a short distance carrier, as they would
probably arrive long before their trip left.
As far as how they relate to other facilities across the country, they are, I guess, generally in line
with those, maybe a little bit higher. We only have a couple of examples that Greyhound has
provided to us.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. All right. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I'd like to remind the Directors that we are still in the process of
this negotiation. And so there may be some questions and answers that we might want to take
offline. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. Does Greyhound still provide freight service? And if
they do, how does freight get down to the lower level, and where is it stored, and how is it picked
up, and that type of thing?
DOUG MONROE: This is Doug Monroe again. Greyhound does continue to provide freight
service package express. More detailed term sheet indicates that they won't be able to provide
that service at Union Station. It would be expected that these buses will be serviced at a
Greyhound facility elsewhere in Denver. They currently have a facility in the Curtis Park
neighborhood. So any package express or freight service that they would want to provide, we
would request that they would handle that at their maintenance facility. So none of that would
take place at the Union Station facility.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good question, Director Broom. Thank you. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair. You know, these Greyhound buses have bathrooms on
them, right?
BILL VAN METER: Correct.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Where are they going to empty them when they get into Union Station?

DOUG MONROE: They would also handle any maintenance of their buses at their facility,
presumably in the Curtis Park neighborhood that they have today.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Perfect. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. Is it possible to get some kind of a summary from
the Denver Police Department regarding criminal activity at their former Greyhound bus station
in the 12 months prior to its closing?
BILL VAN METER: I believe Mike Meader could answer that better than I.
MIKE MEADER: That is information of DPD. We can certainly ask for that information. We
did have a crime analyst that was working with us who provided that initial information, which
drove some of the decision making in terms of the costs and what that would be from a law
enforcement perspective. And I can certainly share that information. It's, I think, about a year,
maybe a year and a half old right now. I'm happy to share that with you.
BILL VAN METER: I appreciate it. Thanks.
MIKE MEADER: Sure.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And I just want to emphasize that,
obviously we're not here to micromanage the deal. The General Manager has signing authority
for a contract like this. We're just offering observations that hopefully would be helpful.
Relative to the calculation of fees, I think it would benefit all, in the public and on the Board, to
recognize that our philosophy on this should be, I submit, to recover not just our costs, but the
greater of our costs or the fare market value. If, for example, we're able to do something better,
cheaper, faster, and the market would be charging, for example, $100 for an item, we can
produce it at a value of $60 per item, it's still worth $100. That's the market value. And I just
think we have to be cognizant of that as we go forward in the discussions.
BILL VAN METER: Very cognizant and very clear to staff, as we have been progressing to
date.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. This is a very interesting evening. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: A quick three questions, if that's OK. You mentioned that this will be a
license agreement within the purview of the GM. Is that for the term plus any renewals only? I'd
like that to be the case. I'd suggest that is the case.

BILL VAN METER: I don't know about being
KATE WILLIAMS: Say, we can get back to you on that.
BILL VAN METER: We can get back to you. Good answer.
SHELLEY COOK: The second thing is, is that termination with 180 days' notice for any reason?
For no reason? Or is that for a cause of some kind?
KATE WILLIAMS: We can get back to you on that.
SHELLEY COOK: Then the third thing is, are there any escalators in terms of the fees,
especially after that first five-year term?
BILL VAN METER: Yes, there are. We've been discussing 3%. I believe we will land on 3%
per year or CPI, whichever is greater.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, great. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. And I gathered from that we need some legal feedback
that we can, OK. Thank you very much for that. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. Mr. Van Meter, can you tell me a bit about the law
enforcement piece of this, what's your thinking around that?
BILL VAN METER: Yeah. Well, our thinking is that, concurrent with, or, not concurrent with,
but informed by some of the information that Mike Meader discussed earlier regarding security
and police incidents around Greyhound's current facility and associated with Greyhound, as well
as our current number of incidents on a daily and weekly and ongoing basis at Denver Union
Station, not wanting to exacerbate safety and security concerns for our passengers as well as for
the private carrier's passengers, we would like an increased security presence at Denver Union
Station, generally speaking, off-duty Denver police officers, in a higher presence contracted and
reporting to RTD to provide security for our patrons, as well as Greyhound and the other private
carriers' patrons.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's helpful. What additional training would these off-duty DPD folks be
receiving to be able to work with the demographic of folks who might utilize this service?
BILL VAN METER: Fair question. I don't know.
MIKE MEADER: I'll take that. This is Mike Meader. They're going to have the training that all
Denver police officers receive from that perspective. It is pretty extensive amount of training. I
don't know if Denver would share that, but we could certainly ask them what type of training.
We've got law enforcement, which this particular contract specifies, versus security, because of
the capabilities that the law enforcement group has to enforce statutes that our transit police in

Denver or security does not. So they do go through a lot of training. We can try to maybe get
some answers from them exactly what that training is. I look over at Chief Grado, because I
know he works with them on a regular basis.
We can certainly share the security training with you, as well as what our officers go through,
too.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. So the idea for the law enforcement is because you guys have looked
at data and made a decision to increase security because of the data that you all have had access
to. Is that correct?
MIKE MEADER: Yes, that's correct, that data. And the increase we see down at Union Station
in general, we're trying to increase security. But we see if that moves into the Union Station,
Union Station area, it's going to require us to beef up the law enforcement.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And how have you used the, I think it's the Homeless Committee that you
spoke about, and also the Fare Evasion Committee? How have you used those folks to consult
you around this law enforcement piece, and even the restroom attendant?
MIKE MEADER: The Denver Police are part of the Homeless Initiative and the meetings that
we've been having. So they work very closely hand-in-hand with the groups. We're certainly
looking at more of the services, the social services, to play a greater role in the services that we
provide to both our customers in Union Station, as well as any of the third party carriers as well.
But they are part of that Homeless Initiative. It's growing. It's been a very, very positive group.
And the things that we're doing, I think it's important that we do very soon to bring that to the
Board and give you an update on kind of what's happening there from an initiative standpoint.
And hopefully that'll answer some of your questions. But I'm happy to chat with you offline
about it as well.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. I appreciate that. I am concerned, and you might hear that in my
voice, around the law enforcement piece and the folks who, I mean, I was a kid who used to take
Greyhound buses with my parents in places, and I've seen some overpolicing. And so I'm
concerned about this.
But I think we can continue to have discussions around what this might look like for those
populations. And I'm sensitive to that, so I appreciate you answering those questions.
MIKE MEADER: Absolutely.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I know that Greyhound already uses some of the bays down in Union
Station. What type of training do the drivers have now? And will they be increased when they
start, and not just Greyhound, but the other agencies or the other companies that use the facility?

DOUG MONROE: RTD publishes an operators guide for operation within Union Station that
we've provided any of the carriers that operate down there. With some of the local carriers, and
which would probably the case if some of the more short distance carriers come in, we can
actually take them down there and introduce them to the station starters, things like that, so they
get familiar with the station.
Greyhound specifically has a national operator pool, and it would be, I guess, very difficult to
actually have in-person training in Union Station for any significant portion of their operators.
But we do publish an extensive operations guide with all the operating rules and everything for
Union Station that they would need to know.
JEFF WALKER: OK. Thanks. Because I know it's kind of like a dance when the buses enter off
the east side of Union Station, northeast side. And I just wanted to make sure that there was some
type of protocol. Or, I'm sure there was, I just wanted to know what it was. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Walker. Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I just want to say that I take Bustang on a regular
basis from Union Station, usually to Vail or Glenwood Springs, so I really enjoy that service.
I do have a question, though, and Director Lewis made me think about this in talking about your
committee that meets with homeless advocates, what kind of work are we doing in terms of
human trafficking identification? Like, are these bus drivers going to be able to, what's going on
with that?
I did talk to Chief Pazen from the Denver Police Department. We do have an issue with it in this
community, to the point where he has developed a division on human trafficking. And so I just
wanted to know your thoughts on that Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Meader.
MIKE MEADER: Absolutely. This is Mike Meader. I'd ask Chief Grado, if you want to come up
here real quick and just give a quick brief synopsis of the latest Homeless Initiative, that's what
we're calling the group, that is meeting. That certainly is a topic. The FTA is really, really
pushing that. As a matter of fact, I was just at a safety meeting at the end of September, and
they've created quite a few resources for that. There were some good examples of other agencies
who have really instituted some fantastic human trafficking initiatives and processes and
programs.
And I've reached out to the FTA as well, to gather some more of that information, perhaps see
how we can set up a visit with that particular group. It's a small group, and there's lots of
agencies that are wanting them to come in and speak to them. But I'll let Chief Grado give you a
quick synopsis of the latest meeting.

BOB GRADO: Yeah. Bob Grado, Chief of Police. There's quite a few things that we hit on, so
keep me on track here. But as far as the human trafficking, all of our officers have recently gone
through training on that that the state provided us. So that that's one piece of the puzzle.
Another one is Michael Washington and group, they've been very generous in helping us with
some of these issues we're having at Union Station and Civic Center and different areas. And it's
not all related to homeless. It's drug addiction, it's all of the stuff that comes with public transit.
So we're working with the Harm Reduction Unit of Denver. They're providing all of our officers
with Narcan and training, and things like that. So there's a lot of parts and pieces to this puzzle.
But we've had a couple meetings now with the Denver Rescue Mission, just a whole group of
people. It was amazing. So one of the things that I've learned in the past couple of years as chief
here, we can't enforce our way out of this. It's just not happening. It doesn't work. You know, we
arrest people, the same people, you know, frequent flyers, if you will. We see the same people
day in and day out. Denver PD cannot continue to fill the jail with these people. Anyways, they
just keep coming back.
So we're looking at a different approach. The Denver Public Library, of all places, has an
amazing program. So they're working with us. We're hoping next week, or maybe the week after,
after the holidays, we're going to give a briefing to SLT. And then I would like to take it to the
Board and present that. Because there's a lot of great ideas, including Greyhound coming.
And rather than having restroom attendants, we may be able to get volunteers from these
agencies to help us. And maybe they could do some of that, and especially the harm reduction,
I'm going to say it wrong. There's another part of their title.
But at first I was 100% against this. I thought this was a horrible idea. But as I've met with these
people and became more educated on it, I really think there's going to be a lot of benefit to doing
this.
Another problem. We do have, Mr. Meader mentioned, our transit security officers, they have
both hands tied behind their backs in Denver. I'll say we have one as police officers. It's an
interesting thing here in Denver. Even though we're fully certified peace officers, we have full
authority in all eight counties that we operate in, but Denver has a policy that, anybody that's
arrested in the city has to be processed by a Denver police officer.
So if you're state patrol, if you're, it doesn't matter what agency you are, Denver Sheriff, they can
only detain. We have the same problem. So that's why it's really helpful for us to have these
Denver police officers on contract with us, because they can help us affect the arrest.
Union Station, the security officers, they have a very tough job, because they're dealing with this
day in and day out. And it's just it's really hard on the psyche, and just, it's a tough, tough job.
So what we found is, we can have security officers there asking somebody to comply or follow
our code of conduct, it's ignored. But if we have a police officer from transit police or Denver

Police, immediate compliance. It's day and night. So a lot of these folks know the system, they
understand how it works.
So it's very challenging, and it's something we're trying to fix.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. I think we would appreciate, some time in the new year,
having maybe part of this meeting, for some more of that to happen.
BOB GRADO: I would like that.
KATE WILLIAMS: We appreciate your work on that. And we'd like to be more cognizant
ourselves. Thank you for that question, Director Rivera-Malpiede. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Williams. This is very timely for me. I just spoke with Mr.
Meader before this meeting about a complaint I had from a constituent at Civic Center Plaza
about an incident that happened last night. And so to be brief about some of these strategies, and
I did not realize about the lack of authority for arresting somebody within the City and County of
Denver until tonight, so this has been really helpful. But since I have gotten a few complaints
from my constituents about Civic Center Plaza, because I take the bus down there, I would really
appreciate an update. Thank you.
BOB GRADO: Absolutely. And I'll say, it's a challenge for us. I'm part of a peer agency group,
so all the transit agencies we meet, we talk monthly, we have annual conferences. Denver is the
only city in the nation that does this. So it's very interesting.
So our legal team or General Counsel, we've had meetings on this. So I'm not sure how to move
forward. But something is going to have to change here in the future. And it's going to possibly
take some legislative action.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might, thank you for that, because as I said, I got this phone call this
afternoon, and she was clearly frustrated with the lack of action that she perceived, and to have
some of these nuances to be able to explain to that constituent is just going to be extremely
helpful. So as I said, this was very timely.
BOB GRADO: You know, I'm happy, anyone on our team is happy, to talk to those people, too.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Catlin. OK. I see nobody else wanting to speak on any
of the updates. That leads us to a part of the program tonight known as "other matters." I see
Chair Tisdale would like to speak to us on another matter.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just very briefly, each of the Directors
has before you a form of NDA. And we do just ask that when you have a chance, if you can
execute tonight, fine. Otherwise, if you can have it back with us on Tuesday. And it's just
important, because it relates timely to the General Manager's search. Thank you, ma'am.

KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome, Chair Tisdale.
Seeing no other matters, is there anybody on staff that has another matter that they need to bring
forward at this time? OK. Crickets.
Our next meeting will be in the next year, January 14, 2020, at the same place at the same time.
And this meeting, therefore, stands adjourned. We're going to take a couple minute break before
we move on to Finance.

