Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on July 12, 2011
Page 1 of 3

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Office Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

July 13, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held
July 12, 2011 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Chair Kemp; Directors Bagley, Brohl, Cohen, Deadwyler, Hoy, James,
Malpiede, O’Boyle, Riley, and Tayer.
Committee Chair Pro Tem Daly and Directors Anderson and McMullen
arrived after the meeting began.

Board Members
Absent:

Director Tobiassen

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Larry Buter, Rick Clarke, Carolyn Conover, Eric Farrington,
David Genova, Mike Gil, Terry Howerter, Brian Iacono, Austin Jenkins,
Tyler Kealy, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Brian Matthews, Doug
MacLeod, Bob Medina, Anthony Menendez, Jerry Nery, Tai-Shrae
Parish, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Massimo Rolle, Jannette Scarpino,
John Shonsey, John Stark, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Christina Tubb,
Bill Van Meter, Mike Washington, and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Celina Benevidez – Celina Inc., Chris Cruz – Celina Inc., Stan Gronek –
ATU 1001, Lisa Nery, and Anna with Celina Inc.
****

Call to Order:

I.

Chair Kemp called the Operations & Customer Services Committee
Meeting to order at 5:35 p.m. Chair Kemp noted that Director Daly was
on his way, but for the sake of keeping a timely schedule he would
open the Operations and Customer Service Committee and chair the
meeting until Director Daly arrives.

Information Items
Bruce Abel noted that there were no action items for tonight; therefore staff would
not be asking for any approvals or actions this evening.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on July 12, 2011
Page 2 of 3

 ADA audits for the period Jan 2011 – June 2011
Director Deadwyler inquired as to what the field “Total LD Assessed” means. Larry
Buter explained that is the amount that we charge the carrier in the event that they
fail to comply or fail to meet our expectations within the given audit period and
further explained that LD stands for Liquidated Damages.
Director Deadwyler further inquired as to how many Access-a-Ride vendors that RTD
currently has. Larry Buter noted that we have four service carriers, a call center and
Easter Seals.
Director Bagley asked if an acronym list could be included in the future ADA Audit
updates to help define the terms used for better understanding of the audit as a
whole.
Director Deadwyler noted that the dollar amounts seemed high, and asked if that
total was for one vendor or a combination of the four. She inquired if one vendor was
deemed out of compliance more often than the others. Larry Buter explained that the
total amount encompassed all four vendors, and that no single vendor stood out from
the rest as being overly incompliant.
Seeing no additional comments for this item, Chair Kemp relinquished the gavel to
Committee Chair Pro Tem Daly who had arrived late to the meeting.
 West Corridor cutover update
Austin Jenkins explained that the West Corridor and DUS cutovers were consolidated
into one block of time instead of two or three. All teams are ready to go, and
construction will begin the night of the 22nd. Service on the lines that support DUS
will be closed; however, bus service will always be in place and both cutover
elements are on time.
Director Hoy inquired if something were to go wrong, what would be the biggest
foreseeable issue. Austin Jenkins noted that there will always be members of the
public that do not see the updates that we have been putting out; however we
always try to let them know ahead of time so that they can coordinate their plans
accordingly. We suspect the first night will be the biggest challenge.
Director Bagley asked if there had been any public feedback from any of the social
networking sites to-date. Scott Reed noted that we have received very few
comments, but that might change as we get closer to the cutover date.
 CAD/AVL update
Bruce Abel noted that as the Board is aware, we are in the process of updating the
radio and computer assisted dispatch and automatic vehicle locator systems on board
of our vehicles. This is in a large part driven by the FCC mandate to have the current
radio system updated by 2012.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on July 12, 2011
Page 3 of 3

 Smart Media Technology update
Bruce Abel indicated that as the Board was advised last month, several technical
issues were identified during the internal testing period that delayed our public
introduction and thus the pilot program in Boulder. The majority of the technical
issues identified have been resolved. One issue remains that relates to our ability to
communicate between the on-bus validators and RTD’s network server system. We
continue to work towards resolution on this remaining issue, but we do not want to
begin the large scale installation on board the buses until this issue is resolved.
General Manager Washington noted that he is not pleased with the delay and that we
are in talks with the contractor along with the executive sponsors to find a way to
catch up on this project schedule.
Director Brohl asked if this project was on the critical path for other impending
projects. John Stark noted that there is a component of the Smart Media system that
is on the critical path for the CAD/AVL system.
II.

Other Matters
Director McMullen added that he recently boarded a light rail train where a fare
inspection took place. The unifying quality between everyone on the rail car was they
all had a paid fare. Director McMullen added that we take for granted how we
operate, and we do not tell our staff enough that they are professional, efficient and
on time.

III.

Next Meeting Date – August 9, 2011

IV.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 6:03 p.m. to the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee.

