May 7, 2019
GM Oversight & Performance Management Committee
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
BOB BROOM: Let's call the GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee meeting,
May 7, to order at 3:39 PM. And why don't we just go around the room, since we're recording,
and say your name and your district for the record? Want to start?
JEFF WALKER: Jeff Walker, Jeff Walker, District D.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Barbara McManus, Executive Manager of Board of Directors.
TROY WHITMORE: Troy Whitmore, District K.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C.
DAVE GENOVA: Dave Genova, General Manager and CEO.
DOUG TISDALE: Doug Tisdale, District H.
BOB BROOM: And Bob Broom, Chairman in District F.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And on the phone.
BOB BROOM: And on the phone, we have Peggy Catlin. Is there anyone else that has joined us
on the phone? Hearing none, I'll say none at this point.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
BOB BROOM: So we've called the meeting to order. And first of all, I'd like to take a moment to
thank Jeff for doing such a fantastic job last year running this Committee. And I wondered, are
there any lessons learned that we should think about before we get started here?
JEFF WALKER: One of the things that I would consider that I didn't consider last year was the
contract status. So last year, we were at the end of a term of the contract. That's not the case this
year. Well, contract issues can still come up, but it's not prescribed by the contract itself. It
probably would have helped last year to buffer in more meetings at the outset then what we did.
But also, always listen and ask for input. So I made a lot of phone calls to the members of the
Committee asking what they thought about various items that came up.
BOB BROOM: And the one thing I noticed as a previous City Manager, I went through a
number of these inquisitions or whatever you want to call them.

[LAUGHTER]
BOB BROOM: And I guess the thing that bothered me the most were the silent people, the ones
that never spoke out one way or the other whether it be happy or unhappy. Because it's awful
hard to change your behavior or your method of operation if you don't get feedback. And the
primary purpose in this process is to provide Dave with input so he can do his job better, and
we're happier about the way he does his job.
So I'd sure encourage everybody to keep that in mind and fill out the surveys when they come
out and get them back in. And of course, we allow the other Board members to fill out surveys as
well, because they're not excluded from this process. They may not attend these meetings, but
they can certainly read the minutes from these meetings and hopefully fill out the surveys when
the time comes. And Barbara, you might give us some background, since you've developed all
these materials about what we're looking at here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK. So the background of this Committee came out of the audit that
was done by the state of Colorado in 2009 where they felt we were deficient in how we were
evaluating the General Manager. And also, part of that audit was to put in place some of the
materials we've been approving over the past couple of months in governance of the Board itself.
So as a response to that audit, a number of policies were worked on in ad hoc committees and put
together. Those policies are the Goal Setting Policy, the Approved Performance Evaluation
Benchmarking, and the Compensation Policy. We review those every year at the end of the year.
We take a look at them and see whether or not there is anything in there that needs to change in
these. I feel periodically that they should be reviewed and reapproved. It's been a number of
years now, so that's something that I'll be suggesting for this year or next year.
BOB BROOM: OK. The next item on the agenda-- I guess that could be Committee
Background-- is approved policies. And I think you hit on the fact. And they're attached to the
agenda here and policies of the Board. Is there anything we need to review in these policies at
this point?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Just to be familiar with them. And as we're going through the process,
if there is something that needs to change or that is contradictory to how we're doing things now
that need to be updated in those policies, we should be taking notes through the year. And when
we look back at them this year or next year, prior to the retreats next year perhaps or during the
retreats next year, that we make those changes. But knowing what needs to change and what's
not working is important.
BOB BROOM: Yeah. And the Compensation Policy just deals with Dave, not other employees
in the organization?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Correct.

BOB BROOM: And I think you alluded to this, Jeff. But last year, we spent a lot of time dealing
with bonuses. And of course, the new contract does not provide for that. So we won't be dealing
with bonuses and making recommendations to the Board this time around.
BARBARA MCMANUS: But I think as you had spoke to, Chair Broom, because that change
was made, it's more important for everybody to be engaged in giving Dave the guidance he needs
as we're moving through. And all of that is documented so that it looks like there is an actual
evaluation going on and that it's not contingent on a bonus of any sort but that there are
comments as we're going through for guidance for Dave, because that was pretty much what they
had cited in the audit, that there wasn't enough guidance.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have a question. I was on the General Managers Oversight
Committee in 2010, '11, '12, and '13. And does the whole Board still do the survey? I think it was
twice a year or something-BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --or quarterly. They still do that. And what was the-- how did it
go last year? Did they all participate? Because we had a hard time getting everybody to do it in
the past.
JEFF WALKER: I made a lot of phone calls.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: He cracked the whip well.
TROY WHITMORE: Arm twister, huh?
DOUG TISDALE: He really did.
BOB BROOM: The other confusing thing is we're really dealing with two different years, 2019
and 2020. And 2019 is the evaluation. We'll have two this year for how things are going this year
based on the goals that are set for this year. And then we'll be setting up for the goals for next
year and for the process this Committee will deal with next year.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah. And as you'll see in the binder, we put last year's survey in
there. Of course, we haven't fleshed everything out yet for the goals for 2020. But 2019 is set.
And so we put a sample in there. It's a much different survey than you're used to, Director-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And these goals are based on last year's Board Senior
Leadership Discussion.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Not this year's.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So just as a point of clarification-- that's what I thought, but OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And then once they're approved, then I go through, and I do this
mapping to make sure that we're hitting all guidance and make sure everything is aligned in the
survey. This is just a sample because we haven't made those decisions yet. And so we'll update
this as we move along.
BOB BROOM: Did the State Auditor ever follow up other than the first, maybe the first year?
BARBARA MCMANUS: We did have to show them what was put in place, which I think was
18 months after the audit was put into place. But they haven't followed up since then.
BOB BROOM: OK. And the other thing, I guess, to talk about is we need to agree on this
process upfront. The thing I don't want to have happen is have Board members who either on this
Committee or not on this Committee come in and want to change the process in the middle,
because that just doesn't make any sense. So I guess it's speak now or forever hold your peace.
And you know, it's really not fair to the new people on this Committee, in one sense, because
they haven't had a chance to review this stuff. But maybe we can talk about when that cutoff date
might be if it's not right now.
DOUG TISDALE: If I may weigh in on that, Mr. Chairman, I think that's a valid point in which
when you say speak now or forever hold your peace. Perhaps it might be recharacterized as
speak soon or forever hold your peace. It's not something that necessarily has to be done on
Tuesday, May 7. But if we're going to proceed with this in a responsible manner, I think it's
appropriate that people say, you know, I don't like this. I'd like to talk about that.
Fine. At the next meeting, bring that up. But then after that, I think we ought to say, OK, we are
all confirmed on this. Let's put hands in the middle here, folks. Let's get buy in and proceed from
there. I think that would be fair to Dave, to this Committee, and to the Board as a whole, and to
each individual member to know, as you say, what the rules of the process are and that we don't
change them midway through.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, one of the things that I came across was folks not-- some members of the
Board in general not discerning between the performance of carrying out the goal and the goal
itself. Some felt that the goals weren't appropriate for this year. So part of the communication
was explaining that the goals were set the previous year, in this case, in 2018, to be carried out
this year and why we have goals and how the goals impact the budget and vice versa. So yes,
being on board, everybody agreeing on what the process is and the elements of that process, the
goals versus the performance of the goals, and who sets the goals, who has what role in it, that's
what's most fair, I believe, to Mr. Genova and the staff that helps us create these questionnaires
and to the Board members who respond to the surveys and questionnaires and provide guidance
through this Committee to Mr. Genova in the performance of his responsibilities.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I guess my preference would be to leave everything as is. We're
all new. Let us go through the process that's been set up. It sounds like it's been thought through
and is pretty inclusive. And then next year, after we get our feet wet and understand more of
what's going on, if we feel like there needs to be a change, then at least we have some
background to base it on. But I'm not all for changing anything at this point. I think we should
just move forward. Because once you -BOB BROOM: That's true. But that's the way I felt last year. And that means you'll never reach
the point where you make any changes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, that might be true, but every year's a whole new year. And
I guess my feeling would be knowing how it started and looking at-- I'm just starting to look at
this information. We are digesting so much right now that it seems like it wouldn't be fair to the
process at all for us to start messing around with it at this point. At least give us maybe-- I don't
know-- six months if you want to or something, but I don't feel comfortable reading all this stuff
and coming back and saying, OK, I want you to change this, this, and this.
BOB BROOM: Barbara, do you have a suggestion?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, it's not a suggestion. But maybe it would be helpful if I just did
a high level review of what happens in the process right now. And then that way, if there is any
questions or comments or overall suggestions on how we fine tune that-- and also, as I said, part
of what we're doing and part of what could change, which is not really changing the process, but
it's giving General Manager Genova the guidance that he needs to get us what we need in a better
manner, fine tuning along the way.
And I think that that's an easier way to do it, that we can sort of just contour as we're moving
along. Not really change the process as a whole, but let's make it more streamlined for
everybody, and then take our notes like we are through the whole process and then do lessons
learned at the end and figure out what we can do better for next year. Which, honestly, we have
been doing every single year. It has been a pretty liquid process, although the core of it has not
changed that much.
BOB BROOM: Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: I'd like to have Barbara-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm good with that.
DOUG TISDALE: --take some time and kind of just walk through, give an overview of the
process. I think it really does help the new members. And it really helps some of us who've been
around to refresh. And I think that's good.
And then you know what we might do, if this is OK with you-- maybe I'm out of order. But after
she does that, perhaps if Dave would give us his own sense of how this process has worked. I
think it helps to get us all grounded on the entire process.

BOB BROOM: Sure, it has to work for him as well.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah. And as we're moving along, I'll just put a few highlights in
there of what has changed along the way that has been helpful so that this body can know what
has helped.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So we start out with the two retreats. This is the second year that
we've done the Directors Retreat and then the Board SLT Retreat. And so that was an initial
change. And that seems to be working out really fabulously. Everybody is really happy with it.
Dave takes all the recommendations back, and he presents to us in April, as he did a few weeks
ago. And I know that he's gotten comments personally from some directors and that that will be
an ongoing process until the summer, six weeks from now or so, whenever that timing works out
that we bring all of them to the full Board for approval. Then, at that point, I do the mapping.
In the meantime, Dave has his cursory marching orders. He has everything that's come out of the
retreat, because business doesn't stop. And so he's moving forward with everything that was
approved. It gets fine tuned as you go along. Dave makes whatever shifts that he has to make.
He presents to us a memo under each category of what he has done, all of the different
highlights. It used to be like a white paper, and the Directors and the GMOC in the past said it's
too much to absorb. It's high level, but it's got some detail to it.
We changed it to only bullet points now. If anybody has any questions on those specific bullet
points, they bring it to this Committee. They bring it to the Chair of the Committee, or they bring
it directly to Dave. He expands on it. He expands on any questions we have in this meeting.
Once Dave sends that out at mid-year, we attach that along with the survey that's been put
together with the goals, all of that information, including the last document from the retreat, are
attached to that email. So you have all the reference materials in front of you as you're going
through the survey to answer the questions. And we give approximately 7 to 10 days for the
survey.
And we asked people. We changed the survey last year where you can open it up and close it and
go back in. That was something else that we've fine tuned along the way that was-- directors
didn't have time to sit down and really think about it and do the job that they thought they should
on the survey. So we worked with the Communications Team, and we made that change.
We continue forward. We look. We talk about the results of the survey. This would be a good
time to talk to General Manager Genova about maybe he's doing a great job all along, but there's
something else that we want to see, or there's more detail that we need to understand where he's
going in a particular direction.

Then we work with him to say, OK, this is what we want you to do. And we move forward. And
then in October, we get another update, and another survey goes out. And then we review
everything and decide what we're going to bring forward if anything at the end of the year based
on the results of Dave's evaluation.
So that's that particular process for this group. And as you can see over the past two or three
years, we have made some changes, listening to the directors and making it easier to understand
and digest and formulate your questions but yet have all the information of what Dave and all of
his teams are doing to hit his goals. Then the second part is just finalizing everything for 2020,
and that's where we'll be moving forward to in having this meeting next year with those same
goals and those surveys.
So the twofold is reviewing Dave for last year's goals from the retreat for 2019 and formalizing
all of the goals for 2020 that we'll move forward with. And at the end of the year, as I said, if
something needs to change in the process or get fine tuned or streamlined in any way that this
body or the full Board feels is important, we make those changes at that point in time. And we
bring them up again when we have the Board Retreat, make sure everybody is happy with those
changes, and then bring everything forward again to the Board SLT Retreat.
BOB BROOM: What happens when a Board member has an issue and he's doing the survey, but
he can't find the place where his issue or his concern fits in. How does he make that known to the
Manager?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, he either calls me and I help them figure out what they want to
ask or what their issue might be, where it falls, or they can call Dave directly.
BOB BROOM: Could you just add a catch-all thing at the end?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Like an other?
BOB BROOM: I thought there was.
DAVE GENOVA: I thought there was a comment section at the end.
DOUG TISDALE: There is.
BARBARA MCMANUS: There is a comment section at the end.
DAVE GENOVA: So if it doesn't attach to any-- and this is an area, if I might Mr. Chair, I think
this is an area where we've made significant improvement. So I'll talk about the evaluation
process first with the survey. So through Barbara's work with our team over in Marketing
Research that develops the survey, I think over the last few years there's been a lot of
improvement in matching up the survey question with the goal and then the specific criteria that
means whether you've met or exceeded that goal.

So those are matched very directly now. But I believe this very question, Chairman Broom, that
you brought up about-- well, what if I have a comment that doesn't relate? I don't like this, or I
want to say yes about this. Is there a place where I could make those comments? And I think
there is a section at the end of last year's survey-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Is this it?
DAVE GENOVA: --that it's just-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. "If you have any comments on the General Manager's
performance year to date, please provide them using the space below."
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah. So I think there is that opportunity. But I think we'll continue to be
sensitive about that, about whether there's room to improve that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, we did add it to the end. It was asked that under each goal
whether there could be comments. But that starts really not getting us the results in the survey
that we want, because all of the comments come in, and they don't always really apply. We
decided to put it all in the bottom, and the Directors could make their comments as they were
moving along. And then we would see all those comments in the broad raw data form and use
that as an evaluation tool for the General Manager in this group.
BOB BROOM: Yeah, that makes sense.
DAVE GENOVA: I believe, though, for each place where you do a survey response, you can
actually put a comment that's specific to that item, right?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I don't know.
DAVE GENOVA: I think so, because I thought recalled seeing, I selected this. I selected
Achieved because of this, or I selected Exceeded.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Oh, so some have it, and some don't.
BOB BROOM: Yeah.
DAVE GENOVA: Yes.
JEFF WALKER: What we did was we added a comment space if the person rated Not Achieved
or Exceeded. So they could-DAVE GENOVA: Put a rationale.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, so they could explain why they felt that the goal wasn't met or was
exceeded.

DAVE GENOVA: Which is very helpful. That's very helpful feedback for me, especially if it's a
Needs Improvement in the mind of a Director. Then it's important for me to know why the
Director thought that and if there's something we can do differently or not. That's good
information.
But it's also helpful to have just general comments, because there are-- I think one of the
frustrations with the process, I think, has been with some Directors-- I wouldn't say even a
majority here or certainly not all-- is that, well, these goals are fine and good, but I want to say
some other things. So where can I do that? And that's where, that at the end of the survey. And
that's helpful information too.
BOB BROOM: Now, is this a secret ballot versus you'll know who made the comments so that
you can deal with the comment.
DAVE GENOVA: It's anonymous. We can in terms of what I see.
BARBARA MCMANUS: They can choose to put their name. We can set it up to choose.
BOB BROOM: Yeah I mean, I have no problem with having my name on the one that I fill out
and send in. But some people are worried that maybe they're the only one that doesn't put their
name on it. I don't know.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, in the survey, folks can see who has done it and who hasn't
done it. But they don't share that information unless this group asks for it.
JEFF WALKER: And one thing that I found is that by talking to people, you'll recognize the
comments that were written-DOUG TISDALE: You'll know.
JEFF WALKER: --with the comments that were said. So it's easy to-DOUG TISDALE: If they are extended comments. Some people, if they just fill out the fill in the
bubbles and do not add any comments, it's hard to know who that is. But if they actually make an
extended comment, you probably can tell. If it's a shorter comment, you may not be able to tell.
But looking at the reports that are received each year-- and I think that the Former Chair Walker
will validate that-- people have generally, out of the 15 directors, we've probably had-[THUNDER]
BOB BROOM: Moses is going to come out.
DOUG TISDALE: And I say again, my friends-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It's been a long time since I've heard thunder.

DOUG TISDALE: But we've had 12 to 13 who have been really, really good about absolutely
getting full comments and giving careful attention. And one or two maybe as many as three in
any given year are not as engaged, to go back to Second Vice Chair's comment. They all do. One
or two may not be as engaged, but they're engaged. And I think, as I said, that has to go to
Former Chair Walker in terms of getting those people to respond, because that was a trick. And
you did it, and that was good.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So based on the changes that I've outlined and we've made over the
past couple of years, this is a draft document that we always work on and send out, the different
dates, the targets for Dave and staff, and as well as moving forward to how it gets evaluated,
how, every year, finance has to get RubinBrown to come in and do its review of the General
Manager's Compensation and the process that, of course, is driven by the budget.
DAVE GENOVA: So, Mr. Chair?
BOB BROOM: Yes?
DAVE GENOVA: If I could just make one other comment, because it's just to reiterate. So
there's the evaluation process that we go through. So that's the current year. And then there's goal
setting process right for next year. And we all have to be, [LAUGHS] and myself and the staff
included, cautious of which one we're working on, because it's pretty much a parallel process in
terms of time. And so I'm certainly very cognizant of that. So we try to make sure we're keeping
the things as separate as we possibly can.
DOUG TISDALE: There is a temptation to blur. And you have to keep some sharp distinctions.
But we keep on saying it over and over. And Former Chair Walker did a good job.
Remember, the evaluation is based upon what we said last year we want to see this year. And
then at the same time, we get to say, and here's what we want to see next year. It isn't rocket
science. It's not that complicated.
Some people will profess confusion. But it isn't rocket science. We set some goals last year,
some measures. We now look at those and say, how is he doing?
And then we say, what do we want to see next year? It's really pretty simple. And so when
people say, well, I don't understand what we're doing here, I just go through that same speech I
just gave, and I talk slowly.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And we have the pyramid that is our-DOUG TISDALE: That's right.
BARBARA MCMANUS: --guiding structure.

TROY WHITMORE: I think you talking slowly, Mr. Chair, is very helpful. Because it's going to
be tempting to blur, especially when we don't have buy in on the goals from last year, but we're
evaluating you on those. And then we're thinking back to the retreat, which was not last year's
goals. Those are the '20 goals, correct?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Right.
DAVE GENOVA: Correct.
TROY WHITMORE: So yeah, just keep talking slow.
[LAUGHTER]
BARBARA MCMANUS: And I think it's helpful as we're going through the process that we
reiterate many times where we are in the process and what we're speaking of in that moment.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah, that would be helpful.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I guess, in my head, I'm thinking these are present goals. But
we're also looking at 2020 goals. And so what we're working on right now is the present goals.
Rather than saying last year, I would just say the present goals today are blah in keeping it
simple in that sense. Otherwise, I think it does get blurry.
BOB BROOM: Well, particularly-JEFF WALKER: I have to take that-- day job call.
BOB BROOM: --if they overlap.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah.
TROY WHITMORE: Yeah, or if one affects the other, that's when-DAVE GENOVA: Well, in some years, sometimes strategic priorities carry year to year. They've
found some real common themes, which isn't necessarily a bad thing. We just try to advance to
the next piece of that.
TROY WHITMORE: Sure.
BOB BROOM: Yeah.
DAVE GENOVA: And I'll just make one other comment on the evaluation process. So when we
do the first survey, it's around a June time frame. It's really only based on information that we
have available almost through May and/or the First Quarter Performance Report. So for it to be
done mid-year, there's kind of a lag.

And then even the year end one, because the contract says it, and I think the processes that we
agreed to with the state said that the evaluation has to be done before the end of the year. So the
Year End Evaluation that we do probably in an October time frame is probably six to seven
months worth of the year. So those are just things we all have to keep in mind. And so what I do
with that second one is we just try to do as best a job we can to project that while this one isn't
done, it's scheduled to be done this month. Or it's that kind of a thing.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And then I'd like to add that every month at the Board meeting, Dave
speaks out to a lot of the events and travels that he's done with how we're moving forward, FRA,
FTA, PUC, and then also the Friday Memo. So all of those items help us with seeing how we're
moving forward. And then when we get that half year list prior to the survey, I encourage that
everybody go back and look at those Friday Memos and read through them so that when we're at
the half year and end year mark, we sort of answer some of our own questions with the high level
bullet points of where Dave feels he is because he's provided that information to us in so many
other ways up until that point.
BOB BROOM: You probably need to package that and send it out.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah, we could do that.
BOB BROOM: Because for everybody to go back and try to dig those out, they're not going to
do it.
BARBARA MCMANUS: They're not going to do it. I would agree.
BOB BROOM: And they can just use that as a reference if they want to.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Mhm.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, I think a file that says Cumulative Friday Memos, Jan. 1 through
March 31 or whatever, collect them quarterly and just have them there so that, yes, you can.
Again, the goal is to make sure every Director has access to as much information as we possibly
reasonably can. And once they have that, then we say, would you please now evaluate how is the
General Manager doing on this year's goals? And I like that, just to say, this year's goals. And
what do we want to see as set up for next year's goals.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So what's our thought about perhaps sending that documentation out
since we have it cumulatively prior to the survey and the response? Just a couple of weeks gives
everybody time to go back and read through it. It's fresh. It's front of mind. But at the same time,
it's not overwhelming in that 10-day period where you have to read everything and do the
evaluation.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I would just like it to read 2019 Goals.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Oh, yeah.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So that I know that-BARBARA MCMANUS: Everything's labeled correctly.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, this is this year's goals.
BOB BROOM: Peggy, if you're still on the phone, do you have any comments?
PEGGY CATLIN: Um-- [LAUGHS]
BOB BROOM: I'm sorry. We couldn't hear you.
DOUG TISDALE: She expressed humor. I heard that. But then she squelched us and put us back
on mute. Are you back on, Madam Vice Chair? She may have inadvertently hung up when she
was switching back and forth between mute.
PEGGY CATLIN: I apologize. I don't want to become a distracted driver. So no, I don't have
any comments. I appreciated the refresh of the process and also Troy's comments regarding
making sure that we understand the difference between the 2019 goals and future goals. So I just
was puzzled. For me, it's a refresher. Thank you.
BOB BROOM: Thank you. Where are we at on this agenda?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Oh, let's see.
DOUG TISDALE: If I may, let me just ask. Because I know at some point, Director Lewis
thought she might be on. Do we want to ask if she is on the phone now?
BOB BROOM: Director Lewis, are you on the phone?
DOUG TISDALE: OK, I thought we might just confirm.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I didn't hear anybody else speaking. Well, I think we've gone over all
of the elements on a cursory level. So maybe we should go to questions and next steps, if there's
any questions to date that haven't been asked yet.
DAVE GENOVA: We want to talk about timeline a little further.
DOUG TISDALE: I was just going to say. May I suggest that we actually go back to Agenda C?
Because we've outlined the background and the policies that have previously been approved, so
we have that. So we're not in need of ratifying or reaffirming those now. They simply stand as
submitted.
But the proposed 2019-2020 Goal Setting and Evaluation Timeline, that's the sheet that now Ms.
McManus has provided to us, which we've already gone through some of these dates. And here

we are now in to May of 2019. Is it appropriate, Mr. Chair, for us to see are their thoughts,
comments, recommendations for change concerning this proposed timeline?
BOB BROOM: Well, I guess first, is it a problem for staff to meet the timeline?
DAVE GENOVA: No, we're working diligently. In fact, I think tomorrow I'll be submitting the
first draft of the proposed Core and Task Goals for 2020. I'm about complete with it. But it's
right here. That was the biggest concern I had about schedule was meeting that date, but the
whole team's been working diligently to make sure we're prepared. And we are.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We also worked with General Manager Genova and Heather
McKillop to make sure that the dates, because everything runs parallel to the budget, fits in to
where Dave has to hit his goals, and we do the survey. So we sort of do that behind the scenes
prior to making the schedule, and we try to figure out as many conflicts as we can. And in
Section 2 of your binder, there is a full list of the whole timeline and the meeting dates.
DAVE GENOVA: Good.
BOB BROOM: And that's pretty much the same information that's what's on here?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
BOB BROOM: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: It's much easier to read though.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Do we meet monthly, or do we meet quarterly? What's the time?
I'm trying to see it on here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: There's really no frequency.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: There used to be a bigger gap in the middle. But with trying to hit the
budget guidelines and everything else-BOB BROOM: Yeah, we have eight more meetings, and they're shown in here next to the dates.
And they're all in this room, and they're all at 3:30 as I recall.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Some start at 3:00
BOB BROOM: Some start at 3:00.
DAVE GENOVA: Next week's is 3:00.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And there's one that starts at 4:00.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, they're right here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And as we're moving through, if we can combine some meetings or
we deem that we're ahead of the schedule or where we need to be, this can be changed. But we
took the last two years worth of meeting minutes and meeting agendas and put together this
schedule based on some of the changes that are being made in the budget process, different
things that drive the dates. But this Committee can choose. Once we get our work done, we can
decide what works best.
BOB BROOM: So our next meeting is-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: May 14.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Next Tuesday.
BOB BROOM: Next week.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
BOB BROOM: And that agenda will just have one item on it. Is that correct?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, yes, and if I may, Mr. Chair, just give the Committee a preview of what
to expect next week.
BOB BROOM: OK.
DAVE GENOVA: Because it will be a two-hour meeting, and we'll probably need every minute,
because we'll go through a lot of information. But so this week in the packet, the Board will
receive what looks like a memo from me. And it's titled the "Proposed Core and Task Goals for
2020." And so next Tuesday at the next meeting, I will walk the Committee through what I
propose that the core and the task goals to be.
And the core goals, a long-standing practice has been the core goals have been taken from the
job description. And they really don't change much year to year. Occasionally, we might fine
tune those or tweak them as necessary. And then the task goals come right from-- the strategic
priorities then turn into the task goals. So that's the difference between a core goal and a task
goal.
And so for 2020, I've made no recommended changes to the proposed core goals. But in the
memo that you will receive, just kind of a hint on maybe how to focus your attention in an easier
way to maybe read it, so I give a little bit of information in the paragraph, but then it's just split
up in two. It states what the goal is, and then there's a section on Needs Improvement, what it
means to Need Improvement, what it means to Achieve the goal, and what it means to Exceed.
You'll notice as soon as you look at one, the Needs Improvement piece is essentially the same as
what's an Achieved Goal. But what it says under Needs Improvement, it says, "the GM fails to

do any one of these things." Whereas in the Achieved Goal, it says, "Achieved Goal means that
we do everything there." So it says this and this and this and this.
So what I would pay attention to is just you can go right to the Achieved Goal, and that will tell
you what it means for us to Achieve the goal. And then if you're interested, then in what I put in
the Exceed Expectations, and these are really the things that are more aspirational and more of a
reach and more of a stretch for us to meet. And I think one Board member referred to it as the
wow factor or something.
Whereas I see where the tactical plan addresses the year because we're set up on a year, and so I
actually reached out to that Board member and explained where you will see those kinds of
aspirational things is in the Exceed criteria. So those are really the two categories. The Achieved
Goal and the Exceed is where I would focus energy.
And then of course, the core goals being that they don't change much from year to year, that
doesn't mean they're not up for discussion. They are. But I think that the real meat of attaching
what the Board selected as the strategic priorities for 2020 are the task goals. So you will see
those things fleshed out under the task goals.
And so I did. And you'll see in the paragraph. We listened well or tried to listen well at the
presentation of the strategic priorities. So there are some things that have been added under a
couple of the task goals that particularly addressed the one issue about geographic service
standards and fairness and equity.
So I put a piece under the transit equity. But then there's a couple under a couple other goals that
address what I believe was the lion's share of that conversation. So I really tried to take-- and the
team, we all work on this-- the input that we heard there. And since I sent out a reminder email, I
have heard back from one Board member who gave me some comments.
And so we really take those seriously and try to incorporate them in as best as they apply in the
big picture of what the goal is. And certainly, we can't put every bit of detail in there. And I have
heard back from a couple of the SLT after I've sent the draft around, after everybody's worked on
the compilation, that it's very aggressive.
[LAUGHTER]
BARBARA MCMANUS: He laughs. He laughs.
DAVE GENOVA: And I said, well, is there-[SIDE CONVERSATION]
DAVE GENOVA: So those first couple of quotes, I said, well, is there something I should
adjust? Just let me know, just like we give the Board opportunity for input too.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, and that's part of what we'll do next week. Dave will present.
And then if something that he has in a different category that needs to be moved or adjusted or
change the verbiage on it, then this body goes through and fine tunes that and decides what's
going to be brought forward to the Board for the full Board to approve.
And just so everybody on this team knows, everybody gets the GMOC and the Executive
Committee agendas. There should be no surprises. It's not just this body that sees all of the
information that we're discussing here. If there is a hot topic or something that is questioned or
needs to change, after this meeting, I'll probably send out an email, or if the Chair wants me to
craft it and he wants to send it out to the full Board. Or perhaps in the Board meeting next week,
you want to speak to the fact that it's open to everybody. Any comments should come to you or
to Dave or to the Board Office, and they'll be addressed as we move through in this process.
BOB BROOM: Yeah, one area that concerns me is safety. We seem to be having a terrible rash
of really serious accidents, either where there's people stepping out in front of a train or I can't
understand how a train can hit the back end of a truck. I'm sure there's a logical reason why that
happened and everything.
But there doesn't seem to be a reporting mechanism so that we get fully briefed on all those
situations after the cops have had a chance to review and all that kind of stuff. I mean, obviously,
you have to let us know it happened when it happened. But it's going to take several weeks
before you really have any definitive explanation of some of these. And I don't know what to do
about this Golden Gate Bridge thing where these people are stepping out in front of-- unless you
put up huge fences, and you can't.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I don't think you can. I do think, though, that we have an
opportunity to really start educating people on keeping themselves safe. Because what's
happening more and more is people have got those headphones in, and they're looking at their
phones. And it's becoming a huge, obviously, safety hazard. People are dying because they're not
engaged. And I think we just regionally need to do some something with that.
BOB BROOM: Well, out at the event in Arvada, or Wheat Ridge, I guess, we all crossed. And
those things were flashing like crazy. And so here we are, Board members, really doing
something that we shouldn't be doing.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah, in that particular case, I know exactly what you're talking about. It's
when the train pulled into the station. And so that caused that observation. Henry said, well, I got
to ask DTP about this design. So since that train has pulled into the station, should that flasher be
going? Because it's going to go to the tail track. It's not going to come back out. There's not
another train coming. So we're asking those questions around those things. Because, certainly,
you're right. That's not a good thing.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It causes confusion.

DAVE GENOVA: Yeah, it creates confusion. And for example, when we had the accident on
Friday where the gentleman opened the swing gate and stepped out, we could see from the video
that those flashes were working. And it looks like he had an earbud-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Earbuds on, yeah.
DAVE GENOVA: And this side, it looks like we see a cable. But the person, he pulled the swing
gate. And that's the intention of the swing gate is that a person has to stop-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And open it.
DAVE GENOVA: --and make an intentional act. They have to pull it towards them.
TROY WHITMORE: You can almost step back to where you would have another opportunity,
but-DAVE GENOVA: Yeah. So it's unfortunate. But I appreciate the comment, Chair Broom, about
doing a better job of reporting out after the accident reports are finalized. And sometimes the
timing can vary on those depending on the jurisdiction and depending on the severity. But I've
got that noted, and we'll do that.
DOUG TISDALE: If I may follow up on that, Mr. Chair, and that is the notion of
communication is not just something that the Board keeps reminding itself of to communicate, to
collaborate, to cooperate. We look at staff, and we tell you the same thing. You look at us and
should tell us the same thing. We look at our stakeholders communicating, particularly when you
have, as Chair Broom points out, incidents like this.
And the semi truck is something where you have the opportunity and the ability at every single
Committee meeting and Board meeting when we turn it over to you for comments to say, and let
me update you on this too. And I think we all really do appreciate that because we get questions
out in the community. People ask us what happened.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And so just to piggyback on that, the first thing that came into
my mind was total shock and fear only because, is that the crossing that the PUC had questions
about? And I know that if I'm thinking that, other Board members are going to be thinking the
same thing.
BOB BROOM: Or was it a fuel truck full of-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Exactly.
DOUG TISDALE: Right.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Exactly. So I just was at a-TROY WHITMORE: At a different crossing, right?

DAVE GENOVA: Yes, this accident with the semi that occurred was at Sable Crossing, the
crossing that both the PUC and the FRA, and frankly, we have concerns about it too, because it
gets towards behavior and alternate routes that are available that people could choose to use is
Chambers. And that's where there's a hazardous materials traffic.
TROY WHITMORE: When I realized that other one, I said, that's not the [INAUDIBLE] that we
hoped it wouldn't be. It doesn't make a hell of a lot of difference.
DAVE GENOVA: No, it doesn't.
TROY WHITMORE: A little, but not much. Yeah, that thought too was, ah.
DAVE GENOVA: Well, you know-- well, we could take that up another time. But I've got some
ideas around this. Because when I was in my former seat and before the advent of social media
and information flying around, I used to put out a summary on every accident of a serious nature
to the Board pretty quickly, like as soon as I had kind of at least the preliminary information that
I was comfortable making public.
And just in the instantaneous world of everything of information getting out there, we kind of got
away from that. But maybe that's something I need to reinstitute that we do, even after you
receive a short email with the summary. And we can do that.
BOB BROOM: Any other questions or business before this Committee?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, I would just like to add on that. Before Pauletta sent out that
email, I'd already called the Board Office because a constituent of mine was on the train and
called me in a panic and said what happened
DOUG TISDALE: Wow.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So that's how fast information is now flying around, just so that
we understand it. And I've learned just to call Barbara, because I have no idea. But really, it's
moving pretty fast.
DAVE GENOVA: Yes.
TROY WHITMORE: It's hard to be faster than Next Door.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It is. Or having a constituent on the train or whatever.
TROY WHITMORE: Yeah, that's about as fast as you can go.
DAVE GENOVA: And then it's always difficult to distinguish what really happened versus-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Right.

DAVE GENOVA: I can't tell you, and I've been doing this a long time. Because you hear one
thing, then you see another thing. Then you hear another thing. And I can't tell you how many
iterations of yesterday's accident I've heard from different people that are fairly credible sources.
But I'm like, what really happened? So it's another reason we're cautious about how much we put
out until we really get our arms around it.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, and another example is the article that came out earlier today on
the Wi-Fi, which we're discussing tonight. And the article is really not representative of what's
actually happening. And so it just causes churn.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, I got a phone call about that one too. People are really
paying attention to RTD's information and are acting on it.
DOUG TISDALE: That's because there's so much good happening, you see? And that's all right.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's right.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Chairman, if I may, I would, for the sake of the record, like to suggest
that there has been no objection stated regarding the proposed 2019-2020 GM Goal Setting and
Evaluation Timeline and therefore the same be deemed adopted so that Dave has a specific
roadmap in front of him as we go forward. And then, if I may couple with that, we've had some
discussion on his performance evaluation process and mapping, which is really part of this same
document. And again, I have noted no objection being raised as to that process and mapping. So
I would ask at this time for consensus that the record reflect that the Committee has approved the
timeline and the evaluation process and mapping as submitted to us.
BOB BROOM: Does anybody have a problem with that?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Nope.
BOB BROOM: OK. Sounds good.
TROY WHITMORE: So other members of this Committee are Vince and Shontel?
BARBARA MCMANUS: And Peggy?
TROY WHITMORE: And Peggy, well, yes, She was on the phone. I can't remember.
DOUG TISDALE: Peggy's not a member of the Committee.
BOB BROOM: Peggy's just listening in.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It's seven of us, and seven are directors.
DOUG TISDALE: She's just monitoring.

PEGGY CATLIN: Hello.
[LAUGHTER]
BOB BROOM: And that's right.
DOUG TISDALE: And she's still monitoring, right?
TROY WHITMORE: She's just thorough.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, I am.
DOUG TISDALE: That's right. But yeah, it's Director Lewis, and Director Buzek is the Vice
Chair of the Committee with Chair Broom.
BOB BROOM: Well, I guess it is 4:35. And we'll adjourn the meeting.
JEFF WALKER: Oh, I'm sorry. So one quick thing, I just wanted to let for your information and
for the two new Board members, Ms. McManus helped keep me on track, helped keep this
Committee on track all last year. And whatever Mr. Tisdale had to say about my performance is
really a reflection-[LAUGHTER]
--all the good things are a reflection on Ms. McManus. She brought a deep well of knowledge on
all of this, the history, the present, the process moving forward. She had it all. So if you have any
questions, Ms. McManus is the one you want to talk to.
BOB BROOM: Not the Chairman.
[LAUGHTER]
JEFF WALKER: We know.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Not the Chairman, I will share it all with the Chairman.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, but she did a fantastic job of keeping everything on track last year. OK,
that's it.
BOB BROOM: There's a lot of detail.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, a lot of stuff.
BOB BROOM: There's a lot of stuff in this Committee. I got you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, we're adjourned at 4:34.

DOUG TISDALE: 4:34.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin, we're signing off.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

