Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on August 10, 2010
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

August 13, 2010

Subject:

Summary of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held
August 10, 2010 in Rooms R, T & D

Board
Members Present:

Directors
Absent:

Committee Chair Tayer, Vice Chair James, Directors Bagley, Brohl,
Christopher, Cohen, Daly, Kemp, Malpiede, Martinez, McMullen, O’Boyle,
and Tobiassen
Directors Busck and Pulliam

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jessie Carter, Rick Clark, Carolyn Conover, Sherry Ellebracht,
Dave Genova, Mike Gil, Bill Holmes, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Marla
Lien, Brian Matthews, Doug MacLeod, Tony McCaulay, Anthony Menendez,
Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Scott Reed, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna, Cal
Shankster, John Shonsey, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Jeff Leib - The Denver Post

*******************************************************************
Call to Order:
Chair Tayer called the Financial Administration and Audit Committee to order
at 6:35 p.m.
I.

Recommended Actions
Terry Howerter, CFO and Doug MacLeod presented the Proposed 2010 Amended Budget.
Proposed 2010 Amended Budget
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt Resolution No. ___, Series of 2010 to amend and appropriate funds for the
proposed 2010 Amended Budget, to increase the appropriation, in thousands, by $316,374 to
$1,300,950 as detailed below in the Overview of the 2010 Budget Amendment, and to
decrease the appropriation, in thousands, of the Capital Carry forward (Previously Approved
Capital Funds) by $(111,855) to $565,285.
Chair Tayer thanked staff for the excellent work done on the budget preparation.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on August 10, 2010
Page 2 of 4

Motion:

Director Bagley made a motion to forward
the above action with suggested changes
to the August 17, 2010 Board meeting
agenda.

Second:

Director Cohen seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

2011-2016 Strategic Budget Plan
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the 2011-2016 Strategic Budget Plan (SBP).
Terry Howerter, RTD CFO went through this item. Terry indicated that the detailed analysis
used to provide information in the packet is available in the Board Office for review. The
staffs recommended option is #5.
Terry Howerter talked about what it would take to balance the TDP in 2012 and give a
balance throughout the reminder of the period. A $33 million decrease in operating expenses
or a 33 million increase in revenue would fix the 208 million dollar deficit. A onetime $33
million dollar adjustment would wind up in 2016 with a TDR balance of $65.9 million. This
could be done through the help of a Sustainability Committee.
Director Martinez thanked staff for the reports and expressed concern over approving the
budget plan before the Board has received the results of the public hearings. He also
requested that going forward that when we are faced with service cuts by elimination of
routes; it needs to be crystal clear that service hours are increasing that year.
Terry Howerter indicated that staff will come back with the 2011 budget and the budget plan
(fare increase) can be changed at that time in the event public input comes back negative.
Chair Kemp thanked staff and commented on the clarity of the reports.
Director Christopher would like it to be clear when going out to public hearing that this is
Staff’s recommendation and not the Board’s.
Director Bagley stressed the important part tonight is the 18.6 million. His concern is the way
things look when we are asked to increase fares and cut service.
Please see the 2011-2016 Strategic Budget Plan for more information.
Bruce Abel informed the Board that in order to move forward with the January
recommendations, staff will be coming back to the board next month with a preliminary list of
service adjustments. Staff will request going forward to public hearing so they can come
back in October and secure the Board’s approval of whatever service adjustment are
necessary to be implemented with the January run board.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on August 10, 2010
Page 3 of 4

Board Members stressed that for conceptual budgeting purposes we will move forward a
proposal with an understanding that we will get the service changes and some re-evaluation
with other options to have a final approval of the strategic budget plan next month.
Staff clarified that they will not have all of the public comment when they come back in
September. They will only have 2/3 of the data from public hearings.
Director Tayer reiterated what he heard from the Board – they would like to see different
increments in terms of service changes and what that will actually result in - in terms of
percentage drop in service. What is impact of reducing operating reserve? Are there any red
flags we need to watch out for in terms of credit rating?
Director Martinez requested that when staff brings back the information, it would be helpful
if it were in a scale format.

Motion:

Director O’Boyle made a motion to
forward the above action with suggested
changes to the August 17, 2010 Board
meeting agenda – given the comments on
the flexibility of the options we move
forward option 5 subject to changes.

Second:

Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 9 in favor and 3
against (Christopher, Brohl and Martinez)
Director Daly left the meeting before the
vote.

The next two action items were adopted with one vote.
Goldman Sachs Contract Extension
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to amend the contract with
Goldman Sachs for financial advisory services for the Eagle Project to extend the end of the
performance period from August 31, 2010 to August 31, 2011 at a monthly fixed fee of
$60,000 per month.
Selection of Investment Bankers
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the following firms to provide investment banking services to the District
for the five years beginning September 1, 2010 and ending August 31, 2015.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on August 10, 2010
Page 4 of 4

II.

Motion:

Director Kemp made a motion to forward
the above action to the August 17, 2010
Board meeting agenda.

Second:

Director McMullen seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

Long Range Fiscal Sustainability Task Force
Chair Tayer discussed the Task Force with the Board. Director Tobiassen requested that
the meeting times be held in the evening so those who work during the day can attend.
Chair Kemp wants to make sure there is a consensus from the Board so we can make this
happen. Logistics can be worked out later.

III.

Second Quarter Internal Audit Report
Bill Holmes, Internal Auditor presented this item to the Board. Going forward, complete
audits will be provided to the Board as they are finished.

IV.

Second Quarter 2010 Investment Report
There were no questions on this item.

V.

Cost Model Update
Todd Nikkel gave a brief and basic update on the Cost Model. Please see report for
details.

VI.

June 2010 Financial Status Report
Terry Howerter talked about Sales Taxes – see page 99. The State notified RTD that they
received a substantial overpayment of sales taxes (2.6 million) and it will be refunded over
a 12 month period starting in August.

VII.

2010 Ballot Initiatives Potential Impact – Amendments 60, 61 and Proposition 101
Terry Howerter quickly presented this item to the Board. Please the see back up for
impact to RTD.

VIII.

Other Matters
No other matters were discussed.

IX.

Next Meeting Date – The next meeting of the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee will be September 7, 2010.

X.

Adjourn
Chair Tayer declared the Financial Administration and Audit Committee meeting adjourned
at 8:30 p.m.

