Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Shelley Cook, District L
Bob Broom, District F
Vince Buzek, District J
Claudia Folska, District E
Lynn Guissinger, District O
Shontel M. Lewis, District B

Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Communications & Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, April 2, 2019
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Communications & Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Lynn Guissinger

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions
C. Updates

• Communications Update
• Local Update - CRL Associates
• State Update - Brandeberry McKenna
• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs
D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - June 4, 2019
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: March 27, 2019

From:

Pauletta Tonilas, Assistant General Manager,
Communications

GM

Date:

March 27, 2019

Board Meeting Date:

Subject:

Communications Update

ATTACHMENTS:


Communications Committee Presentation 4.2.19

(PPTX)

Prepared by:
Pauletta Tonilas, Assistant General Manager, Communications
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 3

RTD Board Communications Update

Pauletta Tonilas, AGM Communications

Attachment: Communications Committee Presentation 4.2.19 (3782 : Communications Update)

1.C.1.a

Packet Pg. 4

Attachment: Communications Committee Presentation 4.2.19 (3782 : Communications Update)

1.C.1.a

Strategic Communications Process
• Developing a clear, shared vision and goals for the
Communications Department focused on three
overarching goals:
– Build an image of trust, transparency and accountability
– Develop a strategic communications roadmap
– Optimize the Communications Department as a collaborative,
dynamic, accountable, high-performing team

Packet Pg. 5

Attachment: Communications Committee Presentation 4.2.19 (3782 : Communications Update)

1.C.1.a

2020 Board Priority – Communications
• One of the 2020 Board Priorities:
• Strengthen communications, collaboration and
transparency
– Enhance engagement opportunities to diverse audiences
– Foster community partnerships
– Expand internal communications
– Establish a proactive media strategy
– Explore new marketing programs
– Enhance customer information

Packet Pg. 6

Attachment: Communications Committee Presentation 4.2.19 (3782 : Communications Update)

1.C.1.a

Media Visits
• Visiting news outlets to get acquainted with media
partners, provide updates about RTD projects and
initiatives, answer questions, and solidify our working
relationships
• Completed so far:

– Denver Post
– Denver Business Journal
– Streetsblog Denver
– KOA NewsRadio
– CBS4
– 5280 Magazine
– 9News
– Colorado Community Media

Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: Communications Committee Presentation 4.2.19 (3782 : Communications Update)

1.C.1.a

Rail Openings
G Line
• Ready to move swiftly to launch public education and
marketing plan

Southeast Extension – SERE
• VIP Reception – Thursday, May 16
• Grand Opening Ceremony – Friday, May 17
• Station Parties and Free Rides – Saturday, May 18
• Emergency Preparedness Drill
– Held on Saturday, March 23
– RTD, South Metro Fire & Lone Tree Police

Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: Communications Committee Presentation 4.2.19 (3782 : Communications Update)

1.C.1.a

50th Anniversary Plans
Theme: The People Who Move People
Community Engagement
• Customer Appreciation Pop-ups
• Selfie Stations
• RTD Director Involvement
Digital
• 50th Anniversary Webpage

Events

• Weekly Blog Posts

• Customer Appreciation Events

• Historical Digital Photo Library

• Large-Scale Celebration in mid-July

• Dynamic Social Media Campaign

Marketing

Internal

• Rail and Bus Wraps

• Employee Engagement Contests

• Radio Spots
• TV Traffic Sponsorships

Packet Pg. 9

Attachment: Communications Committee Presentation 4.2.19 (3782 : Communications Update)

1.C.1.a

CAC’s Refreshed Role
• After evaluating the CAC’s original and revised role and Mobile Lab
session input provided by the group in January 2019, it is a good
time to adapt the CAC Mission and Function to reflect RTD’s evolving
system and changing needs for the region’s mobility.
• Proposed revised role pending CAC concurrence and Board approval:
– Provide region-oriented advice to the District as RTD evaluates and
implements current and future mobility needs
– Represent the citizen perspective on behalf of a wide range of
stakeholder and community interests
– Participate in engagement opportunities for RTD projects and initiatives
– Assess and report stakeholder and public input received through CACinvolved engagement processes
– Promote public awareness of the agency’s programs, projects and
initiatives

Packet Pg. 10

Questions?
Attachment: Communications Committee Presentation 4.2.19 (3782 : Communications Update)

1.C.1.a

Packet Pg. 11

1.C.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: March 27, 2019

From:

Pauletta Tonilas, Assistant General Manager,
Communications

GM

Date:

March 27, 2019

Board Meeting Date: April 2, 2019

Subject:

Local Update - CRL Associates

ATTACHMENTS:


CRL LGR Report 03-26-19



Initiative 300 Potential Impacts to City Operations 02.26.19



RTD Initiative 300 Overview 04-02-19

(PDF)
(PDF)

(PPTX)

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 12

Date:

March 26, 2019

To:

Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer

From:

Roger Sherman

Subject:

Local Government Relations Update

Below is our update for April 2019:
1. Metro Mayors Caucus (MMC) – The next full Caucus meeting is Wednesday, April 3
from 7:30-10 AM at the Denver Metro Chamber of Commerce, 1445 Market St. The
agenda includes updates on what is happening at the legislature, the efforts of the
Regional Air Quality Council, and the latest on the efforts being undertaken by the
MMC’s Transportation and Housing Committees. There also will be updates on local
ballot issues that could have wider implications for the region.
2. Denver Municipal Elections – Denver will hold its municipal election for mayor and all
13 city council districts on May 7. There are six candidates for mayor, three candidates
for Clerk & Recorder and 71 candidates for city council (district and at-large). Council
members Kevin Flynn, Jolon Clark and Paul Kashmann are unopposed and will be
returning to council. Also, on the ballot is Initiative 300, the Right to Survive, which
would allow individuals to engage in activities, such as resting and sheltering oneself in a
non-obstructive manner, in outdoor public places.
3. Colorado Municipal League (CML) Conference – The CML Summer conference is
June 18-21 in Breckenridge. I believe this conference provides a valuable opportunity for
RTD Board Members to interact with local elected officials in a more casual setting. If
you will be attending part or all of the conference, I am happy to help schedule one-onone meeting with elected officials and staff during the week. CRL will be hosting a
dinner on Tuesday, June 18 from 6:30-9 p.m. Please let me know if you and a guest
would like to attend.

1660 Lincoln Street, Suite 1800, Denver, CO 80264 p. 303.592.5450 f. 303.592.5460 www.crlassociates.com

Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: CRL LGR Report 03-26-19 (3783 : Local Update - CRL Associates)

1.C.2.a

1.C.2.b

This memo outlines potential impacts to City operations should Initiative 300 on the May 2019
municipal ballot become law. The proposed ordinance would grant broad rights for people to
shelter themselves from the elements in public spaces, including parks, sidewalks in front of
private businesses and homes, and the 16th Street Mall. The following ordinances are intended
to be superseded if the measure is adopted:
• Unauthorized Camping Ordinance
• Sit/Lie Ordinance
• Trespassing on public property
• Park curfew laws
• Health regulations
• Park permits
• Refusing to show identification
The measure also would potentially create new civil and criminal liability and legal causes of
action against private individuals, homeowners, businesses, city employees and city
government. This likely would create a chilling effect for police officers, park rangers, health
inspectors and others to enforce laws and may make them reluctant to assist those in need.
If the measure passes, it will be the first of its kind. While jurisdictions such as Rhode Island,
Puerto Rico, Illinois and Connecticut have passed Homeless Bills of Rights, this measure differs.
It explicitly overrides existing laws and makes it a crime for law enforcement agencies or other
entities to violate the rights established by the measure.
Parks & Recreation Impacts
•

Park curfews, which have been in existence in Denver for over a century, would no longer be
enforceable. Nor would ordinances that prohibit overnight camping or setting up of tents and
structures in parks.

•

Permitted events in parks often require a park to be cleared for set-up activities and to establish
limited access points for safety and crowd management. This ordinance could render it
impossible for a permitted event operator to manage the space for their event.

•

Closing areas of parks for turf, trees and landscaping to rest, restore and regenerate would be
prohibited.

•

There would be additional costs for maintaining and repairing parks, trails and open spaces
impacted by uncontrolled use.

•

The City’s mountain parks also would be impacted by the proposal.
City & County of Denver
1437 Bannock St. | Denver, CO 80202
www.denvergov.org/mayor

Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: Initiative 300 Potential Impacts to City Operations 02.26.19 (3783 : Local Update - CRL Associates)

Initiative 300 Potential Impacts

1.C.2.b

Human Services Impacts
•

The ordinance would make it unlawful to “harass” anyone exercising a right to shelter
themselves in public. The ordinance does not provide a clear definition of harassment, which
may lead social workers, co-responders, outreach staff, peer navigators and others to limit their
interactions with those needing services.

•

Similarly, the Police Department’s Homeless Outreach Team may curtail interactions with
individuals in need of services to avoid accusations of harassment.

•

The ordinance would grant significant privacy rights to personal belongings. DPD may not be
able to investigate the contents of potentially dangerous items left in the public right of way
without a warrant, such as an unattended tent or a backpack at the airport or a bus stop.

Public Health & Environment Impacts
•

Charitable food service operations – while well-intentioned – have the potential to impact the
public health and environment. The initiative could tie the city’s hands in addressing unsafe
food, litter, rodent infestations and other risks.

•

The ordinance may limit actions that can be taken to abate public and environmental health
nuisances in encampments on public or private property. This could include efforts to address
public health threats such as Hepatitis A, rodents, feces, urine, trash and discarded needles.

Public Works Impacts
•

The ordinance would enable individuals to set up tents in a non-obstructive manner on
sidewalks, alleys and streets, so long as the right-of-way is not completely “impassable.” This
may impede access for people with disabilities, with no means for the city to clear obstructions.

•

The ordinance would make it more difficult for city officials to remove individuals sheltering
themselves within public infrastructure assets such as bridges and storm-water drains.

•

The ordinance would make it difficult for Public Works staff and contractors to remove
abandoned or discarded trash from the right-of-way because of the initiative’s language
regarding rights to privacy of belongings.

•

Existing permit regulations that allow permitted encroachment and use of rights of way (e.g.
permits to allow for outside dining patio space at a restaurant) may be impacted and prevent
those with permits from managing that permitted space as they desire.

•

As with Parks, there will be new cost implications for maintaining and protecting city assets that
would be impacted by use other than as intended.

General Services Impacts
•

City staff would be limited in ability to close and protect outdoor public assets like the grounds
of the City and County Building under this ordinance. There are likely cost implications for
additional maintenance and repairs if assets are improperly used or overused.

Legal Conflicts
•
•
•

Attempts to create civil rights outside of the US Constitution
Attempts to trump any conflicting state laws (which can’t be preempted by city law)
Creates a confusing enforcement system in which the city could be both the plaintiff and the
defendant in civil suits.
Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: Initiative 300 Potential Impacts to City Operations 02.26.19 (3783 : Local Update - CRL Associates)

Police Department Impacts

Initiative 300

The Denver Right to Survive Initiative

Attachment: RTD Initiative 300 Overview 04-02-19 (3783 : Local Update - CRL Associates)

1.C.2.c

Packet Pg. 16

Ballot Title
Shall the voters of the City and County of Denver adopt a measure that secures
and enforces basic rights for all people within the jurisdiction of the City and
County of Denver, including the right to rest and shelter oneself from the
elements in a non-obstructive manner in outdoor public spaces; to eat, share
accept or give free food in any public space where food is not prohibited;
to occupy one’s own legally parked motor vehicle, or occupy a legally parked
motor vehicle belonging to another, with the owner’s permission; and to have a
right and expectation of privacy and safety of or in one’s person and property?

DDP

2

Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: RTD Initiative 300 Overview 04-02-19 (3783 : Local Update - CRL Associates)

1.C.2.c

What does the bill intend to accomplish?
The ordinance would grant broad rights:
• The right to rest in a non-obstructive manner in public spaces
• The right to shelter oneself from the elements in a non-obstructive manner in outdoor
public spaces
• The right to eat, share, accept, or give free food in any public space where food is
not prohibited.
• The right to occupy one’s own legally parked motor vehicle or occupy a legally parked motor
vehicle belonging to another, with the owner’s permission.
• The right and expectation of safety and privacy of or in one’s person and belongings
while occupying public spaces.

Packet Pg. 18

Attachment: RTD Initiative 300 Overview 04-02-19 (3783 : Local Update - CRL Associates)

1.C.2.c

What does the bill intend to accomplish?
Proponents have stated their intent is to repeal the unauthorized camping ban
Superseding Language:
• (e)(3) All laws adopted by the legislature of Colorado shall be the law of the City and County
of Denver only to the extent that they do not violate the rights or prohibitions of this
law. Where state or federal law is more protective of human rights and civil rights than this
local law, the state or federal law controls.

Repealer
• (1) All inconsistent provisions of prior laws adopted by the City and County of Denver
are hereby repealed, but only to the extent necessary to remedy the inconsistency.

Packet Pg. 19

Attachment: RTD Initiative 300 Overview 04-02-19 (3783 : Local Update - CRL Associates)

1.C.2.c

Attachment: RTD Initiative 300 Overview 04-02-19 (3783 : Local Update - CRL Associates)

1.C.2.c

Conflicts with Current Laws
The following ordinances are intended to be superseded if the measure is
adopted:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Unauthorized Camping Ordinance
Sit/Lie Ordinance
Trespassing on public property
Park curfew laws
Health regulations
Park permits
Refusing to show identification

Packet Pg. 20

Obstruction of Streets/Public Passageways
Obstruction - DRMC 38-86, Obstruction of Streets or Other Public Passageways.
(1) It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly:
(a) Obstruct a highway, street, sidewalk, railway, waterway, building entrance, elevator, aisle, stairway, or
hallway to which the public or a substantial group of the public has access or any other place used for the
passage of persons, vehicles, or conveyances, whether the obstruction arises from the person's acts
alone or from the person's acts and the acts of others; or
Current Definition of “Obstruct” – to render impassable or to render passage unreasonably inconvenient or
hazardous.”
Obstruction Redefined – “Non-obstructive manner” means a manner that does not render passageways
impassable or hazardous. Sec. 28-254

Packet Pg. 21

Attachment: RTD Initiative 300 Overview 04-02-19 (3783 : Local Update - CRL Associates)

1.C.2.c

Attachment: RTD Initiative 300 Overview 04-02-19 (3783 : Local Update - CRL Associates)

1.C.2.c

Enforcement Concerns
Section 28-254
(d) Prohibitions and Obligations.
(1) It shall be unlawful for the City and County of Denver to enforce any
ordinance, resolution, regulation, rule or policy that limits, prohibits or penalizes
the rights secured by this ordinance.
(2) It shall be unlawful for any public law enforcement officer, private
security employee or agent, corporation, business or other entities to
violate the rights recognized and secured by this law.
(3) It shall be unlawful for an employee or agent of any government
agency, corporation, business, or other entity to harass, terrorize, threaten,
or intimidate any natural person exercising the rights secured by this ordinance.

Packet Pg. 22

Attachment: RTD Initiative 300 Overview 04-02-19 (3783 : Local Update - CRL Associates)

1.C.2.c

Enforcement Concerns
Section 28-254
(e) Enforcement
(1) Any law enforcement officer or other agent of the City and County of
Denver who detains, causes to move, or violates the protected rights in Section
(c) of this ordinance has committed a civil rights violation(s) under color of
law. This prohibition includes, but is not limited to, requesting identification by
any person unless supported by reasonable suspicion of a crime.

DDP

8

Packet Pg. 23

1.C.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: March 27, 2019

From:

Pauletta Tonilas, Assistant General Manager,
Communications

GM

Date:

March 27, 2019

Board Meeting Date: April 2, 2019

Subject:

State Update - Brandeberry McKenna

ATTACHMENTS:


State Report for 4-2-19 docx

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 24

1.C.3.a

1410 Grant Street, C-307 | Denver, CO 80203
office 303.539.1320 | www.bbmk.com

RTD

From: Brandeberry McKenna Public Affairs (BBMK)
Date: March 26, 2019
Re:

March Board Update

BBMK continues to monitor and actively track a number of bills on behalf of RTD.
To review the full list of legislation that BBMK is tracking on behalf of the District click here:
https://www.statebillinfo.com/SBI/index.cfm?fuseaction=Public.Dossier&id=25636&pk=114
Last week the Joint Budget Committee closed out of the 2018-19 long bill. Highlights of the
budget include $185 million for full-day kindergarten, $30 million for transportation, $40 million
for legislative bills, and $3.9 million to increase provider rates for mental health providers. On
Monday the long bill (budget bill) was introduced in the Senate. The members of the Senate will
caucus on the long bill Tuesday, conduct Second Reading on Wednesday and Third Reading on
Thursday. The budget will then be taken up in the House of Representatives the week of April
1, 2019.
Highlights of legislative activity this week are as follows:
HB19-1073 Law Enforcement Information Sharing Grant Program sponsored by Rep.
Benavidez and Senator Fields. This bill creates the Law Enforcement, Public Safety, and
Criminal Justice Information Sharing Grant Program. The bill is in House Appropriations.
HB19-1199 Colorado Clean Pass Act sponsored by Rep. A Valdez and Senators Pettersen and
Winter. Beginning on July 1, 2022 the bill would require the high-performance transportation
enterprise (HPTE) to impose an express lane access fee in a specified amount annually at the
time of registration of any eligible plug-in electric motor vehicle that weights 19,500 pound or
less, that is certified as being qualified for a federal plug-in electric drive motor vehicle tax
credit. The bill is scheduled for action only on Monday April 1st in the House Finance
Committee.
HB19-1245 Affordable Housing Funding from Vendor fee Changes sponsored by Rep.
Weissman and Senator Gonzales. The bill proposes to fund affordable housing by increasing the
vendor fee. The bill only alters the State vendor fee allowance and currently has no fiscal impact
to the District. The bill is scheduled in House Finance on April 1st at 1:30pm in the Old State
Library.

Packet Pg. 25

Attachment: State Report for 4-2-19 docx (3784 : State Update - Brandeberry McKenna)

To:

SB19-085 Equal Pay for Equal Work Act sponsored by Senators Danielson and Pettersen and
Reps. Buckner and Gonzales-Gutierrez. The bill would modify existing sex-based wage
discrimination law and create new provisions regarding transparency in wages in promotion.
The bill passed the Senate Judiciary Committee with several amendments to address some of the
stakeholders’ concerns. There were seven amendments adopted:
• Adding consideration of shift differential to the definition of substantially similar work
• Including several additional justifications for wage differential, including geographic
location, education, training, and travel to the extent that are reasonably related to the
work in question
• Eliminating a reposting requirement that would have mandated that if an employer is
unable to fill a position at the posted wage rate, it would have to re-publish the job
opening at a new rate before hiring for the position
• Striking a provision that would have presumed bad faith on the part of an employer who
did not appropriately maintain employment records and clarified that liquidated damages
will not be awarded for good faith violations of the law
• Limiting back pay to three years
• Delaying the effective date of the Act until January 1, 2021
SB19-085 is waiting to be scheduled in the Senate Appropriations Committee.
SB19-012 Use of Mobile Electronic Devices While Driving sponsored by Senator Court. The
bill makes using a mobile electronic device while driving a class 2 misdemeanor and creates a
class 1 misdemeanor traffic offense for any subsequent offense. This bill was amended in the
Senate Transportation and Energy Committee to address concerns with the penalties and
redefinition of texting while driving. Amendment 10 (a strike below amendment) allows
individuals to use their phone in an emergency, to activate or deactivate handsfree settings (one
hand only), or if the vehicle is at rest. The first penalty was changed to a Class A traffic
violation. The first infraction is now $50 and increases for each occurrence. The fine amount
may be decreased at the judge’s discretion. Texting remains a higher offense. No seizure of
mobile devices is authorized. BBMK was successful in getting an amendment on to protect RTD
transit related communications. The bill was introduced in the House and assigned to the
Senate Judiciary Committee.
SB19-188 FAMLI Family Medical Leave Insurance Program sponsored by Senators Winter
and Williams and Reps. Gray and Duran. The bill creates the family and medical leave
insurance program and the Division of Family and Medical Leave Insurance in the Department
of Labor and Employment to provide partial wage replacement benefits to an eligible individual
who takes leave from work for certain reasons outlined in the bill. Each employee and employer
in the state will pay one-half of the cost of the premium as specified in the bill. The premium is
based on a percentage of the employee’s yearly wages. The premiums are deposited into the
family and medical leave insurance fund and the family and medical leave benefits are paid to
eligible individuals from the fund. The Division is established as an enterprise, and premiums
paid into the fund are not considered state revenues for the purpose of the taxpayer’s bill of
rights (TABOR). The bill was amended in the Senate Business Labor and Technology
2
Packet Pg. 26

Attachment: State Report for 4-2-19 docx (3784 : State Update - Brandeberry McKenna)

1.C.3.a

Committee and the bill passed with eight amendments. The amendments included a discount
on the contribution obligation for public entities & smallest employers; cap on contribution
requirement; enforcement of worker complaints against employer to be investigated by the
Division prior to the filing of a private right of action and allowing workers to collect benefits
while appealing an adverse determination of benefits. The bill was heard in the Senate
Finance Committee this week and after seven hours of testimony the bill was laid over for
action only. SB19-188 will not be heard next week as the Senate will be debating the Long
Bill.
The Speaker introduced two-debrucing measures this week, HB19-1257 Voter Approval to
Retain Revenue for Education and Transportation and HB19-1258 Allocate Voter approved
Revenue for Education and Transportation. Rep. McCluskie, Senator Priola and Senator Court
are the co-sponsors of the bill. These two bills have been calendared in the House State Affairs
Committee on March 31st at 1:30 pm in LSB-A.
The PUC Sunset bill was heard in the Senate Transportation and Energy Committee last week.
The bill was initially rescheduled for committee actin this week but due to the long bill debate it
will likely be heard in April.

3
Packet Pg. 27

Attachment: State Report for 4-2-19 docx (3784 : State Update - Brandeberry McKenna)

1.C.3.a

1.C.4

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: March 27, 2019

From:

Pauletta Tonilas, Assistant General Manager,
Communications

GM

Date:

March 27, 2019

Board Meeting Date: April 2, 2019

Subject:

Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs

ATTACHMENTS:


Federal Update 4 2 2019

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 28

1.C.4.a
Squire Patton Boggs (US) LLP
2550 M Street, NW
Washington, DC 20037
+1 202 457 6000
+1 202 457 6315
squirepattonboggs.com
O
F

To:

Board of Directors, Regional Transportation District of Denver

From:

Squire Patton Boggs (US) LLP

Date:

March 26, 2019

Subject:

Federal Update for April 2, 2019, Meeting of Communications & Government
Relations Committee

RTD Board Members, CEO, and Senior Staff Advocate for Agency Priorities in Washington
Several members of RTD’s Board of Directors and senior staff traveled to Washington, D.C. for the
annual American Public Transportation Association (APTA) Legislative Conference. During their
visit, Board members and senior staff had a very successful three days of meetings with FTA Acting
Administrator Jane Williams, RTD’s Congressional delegation staff, and authorizing and
appropriations committee staff to discuss RTD’s priorities. These priorities included the return of
RTD’s CRP on the Denver Union Station RRIF loan and a modification of the BRT definition to
include projects with shared-use lanes.
Federal Transit Administration
RTD’s Board members, CEO Dave Genova, and staff met with FTA Acting Administrator Jane
Williams to discuss updates on the A and G lines, as well as the Southeast Extension grand opening
and the successful transit oriented development surrounding the Denver Union Station project. Also
discussed was RTD’s Autonomous Vehicle bus route and FlexRide. Acting Administrator Williams
was impressed with the FlexRide program, and asked for additional information. She referred to the
Denver Union Station project as one of the great successes of the RRIF loan program.
Colorado Congressional Delegation
Board members and CEO Dave Genova met with staffers from the offices of Senators Bennet and
Gardner and Representatives Buck, Neguse, DeGette, Perlmutter, and Crow. The meetings focused
on project updates, as well as requests for help with the return of RTD’s RRIF CRP and a
modification of the BRT definition. The staffers were all interested in helping RTD with both of
these requests, and several offices asked for an appropriations request regarding the RRIF CRP.
SPB is working with RTD to develop appropriations requests for the delegation.

47 Offices in 20 Countries
Squire Patton Boggs (US) LLP is part of the international legal practice Squire Patton Boggs, which operates worldwide through a number of separate
legal entities.
Please visit squirepattonboggs.com for more information.

1

Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: Federal Update 4 2 2019 (3785 : Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs)

Federal Update

1.C.4.a

RTD’s Board members, CEO, and staff also met with transportation authorizing and appropriations
committee staff in the House and Senate to provide project updates and advocate for the return of
RTD’s RRIF CRP and a modification of the BRT definition in the CIG program. House
appropriations staff appear willing to assist with our efforts to secure a RRIF fix, and Senate
appropriations staff explained the high hurdles to securing legislation to expedite the return of any
RRIF CRP. When briefed on our proposed change to the BRT definition, House Transportation
and Infrastructure Committee staff noted that congestion pricing has lost favor with Chairman
DeFazio, and explained that equity concerns with managed lanes may prove a barrier to advancing
RTD’s proposed BRT change.
Senate Banking Roundtable
RTD CEO Dave Genova spoke at a roundtable hosted by Senate Banking Committee
transportation staff. Along with CEOs from LA Metro, the Chicago Transit Authority, and other
large or legacy transit systems, Dave presented on RTD’s major projects and new initiatives and
requested the Committee’s help and support on our RRIF CRP issue. Generally, the CEOs all
agreed that increasing Federal funding is crucial to the advancement of public transportation, not
only to further expand service but to maintain existing infrastructure in a state of good repair.
Squire Patton Boggs Legislative Briefing
RTD’s Board members, CEO, and staff met with the SPB team and former House Transportation
and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster to discuss the current Federal transportation
landscape. Chairman Shuster advocated for an increase in the gas tax as a short-term solution to the
HTF’s chronic revenue shortfall, with a vehicle miles traveled (VMT) program eventually becoming
the primary source of Federal funding. Chairman Shuster provided additional insights into the
possibility of a large-scale infrastructure package passing during this Congress.
Electric Bus/Clean Transportation Meeting
RTD’s Board members, CEO, and staff met with Dan Raudebaugh (Center for Transportation and
the Environment), Erik Bigelow (Center for Transportation and the Environment), and Lisa Jerram
(APTA) to discuss zero and low emission transit technologies and Federal funding opportunities.
Relatedly, on March 18, FTA announced the availability of FY 2019 Low or No Emission
Competitive funding. These grants allow states and local governmental authorities to purchase or
lease zero or low-emission transit buses and related infrastructure and facilities. For FY 2019, $85
million dollars is available, and applications are due May 14. Dan Raudebauch explained that transit
agencies that partnered with CTE on grant applications for electric buses were 4 to 5 times more
likely to receive grant awards than agencies that did not work with CTE.
Eno Center for Transportation Meeting
RTD’s Board members, CEO, and staff met with senior staff from the Eno Center for
Transportation and former U.S. Transportation Secretary Rodney Slater to discuss new mobility
opportunities. Topics discussed included the possibility of an upcoming infrastructure bill,
autonomous vehicles, alternative fuels, BRT, and the RRIF CRP issue.

2

Packet Pg. 30

Attachment: Federal Update 4 2 2019 (3785 : Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs)

Transportation Authorizing and Appropriations Committees

