April 2, 2019
Communications & Government Relations Committee
LYNN GUISSINGER: The meeting of the Communications and Government Relations
Committee. I'm the Chair, Lynn Guissinger. We have no recommended actions tonight. But we
do have several updates. And we're starting with our AGM of Communications with our new
communications plan, Pauletta Tonilas.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I'm pleased to be before you
again. The second time around, the last time it was my second day on the job, so it's been just
about two months here. And it's been a very enlightening and energizing couple of months as our
team has really been tackling a lot of things as it relates to enhancing communications, and
collaboration, and engagement, and such across the metro area.
So I just wanted to go through a few slides to articulate some of the things that we have been
focusing on. As I mentioned when I was before you on February 5, I came into the position with
some goals that I wanted to approach in terms of how we can frame communications strategy
and success for the future. And so we are in the process of developing a clear shared vision and
goals for the communications department as we start to map out a strategic communications
plan.
And they really are as a result of the three main overarching goals that I came in with, which is
about building an image of trust, transparency, and accountability for the agency, developing a
strategic communications roadmap, and then optimizing our communications department and our
staff, and our resources as a collaborative, dynamic, accountable, high-performing team. And
then when we have the SLT Board retreat, and we mapped out the new strategic priorities for
2020, we have been thinking through what that means. And our team has been the lead on the
Board priority that is strengthening communications, collaboration, and transparency.
And as we've worked through that, and we've started to frame, based on the Board feedback,
what that really starts to look like, we put this in some buckets. And these are the six buckets in
front of you. And so as we listened to you, and we look at what's important for the agency
moving forward, what we think is a good path forward is looking at this particular goal or
priority as enhancing engagement opportunities to diverse audiences.
I heard that loud and clear in the Board SLT retreat, that two-way communication, making sure
that we're giving our partners across the district an opportunity to have a voice in what we do,
fostering community partnerships, expanding our internal communications, which is significant
for us to be good communicators and collaborators within RTD before we can do that well
externally, establishing a proactive media strategy, exploring new marketing programs, and
enhancing customer information and the customer experience. So as we are working as an SLT
now on the tactical plan of how this will fit into that, we'll be able to get more detailed and share
that with you, of course, moving forward.

One of the things that we tackled right away was trying to be proactive and create the narrative
for RTD instead of allowing the media and outside stakeholders to do that. And so one of the
efforts that we really are looking forward to is creating our own RTD newsroom, so to speak.
But our media partners are significant for us in getting information out to the public and making
sure that that information is accurate and in a timely manner.
And so we have been doing media visits at all of the different media offices around town. Some
of them have actually come here, but this is a list of the media visits we've done so far. We've got
several more yet to come. These have gone very well. An opportunity for us to share the new
information updates about RTD. We've talked a lot about the G Line, by the way, and then it just
so happens we had this great announcement yesterday. But the media has been very interested in
the G Line and where we are with that. So we're happy that we have a lot of positive information
to share with them.
But this is really in the spirit of, how can we work best with the media? And we've had some
very frank conversations with the media, about making sure that they're telling the whole story
and that they're giving a complete context of what is going on here at RTD. And so we'll be
continuing those media visits. And then, of course, we're very involved and very busy on two rail
line openings in the next several weeks.
When this report was due, we didn't really have a lot of detail yet to share. So what I can tell you
is that we are fast at work on putting into motion a communications plan that we refreshed from
the old one that had been done. And so I think you all know that we will be doing the same
celebratory fashion as we do with all of our rail lines, where we do a VIP event on April 25-Thursday, April 25-- the Grand Opening Celebration on April 26. And then we will have free
rides on the G Line that day. And then on Saturday, the 27th, we will, of course, have our
community celebration, station parties, free rides on the whole rail system that day. And then
we'll be starting our regular service the next day on Sunday.
We will, of course, be having the Board out there first, as the first official riders. And then the
media and our stakeholders on the corridor, very important that we get those folks out there
before we open the system up to the public. One of the things that is chiefly important, and will
be a big focus area for us in the opening of the G Line, is connecting with the community and
showing appreciation for the delay that they have endured with us in opening this line.
And one of the things we want to do is get the Board out there and the SLT before we open the
line to do some real person-to-person connections and create some fun and collaboration with the
community before we open it. And so you'll be hearing more about that. But we will be sharing
those details with you about how we can engage and have all of us out there to say thank you and
to connect with people.
As it relates to the Southeast Extension, of course, those plans have been set a little bit more in
advance. But we continue to march down the path of the VIP event, the grand opening, and then,
of course, the station parties and the free ride-- free rides on the new segment of the E, F, and R
Lines. And we did have an emergency preparedness drill a couple weeks ago that was actually
really a great exercise. We worked with our partners at South Metro Fire and Lone Tree Police.

These are really important exercises that we do to make sure that folks are ready in the event that
something does happen that affects our system on that section. And so that was a great
collaboration.
And then, of course, our golden anniversary, our 50th anniversary, which you all know about.
And these are just some of the things that we have in motion in our communications plan for the
50th, dovetailing off of the other big things. The line openings, and then other accomplishments
that we'll be having later in the year. But a lot of this tied to our 50 years of people moving
people, and RTD's history of making transit history.
And then I did want to update the Board on our efforts with the Citizens Advisory Committee.
We've talked a lot about the role of the CAC, and how best can we utilize this great group of
people that we have together to serve us and to be our partners? And so we had a meeting last
month with the CAC. And we brought to them what we think is an opportunity for a refreshed
role for the CAC. And these bullet points that you see on this slide are the focus areas that we
presented to the CAC for them to digest and think about, for them to be able to get their arms
around something and actually do something meaningful for the organization and for the
community.
So what we've proposed to them is that their refreshed role of focus areas is continuing to
provide region-oriented advice to the RTD Board and SLT, to represent the citizen perspective
on behalf of a wide range of stakeholders, to participate in engagement opportunities, for
instance, what we're going to be embarking upon with the operations assessment as part of our
transportation transformation. We think they can be a great conduit for us to do engagement
across the region. And so they seem very excited about that opportunity.
Also, assessing and reporting back about the stakeholder input and feedback that they are
involved with on behalf of the agency. And then promoting the public awareness of RTD, our
projects, programs, and our priorities, making sure that they're ambassadors for us out there, and
that we are tooling them as our plans are to tool the Board with good messages, and fact sheets,
and things, so that we all know how to talk about RTD.
So what we plan to do-- and Mr. Chair actually mentioned this a couple of months ago when I
was before you before, that we'd like to see regular CAC updates, and even move back into the
CAC Co-Chairs coming to this meeting and doing a quick update to you all on what their efforts
are. And so we're going to work towards bringing that back.
So that's just a quick report. What I do want to make mention of is that our Community
Engagement Team has put together these district community profiles for each of you for your
districts. And this is a lot of great information that's compiled for you to utilize in various ways.
Some of the information we pulled together from DRCOG, but it also talks about some of the
engagement we have done in your districts.
So it's really a good fact-based tool for you. And you all will be getting this in an electronic
version, but also we can print some through the Board office, we'll be able to give these to you.

But you all will be getting your own district profile that you can utilize. So with that, I'm happy
to answer any questions. Madam Chair?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Any questions for Pauletta? OK. Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. And Pauletta, thank you
so much. I think that as usual, an amazing job. I just think that you're such a gift to the agency
and your team, so I want to say that publicly. The one thing I do want to talk about is the media-what you've done in terms of media visits so far. And I'm looking at that list.
And I think the last time I talked publicly, I said that I thought RTD needed to do a 2.0 outreach.
I don't see any Latino media outlet meetings here, you know? And that's just in the Latino
community. But I'm wondering what your plan is in terms of working with communities of
diversity through their media outlets?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Great question. And we actually do have some of them on the calendar.
We just haven't done those yet. We have several more to do, and some of them are Latino media
outlets. So we do have those on our calendar. But we also are looking at other community papers
and outlets that we can work with of other ethnicities. So that is part of our plan, because, again,
I see the media as a big partner.
Whether it's small media organizations, the large media organizations, these folks are all our
partners in telling what's going on here at RTD. And we want them to know that we care that
they're out there, communicating to their constituents on our behalf. So they are part of our plan
as well. And so we've started with a lot of the majors, but we do have some Latino on the
calendar already, and then others will be yet to come.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I also wanted to extend my thanks to your staff. I've been invited
to speak at a number of events up in the mountain communities. And they're always very helpful
in providing me with a brief slide show or whatever. But I spoke this morning at the Conifer
Rotary. It takes a lot for me to get up to a 7:00 AM meeting up in Conifer. But it was very well
received. And the materials that were provided were quite helpful.
But I'll have to tell you that the highlight of the presentation, which was about a half an hour,
was when I showed them our mobile ticketing brochure. And every single one of the people
came up and got one of those and talked about how wonderful that was. But they had not yet
heard about it. And so when you talk about providing materials and such to the smaller media
outlets, I would suggest that that would be a good place to start for this-- just the small
community newspapers and stuff. I think that they would really appreciate having some material
to publish in their articles, and people would enjoy finding out about that So thank you.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Anyone else? Thank you so much. Go ahead.

PAULETTA TONILAS: I'm sorry. One thing I did want to mention, and I failed to do this earlier
is, as I mentioned I had wanted to set up meetings with each of you to hear your thoughts about
communications, what's important to you. And thus far, I've been able to meet with just over half
of you. So we are going to get the rest of you scheduled. I thank those of you who have spent the
time with me, because it's been really valuable for me to hear from you on what is important to
you.
When we talk about enhanced communication and engagement, what does that mean to you?
What does that look like to you? And how do we craft these to serve the people of your district?
So thank you for that, and I'll be looking forward to meeting with the rest of you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'll add my thanks, Pauletta. I think there's a lot of exciting opportunities
to communicate with all of our constituents in the next couple months. And it looks like we're
taking full advantage.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. Next update, we're moving to our Government Affairs Crew.
And I think Roger Sherman from CRL is going to start. And I'm told-- was everybody given this
on Initiative 300? I think Roger's is going to-- bring us up today on what he's doing and on the
initiative here.
ROGER SHERMAN: Correct. Good evening. Thank you. First, we do have some slides that I
sent over to the Board office this morning. And I apologize for not-- as I started thinking about
how to quickly go through Initiative 300, I felt, ooh, maybe a few slides would make it easier to
run through this instead of just talking to you. So I'll come to that.
Just a couple things on our report, Metro Mayors Caucus-- the chairman already mentioned it's
tomorrow. I did have-- a number of mayors had reached out asking about the resolution. So I feel
like tomorrow, that will be something they will be wanting to hear about. And I'm sure the
chairman will do a good job of talking about the resolution tonight.
So Initiative 300, the other thing-- I mean, the municipal election, I'll also add one comment on
that, is you know, transit is-- and transportation is. As was mentioned, the mayor's initiative to
revamp the Public Works Department, raised the level of awareness and the importance of transit
and transportation and de-emphasize public works. And that'll become a division under the new
department. I think that is just indicative of the conversation that's going on. A couple of the
challengers to the mayor are also talking a lot about transit, streetcars, other things. You may be
seeing some of that in some of the blogs and online news outlets, but it's certainly top-- a top
issue that's being discussed, as is Initiative 300.
So what I will go through is just a very quick overview of what it is. I did provide to you, also,
the handout from the City Attorney's Office that talks about impacts. So here's the ballot title for
Initiative 300. You can see it creates, it lays out a series of rights. The right to rest in a nonobstructive manner, the right to shelter oneself from the elements, again, in a non-obstructive
manner in outdoor public spaces.

The right to eat, share, accept, or give free food in any public space. The right to occupy-- bless
you-- one's own legally parked motor vehicle, which really frankly is allowed now. And the right
and expectation of safety and privacy. Anyone that exercises one of these new rights, like
sheltering, then you have a right and expectation for privacy in that location.
Public spaces is interestingly defined. The definition says, means any outdoor property that is
owned or leased in whole or in part by the City and County of Denver and is accessible to the
public. Or any city property upon which there is an easement for public use. So think parks, think
sidewalks, think right-of-way, where our bus stops, and bus shelters, and light rail platforms sit.
You know, this is a very broad and far-reaching proposal.
So what are the Bill-- and the proponents say they intend to accomplish? The driving issue is a
repeal of the unauthorized camping ban that was adopted by City Council in 2012. It was a
response to more than 200 people, typically, per night sleeping on the 16th Street Mall. And so
that was the driver for City Council to adopt that back in 2012. The way they accomplish this,
really, they never mention in the ordinance anywhere-- one, they never mention the word
homeless. Two, the actual camping ban in the revised municipal code is never specifically
outlined. They outline other aspects in other second sections of the revised municipal code, but
they never actually indicate the camping ban.
So the way they accomplish this is really through superseding language. It says any-- any laws
that the state of Colorado adopt, they're only valid to the extent that they do not violate these new
rights that are approved. I think the City Attorney's Office questions whether the voters of
Denver can supersede state laws. So we'll see. There's going to be a lot of-- a lot of provisions
here that are subject to court interpretation later on. And then a repealing language, which says,
all inconsistent provisions of prior laws adopted by the city and county are repealed. But only to
the extent necessary to remedy the inconsistencies.
So when you think about-- and that's really where this document that I sent from the City
Attorneys really focuses on. There are a number of laws that they feel would be superseded. The
camping ordinance, which is what the proponents wanted to-- wanted to see. Sit and lie
ordinances, trespassing on public property, park curfew laws, health regulations-- that's really
related mostly to distribution of food in large quantities-- park permits, refusing to show
identification, et cetera. That is outlined significantly in that-- the document.
A couple of things that I wanted to bring to your attention that I think are really relevant. One is
the new definition of obstruction of streets and public passageways. You can see the-- currently,
the way it's written, it defines obstruct as render impassable or unreasonably inconvenient or
hazardous. So it provides a lot of flexibility to law enforcement and how they determine what is
impassible or an obstruction on a public property-- on a public passageway.
This proposal redefines that obstruction into completely impassable or hazardous. So a much
higher standard for what could be allowed in a public right-of-way. So that impacts us on our
rider's ability, disabled community's ability to get through. It is not simply inconvenient or
unreasonably inconvenient, it has to be completely impassible. And so there's a real question of,
what does that actually mean? And again, it is all left to interpretation.

The other thing that I think is-- really is the enforcement concerns, it shall be-- it's unlawful to
enforce any ordinance, resolution, regulation, et cetera, that prohibits or penalizes the rights
secured. So that's where the park curfews and some of the things come in. It also says it's
unlawful for any public law enforcement officer, private security employee, or agent,
corporation, business, or other entity to violate the rights recognized and secured by this law.
So it creates a real question about our own, I think, RTD's security and transit police, and how
they would be able to deal with people that have exercised their new rights under this proposal.
And it creates some fairly onerous civil and civic penal-- opportunities for lawsuits and things
like that. And it uses language like harass, terrorize, threaten, and intimidate, but nowhere in any
of the definitions does it actually define what those words mean.
And then, again, under enforcement, it defines any-- if you harass any of those issues or
somehow violate the protections, it is considered a civil rights violation under the color of law.
So it's pretty far reaching. And I think it has real impacts on RTD. Now I think, again, courts
would have to decide RTD's-- I'm not an attorney, but RTD's a creation of the legislature. I think
there's questions about that whole idea of superseding state law, how that would all play.
But it's clearly written that any public space, even if it has a right-of-way easement over it, which
a lot of our property does, would be included in the intent of this. So that's that. And I didn't-- I
mean, there's-- I can answer questions, I guess. I tried not to go into-- because we're also
advocating on one side. So we do not want to advocate a position on this.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You're advocating on one side for a client, you mean?
ROGER SHERMAN: For the-- yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Mr. Genova.
DAVID GENOVA: Madam Chair. Thank you. Yeah, so I asked Roger, just since he's our local
affairs rep to just give us just kind of the lay of the land on this. And I just want iterate-- reiterate
one of the things he said. That a lot of our bus stops are in City and County of Denver our City
and County of Denver property. The sidewalks going up to those of course are. And our
downtown-- our light rail stations in downtown. It's largely really perceived, or probably, legally,
is that we have easements or use of those facilities and that we don't own a lot of that property.
So I think you could see some of the implications that this could potentially have for us in and
around our transit locations in Denver. So just wanted the Board to be well informed about this.
So as you talk to others, and think for yourself, you have good information.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Guissinger. The slides were really helpful, Roger, and it's a
good summary. Having just experienced a debate at dinner the other night with some friends on
both sides of the issues, it would have been nice to have had that as backup. So would you share
that with the Board office so that we may have access to it?

ROGER SHERMAN: They do have it.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh great. Thank you.
ROGER SHERMAN: And again, I apologize. I should have realized this would be a hard-harder to talk about than anticipated.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you, Roger. On the one slide, you talked about being required-- or
not being required to show identification unless you're a suspect in a crime or have committed a
crime. That's currently the case, correct? And there is no change there, right?
ROGER SHERMAN: Right. I don't-- that was a cut and paste from the document that the City
Attorney's Office provided. As I've heard them talk about it, I think it's relative-- it's related to if
a person states to an officer they're exercising their right to shelter in a location and there's no
other reason to request an identification, they would-- could have refused. And I assume that's
probably current law. I don't know what City Attorney's intent of that statement was.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. All right. That was my only question. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Yeah, I had a discussion-- I didn't have a debate, but I just had a
discussion a couple-- a week or so ago about this issue. I think last year's Leadership APTA class
had a project. One of the teams in that class had a project on homelessness and its impact on
transit and vice versa.
One of the things that they found from interviewing is several agencies is that a lot of folks
without homes went to transit locations, transit shelters, because they felt safe there, which
speaks a lot about the security that we as an industry provide to our passengers. I don't think it's a
problem that we'll ever solve. I think it's fair to say that woman at the well, right? It's always
been part of our culture, a part of life. Jack Kerouac, and et cetera, used to glamorize sleeping
outdoors and the Old West was founded by people sleeping under the stars.
There's a different setup now, different circumstances, different context, but still it's part of our
culture out here in the West, about sleeping outside. But it's a different day and there are impacts
that affect us differently than it did 50 or 100 years ago. So thanks for the-- for the information
on this. It'll be interesting to see how it plays out.
ROGER SHERMAN: One piece of that is there is nowhere in the ordinance that says you have
to be homeless to exercise any of the rights underneath-- you know, that are included here. So I
could see college kids wanting to camp for a month in Evergreen, in one of the-- Denver has
14,000 acres of mountain parks that are-- or outside of Red Rock. This has impacts potentially a
lot farther than just with those folks experiencing homelessness.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I just want to say, if you think we have
problems at RTD in dealing with this, I'm also on the Denver Zoo Board of Governors. The
Denver Zoo is owned by the City and County of Denver. And it's a public open space with no
roof. And I've already been talking about, do people get to sleep next to the lions? Because the
way it's written, I think they do.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Hmm. We'll see. OK. No one else? Great. We'll go to our State update.
We have Brandeberry McKenna here, Jenifer Brandeberry and Megan Wagner have joined us.
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: Hi. Well, just to follow up a little bit on Roger's presentation, we
have seen that legislation at the statehouse four years running, including this year. And it has
always been a very emotional committee hearing. It has never made it out of the first committee
in the first house. It has been defeated, I think, for many of the reasons that Roger kind of
pointed out, just baked into the proposal. A lot of unintended consequences, I think, the
proponents probably just didn't get worked out in the drafting. So I've got to say, I'm glad it's
now in your court, Roger, because it's not been fun when it's been in my court for four or five
years.
So at the statehouse, the budget is up and going. And it came out of the Senate last week. I think
the big-ticket items were the governor, the new governor, did manage-- he proposed $225
million for a full-day K. What they put in was $185 million. About $236 million for
transportation, a big chunk of that, had been kept in from the former governor's recommendation
in that. I think the revenue forecasts were down a little bit more, so there is less money than I
think the Democratic majority thought there was going to be.
The budget now at the-- if you've been following the paper, the state Senate has certainly had
kind of a struggle in terms of being able to work through issues. There was a couple of weeks
where the minority party was reading every bill at the well, and kind of slowing down things as,
in particular, I think they had struggles with the "red flag" bill, and some of the oil and gas bills
that were going through. So kind of a breakdown over in the state Senate in terms of historic
norms.
And during the budget debate, as that was still continuing, one of the things that went on to the
budget that will not stay in the budget, but went on, was 106 additional million dollars that the
Republicans in the-- in the House-- or the Senate Dems agreed to add. And they added that
money by taking a certain percentage cut of all the governor's administrative cabinet offices and
agencies. So they cut a percentage of the state government and took that money to fund for
transportation. And that was kind of a deal brokered so that they could continue to move through
the senate business and not be slowed down by reading things at the mic word by word.
That seemed to break the logjam over there. So that's good news. They kind of are back to-- it
seems like more normal operating. Now the budget's in the House. And that amendment was
added for the additional transportation money will very likely come off. And the House will

caucus tomorrow on the long bill, debate it on second readings in the House, a third reading on
Friday. So a lot of activity in the legislature on the state budget.
I think two other-- well, one bill in particular we've been keeping our eye on was the hands-free
bill, Senate Bill 12, that's moving forward. Per our legal counsel, we asked for an amendment to
ensure that however that bill was enacted, that there is a provision that our bus operators and
transit folks could continue to use the technology that they have and need to use. And that
amendment is still in the legislation. And I don't think we'll have any problems keeping it there.
And then for my part, finally, this week, the Speaker of the House did introduce and pass out of
committee on a party line vote, two measures to do a permanent de-Brucing of the state. One is a
measure that would go to the vote of the people, kind of per the rules of TABOR. The second is a
companion piece that says, should that measure pass, the additional revenue, if there is any, all
big ifs, kind of given the trending forecast of not having as much money as I think folks initially
thought.
But should there be additional state revenue, and this ballot measure pass, the companion
legislation said a third of that money would be split, a third for K-12, a third for higher ed, and a
third for transportation. And the transportation piece is spelled out that that additional money,
should there be any, run through the concurrent HUTF formula. So nothing new and fancy there,
just kind of going back through the current HUTF.
I think that has a fairly good shot of passing this year, just given the Speaker was the prime
sponsor in the House. She will clearly get her bill out of the House. And it does have bipartisan
support in the Senate with Senator Priola from Adams County, a Republican carrying it in the
Senate. And then I think Megan's going to talk about one of the big business bills that might have
direct impact to RTD.
MEGAN WAGNER: So for the past couple of years, the Democrats have been trying to pass a
state-funded family medical leave bill, not at all similar to the federal family medical leave bill.
Senate Bill 188 is the bill that's been introduced this year. There has been concern from the
business community, as well as CML, CCI, and the Special District Association about how the
bill is proposed to be funded.
It would have a great impact on the business community, from-- on employers and employees
that would have to pay and to fund this. And there would be no exemptions for local
governments, or special districts, or anything like that. So it has a huge fiscal impact on everyone
engaged in the bill. So that way the program can succeed if everyone has to pay in, is the
sponsors' kind of reasoning for everyone to have to be included.
The bill was supposed to be heard in the Senate Finance Committee this week, but the sponsors
were up to about amendment, I think, 42 of the-- and it's only in the second committee. So they
had some concerns. So they pulled it off the table to kind of get everybody together again and try
to see if they can work on a strike below, and see if they can get some people to be more OK
with what is out there. Having been in a meeting with some of the folks from the special districts,

CML, and CCI, there's still a great concern from everyone, as well as the business community, as
to the impact to employees and employers.
The fiscal note is rather large. And for companies that already have their own plans in place,
there's no exemption for them. Everyone has to participate. So there is still a lot to be done on
that bill. I know there's a desire from the sponsors to do something. I just-- at this point, it's kind
of unclear what it will end up looking like as it moves through the process, since it's still in the
first house, on the second committee, and they have so many issues still to work through. But we
continue just to monitor, obviously, because the fiscal impact is something that's concerning.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Questions and comments? Directed Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: With 188 Family Leave, how will that affect RTD with the amount of
time taken off compared to our current policy? I consider that-- besides what I consider to be a
very bad fiscal note, to say the least, how is that going to affect us when we already have a
worker challenge? And now we'll be working under these requirements if it were put to the
House in its current status?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I'll try to answer that. We do have significant concerns over that
because this does not run concurrent, the way it was-- well, I don't-- I haven't all 42 amendments- plus. But the way it was written in the last version I saw, it does not run concurrent with the
federal FMLA act. So you would have to provide this opportunity in addition to. So it is a
potential up to a year that you would need to keep the position vacant while a person was
exercising their right under both the state and federal provisions, as we read it.
Like I said, that could get changed. I know that's one of the concerns that's floating around out
there. Our fiscal impact, we estimated for the first year, is about a million and a half. That's just
the employer's side, not the employee side. The provision that's disturbing is that my guess is that
doesn't even come close, that first year number. It was just a number they picked to be able to
figure out a contribution amount. The committee, I think it is, that is going to control that in the
Department of Labor.
This works very similar to unemployment. So if you know how unemployment works,
everybody contributes. It goes into a pot, they pad the pot. That's how this is intended to work.
But they need to set then, the dollar amount for the next year. So that's another big concern, as
that's the big unknown for us. So OK, we budget a million and a half the first year, it could go up
to $3, $4 million, whatever it might be, the second year depending on who uses it and who draws
down those funds. And it's also in addition to any paid leave you get. So as was mentioned, if
you already have a program for paid leave, like we do here, vacation, sick, PTO, it's in addition
to that expense.
NATALIE MENTEN: So I heard you say about a year, and I have read elsewhere, I think, 200
days. So you are you rounding up quite a bit or was I off track on the 200?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So it's 520 hours of federal, plus this is two to three months of this. So
when you combine that all together, you're close to eight, nine months, somewhere in that range.

NATALIE MENTEN: OK. All right. Thank you very much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just to be clear-- thank you-- that was Heather McKillop answering.
That's all right. No other speakers? No other questions? OK. Thank you very much. And we have
Squire Patton Boggs with Mike Dino here.
MICHAEL DINO: Great. And it's good to see the folks that were in Washington not long ago.
There's, I think, six of the Board Members in the room here. And of course, you know that we
had a good advocacy trip and were able to certainly get in front of our delegation, and members
of our staff of the respected House and Senate committees that affect what RTD does.
Unfortunately, our members of Congress were on recess that week. But I think a lot of the staff
were very inclined to want to hear what we were doing.
And certainly, we had a productive meeting with FTA Acting Administrator Jane Williams, who
was able to be briefed on the A and G Lines, as well as the Southeast Rail Extension pending
opening there. And she also was very complimentary of Union Station, as one of the best
examples of the use of the FRA's RRIF, the Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Financing
loan that we're trying to get our credit risk premium back on. So it's good that she's impressed
with Union Station. Hopefully, she'll help us with, certainly, our efforts on the Hill this year to
get the credit risk premium back, as well as working with the Office of Management and Budget,
which is a key component in that.
We also advocated on behalf of bus rapid transit, and trying to get the regulations changed on
that, to move away from a dedicated right-of-way. And certainly, our delegation seems open to
that. I think we have some work with our respective legislative committees in the House and the
Senate. Some of them have differing views on that. So we have some work to do there. And of
course, the G Line was a topic of discussion in terms of opening. And so the latest announcement
is very promising, obviously. It makes not only you happy, but members of our delegation very
happy.
What's coming down the road? Well, while we were in and around DC, the President did
introduce his budget. I think all of you realize the President's Budget is really not a blueprint for
what FY 2020 will look like in terms of appropriations. The House and the Senate side are
beginning to have hearings about funding, but we've seen no numbers about what they want to
agree upon, neither the House or the Senate. Of course, I think for those who are in Washington,
realize the dynamic is such as the House is enthusiastic about what it might want to do that aligns
with some of our objectives. But when it gets over to the Senate, that will probably be a little
harder to get through.
We probably shouldn't expect an infrastructure package in the next month, probably the next two
months. And of course, it might get out of the House, but it would have a hard time in the Senate.
And we will see probably a budget battle between the President and the Congress coming in the
next few months, as well as the debt ceiling being a leverage point that the President, as well as
maybe those in Congress want to use to try to get some other things before too long. So that's an
update at this point on where things are on the federal level, and glad to take any questions if
need be.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Chair Guissinger, when it's appropriate, I have a Question
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Why don't you go ahead there, Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, thank you. Thank you, Mike. You guys were awesome in DC. Squire
Patton Boggs does amazing work. And I was really thrilled to be a part of that, especially with
our new Board Members. And I did think it was incredibly productive. And every year, it's
productive, but somehow this just felt more productive and meaningful.
My question to you is, with regard to the credit risk premium of $29 million, and I know that
we've been asking, and you guys have been working hard, especially Patty Doersch. What, if
anything, are we doing together with Denver? They're going to get half of that back as well. Are
you coordinating with them? And if so, in what way?
MICHAEL DINO: With the City and County of Denver, Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes. Yes.
MICHAEL DINO: They are aware of the issue. I would say that the City and County in Denver
at this point has not been active as a federal advocate on this issue. But you bring up a good
point. And I think, certainly, once some of the noise is out of the system with the current
elections-- they do not have an active federal lobbying team at this point. They do have a
coordinator out of the mayor's office, they're person who had been doing it for a long time has
moved over to their P3 office. And so I think that there is some need for some coordination there,
and some advocacy on their behalf, too.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Chair Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. On a related note, Michael,
[COUGHS] excuse me. The staffers that we met with did ask if we could forward to them the
specific language that had been utilized last year in the almost adopted solution. And I'd just like
to have you be able to confirm to others that we have, in fact, communicated that to the staffers.
MICHAEL DINO: Yes. Sherry's has been in communication with Patty Doersch, my DC
colleague. And they are working on sharing that.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Anyone else? I'll just add to Director Folska's comments, it was a great
conference. And it was nice to meet Patty Doersch and the rest of your team, Mike. And thanks
for all the hard work to put that together and put together some excellent side meetings for us.
And thanks to everybody for all your good work on our behalf. And to Sherry Ellebracht for
keeping the trains moving. So any other matters? No. Our next meeting date is June 4. And I
believe we are adjourned.

