2022-01-12
Operations and Safety Committee Meeting
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. I'm going to call to order the Operations and Safety Committee, and we are
convened as of 5:33 PM Mountain Daylight Time. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this
meeting to mute yourself, unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that under the current circumstances, the official
meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety,
and welfare. For the immediate future, the official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom
and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the
meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Visit rtd-denver.com, and scroll to
the bottom of the page for the link to the Board of Directors page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceedings, I would ask you to please raise your virtual hand, and wait for me to call on you
before proceeding to speak. Speaking out of turn will only add confusion to the record and the
proceedings. Directors and staff who are participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to
indicate that they would like to speak by pressing *9. To toggle your mute settings on the phone, press *6.
I would now like to take the roll for the Operations and Safety Committee. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present, sorry.
VINCE BUZEK: That's OK. Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present
VINCE BUZEK: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: And Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
VINCE BUZEK: Very good. All members of the committee are present. At RTD, safety is paramount. I'd
like to begin this meeting with a short safety briefing. As a reminder, the Transit Security Administration,
TSA, has extended the federal mask mandate requirement for public transportation until March 18, 2022.

The federal mask requirement states that individuals must wear a face covering while waiting for and
while riding public transportation to include airports and aircraft, train stations and trains, bus stops and
buses.
The first item on our agenda this evening is a selection of the committee Chair and Vice Chair. As
discussed by the Executive Committee, for just this first meeting, I will facilitate the election, and once
both seats are filled, turn over the meeting to the new committee Chair. Unlike the Executive Committee
election process, which uses secret ballots for the election of Board officers, for committee leadership
appointments, we will proceed with open nominations, discussion, and vote by the full committee.
We will begin with the selection of the Chair, and then the Vice Chair. We will allow up to three minutes
for those Board members who nominate a candidate, those who second nominations, if any, and any
other members who wish to speak regarding the candidates to speak. I will then call for a vote, and the
candidate with the most votes will be appointed. If only one Director is nominated, the committee may
proceed by acclimation, and that director will be appointed. I will start by asking for nominations for
Committee Chair.
Director Williams, I see your hand is raised.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Buzek. I would like to nominate Director Paul Rosenthal for Chair of
the Operations and Safety Committee. Paul has been the Vice Chair of our previously named Operations
and Customer Service Committee for the last year. He's participated in a wide variety of discussions
related to the work that the committee addresses, including but not limited to the purchase of new
vehicles, the support of our paratransit service, the staffing, and the Operations group, and more.
Paul's service on the RTD Executive Committee has been exemplary. His background in the state
legislature gives him experience in committees of this nature and in the parliamentary processes that are
involved. His work in the diverse neighborhoods in his district has given him insight into RTD's daily
service, both bus routes and train lines.
Finally, as a longtime teacher with an open and collegial style, he will run respectful and inclusive
meetings, characteristics that are especially important given the work that we do. I think he's the best
person on this committee to lead us into what promises to be an unusual year. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Williams. Are there any comments or seconds to this nomination?
Seeing none, I will ask if there are any further nominations for the position of Committee Chair. Seeing
none, and with only Director Rosenthal having been nominated as Committee Chair, I will ask if anyone is
opposed to appointing Director Rosenthal to the position of Committee Chair by acclamation. Is there any
opposition? Seeing none, Director Rosenthal, you are the Committee Chair for the Operations and Safety
Committee. I will-- I'll finish off with the Vice Chair position, if that's OK, Director Rosenthal, and then-PAUL ROSENTHAL: Most definately.

VINCE BUZEK: --you're up. OK. I will now ask for nominations for Committee Vice Chair. Director
Williams, your hand is still raised. Did you know that?
KATE WILLIAMS: No, I did. I put it down.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr Chairman. I would respectfully nominate Kate Williams to
serve as Vice Chair of this committee, principally for the reason that her stellar service in the position of
Chair in the committee in the past has given her a tremendous amount of experience, knowledge,
expertise relative to assisting our newly elected Chair Director Rosenthal as the Chair of this committee.
She has, in the past, been extremely adept at being able to process matters that have come before this
very important committee, and I think now, with a streamlined structure, I believe that she can equally
facilitate and assist in the processing of the business that comes before this committee. And I would urge
us to elect Kate Williams as our Vice Chair of this committee. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for that nomination, Director Tisdale. Is there any discussion or any seconds
to this nomination?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I second the nomination.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. And are there any further nominations for the position of
Vice Chair of the Operations and Safety Committee? Seeing none, and with only Director Williams having
been nominated as Committee Vice Chair, I will ask if anyone is opposed to appointing Director Williams
to the position of Committee Vice Chair by acclamation. Director Tisdale, your hand is still raised.
Thank you. Seeing no opposition to appointment by acclimation, Director Williams is the Vice Chair. Chair
Rosenthal, I will now turn the remainder of the meeting over to you. Thank you very much for letting me
participate.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Absolutely. And thank you, Mr. Chair, for your leadership. Very much appreciate
that and for leading this election tonight. And thank you very much, members, for having that faith in me
to allow me to become the Chair of this committee for the next year, and I look forward to working with
you very much. And as Director Williams said, you know, I hope to lead this committee into a-- while we
can have serious and important discussions, and sometimes we will have strong disagreements.
I'm hoping that we can also be collegial and understand that we are all on the same team. And I may be
Chair, but your opinions are of utmost importance. So I hope that you will always feel free to share those
opinions, and we can hold great meetings that really flesh out issues to the extent that they need to be
fleshed out. So very much look forward to working with you all. Thank you so much.
So let's move on with the agenda. And let's-- let me scroll down here a little bit. All righty. OK, so the
public comment period is a new addition to our committee agendas, and I would like to open it to anyone
who would like to address the committee. If you would like to speak and have not done so, please either

raise your-- oh, wait a second. Did we go through that already? No, we did not go through that already.
My apologies.
I would like to open it to anyone who would like to address the committee. If you wish to speak, have not
already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press *9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you
when it is your turn to speak. If you are dialed in, press *6 to toggle your mute settings. Please bear in
mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. So if you do not wish to be recorded,
then your comments will have to be submitted in writing, and you will not have the opportunity to speak
this evening.
If any speaker has documentation or reference materials for the committee, please email those materials
to the Board Office at the following email address-- rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. During this time, the
committee will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may contact speakers following their
comments, if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow-up.
Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names. Each speaker will have three minutes to
speak. Speakers, please refrain from profane or obscene speech. Direct your comments to the committee
as a whole, and refrain from any personal attacks. So let's see. Do we-- Tai-Shrae or other staff, do we
have any speakers tonight who would like to participate?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I see one person in the queue currently, and that's Paolo Solorzano.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Great. All righty, so Paolo, if you would like to participate, you're more than welcome
to begin. By the way, I just have to start off with thank you very much for your voicemail today. I was at
work. I did not have a chance to return your phone call. And I did respond by email though, so please do
also feel free to speak tonight and also email me, and I will forward your comments to the Board. So
without further ado, Mr. Solorzano.
PAOLO SOLORZANO: Hi. Can you guys hear me?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
PAOLO SOLORZANO: OK, thank you. Yeah, hi. This is Paolo Solorzano again calling for-- it's been a few
times that I've mentioned this publicly, but yeah, in a great-- I think it's great that Paul Rosenthal is on the
Operations Committee. Thank you for bringing up how important operations and just general upkeep is
with the system.
I am just, again, bringing up the same point. I'm going to focus on just the light rail schedules, the physical
light rail schedules soft signage at the sites. I've been putting in customer service complaints and
reaching out to several Board members, and also, now I've started talking to operators and field
supervisors as well as police officers on site regarding this incorrect signage. They are misleading people.
They have not been saying the correct thing. They're very random.

I've sent an email out. I can definitely send it to everybody else, and Karl Shoemaker's been contacting
me back, but again, I do think that this is a civil rights issue. People are missing their important
appointments-- a safety issue, a lot. The signage is misleading, and it has been for the last four years.
And the email notifications are also coming out. We have cancellations going on, and I received 25 emails
of late or canceled routes every day sometimes or more. And that's not even the entire system.
But when this is happening, and there's misleading signs, and it's absolutely a security-- a safety issue,
because you end up being stopped at-- I'll end with this. You just end up being stranded at a stop like on
Colfax or even light rail stations, and that's happened quite often to people. So I'll just end with that, and if
anybody wants to follow up with me, I'll send you guys an email as well, and thanks again.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you very much, Mr. Solorzano. And I know you have been a long time
advocate in the community, so please do feel free to always keep in touch and to speak at our Board
meetings, and also email us and call us as well. And we look forward to receiving your correspondence
with some of your further comments.
Are there-- Barbara, are there any other participants in the queue?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I see-- I see none in the queue.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Okey-dokey. With no other participants in the queue, we're going to close the public
comment period at this time. The agenda header is also a new agenda-- sorry, a new addition to our
committee agenda outline. In the future, if the committee has outside presenters or speakers, they will fall
under this category and can address the committee at the beginning of the meeting instead of at the end.
With the process improvement change, the committee will also be more thoughtful and considerate of our
outside presenters' time.
So Recommended Actions-- we have three recommended actions on the agenda this evening. And our
first recommended action is to exercise a contract 19FK002, options to purchase 117 40-foot and 25 30foot transit buses. Do we have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And do we have a second?
DOUG TISDALE: Second, Director Tisdale.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Director Tisdale. So I heard Directors Williams and Tisdale. At this time,
I'd like staff to present any pertinent information regarding the action, noting that the action was included
in the packet. Directors have had time to ask questions of staff offline. Please raise your virtual hand and
wait to be recognized to speak. Please state your name for the record each time you speak, or I will just
call on you. And that'll be recognition.

At this time, I would like the Directors who wish to speak to raise your hands. I'll call on you. For Directors
or staff calling in the meeting, if you wish to speak, press *9. All right, let's open that up. OK, any Directors
would like to say something or have a comment or question?
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Chairman, point of order, would it not be appropriate to have staff first?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Oh, OK, my bad. My apologies. Yes. I was-- I'm sorry. So staff, who would like to
present on this proposal?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Rosenthal, if I may, I would like to request that Fred Worthen, the Assistant
General Manager of Bus Operations, present the staff report to you all this evening. So with that, I will
introduce Mr. Worthen. Please go forward, sir.
FRED WORTHEN: Greetings, honorable Board members. Fred Worthen, Assistant General Manager of
Bus. Staff's requesting the Board of Directors grant General Manager and CEO Debra A Johnson
authority to exercise options and amend contract 19FK002 with Gillig to provide 117 40-foot and 25 30foot transit buses, spare parts, and training for a total price not to exceed $70,271,993.
These buses will replace existing buses in our current fleet that are 16 years old and have reached the
end of their useful life. Exercising the option for the purchase of these buses will continue our existing
fleet replacement plan. Funding for the purchase is included in the 2022 budget, and with that, I am
happy to answer any questions you may have.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Members, sorry. I jumped the gun a little earlier. I didn't mean to go straight to
questions. Thank you, Mr. Worthen, for that presentation and for your hard work and the entire team's
hard work. So yeah, let's start off with Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Chair, and thank you, Fred. I really appreciate your presentation. I just
have a quick question for you. And General Manager Johnson, you might actually be better suited to
answer this question. I know it's come up a number of times in this committee and asked when we are
looking to purchase additional fleet, specifically our buses, is if we are looking at making those-- are
purchasing electric buses-- excuse me. And so maybe wanted to get an update in that regard.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So if I may, Mr. Chair, and Director Lewis, recognizing that we do have options
available, and I'm going to yield the floor to Mr. Worthen in a moment but wanted to provide some
context. I know there's an interest, and we are, too, committed in reference to creating a sustainable
environment where we can reduce vehicle miles traveled.
That is done with the diesel fleet as well. Recognizing that we do have a service area in excess of 2,300
miles, and we have a bus fleet that spans beyond the FDA guidance relative to the useful life of the transit
vehicle, we currently have a contract that is open that this Board approved back in 2020 that has
additional options.

And more so to the point that you've raised relative to having the appropriate infrastructure, the operating
environment to sustain that-- we are currently looking at that as we go forward. So with that, I want to ask
Mr. Worthen to further expound, because he and I have talked about this matter.
And I wanted to ensure that the entire complement of this committee has the benefit of having that
information. And what we're doing going forward to help plan for a transition to a type of zero emission
technology is it's not about the propulsion system. It's about how we can best operate in an environment
and be sustainable. With that, Mr. Worthen, if you'd please go ahead and address further.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you. Thank you for your question, Director Lewis. So staff evaluates agency
needs each time we engage in a capital purchase. Relating to fleet purchases, this includes the
maintenance and operational cost, service needs, financial capabilities. Our existing bus fleet is 16 years
old and is becoming increasingly difficult and costly to maintain. Thus, there's the need to replace our
existing fleet. In this case, about 90% of the newly procured buses will be allocated to our contractors.
RTD does not own our contractor facilities. The current fixed route contracts with providers are three-year
in duration with two one-year options. The bus has kept-- expected to be kept at Revenue Service for 12
years. But this is the FTA service life policy as CEO Johnson mentioned. Underneath our current
operating conditions and the disparate operating environments that we're in, it's not feasible to electrify
our contracted facilities as the agency doesn't have the financial means, nor the adequate time and
support of transition to zero emission technology.
A few other points-- an electric bus is approximately twice the cost of a diesel bus. There are also
significant costs associated with facility upgrades to support an electric fleet, such as charging and
electrical infrastructure. And finally, electric buses have operational constraints. Our existing diesel fleet
can travel around 600 miles on a single tank of fuel. Electric buses have a top range for a single charge of
around 200 miles, keeping in mind that HVAC and other ancillary devices draw on the energy. So this
range can be further limited.
These range limitations have impacts on our daily operations that require a new operational model for
large scale implementation. As an agency, we are working on a long term electrification plan. We have
supported third party consultants to address challenges and complexities associated with large scale fleet
electrification. Our new fleet of 17 electric buses approved for purchase by the Board last year will also be
critical on developing and refining these plans. Hopefully, that answers your questions.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It does thoroughly, actually. I really appreciate that response. A few follow-ups-- the
first, you said our contractors-- you purchased these buses for our contractors, and we have three-year
contracts with one-year options. What year are we in?
FRED WORTHEN: Each contract is in a different year, so we don't do all four contracts at once. We have
four independent contracts. We just issued the last of the four contracts last year, if I remember correctly.
We will have options coming up shortly, but we do not have any of those up for bid for a while yet.

SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thank you so much. And essentially, the contractors have shared-- excuse me-the limitations in terms of-- well, I know you all have no authority over the operations or how our
contractors operate their facilities. But there being barriers, if you were, to purchase electric vehicles, they
would essentially be rendered useless to our contractors, because they don't have the infrastructure to be
able to maintain those?
FRED WORTHEN: That is correct, and that is part of what we're looking at, as I talked about, looking at
our large scale fleet electrification plan is, how do we transition over to be able to have our contractors to
operate electric vehicles in the future?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I see. And I really appreciate that. I recognize-- and, of course, I don't want to be an
hindrance-- but I recognize that it's definitely much more expensive, at least for a car, to take care of an
old car than it is for you just to go buy a new one from a maintenance perspective sometimes.
And so I do appreciate that. And I hear you, and I just wanted to know more about the work that you all
have been doing in terms of electrification. And the final question is, how far along-- and maybe you don't
have a specific timeline-- but when might the Board expect to see a comprehensive plan, if you will-- I
don't know if that's the proper verbiage-- for an electrification plan?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So if I could take that question, Director Lewis. So as Mr. Worthen indicated, one
thing's for certain. We do have subfleets of zero emission buses. And the initial subfleet was used on the
16th Street Mall. It's hard to garner appropriate data to see how these buses would work in our
overarching environment. So in relationship to your last action relative to the 17 buses that we're going to
purchase, as you may recall, we're going to use those throughout the district on a myriad of routes.
We are going to be doing data collection, so we can see how they perform. Recognizing that we are in an
operating environment that has varied weather in reference to snow, other types of-- we have summers
that can be warm as we look at global warming, which is a clear cut nexus to why we need to look at
sustainable operating options as we go forward.
We need to basically be able to look to see how those buses are operating, use that data in conjunction
with utilizing information drawn upon by our third party consultant as they look at route modeling. We
have an expansive service area-- and Mr. Worthen spoke to that-- with the disparate operating systems in
reference to the vast systems that we have.
So we have to ensure that we have an understanding of how we can leverage our energy. Would we be
using inductive charging, for instance, with the longer routes? Or can we get them back to their base, so
they could charge midway through? And so all of these different elements have to come into play.
So realistically, as we talk about a plan, we have to start working on it. And if I were to say where we
might be as we go forward, recognizing we have Reimagine RTD that takes all this into consideration, we
could have some preliminary understanding within 24 to 36 months or sooner. But there's a lot of different
factors to take in consideration. Mr. Worthen, would you agree with that response?

FRED WORTHEN: Yes, ma'am.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. OK, thank you very much. And I am speaking-SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you much.
DEBRA JOHNSON: --from a place of knowing doing a transition to a zero emission bus fleet at a previous
agency in a previous part of my career. So that's why I just want to make sure that Mr. Worthen was in
sync with what I'm saying from his experience here and what we're doing. So thank you very much for the
question.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No, thank you all. It was very thorough. Again, I really appreciate the information that
you all have provided. And I appreciate the updates and being honest about what the barriers are in your
next steps. So thank you so much.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And thank you very much for those thoughtful and insightful questions, Director
Lewis. And I think to build on that, just to note for anyone watching and also for the Directors, in the
memo announcing this contract, it does discuss the reduction in greenhouse gases produced by this fleet,
of the new fleet that we will be purchasing of buses versus the current fleet. So that's something to keep
in mind as well.
So Director Bouquet, it looks like you have a question or set of questions. Go on ahead.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you-- thank you very much, Chair. My question's just kind of regarding-- I
might need a little more description regarding-- so I'm reading the first part where it says, the purchase of
46 40-foot transit buses with an option for additional 264 buses over a five-year period. Could we just kind
of get a little bit more information of-- so the contract that we're voting on right now, does this include the
264 buses or just the 46?
FRED WORTHEN: So the-- I'm sorry. May I proceed to answer that?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Sure. Please, yeah. Just go ahead and discuss.
FRED WORTHEN: OK, thank you. Yes, the opening paragraph is actually the initial contract award itself.
We are actually just purchasing off of options from the 200 and the however many options were awarded
at that particular point. I apologize.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Just clarifying.
FRED WORTHEN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I was like, that would be a pretty good gap. Do you know where we are so far in that
contract? My apologies.

FRED WORTHEN: I do not, but if you'd like me to gather some more information on that, I can tell you. I
can follow up and send it out to the complete Board.
JULIEN BOUQUET: That would be preferred, if possible. Thank you. And then my final question is
regarding the lifespan of these 46 buses or how long we're expecting them to be operational until.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So basically, in reference to transit vehicles, as specified in the previous response to
the Federal Transit Administration, typically, a transit bus, the asset is looked at as being operable from
12 to 15 years or 500,000 miles. And recognizing that our current fleet, as Mr. Worthen stated, is at 16,
we are basically exceeding the useful life as we go forward. And optimally, as we look at these, we would
like to see our fleet replacement plan be at 12 years.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Thank you very much.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Director Bouquet, and thank you, Mr. Worthen and General Manager
Johnson. Questions, Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. More a comment than a question-- I think the
question raised by Director Lewis is a very important one and one that we need to make a record on. And
I appreciate very much the response from General Manager CEO Johnson as well as from Assistant
General Manager Worthen relative to that.
My own observation is, relative to the conversion to electric, obviously, the range of those buses, electric
buses is impacted significantly in the Regional Transportation District of Denver by virtue of our
tremendous temperature swings, where we get a 30 to 40-degree swing in a day on the ambient
temperature, which has a huge impact on the life and the distance that one can get out of an electric
battery.
In addition to that, elevation changes that we have are significant in the Denver Metro area. This almost,
the way I describe it, is a 2,400-square mile area, which is basically the size of the state of Delaware, that
we're sending these buses around, and the vast distances that are to be covered. There is continuous
quality improvement going on regarding batteries, and that improvement will yield substantially better
opportunities for us in the future.
And I think that what we're doing now is saying, let us proceed with what we know works and with, as the
Board report indicates, a significant improvement in emissions from these vehicles and continue to study
how batteries are being improved such that we can, in the future, continue with a plan for electric
conversion. And that concludes my comments on this item at this time, so Chairman, thank you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Director Tisdale. And as someone who owns a plug-in hybrid vehicle
myself, I certainly have noticed the drop in the number of miles per charge from my vehicle and also
understanding that, obviously, a bus, especially a new one, an electric one, is certainly a different
technology. But nevertheless-- so Director Buzek, looks like you had a comment.

VINCE BUZEK: Yes, thanks. I have a question for Mr. Worthen. I recall back in 2020, as the pandemic
was just upon us, we heard some discussion about the availability of some UV lighting systems that were
helpful in killing viruses and potentially air filtration. Are any of those systems workable, available, and will
any of these buses have them? Thanks.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you for that question, Director Buzek. Yes, they will be equipped with driver
shields, and they will also have the air filtration systems equipped as part of the purchase.
VINCE BUZEK: And those lights, those UV lights, no-FRED WORTHEN: Yes, that's the air filtration system.
VINCE BUZEK: Oh, it is. Oh, cool. Oh. Exciting. That's good. What a new world we're in. Thanks.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All righty. So thank you, Mr. Chair. Any other Directors would like to ask a question,
make a comment, or suggestion, or what have you? Looks like that's everyone. All righty. Thank you. Are
there any no votes on this action? OK. There were no no votes, so this measure is passed.
Our second recommended action is the 2022 Boulder Hop agreement. Do we have a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: Move to approve.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All righty, so we have a move by Director Tisdale and a second by Director
Bouquet. So at this time, I would ask staff to present any pertinent information regarding this action,
noting that the action was included in the packet. Directors have had time to ask questions of staff online.
Please raise your virtual hand. Wait to be recognized to speak. And please, state your name for the
record. Who would like to present?
DOUG TISDALE: [INAUDIBLE] point of order.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Thank you. You just addressed my point of order. I was assuming you were
going to go to staff first again, and then have-PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yeah, yeah. I'm just going off of the script. So what-- yeah, so once-- once we've
heard from staff, then we'll have everybody speak. All righty. Who would like to speak for staff?
FRED WORTHEN: Good. Chair Rosenthal, it's Fred Worthen, Assistant General Manager of Bus
Operations.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right, go ahead, Mr. Worthen.

FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, sir. Staff is requesting for the Board of Directors to authorize General
Manager and CEO Debra A Johnson to enter into an agreement with the City of Boulder to provide
funding to support Hop service in an amount not to exceed $1,356,928.
RTD has a number of cost share partnerships with several jurisdictions throughout the district to assist
with supplemental transportation services. RTD has been in partnership with the City of Boulder since
1994 to assist with sharing the cost for provision of Hop services. I do want to mention that ridership on
the Hop has improved since CU resumed in-person classes. In April of 2021, average daily ridership was
roughly about 600 passengers per day at the high point. In October of 2021, ridership rose to about 1,200
passengers per day.
This is still roughly 60% of pre-COVID levels, when you compare to 2019, when average daily ridership
was 2,100. But we are happy to see the ridership rising on these services this fall. Funding for the
agreement was included in the 2022 budget, and I will be happy to answer any questions you may have.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Rosenthal. Mr. Worthen and Ms. Johnson, Director Lynn Guissinger
was unable to be at this meeting based on a previous commitment, but she asked me to please extend to
the staff of RTD that the people in Boulder are very happy with government and those who work with us
on the Hop to have this process move forward and that they appreciate all the support that we have given
them. And she especially wanted to mention Erin Vallejos for the work that she has done on that. Thank
you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Williams. I will say that Fred and his team, in
recognizing Erin Vallejos, she has been instrumental. And I know I have worked with her closely as
relates to the Marshall fire, and she has done a yeoman's job in ensuring that we were providing support,
as well as Greg Smith and other members of the team. I should stop calling names, because I know it's a
collective effort, and I don't want to leave anybody out. So thank you very much for that acknowledgment
to Fred and his team. We greatly appreciate it.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I have a question. I haven't quite formulated it yet, but hear me
out. I'm trying to reconcile service into Boulder with the update we had recently-- I can't remember the
months. They all kind of have blended at this point-- regarding the formula funding and the conversation
that we had with CDOT, that Boulder was going to work to essentially provide their own-- fund their own
transit, transportation with the dollars that CDOT withheld from RTD.
And so I'm trying to reconcile how we do that while also contributing $1.3 million to Boulder-specific
services, if-- it feels duplicative, but I might just be misunderstanding.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair--

PAUL ROSENTHAL: Go ahead [INAUDIBLE].
DEBRA JOHNSON: Director Lewis, that's a very great question. So keeping in mind the issue that you
raised, have to do with the American Rescue Plan hacked in those dollars as it related to the County of
Boulder wanting to become a direct recipient, recognizing when we put forth our budget, those monies
weren't incorporated in. And the specifics, as it relates to the allocation of those ARPA funds, are geared
toward continuity and reinstatement of transit services.
The Hop service has been ongoing. And as relates to comments that you made in reference to holding
funds, there really are no funds available just for everyone's edification. These are monies that have been
allocated that have to be brought down upon. So there is not a sense that there are monies that were
being held from us. This was additional monies that we could utilize relative to rescue and relief,
recognizing, as it states in the Board report, the level of service that we're providing is contingent upon
the boardings and so forth.
Really, in looking at the ARPA funds that we have yet to be able to claim for the continuity of additional
service, in a sense, it's splitting hairs, because we had already incorporated this service into our planning
and had never halted in relationship to the service. It's a circular answer, but I hope that helps you in
recognizing where we are, because it's difficult to explain. But it's straightforward, because this wasn't one
of the routes that was up for discussion. It was the additional services that had been halted.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That definitely helps. Thank you so much.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Any other members would like to ask a question or make a comment? All right,
seeing none. Thank you very much, General Manager Johnson and Assistant General Manager Mr.
Worthen, for that presentation. Are there any no votes on this agreement, on this proposal? OK, seeing
none. The proposal passes.
Moving on to our third recommended action, it is the 2022 DRCOG Van Pooling agreement. Do we have
a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: Move to approve, Director Tisdale.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second, Director Williams.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right, we have a motion by Director Tisdale and a second by Director Williams.
And I will ask staff to have any pertinent information regarding this action.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, Chair Rosenthal. Fred Worthen, Assistant General Manager of Bus again.
Staff is requesting that the Board of Directors authorize General Manager and CEO Debra A Johnson to
enter in agreement with the Denver Regional Council of Governments to provide funding to support van
pools in an amount not to exceed $663,000.

This is a continuation of our cost share partnerships. Ridership on the existing van pools has increased
slightly. However, the number of van pools is still down in the program, but they are seeing some of our
existing van pools gaining ridership themselves.
Funding for the agreement was included in the 2022 budget, and with that, I'm happy to answer any
questions.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Directors, any questions or comments? Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I was on the DRCOG Board pretty much from
2001 to 2015, and was always extremely proud of the fact that DRCOG put together an exceptional
service with the Way to Go Van Pool program. And it was a delight long before I got on the RTD Board to
see that our Regional Council of Governments was taking affirmative steps to provide necessary services
for transit for all of the workers in our area. And I'm delighted to see that RTD can continue to provide the
support for that most essential program. So I am enthusiastically in support of this resolution. Thank you,
Mr. Chairman.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Any other Directors or, perhaps, General Manager or
Mr. Worthen, any other-- oh, other thoughts? OK. Well, any-- we'll end that discussion. Any no votes on
this recommended action? Director Tisdale, your hand is still up. OK, now it's down. So there are no
votes, so this recommended action has passed.
We have one discussion item on tonight's agenda, and this item is the May 2022 Service Change
Proposals. So is there a staff member who would like to present an update on that proposal or those,
rather, service changes?
MICHAEL FORD: Yes, Mr. Chair. It's Michael Ford, COO. I'd like to present some information regarding
the May 2022 service change proposals by way of background commensurate with the service change
and voting process detailed in the Collective Bargaining Agreement, the CBA, shared between the RTD
and the Amalgamated Transit Union 1001. The May 2022 service change proposal facilitates both an
opportunity for bus and rail to select new work, assignments, and the opportunity for service development
staff to make adjustments to the operations plan for the transit network.
Current system ridership trends are relatively stable, showing an overall increase in ridership with a
customary drop in ridership associated with the holiday season. You will find that information in your
packet, Figure 1, in Attachment B. However, operator availability challenges still exist, made worse by
absenteeism issues related to COVID-19, making it more than difficult to both maintain system on-time
performance and expand service offerings to customers.
By way of discussion following the 2021 through 2026 strategic plan relating most directly to customer
excellence and recognizing the agency's people power problem, the proposals herein are directed at
improving on-time performance, adhering to the CBA, and adjusting service levels to match anticipated
summer ridership demand.

As you may recall, the Board adopted guidance for a proposed service change, continues to be service
performance evaluations based on established service standards, the effects on the overall integrity of
the transit network and on transit dependent markets, the availability of alternative services to affected
riders, cost effective distribution throughout the district and family of services, and the ability to enhance
service when possible.
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act-- benefits and services are provided without regard to race, color, or
national origin, also, disparate effects on low income minority populations, responses to changes in the
communities where services are provided. Given the current economic condition due to COVID-induced
economic slowdown, the overarching guidance for the proposed May 2022 service changes comes from
the Board-adopted guidance for COVID-19 budget reductions, especially principle number 3, which
states, "We will prioritize mobility for people who must depend on transit during the pandemic. We will
strive to maximize mobility during the pandemic for those customers who most depend upon the services
to access essential jobs and their necessities while also keeping our community activity centers
appropriately connected."
So again, we just wanted to give you a briefing on that. There is a summary of changes in your packet in
Attachment A. We do have meetings, public hearings February 3 at 5:00 PM, February 7 at 5:00 PM, and
February 8 at noon. There are more details in your packet if you have any questions. I am partnered
tonight with Acting Senior Manager of Service Planning, Jessie Carter, and myself. And we'd be happy to
take on any questions that you may have at this time. Thank you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you very much, Mr. Ford, and, of course, for your work and Mr. Carter's work
and your entire team. I'm also grateful to the General Manager, who has also led on meeting individually
with each of us as Directors, presenting some of the particulars of the service changes in our areas, as
well as in the whole district. So a lot goes into these types of service changes. Are there any questions or
comments from any Directors? Ah, Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thanks very much, Chair. My question is going to be specifically regarding the Route
P. I just am curious if we had a little bit more detail, kind of what that schedule adjustments would look
like in regards of increasing on-time performance.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Go ahead, and dialogue back and forth. OK.
JESSIE CARTER: OK, thanks, Chair. This is Jessie Carter, and looking at the Route P and many of the
other routes that have been identified for service adjustments for on-time performance, anything that falls
below the RTD's standards for on-time performance we're taking a hard look at, prioritizing, of course, the
ones with the lowest performance. Route P-- we're aiming for a 90% on-time performance, and it's quite a
bit below that right now in the 70s. And with a regional type route, we expect that higher performance, 90
and above.
So we're looking at adding time to the schedule and adjusting the schedule, so arrive at Civic Center in
the AM, more on time, and also leaves Civic Center in the evening peak on time as well.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Would those peak times of that 8:00 AM still be the goal?
JESSIE CARTER: The arrival time will remain the same. Those will be the goal, and we will be back-possibly backing up the lead times from the Parker area.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Thank you very much.
JESSIE CARTER: OK.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Director Bouquet. So let's go next to Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I know that probably all of us on the Board
receive the text messages when runs have been canceled, and we have, as has already been addressed,
a significant issue with our workforce, principally because of illnesses along with the overall and
overarching problem of finding enough operators.
My phone blows up every day with our missed runs, and the one that particularly captures my attention,
because I just returned from the airport today after having driven my own car out there-- I'm ashamed to
say but required to say, because I couldn't count on the A Line to get me to the airport on Sunday when I
was flying somewhere for business and when I returned today, having concluded that business. And I'm
wondering if we have any sense relative to, particularly as I say, it's the train runs that I'm noticing more
than anything, to a plan of adjusting schedules on these to make it more realistic.
If I know there's going to be a train that is going to take me from Union Station to the airport, I'll plan on
that. And if it means I have to wait longer at the airport than I might like, that's fine. At least I know I can
take the train. But if it's sort of a shot in the dark of get to Union Station and hope that we'll be able to man
that run, it's a difficult thing if you're-- particularly if you're billing clients for your time, to do that.
So I know it's a significant problem. I know you're aware of it. I know you're trying to address it. But I'm
wondering if we can give the public some communication, perhaps through this meeting and other means
as well, as to what we're doing to address that particular problem. In the past, we had a policy of
mandating overtime. And we have, I think, very appropriately and wisely, moved away from that policy of
mandating. But at the same time, should we not give people a more solid sense of what they really can
rely upon when they're trying, for example, to get to the airport?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Mr. Carter and Mr. Ford, if I can address Director Tisdale's question, Director
Tisdale, that's a very good question. And as you talk about the missed service on the A Line, that missed
service is actually not due to operator availability. That service is actually impacted by the requirement we
have from the Federal Railroad Administration due to the fact that we're operating commuter rail, and we
have to have a second crew member.
The second crew member aspect of it is through a third party, which is Allied Universal. And recognizing
that those are front line positions, we have had a tremendous problem in reference to having adequate

personnel to serve as the second crew member. So it hasn't been due to our scheduling or the operator
aspect. It's having that second crew member.
I will say that recognizing we are all-- and you indicated this as well-- in a place where it's hard to come by
employees, especially in service-oriented positions, we have basically been having supplemental staff
serve as that second crew member to get out as much service as we can.
Our partners through Denver Transit operators have basically utilized second-- additional operators on
our N Line. We have done the same where we've had supervisorial staff serve in that capacity, so we're
trying to be very creative. And more specifically, in recognizing that we have a third party contractor, we
have implemented liquidated damages. But that doesn't solve the problem at hand.
And just, in fact, had a meeting this afternoon with rail operations staff, specifically the Assistant General
Manager of Rail, Dave Jensen, where we had conversations about what we might do going forward to
ensure, at least on the N Line, whereby, we can bring that in-house, so we have more autonomy over
how we're deploying that service as opposed to being reliant upon a third party contractor relative to
serving as the second crew member. So I just wanted to qualify in reference to the issue that you brought
forward, because it's not a scheduling problem that falls within the auspices of Mr. Carter expands that. It
goes beyond that span. Excuse me.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Dr. Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: I was going to say, I appreciate that clarification. And that is right. And the message has
been said, because no second crew member is available. But nonetheless, if we are aware that we are
having those continuing problems with a second crew member, is there a sense that we have, a comfort
level that we have that we're going to be able to provide, on the commuter rail operations, a second crew
member, or should we take some steps to adjust schedules based upon the fact that we simply aren't
able to staff those?
And you've addressed that generally already, and I appreciate that. And as I said, I think it's just important
that we get the word out to the public that we're doing what we can, because the worst thing is for
someone to show up at Union Station, and then realize that the next four runs are not going to happen.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Point well taken, sir, and we are trying to communicate out. Hence that's why we
disseminated a media advisory and used other channels as it relates to the impact of people power. But
more so, oftentimes, with the A Line, I, too, have experienced that where I have been sitting on a consist
berth at a platform, and an announcement is being made for a TSO, and the TSO doesn't come. So
oftentimes, we're talking about having an understanding that somebody who was supposed to report isn't
there, and we'll know that three or four minutes before the train is supposed to depart.
Needless to say, I'm not trying to offer excuses, but we're trying to be as creative as we can. And I will, in
turn, work with the team as we try to move forward in a direction and be as highly communicative as we
possibly can relative to ensuring that we have people readily available, and we really have seen an
increase in this, as I received information today, we really saw the impact between December 31, right on

the tail end of the holidays, going in to the next couple of weeks. I'm not an epidemiologist, but I see a
clear cut coordination with the Omicron variant.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, General Manager Johnson. And I believe I thought I read somewhere
that there is an extension on the service to-- or they're beginning service now on the A Line at 3:00 AM.
And I can't recall which day of the week that was. Is that correct?
DEBRA JOHNSON: That is correct. What we did in partnership with Denver International Airport,
recognizing that there's frontline employees that needed to start their shifts at 4:00 AM, by the time they
were to alight a rail vehicle, make it up the escalator, and go through security, that they weren't making
their clock-in time points. And so as we worked in tandem through a partnership, looking at the service
span, we just did an adjustment. So we bookended it as it relates to starting just 15 minutes earlier.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And thank you, General Manager, and your team for being sensitive to the workers
at DIA or DEN, rather. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Rosenthal. I want to go back to the question that Julien asked about
the P Line in Parker, which apparently is way below normal, meaning its time schedule. And I'm
wondering if we have any idea of why that is. I know that we are a transit agency, and I just wonder if we
have any-- had any feedback on what makes that route so low in terms of meeting its schedule.
JESSIE CARTER: I'm sorry. This is Jessie Carter. Chair, if I might answer the question.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Please, just dialogue back and forth. It's OK.
JESSIE CARTER: OK, I'll go with that. Director Williams, that's a great question. With any schedule, it's a
picture in time. So the last time we actually had an active schedule for the Route P was in 2019, prior to it
being suspended. So normally, we do normal maintenance, and that's done throughout the year. And we
make small adjustments. Those adjustments have not been made to Route P and some other routes. And
it needed to be adjusted to the travel times that are experienced along Lincoln and on I-25 going north
and into the downtown area.
It's a little more congested now. It's kind of hard to believe, but it's a little more congested now in terms of
operators being able to process in and out of Civic Center Station as well. So there are changes to the
traffic patterns and increased time needed for the Route P. So we're going to make those adjustments
accordingly, and we're going to pay very close attention to the existing schedule so that it doesn't have a
negative impact on our customers using it.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Mr. Chair, I have one more.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: By all means.
KATE WILLIAMS: It's not-- it's not Jessie. It's just a general comment. I think that everybody knows that
we are short staffed. Everybody is short staffed. If you go into-- well, obviously, you're not going into King
Soopers, are you? But if you go into Safeway or Burger King or anyplace else, restaurants-- I feel so bad

there. Their servers are just obviously waiting on way, way many more tables than they are accustomed
to. And so I think that the public in general understands that we are doing the best we can.
I think, to General Manager Johnson's credit, that the best thing that I've seen is that the reason for the
delay is there. And those are comments that I have heard back from my constituents, that it's never easy
to swallow that your trip you're used to has been canceled or that it's going to be half an hour late, but it's
easier to understand when the reason is on there. So I wanted to thank the staff for that. And that's all I
have to say right now. Thank you, sir.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Director Williams. And also thanking the General Manager and her staff
that they are undertaking efforts to do recruitment, offering, I believe it's a $4,000 bonus on signing, and
other measures to try to attract drivers and other staff to come work at RTD. So they are doing their best
to address that staffing issue.
So Director Lewis, perhaps you'd like to have a question or some comments.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I actually would just like to make a comment, Director Tisdale, and really take the
opportunity to thank our General Manager. Regarding your comment for the A Line, so this actually came
up. I had a constituent reach out to me, and the perception was that we were canceling our trips, because
we didn't have TSOs that could check fares. And so that RTD was not allow-- not operating services,
because we couldn't check fares as opposed to the what General Manager just shared about the second
crew member.
And so I just wanted to, one, thank her publicly, because they did change the language within that rider
alert so that folks knew that it wasn't a cancellation due to fares, but it was a cancellation due to federal
regulation. And so I just wanted to let you know that, because as soon as you said the A Line, and I was
like, oh, I know. I know exactly what you're talking about. And so I just wanted to say that.
And the second thing-- this is more-- well, it's another comment. The second comment is, I appreciate
your comment about being able to bring folks in-house so that you have more autonomy. Maybe that's not
the language you used, General Manager, but more autonomy over the individuals in that space.
And I do think that it's something that us, as a Board, might consider what that could potentially look like
in terms of expansion-- decreasing the number of contractors that we rely on in an-- as an opportunity to
increase the staff that we employ within RTD. So it might just be worth considering. Those are my
comments.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you so much, Director Lewis. And we do get, as Directors, a lot of emails with
announcements and press releases and things like that. And one that sort of relates to this issue of
notification was from yesterday, actually, where RTD is debuting an enhanced service alert system,
including text notifications. And not to read the entire press release, but needless to say that announcing
that RTD is moving from one marketing platform, GovDelivery, to another, Salesforce, to manage
subscriptions and send emails, et cetera.

So I think this is something where the General Manager and her team are actively working on
improvements. And I have to certainly recognize that. Any other-- just-- oh, sorry, Director Lewis, your
hand is still up. Did you have any other thoughts or-- OK. All righty then, in that case, are there any other
matters to discuss? Ms. McManus from the Board Office.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I would just like to note that Director Davidson joined the meeting at 5:55 as part
of the record.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Oh, great. Well, Director, you're always welcome. Any other Directors would like to
chime in, who are not on the committee? All righty. Let's-- OK, so the next meeting date will be
Wednesday, February 9th. Seeing no other discussion, we are now adjourned at 6:44 PM on-SHONTEL LEWIS: Other matters?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Oh, my apologies. Oh, my apologies. Yes, other matters. Thank you, Director Lewis.
Are there any other matters to discuss?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I have one. I don't know if this is the appropriate committee. Thank you, Mr Chair.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: My apologies.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No, you're fine. When we had the discussion about changing our bylaws, we said that
we would have meetings on Tuesdays. But we would-- if the meetings ran too long, then we would flow
into Wednesdays. And what was in written form and actually what's happening is there was a meeting
yesterday, and then a meeting today on Wednesdays. And I guess I want to understand, are we-- are we
now having our meetings on Wednesdays? Because I have Bible study on Wednesdays.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yeah, so this committee will meet on Wednesdays. Perhaps Mr. Chair, the Director
Buzek or General Counsel Snyder, or who wants to kind of establish that a little bit further. But my
understanding is the Finance Committee meets on Tuesday, and this committee will meet on a
Wednesday. Neither the twain shall meet, and then on a separate day, we'll have any general full Board
meeting. That's my understanding.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair, for clarification.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Please do.
DEBRA JOHNSON: The full Board voted on the committee structure, which was incorporated into said
bylaws, whereby it was agreed that the Finance and Planning Committee would take place on the second
Tuesday of the month, and the Wednesday immediately following would have this committee. And on the
fourth Tuesday of the month, there would be the standard Board meeting. And those meeting times are at
5:30 for those three separate meetings that I outlined.

As relates to performance committee, there's going to be discussion amongst those committee members,
because that body will meet as required, as necessary. And if, in fact, there were to be a change, that
would have to come full circle relative to having the Board collectively discuss and amend bylaws. So I
just wanted to qualify that for everybody's edification.
SHONTEL LEWIS: A change for the GMO-- or not-- for performance, or you're saying for Operations?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I'm saying for the other ones. Performance is yet to be decided, and that was
basically reflected in the action in which the Board took. So-SHONTEL LEWIS: [INAUDIBLE].
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Very good question, clearing up any confusion on that. Any other matters? My
apologies. Any other matters? OK, seeing none. Seeing no other discussion. This meeting is adjourned
as of 6:47 PM on January 12 of 2022. And Thank you to the General Manager and all your team and all
the members of the public who've assembled tonight. Thank you, and have a great night.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks, all.

