Dec 11 2018 0530 PM Financial Administration &
Audit Committee
KEN MIHALIK: And how this works-- the first is, it is recommended by the Financial
Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors approves the attached annual
audit plan for 2019. And this supports the General Manager's core goals.
Goal number one is successful delivery of transit services, and goal number three is strong
financial management. Do I have a motion?
CHUCK SISK: So moved.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Directors Sisk and Deadwyler.
CHUCK SISK: My hair doesn't look nearly as good as Director Deadwyler's.
KEN MIHALIK: And Ms. Isaac-Heslop, I'll leave it to you to elaborate further.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: OK. Good evening to the Chair and the Vice Chair, and
members of the Board. Included in your packet, you have the annual audit plan. We have
attempted to cover a wide area of RTD, addressing highest risk and areas of limitation. Quite a
bit of work in here. And hopefully once audit gets fully staffed, we're going to be able to
completely fulfill this plan.
I want to just take a couple minutes to sort of run through the plan, certain audits that I've put
there. I won't go through everything in detail. But I think we have a good coverage of the audit.
So I'm going to start off on the scope outlines. We have RTD property. That's one that we will
look at. And we're looking at every aspect of property, including how properties are identified,
classified, recorded, et cetera.
I have their subscriptions. We're just basically going to be looking to make sure that the
subscriptions are for qualifications that are necessary for positions. There's controls over
financial reporting. And I think that one's pretty self-explanatory-- accounts payable as well. I
have a few salaried staffing audits in bus and rail and IT in there. I have small and attractive
assets, which they're not fixed assets. And there's high risk with those types of assets.
We have time and attendance. We have some training to do with bus and rail. We have
information governance and management. And that was sort of introduced a couple of years ago.
We want to go back in and have a look at it.

And we have quite a lot of follow-up audit work that we need to do. The audit process doesn't
end until we do the follow-up. So there's quite a lot of outstanding stuff that we will follow up
on.
Under the IT audit section, we have cybersecurity, which is ongoing. It kind of never stops. And
I've introduced two additional areas in there. One is insider threat programs, and the other one is
physical security. Now those three overlap slightly, but they're different audits. Internal audit
will not be able to do those as individual audits, like we go in and we do accounts payable, and
then we move on. With those particular ones, for example, cybersecurity, we work very closely
with Sheri Le. Insider threat programs, we will have to work with security on that and the one on
physical security.
So with that, I sort of open the floor to any questions that everyone might have.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Folska, you are first.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Mihalik.
Can you estimate when you will be fully staffed?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: The issue around staffing right now is that I sort of looked
online, and I saw that we had 158, I think, Senior Auditors in Denver-- positions advertised.
We're trying to advertise to get somebody who does audits from start to finish. The way Kevin
and I audit, auditors don't do that. We just borrowed somebody from OIG. And the first day, I
took two audit files, and I put it on his desk. He looked at me, and he said, two audits? I said,
yes. And he said, my team at OIG and I, we take nine months to do one of them. We've done up
to 20 audits. Now Kevin's gone, and I'm not going to say that I'm going to do 20 audits, or even
10, by myself.
Now as far as the staffing is concerned, Dave and I are getting together tomorrow, and we will
try to get some type of plan on how we're going to do the staffing. Maybe we'll have to change
the game. Because auditors audit pieces of audits. And so when they apply, and I read through
the resume, they know how to do some things. They cannot plan, do the fieldwork, write a
report, and do follow-up in most cases. Most auditors do not do all of that.
So I think we will get together and come up with some type of plan. Maybe we have to change
the requirements for the auditors. I really don't know at the moment. So I don't want to give you
false information that we're going to have them by January 1st or whatever. We're not.
KEN MIHALIK: General Manager.
DAVE GENOVA: If I may, Mr. Chair. So one of the positions we're recruiting for is a vacancy
that was left by Kevin when he retired. So we recruited for that position, we advertised it, we
have applicants that we're reviewing. We're not sure the applicant pool is going to meet our
requirements. So Ann Marie and I are working through that. We may advertise again. We may

review the job description, see if we need to make any changes or not. So that is really the one
position that the Board's used to seeing in addition to Ann Marie's.
So additionally, we have a new audit position that is new for 2019. And we're getting ready to
advertise that position. So that's a new position. That's a position we haven't had before. The
position we just advertised was a senior auditor. The other one is more of an entry-level auditor.
But this is a high-priority area for me to get these recruitments done and people on board,
because it's an important area for the district.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you very much.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Folska. Director Anderson.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you, Chair Mihalik.
When I first got on the board, this was a great management tool. And it was used by management
to look at different places within the organization, and as a help to senior management. I have
seen this grow, and grow, and grow because Board members wanted to audit all kinds of things.
So I just think we ought to direct staff to come up with a reasonable internal audit plan. And if
some Board member just thinks there is some kind of something going on, then perhaps look at
that. But this thing has grown until it is the tail wagging the dog.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. We can see if there's any other speakers. I don't see any. I would
have said that it is an ambitious plan for a limited staff.
We'll move to a vote. Oh, sorry. My apologies. Yes, Director Williams, I understand you may be
on the phone, and just want to see any questions or comments.
KATE WILLIAMS: I am on the phone. I do not have any questions or comments, and I will be
voting in favor.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that.
Oh, I see Director Menten has joined the queue.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. Yeah, we're taking advantage. So how many requests did you get
from the Board?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Absolutely none.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. We will move to a vote. Director Sisk, I had you as the mover.
CHUCK SISK: Yeah. [INAUDIBLE]

KEN MIHALIK: And Director Deadwyler as the second.
And with Director Williams, that's 14 yeses, and passes unanimously. Thank you very much, Ms.
Isaac-Heslop.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Second recommended action tonight-- it is recommended by the Financial
Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager
or his designee to execute all documents necessary to award a contract to Workday for licenses
for the ERP Replacement Program Phase II, which is human capital management and payroll, for
the amount not to exceed $2,700,000 over five years. RTD will be utilizing the City and County
of Denver's contract with Workday. Subscriptions for the ERP Replacement Program Phase II
will be paid annually. And this supports General Manager's goals-- core goal number three,
strong financial management; task goal number one, fiscal sustainability; and task goal number
two, workforce and human capital.
Do I have a motion?
CHUCK SISK: Sure, I'll move it.
KEN MIHALIK: And a second.
BOB BROOM: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Directors Sisk and Broom.
Heather, if you care to elaborate.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I'll just be really brief. As it was mentioned, it's our phase II. You have
previously approved us moving forward on the budgeting, and the contract, and materials
management inventory system in previous meetings. We're now on to the human resource and
payroll modules. We had a group evaluating this for a considerable period of time based on the
requirements that we gathered. And the decision was to go with Workday.
We then had the Procurement Office review the best way to be able to procure that. And the City
and County of Denver was the most advantageous contract that we could piggyback on that was
available to expedite this process.
So with that, I'd be glad to take any questions.
KEN MIHALIK: Well, Director Williams, I'll start with you while people in the room are
queuing up.

KATE WILLIAMS: I do not have any questions or comments. I understand that this is a followup to work that had been mentioned before. And so I'm good with it. And I will be in favor of
this. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you very much.
Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you. I just had a question about-- you said you were going to piggyback
on another jurisdiction. Do we directly contract with the firm, or do we contract through Denver?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We directly contract with the firm.
BOB BROOM: OK, thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Seeing no one else in the queue, we will move to a vote.
Director Sisk, I had you as a mover, and Director Broom as the second.
And same as before, 14 yeses with Director Williams, and it passes unanimously.
And the third of the recommended actions-- it is recommended by the Financial Administration
and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors approves the attached amendment number
three, regarding plan changes recommended by the Salaried Employee Pension Trustees. And
this supports the General Manager's core goal number three, of strong financial management;
task goal number one, of fiscal sustainability; and task goal number two, workforce and human
capital.
And Heather, you're up again.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I just wanted to briefly talk about-KEN MIHALIK: Oh, sorry. I got ahead of myself. I need a motion.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Need a motion-- sorry.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Deadwyler and Director Lubow.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I'll just briefly go through. This is really a change to how the
actuarial calculates some of the assumptions that go into how funded the plan is and the
expectations on life expectancy, et cetera.
So one of the things that we're recommending-- or the actuarial made a recommendation to the
trustees, and the trustees is making a recommendation to this Board, is that we adjust the
calculation percentage for the lump sum payments. So this doesn't necessarily affect the payout,
but it affects how we do the actuarial calculations to determine lump sum payments. And so the

recommendation is going from 7 1/2% to 7%, which is the same action the trustees took for
overall earnings on the pension earlier in the year.
And in addition, changing the mortality table, going from the blue collar adjustment to the
mortality table without that adjustment. As I mentioned, the difference in the actuarial
recommended contribution would change. So for 2019, our current contribution is $5.6 million.
The actuarial contribution before this change was $7.95 million, and it would go up to $8.68
million. We are not and have not been contributing the full amount of the recommendation. So
this doesn't have direct out-of-pocket effect on the Board, but it does change the calculation. So
I'd be glad to take any questions.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik.
Heather, I just wanted to ask if you could explain what the difference is in using an interest rate
of 7% instead of the current 7.5%. What's the reasoning behind that?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: To bring it more in line with what we're seeing as far as interest
earnings on those plans. The trustees looked at what the rate was overall at 7 1/2% earnings on
the total plan. That has been somewhat unrealistic. Even though last year the earnings were 14%,
this year, they're significantly lower. And so a change was made by the trustees on the overall
interest rate. That would match that for purposes of this lump sum payment. Lump sum
calculation on potential people that would take lump sums and the amount of earnings lost or
received on that would be more in line with what the trustees approved already for the overall
percentage calculation for the overall plan.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: I would just add, I think it's still historically ambitious, but it's going in the
right direction.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, we did have the actuarial come and talk to us. Our earnings over
the life of this plan have typically been an average of 6%, which is quite good. But like I said,
the year-to-year number fluctuates significantly. Last year, 2017 earnings were around 14 1/2%
on the plan. This year, we're expecting something quite less than 7%. So yes, it does vary.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you.
Director Williams, any questions or comments.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I'm just glad that Heather is there doing her job,
and I will be in favor of this motion.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. And with that, we'll move to a vote. Director Deadwyler, you were
the mover, and Director Lubow, you were the second.

And that makes three unanimous votes. This one also passes, 14 yeses.
And now we will move on to a series of updates, the first one being a ridership report.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So yes, Susan's coming up here to go over the ridership reporting. But
we wanted to give you an update on some changes that we've made over the last year. Actually
they've been working on it-- Susan's been leading a group that's working on this a lot longer than
that. But trying to bring some higher level of accuracy to our ridership reporting, and thereby
other reporting that we do, and some standardization for reports that we put out there to the
public.
In the past, there's been an issue of quote, unquote, "shopping" for a number. And this way, we
have some very specific criteria that we follow for ridership reporting, and also how it's reported,
and where it's located on our website, et cetera.
So with that, I'm going to turn it over to Susan to walk you through an update and a status on
what they've been working on, and where we are right now.
SUSAN COHEN: OK, this is Susan Cohen, updating you on the ridership reporting. As Heather
mentioned, we've been working on this project a while. We started a group internally in June
2017. And we meet monthly now. And the objective is to improve our ridership reporting. We've
started out with the goal of improving the accuracy and the timeliness of what we were reporting,
developing and documenting our data sources for each mode and each type of service, and
developing and documenting business rules for how we collect the data, how we verify what's
there, how we estimate data that are missing. We're-- also objective to get any needed external
certifications for our reporting. And we ultimately are trying to consolidate our ridership
reporting in our single database, accessible to multiple users in the district.
And to start, we looked at our immediate reporting needs. We have to report certain data to both
the FRA (Federal Railroard Administration) and FTA (Federal Transit Administration) monthly.
For FRA, we have to report commuter rail ridership and passenger miles by line. For FTA, we
have to report ridership by mode. And on bus, we have to report RTD operation and contracted
operations separately.
We also report to you on a monthly basis. We report our monthly totals by line for our rail lines.
And we've been reporting (APC) totals by mode for everything else. We also put together the
backup for the Annual Service Performance Report, which includes annual boardings by route.
So we initially looked at our different sources of ridership information, and we identified
automated passenger counters as the best data source for our fixed-route bus, light rail, and
commuter rail services. We have been using the APC for the Flatiron Flyer, Mall and Metro
Ride, light rail, and commuter rail. And we had been using a combination of fare-box-generated
data from our GFI fare boxes and our smart media for reporting on bus routes.
So our first step was to obtain the required FTA certification for APC-based reporting. In order
to report data to FTA using APC, you have to have your systems certified that you meet certain

standards of accuracy and file a maintenance plan. You also have to include sampling plans for
any mode that doesn't have a 100% APC-equipped, which, by today's standards, is all of our
service right now.
So we applied for and received certification for both light rail and commuter rail in April of
2018. We requested certification for bus in November. We are going to have to resubmit because
we discovered-- and now we're told-- when we submitted that per FTA, we have to certify the
RTD-operated and contractor-operated bus separately. So we are going to resubmit that fairly
soon. And our goal is to have that in place to do our 2018 year-end reporting. We will be
continuing the non-APC reporting for Call and Ride, special services, our ADA service, and van
pools.
So now that we're moving to APC certification and submitting for certification, we're going to be
restating our 2017 prior reporting based on the methodologies that will be agreed will be agreed
upon with FTA. So for light rail, commuter rail, Flatiron Flyer, Mall and Metro Ride, as I
mentioned before, we had been using APC data all along.
There will be minor differences from the prior estimates that we've submitted to you and you've
seen before. Because in the past, we were doing-- as I mentioned, you have to have a
methodology to take your sample and expand it to a full count. There will be some differences
between-- this is called sample factoring, that we've been doing before manually. That will be
done in an automated fashion using our ridership reporting software.
Fixed-route bus is showing a significant increase when you move from APC estimates and from
fare box and smart media taps. We've known in the past that there have been some issues with
the manual input. Much of the data that we were getting from the fare boxes was manual input.
And the fare box keypads are so complicated that you almost need to be a key punch operator to
get everything right. So we've known that there were some issues there.
And what we've seen is consistent with observations from elsewhere that have moved from farebox-based ridership to APC. The APCs tend to be more accurate, and actually count all the
people who are getting on. On our other bus routes, there's an increase from our prior. And we
found this when we broke out our boardings on special services from the fixed-route bus
boardings as part of the restating.
So if you flip to the next slide, we've got a comparison of the old methodologies, at a high level
versus the revised, which would be the APC counts, and as you look in the differences, you'll see
that the modes that had been APC before-- Flatiron Flyer, light rail, commuter rail, Mall and
Metro Ride-- were fairly close, and fixed-route bus and other bus, our polls show significant
increases.
Our next steps are going to be to update the 2018 ridership reports using the new methodology.
And our plan hope is to get that done for January as part of the November monthly financial
status report. We will also go back and look at 2016 using the same methodology so we have
another point of comparison, so we can see how 2016 to 2017 changed using the same
methodology.

We're also working to develop a longer-term approach for routine reporting, identifying what
reports will be provided, how often, what level of detail, who gets the reports. And we'll be
posting information on the RTD website. Right now, we have our monthly ridership reporting
posted. It's posted as part of the monthly financial status report. We are looking to have
something a little more visible and more intuitive way to find it.
We're also working to document all the procedures, all the reporting, so that the ridership
reporting doesn't reside in one person's head. And last but far from least is to establish a data
warehouse for reports, so that people internally will have one place to go to get numbers, and
know that these have been vetted, reviewed, quality-checked, et cetera.
Take any questions.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Ms. Cohen.
There we go, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. We have a lot of acronyms in this business. APC, I'm
guessing, is Automated Passenger Count.
SUSAN COHEN: Yes, it is.
BOB BROOM: And how exactly does that work? Do you break a beam or something.
SUSAN COHEN: Yes.
BOB BROOM: OK, thank you.
LARRY HOY: I love that answer.
KEN MIHALIK: You break a beam.
CHUCK SISK: Man, that is succinct.
LARRY HOY: Yeah, I like that.
BOB BROOM: That's all.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Hoy, you're next.
LARRY HOY: I don't know if my questions will be yes or no questions. But I liked your
answers.
What I'm wondering is, a lot of accounting is about controls. And when your fare box count is
consistently less than the people that actually get on the bus, does that tell us something?

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Do you want me to address that?
So as Susan mentioned, I don't know if you've seen the fare box buttons that the drivers have to
push, but they're incredibly complex, and they use multiple buttons for multiple things. And so
one of the things we discovered-- and not only that piece of it, but we had been doing all of that
data aggregation from all of that fare box information, coupled with the smart card information
that we had, to try to do checks and balances. And that was done basically on a spreadsheet for
the last umpteen years.
So we knew there were issues in ridership reporting over time, throughout the organization. I
think you've all experienced that over time. You get one number for one group, and another
number from this group, but it didn't count this, and it didn't count that. It wasn't disclosed that
way.
So we set up this group probably at least 18 months ago to research how is a better way of doing
this, and getting away from the manual process, and getting away from relying on the drivers
punching buttons. In fact, we're eliminating most of those buttons right now for them, to very
few. I think we're going to five or six now instead of 13 or 14-- to enhance the accuracy of it.
In addition, to get certified by FTA, as Susan mentioned, we also have to come up with a
standard methodology that we use that we apply across the board. And then we have to prove
that we check that information, and verify it, and maintain that information. So it's a much more
rigorous process and a much more accurate process.
So that's probably why we're getting more accurate counts and higher counts. As Susan also
mentioned, when we looked at other agencies that have moved from a manual process to an
automated process, we saw very similar things in their numbers, in the form of accuracy going
up significantly.
The more APC-- the downsides we have right now is our buses are not 100% yet. I think we're in
the 80% to 85% range for APCs on buses. As new fleets come in, we're able to order them on
there. And then also with railcars we're about 25%. But this board approved an action a while
ago that allowed us to put APCs and retrofit those on existing railcars. And any new railcars will
have them adjusted.
So because we know we don't have 100% coverage, we have to come up with a methodology to
be able to extrapolate that. But that methodology is so much more accurate than what we're
currently doing.
So I wouldn't say anything was done purposely. I think that's a matter of a combination of
multiple manual processes and assumptions that were made, and the various ways that people did
the calculations.
SUSAN COHEN: And can I add one thing? The certification for FTA requires us to compare a
certain number of trips with a APC count to an actual human service monitor, or in the case of a
train car, group of service monitors counting manually. And you have to be within 5%. So we

have met that on bus and rail. So we have some assurance that we are closer using our APC,
then. And we had never had to do that with the fare box counts.
LARRY HOY: Yeah, I think it's something that ought to be thought through a little bit, though. I
hate to be cynical. But I'm thinking maybe when you do that audit, when you actually have
physical people on bus counting-- that's what you're talking about, that audit. Maybe you count
the fare box at the same time, do three-- I mean, it seems to me-I was in a business once where the people came in and paid cash, and did their thing, and left. It
was not very sophisticated. And I can tell you that I terminated employees because it was just too
big of a temptation. Honest people became dishonest when they were dealing with that much
cash. It was a lot of cash. And I'm not saying we have thieves running around. I'm just saying
that it's our responsibility to make sure that we keep honest people honest.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, and that's one of the reasons we're eliminating that process.
LARRY HOY: How does not counting fare box transactions help?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Do you want to speak to that?
SUSAN COHEN: I'm sorry.
Actually, it's not that we're not counting fare box transactions. The issues we had weren't as
much with the cash transactions as with the non-cash. Right now, most of our boardings are noncash transactions. The issues we had were with flash passes, where a driver had to try to count
the number of people flashing monthly passes-- that. Yes, and our operator's primary
responsibility is to drive people safely, not to figure out, did 10 people walk by me with flash
passes or 20? And those where we were having the issue.
And part of what Heather mentioned, as far as simplifying the fare box keys was to get to exactly
where you are, where you're going, which is to enable us to have better control over the cash, and
know whether we're getting reasonable cash collections for the numbers of boardings.
Right now, I believe in 2017, I think it was less than 20% of our total fare box revenue came in
through a bus fare box.
LARRY HOY: Well you know, I'm a short-timer. I'll just leave you with those thoughts.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, I think what we're trying to do is address exactly what your
concerns are. We're trying to use the fare box keys to try to deal with a very specific things we're
trying to track. And some of that is related to the cash that comes in. And the other thing we're
trying to do is increase the accuracy of our ridership, which is eliminating the driver in that
mechanism so they don't have to worry about it. And they can concentrate on the things that are
more important for them to be doing by pushing the buttons versus them counting people, where
we have a much more accurate way of doing that using the APCs.

LARRY HOY: So, and to my fellow Board members, next time I'll let Director Broom ask the
question. His answers go much quicker. OK, that's all I have. Thanks.
BOB BROOM: You just have to set to set them up better.
LARRY HOY: Yeah.
[CHUCKLING]
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Sisk, you are next.
CHUCK SISK: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Good evening. Susan, Heather, thank you very much.
I think this is such an important project, and one that aids us in terms of transparency. And I
heard you talk about doing it for the federal administrations. But I think, much more importantly,
it's for our constituents. And every time we go out and we talk about, for instance, EcoPasses or
college passes, we're asked to validate the numbers. And so to the extent that we can really
validate those numbers, not with 100% accuracy, but certainly doing better than just the head
count. I really applaud you. And I think this is a project that's long overdue, and I understand it's
an ambitious project. But it's one that I think will really inure to the benefit of RTD when we go
out and talk to various people, and talk to them, especially with the fare proposals that we've
undergone. And you know the questions came up about questioning the accuracy. And truthfully,
I mean, even the Flatiron Flyer, we had some inaccuracy when we first-- you know, like, 20, or
30, or 40, or whatever the percent was.
But I think this goes a long way to addressing those issues. So thank you very much for really,
you know, leaping into the deep end. And as usual, you did such a compelling job. Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you. And as Susan mentioned, one of the real goals is to get-this information is buried, now, in the monthly report. So if you don't know to look there,
somebody has to direct you there. So one of the goals is to get the ridership information
displayed in several different ways, posted front and center on our website. So it's easy for
people to get to. So that's one of the outcomes of this project also.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Williams, do you have any questions or comments on this.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd just like to thank Heather again for great work on this. And it's nice to
know that we are coming into the next century with our equipment, and I'm in favor of this.
Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Yeah, I agree. I think it couldn't have come sooner. It's nice, objective
reporting that reduces that burden on the operators.
Oh, I see Director Folska.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Thank you very much, Heather and Susan.
This information is really interesting. And I'm wondering if you've thought much about sharing it
with our Communications Department. So when you do have it all sort of dialed in, and it's
smooth, the more people know-- let's just say that our numbers are really reporting low, and it's
getting higher and higher. If there is a way to put it out into the media so that the community in
the district as a whole, they might say, wow, this is really cool. Look at all the people riding. I
want to ride, too.
So maybe it'll feed an increase of ridership moving forward. At least that would be my hope.
Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And we can definitely work with Communications when we're to that
point of making sure, and letting people know where it's available, too.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. And I think we're going to move on to the October monthly
financial status report.
DOUG MACLEOD: Good evening. This is Doug MacLeod. These are the October numbers.
They look very similar to the September numbers that we brought last month. All the arrows are
the same colors, same directions. Sales and use tax continues to be about where we-- or a little
bit better than budget, at 0.9% over budget. So it's kind of continuing where we've seen it all
year. It's significantly better than last year, at 5.4% over.
I'll skip over ridership, because I'm going to talk just a little bit about that. But on fair revenue,
same story. It's still been under where we expected to be on budget by 1.7%, but we're exceeding
last year.
One of the anomalies that shows up here is that ridership is down over last year, same time,
1.8%, but our fare revenue is up 2%. That's mainly because we've seen a shift in ridership. So
we've seen more riders on the University of Colorado A Line, and some of the light rail riders
that pay a little bit more than we'd see on the bus. And I'll show you that in a minute, in the
ridership slide. So that's contributing to the increase in fare revenue.
What I would point out, too, is when you combine our two major sources of revenue, sales and
use tax and fare revenue, even though fare revenue is under budget by 1.7%, fare revenue is
about one-fifth of the size of our sales and use tax. So when you add the two together, our sales
and use tax overage in our underperformance on fare revenue were actually 0.4% over budget, or
$2.4 million. So very close on a budget of $635 million.
Incidentally, too, I would also point out that, while our revenue is pretty much flat to budget, our
expenses are under budget year-to-date. So we're performing pretty well with only two months
ago. And on sales and use tax, December is our biggest sales and use tax collection month. So
that will kind of really determine how we finish out the year.
And what I wanted to point out is, at the end of this package, there is a ridership slide. I don't
know if you've had the chance to look at this recently, but it tells a pretty good story of what's

driving the fare revenue and our shift between sources. So up towards the top, the top two-thirds
is our revenue services. Those are our main revenue-producing lines. With bus at the very top,
light rail, and commuter rail. Then, at the bottom, are more non-revenue-type services like Mall
Shuttle Metro Ride. Even though ADA is in there, our Access-A-Cab is fairly low revenue
producing. So we kind of leave it out of the mix when we look at our revenue-producing routes.
So what you can see in this slide is that our bus is 3.3% under where we were in the previous
year at the same time, while our light rail is up 1.7% and our commuter rail is up significantly, at
8.6%. And the big driver of that, with the big numbers, is the University of Colorado A Line,
which has the $9 fares out to the airport. So that's kind of what's driving our fare revenue positive
results.
So I just wanted to point that out. That's kind of a good way to look at, if you want to analyze our
fare revenue, what might be driving it, at least from a volume basis.
And that's all I wanted to show you from the October financials. And we'd be happy to take any
questions now.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Mr. MacLeod. See if there's any discussion. Let me check in with
Director Williams, see if she has anything.
KATE WILLIAMS: No, thank you, Chair Mihalik. No, thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. I don't see anything from anyone in the room.
We'll move on to the third quarter KPIs (Key Performance Indicators). Thank you, Doug.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So as Jeanette comes up here to talk about third quarter KPIs, I'll just
point out that in your Operations packet, that committee that comes after ours, are all the detailed
reports that support the detailed information behind the KPIs that we're going to talk about now.
So we can take questions now, and then you might have additional questions when we get to the
Operations Committee. We can also address those in those reports at that time also.
JEANETTE SCARPINO: Thank you. These are our KPIs for the nine months ending September
30th. So they are year-to-date measures. At the third quarter, we have met 33 of the 41
performance measures that we track. And I think the good news is that, in the third quarter, our
overall performance was essentially stable to quarter two. And I will talk about the exceptions
briefly.
Goal 3.1 system-wide on-time performance was stable to quarter 2 and to 2017. We didn't see a
falling out of any carrier. And from a system-wide basis, we were on target.
4.2, the level of customer complaints, against stable to quarter two.

Measure 5.1, our ADA on-time performance was only slightly-- and I mean slightly-- below
goal.
6.2, our ridership, it is down year-to-date, as has been spoken about. We are seeing a similar
decline nationally. But we will look forward to the annual measure that we will make at the end
of the year. We think that's more appropriate.
6.3, similarly, fare revenue and operating revenue, they are both up, but a little bit short of
budget. And again, we think this goal is more meaningful on an annual basis.
And then finally, 6.5, both bus operator and bus mechanic vacancies are outside of goal-- what
else is new-- but better than quarter two.
Are there questions that we can answer?
KEN MIHALIK: I see at least one. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I very much appreciate seeing these
reports, because I think that quite often people don't take the time to pay attention to what we're
doing or to appreciate what we're doing. And particularly given recent headlines, even in today's
paper, I would like to point out that on page 42 of our packet, where it talks about performance
measures 3.1-- maintain system-wide on-time performance, may I just note, under Commuter
Rail, On-time Service, our goal is 90%. In the second quarter, it was 97.4%. In the third quarter,
it's 97.1% I don't think there's another transit agency in the country that can claim that degree oftime performance.
So yes, there are issues that are out there. And yes, there are issues that are being addressed and
need to be addressed. But the trains are running on time, and I just wanted to note that. Thank
you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you, Director Williams. I'll check in with you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. I have nothing to say.
KEN MIHALIK: Seeing no other questions or comments, we'll move on to the last of the
updates.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So the last update we have is the status of the fare implementation. As
you requested, every several months, you'd like us to come back and talk about how we're doing
on the implementation, and then after we implement, how are we doing on actual performance.
So this is our first report to you. I'm not going to go through the background or the approved
changes. But starting under the discussion line, I just wanted to point out that we are in green
status for implementation on January 1st, which means right now we're not anticipating any
issues. We have had some in the past, but we've been able to overcome all those, and we're now
in green status.

The first set of boxes, where it says "system impact to fare changes," I just wanted to show you
that those are all the systems that we have to fix, change, update, we have to touch in some way,
shape, or form to go live in January. And so people forget the magnitude, I think, of the amount
of things we have out there that we have to literally adjust through a software change, or
physically touch the machine, or whatever it might be.
Then, under Business Impacts, you can see the business areas that are impacted by going live.
And then we've listed the remaining activities for you that we need to do to make the January 1
go-live date. And it talks a little bit about the cutover period and those type of things moving
forward, what Public Relations it still needs to do, what we need to do with Treasury on the
ticket vending machines as well as mobile ticketing.
So those are our remaining activities. As of today, those are still in green status. The team that's
working on this continues to meet multiple times per week to make sure we're ready to go within
the next few weeks.
Regarding the Low Income Program status, we broke that separately since that has a different
go-live date of mid-2019. We have been engaging the Office of Information Technology at the
state, as well as several other departments there that deal in social service programs that use this
state PEAK system. The PEAK system stands for Program Eligibility and Application Kit.
I have to say the state has been incredibly helpful walking us through the different programs that
they have, how this system works, how we could adapt it for our needs, the complexity of some
of the programs and how we could simplify it, because our goal is to make it as simple as
possible. I have been just incredibly impressed-- I can't say that enough-- with them. We meet
with them multiple times a week. They are currently not getting paid a dime by us to do all of
this work. And so they know that. They remind us of that.
So what we're in the process of doing now is a level of effort. They have a consultant, Deloitte,
that does modifications to their system, as well as there will be ongoing maintenance costs.
That's where we'll be paying for use of the system on some type of transactional basis. We're
supposed to get that level of effort this Friday. It will now be a week from Friday, so two weeks
away. Because they had an emergency come up that they had to deal with this week.
But again, they've bent over backwards. We think we have a program in place that will work.
But until we see that level of effort and some of the programming changes that are needed, we
can't make a final decision on how we'll move forward with that system. But that should be
coming shortly. In addition to that, there are all kinds of other activities related to-- other than the
technical piece of how you do means testing, how do we work with our customers, how do we
get the word out, what do we call this program? As you know, we've been calling it the Low
Income Program. What does the discount card look like?
And so in the next couple pages, we talk about the inclusive decision-making process that we are
deploying to work with our stakeholders, starting with the Pass Working Group, on getting their
input as to what they think the best naming of the program should be, if there's anything in
particular they want to do as far as what the discount cards should look like, et cetera.

So we just kind of lay out our approach there, working with our marketing department on-- we
still have parameters that we have to live within, certain things that we have to do. But we have a
little bit of flexibility in naming the program. And we thought this would be a really good time to
bring those stakeholders back in to have that conversation and help us finish out that, and also
help us-- we've already learned some tremendous things about working with the state agencies
on how they market to their constituents. And we're also looking for additional input from other
members of the community on how we can get that word out and market this new program when
it goes live.
So with that, I'd be glad to take any questions.
KEN MIHALIK: There's one. Director Broom, you're up.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair.
Do you have to be enrolled in a state program in order to qualify for a reduced fare?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, you do not. So the way we're anticipating working now is, if you
are already enrolled in a state program, you just have to notify us through checking a box in that
PEAK program that would notify us that you want to be considered. You've already gone
through the process of being income-verified and other things. That will be a really quick process
for those people already enrolled. For anybody that's not enrolled, they can log on and enroll,
which means they can then not only ask for our services, but they can also view other services
that might be available to them. If they don't want to do that, they can also just log in as a guest
and request the discounted fare. And then they have to put in-- we're trying to work on very
minimal information that would allow us to verify income and household. And then they would
get a yes/or answer.
BOB BROOM: And we have the capability of doing that?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We are working with the state on figuring out how we do that piece of
it.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. And that verification is an annual event?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is correct.
Director Folksa.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Mihalik.
Heather, job really well done. I really appreciate this effort. I know that it's taken a lot, and I
think you've achieved an enormous amount. And I really appreciate your collaboration with the
state. Thank you.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you very much. And I just want to say, there is a whole team
out there working on it. So I'd love to take the credit, but it's a huge effort that's going on.
But thank you very much for your comments.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Williams, any questions or comments on the fare status update?
KATE WILLIAMS: Actually, I do have. Heather, whatever happened to the $3 million that Mile
High Connects was going to contribute to this program?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I think you'd have to talk to them about that.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, so we have not heard-- once the program was agreed to and voted on,
we haven't heard any more from that group, who was very vocal prior to the vote? Is that what
you're saying? We haven't heard any more from them about it?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, we've heard from them, as having ideas around the program, and
their being one of the stakeholders that we reach out to help work on the naming and the
marketing piece of it. But as far as a financial contribution, no, that has not been forthcoming.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Thank you very much.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Menten, you're next.
NATALIE MENTEN: I just heard one word that I was concerned about. This group is being
brought back in to help steer the marketing?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, as I mentioned previously, our Marketing Department has
parameters that we have to work within. So within those parameters, we're doing outreach, not
only working with the state and some ideas that they have, but also we're bringing back some
stakeholders from the past working group, anybody that's interested, to give input on what we
may call that program other than "Low Income," because that appears to be offensive to some
people. So we wanted to come up with a name that might be better-suited, as well as outreach-where we can go for outreach, and how we can reach various communities throughout the
metropolitan district that we may not know how to reach through our current marketing plans.
So they're not spearheading it. It'll be Michael Washington working with Steve Reilly and that
group of people.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. The back of my hairs are sticking up a little bit still. To me, it's-ooh, I get worried about, just where this program started, from back way back in the get-go, that
some people who were not put in charge of watching over the taxpayers' dollars are now
directing where it goes on outreach and marketing.
So I'm just going to mention it right now, that I know, when we talked in our pre-committee
meeting, you know, now they're being asked to come in and help name the program. But when

we talk about how to do that outreach, how to do the marketing, if this is at all like the $6.8
million plan that we had, we didn't have any problem really doing outreach on it. It went out
there, and boom, we already-- within one year, it oversold the program.
So I'm just mentioning that.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We'll take those comments into consideration.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. We were elected representing the constituents for the
taxpayers' dollars. And to have a committee come and say, we were told to do this, would give
me great concern. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. And with that, I think we're going to move on to other matters.
KATE WILLIAMS: I have another matter.
KEN MIHALIK: Yeah. Director Williams, we'll start with you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I'd like to move that we move the vote upcoming
for the new Executive Board Committee from the first meeting in January until the 20th of
January.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
KEN MIHALIK: Director Williams, I see Rolf is looking up-ROLF ASPHAUG: If I understand correctly, Director Williams is asking that people think about
this. But a motion would be out of order-- to bring a motion. And it would require a second in
any event. But even if it had a second, a motion would not be in order.
KATE WILLIAMS: So how do I do that? How do I-KEN MIHALIK: Well, I'll ask that it just wouldn't be appropriate to engage in that at this time.
You can maybe meet with Rolf at a later date.
ROLF ASPHAUG: In fact-- this is Rolf Asphaug again-- it also is in the bylaws, that timing. So
it would require a change to the bylaws, which would require advanced notice and a two-thirds
vote, Election of Officers, Article 7, Section 4.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Rolf. So not appropriate in Other Matters, but-ROLF ASPHAUG: Yes, the first regular special meeting in January.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, Director Anderson.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, thank you.

KEN MIHALIK: Director Anderson, you were next.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you, Chair Mihalik.
Well, this is my last meeting. And I don't know whether I'm going to stay for all of it. I'm going
to stay for the votes for the next one. But I hope you all enjoy the book about the history of our
Arvada from 1976 to 2006. And it is a time of great change in Arvada. And many great
transportation projects were done, as Director Catlin knows, in Arvada.
And so I hope you enjoy that. There is a lot about RTD in there. And I just want you to enjoy
that.
I also know that Dave and Chair Tisdale were not here the night I handed out [INAUDIBLE]
stickers. So they get one.
But I also wanted to talk about the entrepreneurialism in the city of Arvada, and how we take
adversity by looking out-- looking for a way to make a buck over it.
So this morning I was online, and I noticed T-shirts-- the ghost train.
[CHUCKLING]
"Taking nobody nowhere." And so Dave, I'd like to give you one.
DAVE GENOVA: Is this my size?
LORRAINE ANDERSON: I hope so.
DAVE GENOVA: That will work. It's good. Because I'll wear it.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: OK. And Doug, I'd like for you to have a T-shirt. And I have one
left. And Henry, I'd like for you to have it.
[LAUGHTER AND APPLAUSE]
DAVE GENOVA: All right. Thank you, Lorraine. That's good.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: So just to let you know we do have a sense of humor, the two men
that did these T-shirts-- I called them early this morning. And they said, well, we didn't expect
orders so soon.
[CHUCKLING]
So I stopped on my way down here while they finished them up. And their shop is right by a
crossing. So they hear the train all the time. So enjoy.

And I want to say one more thing. It's been my pleasure, as an RTD person, to work with a great
staff. So thank you so much for your dedication. And you make this place work. So thank you
much.
[APPLAUSE]
KEN MIHALIK: Well it's going to be hard to follow that. I don't know if anybody wants to.
Thank you, Director Anderson. Our next meeting is in 2019, January 15. And with that, we will
adjourn.
[GAVEL POUNDS]
Take a five-- long five minutes.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

