Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Bob Broom, District F
Claudia Folska, District E
Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M

Ken Mihalik, District G
Doug Tisdale, District H
Jeff Walker, District D
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
REMOTE MEETING
November 17, 2020 at 5:30 PM
855-962-1128
(Press *3 to speak during Public Participation)

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Communications & Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Guissinger
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Lewis
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Williams
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Cook
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Catlin

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of October 27, 2020

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Public Hearing for 2021 Budget
A.

Adoption of the 2021 Budget

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt Resolution No. ___, Series of 2020 for the adoption of the 2021 Budget,
Resolution No. ___, Series of 2020 for the 2021 Budget Appropriation and Resolution No.
___, Series of 2020 for the appropriation of 2021 Previously Appropriated Capital.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Mission-Oriented Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services
Mission-Oriented Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management
Strategic Priority #6 – Move RTD Toward Stable Financial Situation

XII.

Unanimous Consent
B.

Construction Award for IFB 320 FD-002 – Platte Roof Replacement

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager & CEO or her designee to award a contract to
Flynn Companies in the amount not-to-exceed of $3,015,642 for the Platte Roof
Replacement project. Funding for this contract is included in the 2020 Amended Budget.
This Recommended Action supports the following General Manager’s 2020 goals:
Core Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Service.
C.

Adoption of the Investment Policy

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the attached Investment Policy which contains recommended changes to
reflect a change in ownership of the indices used to benchmark return and risk of the
district’s investments.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Mission-Oriented Goal #3: Strong Financial Management
D.

PABs Refinancing Documents

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors adopts the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Bond Resolution”),
authorizing the issuance of Tax – Exempt and Taxable Refunding Private Activity Bonds,
Series 2020 (Denver Transit Partners Eagle P3 Project).
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Mission-Oriented Goal #3: Strong Financial Management
COVID-19 Financial Goal: Identify Funding Sources
2020 Strategic Priority #6: Move RTD Toward Stable Financial Condition

E.

Bank Signature Authorization to Add Debra Johnson

It is recommended that the Board of Directors approve the attached Bank Account
Signature Authorization Agreement (the “Agreement”).
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Mission-oriented Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management

XIII.

Recommended Action
F.

Adoption of 2021 Fiscal Policy

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approves and adopts the revised Fiscal Policy Statement for 2021.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Mission-Oriented Goal #3 - Strong Financial Management
Strategic Priority #6 – Move RTD Toward Stable Financial Situation
G.

Adoption of the 2021 & 2022 Modified Mid-Term Financial Plan

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors adopts the 2021 & 2022 Modified Mid-term Financial Plan.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Mission-Oriented Goal #3: Strong Financial Management
COVID-19 Financial Goal: Identify Funding Sources
2020 Strategic Priority #6: Move RTD Toward Stable Financial Condition
H.

Masabi Contract Amendment

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approves an increase to the contract with RTD’s mobile ticketing vendor, Masabi
(contract #16DH050), to a Not-to-Exceed (NTE) value from $1,450,000 to $8,867,000
(difference of $7,417,000), and expansion of the Scope of Work to include Masabi’s
Account-Based Ticketing (ABT) feature for the remainder of that contract.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Mission-Oriented Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services
Mission-Oriented Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management
2020 Strategic Priority #3 – Enhance Current and Future Transportation Methods
2021 Strategic Priority #4 – Increase Ridership and Improve Rider Experience (Implement
Account-Based Ticketing System)
I.

Authorization of Fiscal Authority to the GM for the North Metro Rail Line Project

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors (“Board”) increase the authority granted to the General Manager or

designee to enter into all contracts, real property transactions and intergovernmental
agreements for the North Metro Rail Line Project by $35.2 million to a total authorization
of $757.5 million. This authority shall include the ability to negotiate and execute all
contracts; work orders; change orders and contract modifications; agreements for the
acquisition and conveyance of property interests; and intergovernmental agreements that
are necessary or advisable to complete the North Metro Rail Line within the scope of the
North Metro Rail Line Project budget.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Strategic Priority #4: Increase Ridership, Improve Rider Experience.

XIV. Executive Session
None

XV.

Old Business
A.

Accountability Committee

XVI. New Business
XVII. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

