Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on January 8, 2007
Page 1 of 6

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

March 19, 2007

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting held
on February 5, 2007 at 5:00 p.m. in Rooms T and D

***
Committee Members
Present:
Dave Ruchman, Chairman; Noel Busck, Vice-Chairman, Juanita
Chacon, Bill Christopher, Bill Elfenbein, Lee Kemp, Daryl
Kinton, Bill McMullen
Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Liz Rao, Gideon Berger, Karen Morales, Roger
Sherman, Bill Sirois, Errol Stevens, Kevin Diviness, Henry
Stopplecamp, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Larry Warner, John
Shonsey, Jerry Nery, Susan Altes, Scott Reed, Rick Clarke,
Caitlin Magee

Others Present:

Holman Carter, Angie Malpiede, Melvin Bush, Robert Alvarado,
Bill Conway, L.W. Morrow, David Levy, Eric Anderson
***

Call to Order:
Vice Chairman Busck called the meeting to order at 5:02 p.m.
I. Updates

Concession Management RFP– Errol Stevens, Senior Manager of Property
Management presented this item to the Committee. A RFP has been
developed with the intent of reaching the Retail Property Management
industry. The goal of the RFP is to find a company that would evaluate all
the RTD sites throughout the District for their potential for retail/convenience
services (e.g. ATMs, vending machines, coffee shops, etc.), recommend
services for the site, and oversee the implementation. Some of the spaces
included in this program are: Civic Center, Market Street, Boulder, and the
University Light Rail Station Parking Structure. This company would manage
vending services at the sites, receive the revenue, and remit to the District a
commission. The selection criteria include a 15% SBE goal. Evaluation
criteria are: Proposed percentage of revenue (how much concession revenue
would the District get), experience of the firm, and SBE involvement.
Director Elfenbein asked how other agencies do this type of program. Errol
Stevens said that some agencies manage it in house and the District does

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on January 8, 2007
Page 2 of 6

not have the resources to do the program that way.
doing it similar to this RFP.

Other Districts are

Director Chacon voiced concern over finding qualified bidders. Errol Stevens
said that the kind of company that would be interested in this RFP is a
company that manages small retail strip malls.
The draft RFP was distributed to the entire Board and is available for review
in the Board Office.


2006 TOD Status Report – Bill Sirois, Transit Oriented Development
Manager, gave this update. The Transit Oriented Development 2006 Status
Report was distributed. This report is an annual update on status of urban
planning and real estate development within one half mile of existing and
planned transit stations. The goal of the report is to summarize activity
related to TOD on both the planning and development fronts. Development
already built or under construction include: 11,825 housing units, 2,214
hotel rooms, 4.6 million SF retail, 28 million SF office space. Proposed
system wide: 13,783 housing units, 2,877 hotel rooms, 3.1 million SF
retail, 2.4 million SF office space. The most activity currently is on the
Southeast corridor. The TOD office is holding workshops for each corridor,
planning for one meeting per quarter with I-225 slated for early 2008. Bill
Sirois asked for comments back on the report by the 19th of February.
There was a discussion about interactions between RTD and developers,
local governments, and real estate agents in regards to TOD.
He mentioned that the TOD staff will have a discussion with the Citizens
Advisory Committee on Thursday, February 8th to discuss TOD and
FasTracks.
A copy of the report and the presentation are available for review in the
Planning and Development Committee Meeting Minutes Notebook.



Public Involvement Web Site Demonstration – Pauletta Tonilas and Karen
Morales presented the website to the Committee. The site is designed to be
a “one stop shop” for all things FasTracks that is easy to use, well
organized, and easy to navigate. The website is still in development with a
targeted soft (internal) launch of end of February.
Director Kemp suggested that for each corridor there be a link to the
Directors that are in that corridor. Karen Morales also showed how
constituents can subscribe to the District Newsletters from the website.
There were other fine tuning suggestions from the committee. The website
will be made available to the Board Members to review and become familiar
with it.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on January 8, 2007
Page 3 of 6

There was a discussion of how to publicize the new website. The website
will be highlighted in the Read-n-Ride as well as newspaper advertising.
II.


Recommended Actions
Approval of Contract Amendment to Front Range Systems Consultant for
FasTracks Systems Engineering Consultant Services. Rick Clarke, Project
Director Southeast Corridor, presented this action. This is a second year
amendment to an existing contract.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the
Contract Amendment to Front Range Systems Engineering Consultant
(FRSC), a Joint Venture of LTK Engineering Services and Parsons
Transportation Group, in the amount of $15,341,000 bringing the total
contract value to $22,010,119. Funds for the award are contained in the
2007 FasTracks Budget and 2008 FasTracks Program.
Motion: Director Busck made a motion
for full approval before the
Board at the February 20, 2007
Board Meeting.
Second: Director Kemp seconded the
motion.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.



Implementation of Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property
Acquisition Policies Act of 1971 – Liz Rao, Assistant General Manager,
Planning and Development spoke to this item. Last month, information was
given to the Planning and Development Committee on this Act and a draft
presented.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee the
authority and responsibility to implement and administer the requirements of
the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act
of 1971 for federal or federally-assisted funded projects including the
promulgation and administration of such rules, regulations and guidelines as
may be deemed necessary to carry out such programs and policies.
Motion: Director Christopher made a
motion for full approval before the
Board at the February 20, 2007
Board Meeting.
Second: Director Busck seconded the

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on January 8, 2007
Page 4 of 6

motion.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.


Approval of FasTracks Stakeholder Participation Policy – Liz Rao introduced
this action. This item was also presented at last month’s Planning and
Development Committee meeting. At that time, the Committee had
requested that members of the Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) come
and talk about their involvement. Melvin Bush and Angie Malpiede, cochairs of the CAC spoke to the Committee along with Pauletta Tonilas and
Larry Warner, Contractor. Pauletta Tonilas distributed the updated policy
that incorporated recent comments and suggestions. A handout on the
Public Involvement Process “funnel” was distributed as well. Both these
items are available for viewing in the Planning and Development Committee
Meeting Minute Notebook.
Ms. Malpiede addressed the Committee and said that the CAC spent two full
work sessions taking a look at the Stakeholder Policy and making sure that it
represents all the different constituents.
Mr. Bush spoke about how they used the Public Involvement Process
“funnel” to discuss when is the best time for Stakeholder input and what are
the costs to the project.
Larry Warner said that the goal of the policy is to focus the timeliness of
input on the project as early in the process as possible. Lessons learned
from T-REX and the West Corridor were incorporated into the document.
Director Elfenbein thanked the CAC for their time and effort in working on
the policy. This sentiment was echoed by the Committee.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors approves the FasTracks Stakeholder Participation
Policy to serve as a guide line for stakeholder input and involvement
throughout the implementation of the FasTracks program.
Motion: Director Elfenbein made a motion
for full approval before the Board
at the February 20, 2007 Board
Meeting.
Second: Director Christopher seconded the
motion.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on January 8, 2007
Page 5 of 6



DUS Master Plan and EIS Contract Amendment and Project Budget Increase
Request – Liz Rao introduced this item. Jerry Nery, Engineering Project
Manager said that this is a continuation of a previous contract to finalize
environmental work.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute a Contract
Amendment with the Union Station Alliance – Joint Venture (USA) for the
additional work related to Denver Union Station in the amount of
$8,700,000.
The total current contract amount, including previous
amendments, is $9,696,278. This amendment will increase the contract
value to $18,396,278. This amendment is required to pay for additional
work necessary to complete the FEIS, amend the DUS Master Plan and
complete the 15% preliminary engineering (PE) by the Master Developer.
Funding for the amendment is available in the FasTracks budget for Denver
Union Station.
Motion: Director Busck made a motion for
full approval before the Board at
the February 20, 2007 Board
Meeting.
Second: Director McMullen seconded the
motion.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.



Vacation of Easement for Bus Shelter at Grape and Colfax Avenue – Susan
Altes, Manager of Real Property, spoke to this action. RTD acquired this
easement from the McDonalds Corporation in 1980 to put a bus shelter on
East Colfax between Glencoe and Grape. McDonalds is no longer there and
Drake Real Estate is redeveloping the property. The City of Denver is
requiring them to widen the sidewalk which requires that RTD vacate their
easement. The District has negotiated that the developer will install a brand
new RTD shelter and $2,000 worth of landscaping around the shelter and
they will pay the District $1,000 cash. The bus shelter will be on revocable
permit from the City and County of Denver.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute
all documents necessary to vacate an easement by and between McDonalds
Corporation and the Regional Transportation District covering 198 square
feet (.00454 acres) located on the southeast corner of Glencoe and Colfax
Avenue (an existing RTD shelter location) so that property at this location
may be redeveloped. A new shelter will be purchased and installed by the
developer, along with street improvements, and RTD will receive $1,000 for

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on January 8, 2007
Page 6 of 6

the vacation of the easement.
Motion: Director McMullen made a motion
for full approval before the Board
at the February 20, 2007 Board
Meeting.
Second: Director Christopher seconded the
motion.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.
III.

Other Matters – Cal Marsella said that he is asking Chairman Martinez to put
together a retreat to discuss major issues pending for the District.

IV.

Next Meeting Date – The next meeting of the Planning and Development
Committee will be March 5, 2007 at 5:00 p.m. in Rooms T and D.

V.

Adjournment - There being no objection, Chairman Ruchman adjourned the
meeting at 6:34 p.m.

