2022-11-02
Performance Committee Meeting
SHONTEL LEWIS: All right. Thank you. So the performance committee will now come to order. We are
convened as of 1:30 PM. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless
you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this afternoon. Please note that under the current circumstances, the official
meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety,
and welfare. For the immediate future, the official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom
and will be audio and video recorded. Please visit rtd-denver.com to access meeting recordings and
unofficial meeting minutes.
Directors and members of the staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged
during this afternoon's proceedings, I would ask you to please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to
call you before proceeding to speak. Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual
hands to indicate that they would like to speak by pressing star 9. To toggle your mute settings on the
phone, press star 6.
I would now like to call the role for the committee members Chair Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Dishell. I think I see you.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yeah.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here with technical difficulties.
SHONTEL LEWIS: All good. All good. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And myself, Director Lewis. And for the record, I see that we have-- unless I'm
missing someone. I don't know if I see any Directors present. Oh, Director Cook. I do see Director Cook
present. And if I missed anyone else, please just shoot me a text, and I'll recognize you.
I'd like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any topic
listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding months. If you wish to
speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone.
Staff will unmute you when it's your turn to speak. If you are dialed in, press star 6 to toggle your mute
settings.

Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you're being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments will need to be submitted in writing. If any speaker has documentation or
reference materials for the committee, or if any member of the public would like to submit written
comments, please email those materials to the Board Office at the following email address-rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
During public comment, the committee will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may
contact speakers following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow-up.
Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names. And each speaker will have three minutes to
speak. Do we have any speakers in the queue?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I see no speakers in the queue.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thank you, Ms. McManus. And were there any comments received via email for
this afternoon's meeting?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Beautiful. Thank you. So with no participants in the queue, we will close the public
comment period at this time. As you all know, there is one discussion item on the agenda this afternoon.
That item is the strategic plan survey results and data evaluation, which I know we're all really excited
about. And so I would kindly ask Leah Riley, our Chief Administrative Officer, to present this item.
LEAH RILEY: Great. Thank you, Madam Chair and members of the committee. I am joined today by Iris
McClish and Stephanie Ayers from BBC Research. And they will be giving the presentation to us today.
So just to do a little introduction and provide some context, when the Board adopted its five-year strategic
plan for the agency, it established four strategic priorities and associated success outcomes for the
agency. And those are community values, customer excellence, employee ownership, and financial
success.
In 2021, TransPro Consulting engaged in the customer and community surveys to discern the agency's
community value index, also known as the net promoter score, and our customer excellence net promoter
score. Those surveys were completed in November of 2021. And the results from those surveys were
validated by Plante Moran in January 2022.
And then on February 17 of 2022, TransPro Consulting presented the 2021 survey results to the Board.
The community and customer value net promoter scores that were garnered from these TransPro surveys
serve as the baseline against which future progress is going to be measured.
So to do a follow-on, agency issued an RFP, a competitive Request For Proposals. And on August 3 of
2022, BBC Research & Consulting was awarded the contract to conduct the community value and
customer surveys for the 2022 data.
I am going to let Stephanie and Iris walk through with you the methodology, the results, the key drivers,
key factors, et cetera. And just quickly before I turn it over to them to give you their presentation, if I could
kindly ask that you hold all questions till the end of their presentation. And then we'd all be happy to
address any questions, concerns you have. So with that, I'll turn it over to, I believe, Iris. Thank you.

IRIS MCCLISH: Thank you. Thank you, Leah. And Thank you, Madam Chair. It's a great pleasure to be
with you all this afternoon. I'm going to share this presentation. So give me just one moment. Can
everybody see the presentation? Wonderful.
Well, it's a great pleasure to be here with you this afternoon. I am Iris McClish. I'm a Managing Director
with BBC Research & Consulting, which is a small business based right here in Denver, Colorado. We
specialize in market and customer research and have been working with RTD for more than a decade.
I myself have personally worked with RTD for eight years now, including executing four system-wide
customer surveys for the organization. And I'm joined by Ms. Stephanie Ayers, who's an associate here at
BBC. She helped coordinate and manage day-to-day execution of the customer and community surveys,
including managing our fabulous and large survey staff to help execute the bus and rail survey.
Today, I want to take you through a few key components. I want to briefly address the survey instrument
in terms of its structure and design, walk you through some key takeaways to keep in mind as I share
some of the results with you. And then I'll dive more deeply into both methodology and key results for the
customer experience survey as well as for the community value survey. And then, of course, we're here
to address any questions you might have.
As Leah said, the intention of the 2022 customer experience and community survey was to provide a
follow-up and help RTD understand how it's performing in key metrics compared to its performance
scorecard and compared to metrics that were collected and evaluated as part of last year's survey effort.
So with that goal in mind, we worked with RTD to ensure that, one, the questions that we were asking are
directly related to RTD's performance scorecard and its various metrics and, very importantly, that the
questions in the survey instruments were similar to 2021's in terms of both language and structure so you
can compare metrics across time.
It is worth pointing out, though, that there were some revisions to select questions to clarify the intention.
So for example, after last year's effort, where there was a general question about safety and security, we
worked with RTD this year to clarify whether we were asking about personal safety or personal security in
terms of one's perception of feeling they might be a victim of a crime while using RTD services. But by
and large, the survey instruments were very similar to the ones that were used to execute the surveys last
year. And just like last year, we administered the survey in both English and Spanish, depending on the
participant's preference.
One thing I want to note is those icons that you see at the top right there, you see four icons on this slide- bus, rail, paratransit, and a community icon. Each slide has an indicator, a or an icon, which will tell you
what survey or what service mode we're focusing on during that slide or as that part of the discussion.
So just to highlight some key takeaways as you see these results and you think about the implications or
what they might mean, I think it's, of course, top of mind, and I want to start by just-- spoiler alert-- the
satisfaction scores, overall satisfaction as well as net promoter scores were down across all service
modes as well as for the community value survey. Paratransit customers were the most satisfied in terms
of the different service modes last year. And they continue to be the most satisfied across each service
mode this year as well.
One thing that we'll talk about more in depth as we move through these results is that even though
satisfaction and Net Promoter Score-- NPS-- are down, when you really start to look at more detailed
results, overall satisfaction and likelihood to recommend ratings, which, of course, feed into net promoter,

indicate that the agency still has a very strong customer service base across all of your modes, and that,
really, it's a relatively small percentage of customers that indicated dissatisfaction with service this year.
That being said, we think that there are some areas where RTD could focus, and with some
improvements in these key areas, the agency could expect to see some pretty big improvements in
customer satisfaction and net promoter scores. For example, bus and rail customers were relatively
dissatisfied with on-time performance, security in terms of personal safety or personal security, and
cleanliness when you look at those results compared to 2021. With some improvement in those areas,
the agency might expect to see pretty drastic improvements, perhaps, in customer satisfaction and NPS.
We also want to highlight some considerations about why RTD may be seeing these types of results
there or why customer experience or perceptions may be changing over time. One thing that struck out to
us is that your customers are different in important ways from last year, not so much in terms of
demographics, but in terms of different characteristics and the way that they use transit.
For example, compared to last year, your bus and rail customers were less likely to be transit dependent.
So you have more people coming back and opting into transit. But we also saw that compared to last
year, your bus and rail customers said they're more likely to be looking for ways to save money, which, to
us is an indication of at least some level of economic stress that customers and the community is feeling
as a whole.
Similarly, we think it's worth acknowledging the broader socioeconomic factors that are impacting the
metro area as a whole and understanding how those impacts may change the customer experience.
There is plenty of statistical information as well as qualitative information to suggest that factors related to
the unhoused cleanliness in the metro area, violent crime, and drug use of public spaces impact the
metro area as a whole. And those factors or those considerations bleed into how your customers
experience your services.
Over time, I think it's fair to say that if the community or RTD cannot address those in an adequate
manner, then you would expect to see customer satisfaction continue to drop. This, I don't think, is to say
that pass the buck. And we can blame all these socioeconomic factors. But I think what it suggests is that
RTD certainly should think about ways that it can control the way these socioeconomic factors impact
customer experience, whether it's having more janitorial service and more frequent vehicle cleanings, or
providing more security at stops and stations.
And then finally, we just wanted to point out that there were a couple of events that may or may not have
impacted results, but it's definitely worth considering. So just before we launched the community survey,
in fact, just one day before, there was a light rail derailment. So it's something to consider. There's
nothing in our information to suggest that that derailment changed community perceptions. But it certainly
could have. So definitely keep that in mind.
And in terms of the customer survey, the August zero fair month happened about a week before we
launched the bus and rail survey. So it's worth asking the question whether that zero fare month had any
impact in overall customer experience in terms of when we were out in the field with the survey.
So I'm first going to talk about customer experience, focusing on bus, rail, and paratransit results. But I
want to talk a little bit about methodology first. So again, those icons up in the right-hand corner tell you
what I'm talking about on this slide.

So thinking about bus and rail sampling and methodology, we developed a very, very detailed sampling
plan for bus and rail surveys that was based on ridership data that RTD provided. They provided ridership
data for us that was from the first three weeks in May because RTD and BBC decided that the summer
months probably aren't a great representation of what typical ridership might look like, or at least not what
ridership would have looked like in September. So we went back to the beginning of May to get ridership
information.
We then developed a very detailed sampling plan that provided-- that dictated where we were going to go
in terms of stops and stations as well as how many surveys we were going to pass out at each of those.
Our sampling plan was inclusive of RTD's entire service area, including all of the bus routes and rail lines.
We touched every bus route and rail line that was included in the ridership data that we received, which
amounted to over 100 different routes and rail lines. We also accounted for ridership during different days
of the week, so weekdays versus weekends, and also for AM/PM hours as well as peak and off-peak
hours.
We then created what we call a survey invitation. And here's exactly what it looked like. The survey
invitation provided a brief introduction about the objective of the survey, and it provided participants one
of three ways to participate in the survey.
They could either scan a QR code on the invitation using their mobile phones. They could log into a
dedicated web page and enter their unique survey ID at a time that was convenient for them. Or they
could call into a 1-800 number to complete the survey via phone. Again, this was all done in either
English or Spanish, depending on preference. And customers were able to participate in the survey from
September 9 through September 25.
As I mentioned, based on our sampling plan, we distributed a specific number of survey invitations to
customers that were boarding a vehicle at each stop or station over specific dates. And ultimately, we
distributed more than 11,000 invitations. That map that you see there on the right actually shows all of the
stops and the stations that we went to and at which we distributed survey invitations.
All said and done, we had 460 bus customers complete the survey, which resulted in an overall margin of
error within 4.57% at a 95% confidence level. And we had 502 rail customers complete the survey, which
resulted in a margin of error within 4.36% at a 95% confidence level. Those sample sizes and the margin
of errors were very similar to what was achieved last year and certainly well within the acceptable margin
of error for customer and market research of this nature.
Now turning to paratransit, we focused on active customers. So RTD provided a list of active customers
who had used Access-a-Ride services at least once between September 2021 and August 2022. We then
called a random sample of those customers to complete the survey via phone. A small portion of those
customers elected to complete the survey online. But that was, of course, an option for them.
The telephone survey was administered in a manner to interact with people using special assistive
telephone equipment. And the online survey was compatible with assistive reading devices. We wanted
to ensure that anybody who was called could participate in the survey one way or the other. Ultimately,
we had 405 paratransit customers complete the survey, resulting in an overall margin of error within 4.7
percentage points at a 95% confidence level.
First, talking through some of the key results for customer experience. And I do want to note that there is
a full report. So if there's something that you don't see here, rest assured that there is a 150-slide report.

And it's very likely that any other metrics that you might be interested are presented in that report. And I
believe Leah has that and can make that available to everybody.
First, starting with customer characteristics in terms of demographics and then some of the other
characteristics that I spoke about earlier. So first, looking at your bus customers, they were most likely to
be between the ages of 18 and 39. 41% of them said they identified as white or Caucasian. 19%
identified as Black or African American. And 24% identified as Spanish, Hispanic, or Latino.
46% reported household incomes less than 25%. Of course, RTD uses-- in terms of identifying lowincome customers or residents, 150% of the federal poverty line. This $25,000 doesn't necessarily speak
to that low-income status. But it certainly suggests that many of your customers are likely low-income
households.
Compared to bus customers, your rail customers were more likely to be white or Caucasian, 54% of them,
versus 41% of bus customers. And rail customers were also more likely to report higher-income
households-- I'm sorry, higher household incomes.
And finally, your paratransit customers, half of them said they were between the ages of 50 and 75. 56%
said they identify as white or Caucasian. 19% said they were Black or African American. And 20% said
they were Spanish, Hispanic, or Latino. 67% of paratransit customers reported household incomes less
than $25,000.
So again, there are some other-- outside of demographics, we think there are some other things to keep
in mind in terms of how your customers have changed since 2021. As I mentioned, your customers were
more likely-- or the bus and rail customers were less likely to say they were transit dependent. So you
have more folks opting into bus and rail services this year.
As I also mentioned, it also seems that there may be some economic stressors that might be affecting
customers and probably the community as a whole. Compared to 2021, bus and rail customers were also
more likely to say that they're choosing transit to save money. Whether it's on parking, gas, and other car
expenses, people are looking for ways to save money this year.
Moving into net promoter score. And yes, I know that you all are very aware of NPS. But I just want to
highlight or point out that anything over a 0 is good. It indicates that there are more-- I'm sorry-- more
promoters, RTD promoters, than there are detractors. Anything less than a 0 indicates that RTD has more
detractors than it has promoters.
So compared to last year, what we see is that NPS is down across all service modes. This year, you had
an NPS for bus service of 10 versus 38 from last year. Light rail-- or excuse me, rail, you had an NPS of
14. And this little callout bubble here shows you what NPS looked like for light rail versus commuter rail.
So light rail NPS was 6 versus commuter rail, which had an NPS of 28. So a pretty big difference between
light rail and commuter rail. And then paratransit customers reported an overall NPS of 42, which the
difference isn't as drastic from last year, but it is still down from 49.
We also see a similar downward trend for overall satisfaction. So folks were asked to rate their overall
satisfaction with the service that they were using. And you see that downward trend across service
modes compared to 2021 as well.
So 67% of bus customers said they were overall satisfied with bus service. 67% of rail passengers said
they were satisfied. Again, there's a difference between light rail and commuter rail. 63% of light rail

passengers said they were satisfied versus 72% of commuter rail. And then 74% of paratransit customers
said they were satisfied overall compared to 91% of paratransit customers last year.
But as I mentioned, I think it's fair to say that that does not share or show the entire picture. Certainly,
those metrics are important for tracking changes in perceptions over time. But it doesn't really share the
whole story, which we think is that regardless of what those metrics show you, we think that RTD still has
a very strong customer base across all of your service modes.
In fact, if you look at highly satisfied customers, there's actually an uptick in highly satisfied bus customers
this year. So 33% of bus customers said they were highly satisfied with services this year versus 24% last
year. You see the same share of rail customers that said they were highly satisfied 30% versus last year
and the biggest drop actually and highly satisfied as you see in paratransit services. So 47% of
paratransit customers said they were highly satisfied versus 62% last year.
Where you see the other big shift or where you see the big shifts is really to neutral. So it's not that you
have a lot of customers changing from satisfied or highly satisfied to dissatisfied. You see a lot of
customers moving into that more neutral territory, which, again suggests to us that with some
improvements in key areas, you could expect to see some pretty drastic improvements with overall
satisfaction as well as with net promoter score.
You see the same phenomenon when you look at likelihood to recommend. So likelihood to recommend
feeds into net promoter score. So customers were asked on a scale of 0 to 10 to rate how likely they
would be to recommend RTD service to a friend or family. And what you see is that you still have the
majority of your customers across modes giving this question a 7, 8, 9, or 10, meaning they're either
promoters, or they're somewhere neutral. They're pretty passive.
Net promoter score is a pretty sensitive metric. So you can see pretty substantial differences. But that
doesn't necessarily mean that people are out there detracting or saying they're not going to recommend
services. In fact, what you see here is that detractors, folks who said they're less likely to recommend
RTD, they still account for relatively small percentages of your customers across all service areas.
I'm going to talk a bit now about key factors and where RTD may think about focusing resources or
energies. So bus and rail customers were asked to rank the top three most important features when it
comes to transit in general. Bus and rail customers ranked the same three features as most important,
although not in the same order.
So bus passengers said on-time performance was the most important followed by a fair price, a
reasonable price, and the frequency of vehicles. Rail passengers also said on-time1 performance was
number 1, followed by frequency of vehicle and price.
The table that you see there on the right shows how customers rated their level of agreement with each of
these or how satisfied they are with each of these factors. So 60% of bus customers and 67% of rail
customers are satisfied with on-time performance. 50% of bus customers and 54% of rail customers are
satisfied with price. And 57% of bus customers and 61% of rail customers are satisfied with the frequency
at which vehicles come.
We then mapped all of these various factors that folks were asked to rank in terms of importance against
how satisfied customers were for each factor. What I want to point out here is that those points that are in

red indicate areas of opportunity for RTD. These are factors that customers ranked as relatively important
for a transit system but had relatively low satisfaction for RTD in particular.
So a timely arrival of buses-- and I'm sorry. This is just focused on bus, and then I'll show you the
analogous analysis for rail. Timely arrival of buses, price, frequency, and-- I'm sorry. I can't see.
Stephanie, what is the I there? I can't see it.
STEPHANIE AYERS: It's personal security.
IRIS MCCLISH: Thank you. Personal security on buses are all opportunities that RTD might consider
focusing on if it wants to improve customer experience. And I'll talk more about this in a few slides. But
these are all important factors, but they don't necessarily-- there are other areas that we think it might be
important to consider when RTD thinks about customer experience and how to allocate its resources.
Here is the same analysis for rail, again, those points in red, which are frequency of trains, price, personal
security on trains as well as personal security while waiting for the trains, those are all what we call
opportunity areas. Again, those are factors that rail customers ranked as highly important to transit but
had relatively low satisfaction in terms of RTD service.
So those were all customer-ranked factors. Those are what customers said that were the most important
to transit systems. We also, though, ran additional analysis to understand the relationship between all of
these various factors and how they might impact overall satisfaction and likelihood to recommend. And
what we found is that in addition to those customer-ranked factors, these areas are highly tied to
satisfaction and likelihood to recommend. So people who were satisfied with being informed of service
disruptions, high-quality communications, personal security while waiting for and riding a vehicle, travel
time, vehicle cleanliness, if they were more satisfied in those areas, they were more likely to be overall
satisfied or more likely to highly recommend RTD services.
So like I said, those three most important factors that customers ranked, those are, of course, important to
consider. But it's also important to consider that there may be additional factors that, although they might
not be top of mind for customers, they certainly can impact the customer experience.
What you see again on that right table is satisfaction with these key areas. They're actually relatively
lower than what we just saw. So for example, satisfaction with being informed of service disruption is
lower than some of the satisfaction we saw in the other key areas. So 42% of bus passengers and 37% of
rail passengers said that they were satisfied with being informed of service disruptions and so on and so
forth. You can take a look at those.
I do want to point out, though, that these personal security questions may be something that RTD
definitely wants to-- may be something to focus on. So we asked passengers whether they felt they would
be victim of crime while waiting for a vehicle or while riding a vehicle. 31% of bus customers and 37% of
rail customers said that they feel they may be a victim of crime while waiting for a bus or train. 27% of bus
customers and 30% of rail customers said that they felt they could be a victim of crime while riding a
vehicle.
I also want to share just this example of how these different factors can impact overall satisfaction in net
promoter score. What you see here is on the left of this table is all of those factors that I just talked about- on-time performance, vehicle cleanliness, anything that customers either rate or we found to be

important using statistical analysis. These first two columns show net promoter score and how those can
swing drastically depending on perception or satisfaction with these individual factors.
So for example, when you look at on-time performance, folks who said they are satisfied with on-time
performance, they had a net promoter score of 40 versus people who said they were dissatisfied with ontime performance. They had a net promoter score of -52. So you can see that these factors really have an
impact on net promoter score.
The same is true when you look at overall satisfaction. Looking again at on-time performance, for folks
who were satisfied with on-time performance, 82% of them were satisfied overall with-- they reported
overall satisfaction with RTD service versus people who were dissatisfied with on-time performance. 28%
of them were overall satisfied.
Now looking at paratransit. Paratransit customers were also asked to rank the three most important
factors of service. Here is what they ranked. On-time performance was the most important factor for
paratransit, followed by courteous drivers and the ability to get to the places they needed to go.
The table on the right shows satisfaction with each of those areas. So 69% of paratransit customers said
they were satisfied with on-time performance. 91% said they were satisfied with the courtesy of drivers.
And 92% said they were satisfied with RTD's ability to get them to the places they needed to go.
Here is a look at key drivers or areas of opportunity for paratransit based on customer rankings and
perceptions. So points E and A, which are travel time and on-time performance, vehicles arrive within the
scheduled pickup window, those are areas of opportunity. Again, those are factors that paratransit
customers rated as highly important, where there was relatively lower satisfaction with RTD paratransit
service.
And again, we also ran additional regression analyses to understand whether there are other factors that
impact the overall satisfaction of paratransit experience as well as the likelihood to recommend. Again,
we see that there are a number of additional factors that do impact paratransit customer experience-being informed of service disruptions, quality of communications, security again, travel time, helpful
drivers, drivers securely fastening customers into the vehicle or into the seat of the vehicle, and the
availability of scheduling staff.
One thing I'll point out there on that table on the right, which again shows paratransit customer
satisfaction with each of those areas, is that just 6% of paratransit customers felt they might be a victim of
a crime while using paratransit services compared to about 30% of bus and rail.
One thing we also wanted to point out is, as we mentioned, satisfaction with paratransit continues to be
the highest among all three service areas. And that's not very surprising, because paratransit services
continue to outperform bus and rail service in a number of areas that are highly important to bus, rail, and
paratransit.
So what you see here is the different factors that are important or impact net promoter score and overall
satisfaction across all three modes. And what you see here is that paratransit service outperforms bus
and rail in all of these areas. As I mentioned, very, very distinctly in personal security. So here is, again,
that 6% of paratransit customers indicated they felt they might be a victim of crime versus about 30% of
bus and rail customers said they might be a victim of crime while either waiting for or riding a vehicle.

And finally, the community surveys. So again, to start with a little bit of information about how we
conducted the community survey. We used what's called an address-based sampling plan, which means
that we relied on USPS addresses. And we've pulled a list of United States Postal Service addresses with
zip codes within RTD's eight-county service area. From that list of addresses, we then mailed survey
invitations to a random sample of those houses or those residences between September 22 and October
5.
One thing that we wanted to ensure is that-- well, two things. We wanted to ensure that we appropriately
represented community members based on the demographics of the area. But the other thing we wanted
to ensure is that we had enough representation to ensure that we were including community members
who may be typically underrepresented or underserved. So to ensure that we did that, we actually
oversampled zip codes where there were high shares of people of color.
That doesn't mean that we ultimately ended up with disproportionately more people of color in our sample
than what the actual demographics of the area look like. But we oversampled those. And then,
importantly, we reweighted the data or the sample on the back end to ensure that it reflected the true
demographics of the area.
Community members could also complete the survey either online or via telephone. And ultimately, we
had 600 community members complete the survey, which resulted in an overall margin of error within 4%
at a 95% confidence interval.
So starting with just some high-level information about transit use, there are definitely some differences
we saw in terms of transit use compared to the 2021 survey. So 56% of community members said that
they use RTD services. 20% of those customers said that they ride one to two times per week or more.
And we consider those frequent customers.
Compared to 2021, more community members said that they had used RTD in the past, but they don't
use it anymore. So 34% of community members said that they used RTD, but they don't anymore. And
that's compared to 24% of community members last year.
We then asked those community members that said I've used RTD, but I don't use it anymore, we ask
them to tell us why they no longer use RTD services. This was a multi-select question. So you'll see this
figure here on the right that shows all these different factors. It doesn't add to 100% because folks could
tell us any number of reasons why they stopped using RTD services. But the number one most common
reason is that people said it takes too long to complete a trip.
In terms of overall perceptions, as I mentioned, net promoter was down not just across service areas, but
also in terms of community and community value. So last year, your net promoter score was negative 2,
which indicated that RTD had more community detractors than it does promoter. This year, it's -33, which
is, of course, down, and also indicates that you still have more community detractors.
That callout bubble is a breakdown of what we consider customers. This was community members who
said they used RTD at any point in the last year versus noncustomers. And you do see that its net
promoter is negative for both of those statements, but it is much lower for noncustomers.
Likewise, you see lower value for community members. So compared to 2021, fewer community
members perceive RTD as being valuable to the RTD-- or I'm sorry, the greater Denver region. And they
also were less likely to say that there was value to them personally.

Here you see the same look at potential areas of opportunities, although these are clustered a little bit
different. So there's not a whole lot of clear opportunities when you just look at this. Of course, when you
start to think about how to allocate resources and factors that RTD could impact greatly, the agency may
see other opportunities of area.
But that being said, community members were asked to rate the three most important values or factors to
transit systems in general. And they were also asked to rank the value that RTD provides in each of these
areas. So point G there in red, which is providing access to the region or adjacent cities and counties, this
is a potential area of opportunity for RTD to improve community perception. It's a factor that was relatively
important, but ranked relatively low in terms of value.
I recognize that that was a ton of information coming at you. So again, I want to mention that there is a full
report that has results for all of the metrics and all of the information that we collected as part of the
surveys. But we certainly want to take an opportunity to answer any questions you have at this point.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks, Madam Chair. And thank you for the great, comprehensive presentation. I
wanted to drill down on something. I noticed that-- or maybe have you help us square something. When
we looked at our customers' net promoter score, I believe it was relatively high when we just targeted
customers for net promoter score. But on the community value survey, people who identified as
customers had a negative net promoter score, which if I'm remembering correctly, is a pretty significant
swing, 30-, 40-point swing. How do you square that?
IRIS MCCLISH: Yeah. And so using customers in that way is, to be quite frank, a little misleading
because those customers are not the same. So the customers that we surveyed as part of the customer
experience survey, those were active customers. They actively ride. They ride it more frequently. They
use more services.
The customers that we had in the community sample, they're just different. They don't tend to ride as
frequently. The question was, have you ridden any time in the last year? So they're our customers, but
they're not the same type of customers. They're not using the services as frequently. They're not actively
engaged when we captured them. They just happened to fall out of the community survey in that way.
So I wouldn't think about those customers as the same. So like I said, it is a little misleading to use
customer in that way. They're just not the same in terms of their use of transit.
BOBBY DISHELL: And it's self-reported data on the community value customers.
IRIS MCCLISH: Exactly.
BOBBY DISHELL: Awesome. Thank you.
IRIS MCCLISH: Of course.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Dishell. Chair Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. Well, I think the numbers speak for themselves, so I won't dwell
on them. With regard to the areas for opportunity, is there any way to tell of those which ones will give us

the biggest bang for the buck? So if it's simply clean your buses more quickly, and your net promoter
score goes up 40 points, or it goes up 2, you know what I mean? How can we-- can we analyze it?
IRIS MCCLISH: Yeah. And I think there are a couple-- I don't think there's a perfect answer for that. But I
think there are some considerations. So let me flip back here. Let's see.
So one thing you may want to look at is this slide, how net promoter score in overall satisfaction swing
when you look at satisfaction with these different areas. So vehicle cleanliness, like you said, pretty
dramatic swing, although looking through these, I mean, interestingly, security is a lesser swing. So this
may provide some insight.
But what I would really suggest is that in terms of bang for your buck, it's not just the-- I don't think the
sole decision is how much it's going to improve customer satisfaction, but how much resource is it going
to take? I think it's fair to say that any of these, if you can improve vehicle cleanliness, personal security,
travel time, I think it's fair to say if you can improve any of those, you would see improvement in net
promoter score satisfaction.
But to me, one of the biggest considerations is, what is actually feasible? What can RTD achieve with the
resources that it have in terms of all of the other things that you have to do? So I don't think there's a
perfect answer for that.
But I think the two things are pointing out that we not only looked at what people said, but we also looked
at, statistically, what tracks in terms of overall satisfaction and net promoter score. And it's important to
consider all of these and look at all these different factors and think about what resources RTD has
available.
VINCE BUZEK: Right. And I just want to be clear that I was in no way suggesting we attempt to artificially
increase our net promoter scores because overall performance and customer satisfaction is what's key.
But thanks for your response.
IRIS MCCLISH: Yeah. No. And I don't want to interpret it as trying to artificially impact it. I mean, this
shows that there are key factors that are really important to customers, whether they identify it or not. And
if RTD can improve customer experience in those ways, then you would expect that customers would
have a better experience overall.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Thanks. And I think one of my two, if we're discussing and providing comments,
Chair, I think two big takeaways for me. One is our frontline workers knocked it out of the park. Courteous
bus staff. Every time our frontline staff were mentioned, I believe they were over 90% across the board on
every metric. So sharing that to the extent there's a way that we can acknowledge them at November's
meeting or add something to the union or something of that nature because that's a really, I think,
impressive number.
I think the other thing is we have a difficult decision to make. When you look at one of the things that was
the most influential factor for the community that they were least satisfied with, it was providing access to
adjacent cities and counties. And then you look at two of the three most important factors for our
customers, on-time performance and frequency of vehicles, and those are, by and large, at tension with
one another.

And we've taken steps to cut our shorter routes-- or cut our long routes in half or in a quarter to increase
our on-time performance, to increase our frequency for high-demand routes. But that's meant that we've
lost the ability to take a single-seat ride from North Platte to Highlands Ranch.
And so I think as a Board, it's, where do we put our money? I think I would value our bird in the hand and
value our customers and improving that. And I think it's looking at those community items and trying to
figure out, what are the items that are important to the community that are not necessarily at tension with
delivering good customer service, good customer value?
IRIS MCCLISH: And I don't want to speak out of turn here, but like I said, we have done a lot of research
for RTD. And one thing that actually stuck me and I did a couple of years ago as part of RTD Reimagine
is we did focus groups with customers and noncustomers. And one takeaway that still sits with me is that
people who don't use services, they don't have a great reason for why they don't use services. It's
something to the effect of, I just can't get the same experience that I can in my car with my window down,
with my music on.
So one thing to consider is, how much resource and time and money do you inject into something that
may not ultimately create more customers? Because this is asking people to-- here's a list of all these
different factors and features. What do you think is the top three most important? That doesn't necessarily
translate into creating more customers. So I think that's also something to consider. And just from all the
research that we've done, it's very difficult to translate this type of research into customer generation.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Can we have-- and it might be in the big packet, which I'm looking forward to
reading, should have read before this meeting-- disaggregated data that shows, for our promoters, these
are the three most important factors, or these are the X most important factors, with the logic being, for
those who are promoting the service, if those factors are important to them, they are going to be out there
telling people about that. How do we make sure we don't lose those when trying to solve a different
problem?
IRIS MCCLISH: You know what? That's not in there. But that's certainly-- I don't want Stephanie to kill
me. But I think that's a pretty easy breakout. Right, Stephanie? That we can-STEPHANIE AYERS: Yeah, absolutely.
IRIS MCCLISH: OK.
BOBBY DISHELL: That would be awesome to see.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you all so much. Chair Buzek, you're up.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Dishell alluded to it, but I'll ask for it. Could we see the full report? Can
everybody on the committee get a copy? Thanks.
LEAH RILEY: Yeah. Madam Chair, members of the committee, I'll make sure that that's distributed.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Ms. Riley. Really appreciate it. Any other members of the committee or
those that are not on the committee have question? Director Sloan, I see your hand

MARJORIE SLOAN: Right. I'm not sure this is a question because I'm still mulling over all this. But it
appears to me that we are already working on informed of service disruptions in terms of better software
for the signage at rail stations and high-quality communications.
We are also making inroads on security, which doesn't seem to be recognized in this survey. And I was
hoping it would be noted as improved, if maybe not from last year, from six months ago. It seems like the
three top customer ranked, on-time performance, reasonable price-- working on that-- frequency of
vehicles, is our basic service planning job. But the other important factors could make a huge difference
in the performance of the agency in terms of net promoter score and overall satisfaction.
And I notice our Police Chief is on the line. And I know he's recognizing the security issues. And by the
way, I do appreciate your defining security because I was never sure of the difference between safety and
security. So I think that's helpful we have pinpointed people feel uncomfortable at bus stops, train
stations, and on our vehicles. And that might be the most important thing that we can work on.
IRIS MCCLISH: Yeah. And I want to point out-- I don't want to take anybody's thunder because we
actually did not come up with that definition. I think Debra Johnson came up with that or the folks that
RTD. So that was important to you all, so we delineated the questions in that way.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Appreciate that clarification. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Hi, everybody. So a quick question about-- you mentioned that you pretty much stuck
to the methodology from the TransPro survey last year. But you provided a lot more detail than they had
in terms of your end and your methodology.
I seem to recall that for customer sampling, for example, they talked about boarding a vehicle and then-or intercepting people as they boarded vehicles and going to every fourth passenger. And it doesn't
sound like that's what you did. Likewise, I don't recall a mailing for the community value. Could you just
describe if there are differences we should know about between the sampling methods from last year and
this year?
IRIS MCCLISH: Yeah, there are differences. So where we were very, very consistent is in terms of the
survey design, the language, and the structure around that. There were some key differences in terms of
methodology both in terms of the bus and rail as well as the community survey.
As you noted, TransPro did what are called onboard surveys last year, where they intercepted folks we
believe-- to be quite frank, we have fairly limited information on how they administered the survey. But
what we believe they did is they took a tablet, and they went out and they intercepted every fourth
passenger, whereas we provided a survey invitation. And folks could take the survey at their leisure.
With the community value survey, they actually did a telephone survey, where we did the mail invitation,
where folks could participate either online or via telephone. There are a couple of reasons that we opted
for these methodologies. The most important factor is for inclusivity. We wanted to make sure that our
surveys provided an opportunity for anybody who wanted to participate in either survey to do so when
they had the time.
But I think it's worth pointing out that one concern that researchers and you all may have is that, are these
truly comparable, then, across time? And we do have a discussion in the full report around this. But we

ran and looked at a number of different factors to ensure that we were 100% confident that we could
compare these to last year. And there are a couple of things that we wanted to look at.
The first is we actually ran a regression analysis, or a statistical analysis, where we took all of the
information and data from last year, and we put it into a database with the information we collected this
year. We then ran regression analyses to understand how individual factors and how time-- 2001 versus
2020-- impact overall satisfaction and net promoter score.
If there was a concern with differences in methodology and that making a difference in overall
satisfaction, what you would see is that time, 2021 versus 2022, would be highly significant in terms of
impacting satisfaction. What we found is year was not significant. But it was in fact these different factors,
so security, travel time-- I'm looking at some of the analysis right now-- frequency of vehicles. So those
are the factors that impacted satisfaction and likelihood to recommend.
Additionally, we essentially had a control group. The paratransit methodology was, as far as we could tell,
administered in the exact manner that TransPro did it last year. So and because we saw the same
downward trend in satisfaction and net promoter score, that again suggested to us that these results
aren't being driven by survey methodology alone.
And then really importantly too, when you look back at-- let me show you this again. When you look back
at more detailed ratings, what you see is that you have a lot of movement up and down a scale. If you
have an issue where people are responding or using a scale differently because of survey methodology,
you don't see this type of variability. You see a pattern of downward or upward. And we actually find that
you have a great deal of variability within people using the scale. In fact, like I mentioned for bus, you
have more highly satisfied.
So all of these things combined point to the fact that, yes, there are survey methodology differences that
you should definitely be aware about and we certainly considered when we were proposing on this. But
ultimately, there is nothing to suggest that survey methodology impacted satisfaction or net promoter
score. And we did provide-- I'm sure it's available-- we did provide when we started the project a memo
that described our methodology, TransPro's methodology, and the differences.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thanks so much for that explanation. That's all I have, Madam Chair. Thank you.
IRIS MCCLISH: Of course.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Thank you, Director Cook. Any other members have any questions for this
committee? All righty, seeing none.
Thank you all for that presentation. It was excellent. A lot of valuable information and very well done. Very
thorough. I'm looking forward to seeing the full report. Are there any other matters that folks would like to
discuss? I see General Counsel Snyder and then Director Sloan.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm just going to go over the timeline for the next couple of
meetings and events throughout the rest of the year. So I'll defer to the Directors. We can take me last.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And I plan to cover that as well in other matters.
MELANIE SNYDER: Oh, OK.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: [AUDIO OUT] I think this is an amazing report we've heard with direct impact for our
job as Directors. But I would like a tie to our immediate concern, which is evaluating the performance of
our CEO/GM. And maybe that's what General Counsel Snyder was going to address.
BOBBY DISHELL: I was just going to ask the same question or opine on it, which is, those are the
objective factors. Half of the additional comp is based on objective factors, which are these.
We established a baseline. There was not a 5% increase in the baseline, from baseline across any of the
three objective factors that are available, which means that her bonus structure is set for the other 50%,
which is subjective factors, which I think Counsel is going to go over later as part of our-- as well as
Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: General Counsel Snyder, did you want to address that?
MELANIE SNYDER: I think there will be some opportunities. So we are going to be-- the Board will be
getting the appraisal survey tool on November 9, and so that will have some instructions in it. But yes, it's
definitely something that the Board is going to need to grapple with, the idea that the success outcomes
were set, with the baseline anticipated or goal increase of 5%. And that didn't happen.
The way the survey is set up right now is very similar to what happened last year, which is whether it was
for each factor meeting, not meeting, or exceeding for the different factors. So yes, I think there will have
to be some discussions about how you end up, how each individual Director and the Board as a whole
evaluates the GM and CEO.
BOBBY DISHELL: I just had a quick question which was, if memory serves me, the same 5% increase is
there for next year as well for bonus comp. And so is the new baseline-- do we have a new baseline of
these numbers? Or is the baseline the 2021 data? Or do we still need to figure that out?
LEAH RILEY: Madam Chair, if I may.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes, please do.
LEAH RILEY: The community and customer surveys that were administered in 2021, the intention was for
them to serve as the baseline data for the life of the plan.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Any follow-up, Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Does that contract match the intent, Counsel?
MELANIE SNYDER: I think there are some opportunities for clarity. One thing that I was going to
highlight, the contract does provide that every November 1, the GM and CEO can propose to the Board
for their consideration any adjustments to the criteria to be evaluated on for the following year as well as
the distribution and how you would set out the difference between base and incentive pay.
So the GM and CEO did send out an email to the Chair of the Board and to yourselves as the Vice Chair
and Chair of the performance committee some a recommendation about what she would like to see for
next year. She didn't include anything about the salary and the distribution between base and incentive

pay. But that is something that I was planning to cover that that's something that the Board would need to
adopt before the end of this year, any adjustments.
BOBBY DISHELL: So in the next week and a half, two weeks? It
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, it would be the performance committee on November 30 and then the full
Board December 6.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I was just curious. Iris, have you conducted similar surveys
for other public agencies, such as CDOT or any other transportation providers in the metro area?
IRIS MCCLISH: No, not the customer satisfaction. We've done a lot of work with community-based
surveys for transportation agencies, but not customer experience. But like I said, we have conducted four
system-wide surveys for RTD. And we were actually taking a peek back at the last system-wide survey
that we did, which was in 2019. And one thing that we noted is that satisfaction compared to 2019 was
down.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, the reason for my question is I just saw a presentation last week to the E-470
Board on their net promoter score, on their satisfaction. And they were markedly different than this one.
And in fact, their NPS had increased, and their satisfaction had increased from year over year. But that's
why I was wondering if you had done any other agencies and had any comparisons.
IRIS MCCLISH: No. And I would caution against comparing our RTD to E-470 because that is a very,
very different-PEGGY CATLIN: I recognize that.
IRIS MCCLISH: --user.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. I mean, and it's very much a selective.
IRIS MCCLISH: Yeah, completely different.
PEGGY CATLIN: But it's very, very different. And my point of that is that it increased. Those factors
increased as opposed to decreased. So that was really the difference that I noted. So I was just
wondering if you had had any other agency experience. Thanks.
IRIS MCCLISH: Sure.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Any other questions, remarks?
As it is customary to do so, I'm just going to remind you all of next steps and meeting dates as we move
forward. And so Tuesday, November 18, the 2022 GM/CEO self evaluation is due. Wednesday,
November 9, the evaluation period for the 2022 GM/CEO performance begins and will end on the 18th,
two important dates for the Board to consider. This is a slight change from the previously published

timeline that had the evaluation period from the 11th to the 21st. And so please note that change of the
9th to the 18th.
Wednesday, November 16, the committee will have a compensation analysis presented by Gallagher.
Friday, November 18, the 2022 GM/CEO evaluation period ends at 5:00 PM. So you all should know that
there will be no late submissions accepted or incorporated into the final evaluation, as the Board staff has
a very short window to prepare those documents and the next committee packet. So it's really important
that the Board adhere to the established due dates. Please and thank you.
Tuesday, November 22, the committee may need to meet in executive session for personnel matters to
discuss the Board's response to the GM/CEO's evaluation and to draft a preliminary evaluation
recommendation that can be approved during the November 30 meeting.
As General Counsel mentioned earlier, Wednesday, November 30, the committee will present and
consider the 2022 GM/CEO performance appraisal. So in consideration with the Thanksgiving holiday
and staff vacations, you all should note that the packet for our Wednesday, November 30, meeting will
actually be published on Monday, November 28. And then Tuesday, December 6, there will be a special
Board meeting for the full Board to review and approve the 2022 GM/CEO performance appraisals.
If I missed anything, let me know. And if you'd like to add anything, General Counsel, please also let me
know. Or Ms. Riley as well.
MELANIE SNYDER: Well, I think, Chair, you covered it. The one thing I'll just put a finer point on are
there's essentially three recommended actions that the Board is going to need to take under the contract
by the end of the year. So one of them will take place-- all three will come through this performance
committee before going to the full Board on December 6.
But on November 16, after that Gallagher presentation, we also intend to have on the agenda for the
performance committee a recommended action to go over and to approve what the 2023 performance
evaluation criteria will be and that distribution between base and incentive compensation, any changes.
So that would take place on November 16.
And then on November 30, there would be two recommended actions. They could be combined as one,
but it's essentially two different decisions. One is the performance appraisal, and then two would be any
adjustments to the compensation starting in January 1 of 2023, taking into account the findings and
recommendations from the Gallagher study. And so again, all three of those things would be finalized and
adopted by the Board on December 6.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. That's actually very helpful. Do any of the Directors have any questions?
How about that timeline, clarifying questions? All righty. Don't be late on your evaluations.
So our next meeting for this committee will be November 16, 2022. Seeing that we have no other
discussion items, this meeting will be adjourned as of 2:48 PM Mountain Standard Time on November 2.
Thank you all so much for your time, and I'll see you then. Take care.
IRIS MCCLISH: Thank you all.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Oh, Bobby, I'm sorry.

