2023-01-31
Board Meeting
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'll now call the Tuesday, January 31, RTD Board meeting to order. We're convened
as of 6:00 PM. I'd respectfully ask everyone to remain muted unless you're recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that until further notice, the official meetings of RTD
Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom, and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting
recording, along with the unofficial meeting minutes, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's
website. You can visit RTD-Denver.com, and a live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's
YouTube page.
I'm Lynn Guissinger, and I'm saying that because this is my first meeting as Chair. And so I'll give it a
good go.
Our Pledge of Allegiance-- Director Sloan, could you please lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance?
ALL: I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America. And to the Republic for which it
stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. Director Rosenthal, would you please read out loud the land
acknowledgment?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Will do. The RTD Board of Directors acknowledges that the land on which our buses
and trains operate is the traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and other contemporary tribal
nations that are historically tied to these lands. We honor our indigenous elders who have traveled,
inhabited, and stewarded these mountains, hills, and plains throughout the generations.
May this acknowledgment demonstrate a commitment to working to dismantle the ongoing legacies of
inequity of the Native and all historically oppressed peoples, and recognize their current and future
contributions in the district as we move forward.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I will now call the role. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: First Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Second Vice Chair Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Treasurer Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Hartwig?
IAN HARWIG: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I am here. Oh, I missed two-- on the next page. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: I am present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: With 15 present and zero absent, we have a quorum. One of the nice duties of
serving on the Board is we get to recognize the RTD retirees. And tonight, we have several that we are
recognizing. I don't believe anybody has been able to join us this year. But it's really important to
acknowledge, and an honor to acknowledge these individuals who worked here for a significant portion of
their professional careers.
RTD is very grateful to have these and other such amazing and dedicated people as part of our family. So
I'd like to read the names of employees who've retired since November. I'm correct, aren't I, Tai-Shrae,
that none of these are here tonight? Is that right?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: That's correct.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Juan Calzada, custodian, 23 years. Leo Doud, facility maintenance mechanic, 38
years. Larry Herbert, bus operator, 24 years. Rodney Steven Hunter, a bus operator for 25 years. Roger
Cane, senior associate for General Counsel, 32 years.
Jerry Vaughn, bus operator, 28 years. And Jamie Orinda, lead dispatcher, 25 years.
Our retirees were unable to attend, but I do thank them again for their hard work and commitment and
dedication to RTD. Thanks.
This is a public participation period, which is open to anyone who would like to If you wish to speak and
have not already done so, please raise your virtual hand, or press star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute
you when it's your turn to speak. If you're dialed in, press star 6 to toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing. If any speaker has documentation for
reference materials, or if any member of the public would like to submit written comments, please email
those materials to RTD.boardoffice@RTD-Denver.com.
During this time, the Board will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may contact speakers
following their comments if they raise them raise matters that lend themselves to follow-up. Please begin
your remarks by stating your name, and you'll have up to 3 minutes to provide comments.
Has anyone raised their hand or is in line to speak?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Yes, we have three speakers in the queue, and our first speaker is James Flattum.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, Mr. Flattum, if you'd please state your name and then you may proceed.
JAMES FLATTUM: Good evening, everyone. My name is James Flattum, I'm from Greater Denver
Transit. My comments this evening are going to be centered around the L-Line operations during
community celebrations like Viva Streets and Juneteenth.
Over the past few years, we've noticed that RTD tends to suspend L-Line service during some of the Five
Points neighborhoods biggest events. This year, we see the RTD is poised to spend about $5 million on
the L-Line to futureproof the infrastructure. So Debra, would be awesome if we could get an update later
tonight on the latest on that project.
So clearly, the community has an asset with the L-Line-- RTD clearly sees value, it's pumping $5 million
to keep it running. We think we need to value the L-Line to be shown in more of an operational sense. So
in particular, we think that Viva Streets is a great opportunity to showcase the L-Line as part of the day
celebration of personal and non-auto mobility.
With all the pedestrian traffic on Welton, this is a great opportunity to showcase the line, especially as
attendees who've chosen to walk large stretches of the event might be looking to sit down, and maybe
even complete part of their journey on transit. A ride along the L-Line is a perfect transit attraction to offer
the community, especially for transit on initiated for [INAUDIBLE].
And we would even encourage RTD to consider waiving fares for the day along the L-Line to help
celebrate.

In Denver's mobility and urbanism circles, we've long dreamed about a future where a robust amount of
Denver chose to go car-light, or even car-free. So we find it baffling that as soon as we get a glimpse of
this future, where a neighborhood comes to life with extra foot traffic and vibrant neighborhood activities,
we are shutting down the key transit artery, while autos still flow freely on neighboring blocks.
Suspending service on the L-Line during Viva Streets or Juneteenth makes a mockery of especially Viva
Streets' non-car message. Shutting down the L-Line due to a non-car event sends not just the wrong
message, but an anti-truth message. It says that RTD services on Welton Street are not vital.
Transit must be able to work when demand for non-auto mobility increases. If we cannot handle these
predictable spikes in pedestrian traffic, then how can we say that Denver's transit system offers a viable
alternative to car travel? Previous inquiries about L-Line shutdowns have cited safety. Based on what
happens in other cities and across the globe, we view the safety consideration as absolutely manageable.
For just one elementary example-- every day at Disney parks across the world, trolleys, streetcars, and
buses rumble up and down Main Street USA, a pedestrian mall that is packed-- absolutely packed-- with
people, and these vehicles operate safely. These are the conditions that high performance streetcars are
designed for. And on this part of RTD's light rail network, the light rail vehicles operate effectively as a
streetcar.
The existing safety devices built into everyday operations are absolutely sufficient. We are going to urge
all parties in the planning and operations of Viva Streets and Juneteenth to come up with a plan that
ensures the L-Line is a feature of the event. We think that RTD is up to the task, and we encourage them
to not let us or the neighborhood down. That completes my comments for this evening. Thank you very
much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Flattum. As I said, we don't, as a matter, of course, respond to
these, but you are heard and we appreciate you coming. Who is next in line, Tai-Shrae?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: So next, we have Riley Warton.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Riley Warton, are you there?
RILEY WARTON: Yes, I am. You guys hear me, right?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yep.
RILEY WARTON: I have recently heard that-- by the way, this is a spoken version of my letter that I sent
anonymously via email. It's mostly for RTD management-- it's not necessarily for the Board. Because it's
a potential policy, and not a policy that already exists.
Good evening, I've recently heard that RTD wants to, quote unquote, ban passengers from riding with
nowhere to go. I understand that this potential policy comes with concern for how many RTD users feel
unsafe, and how crimes have increased on RTD vehicles. And I agree that a transportation system that
not only feels safe but is safe is a priority that a transit agency should aim for.
However, this policy is not the right way to do it. In fact, it is a dystopian approach. I want to start by
stating that it is not RTD's duty to handle homelessness, but rather the duty of the state of Colorado and
the cities of the region. RTD handling homeless lists is unreasonable and cruel, not only on RTD's part,
but on part of the various administrations of Colorado's past and present.

Thus, RTD having to use its resources to get people not to commit crimes on RTD, rather than the police
doing that, is a waste of resources and limits the amount of transit service RTD can provide. This is
shameful. But I'm not really shaming RTD in this paragraph, I'm shaming the Polis administration. As a
left-leaning administration, they should be more empathetic towards those struggling with homelessness.
But unfortunately, they aren't.
I also think that this policy, on top of being useless, is also very hard to implement. What does proof of
destination even mean? How do I prove that I need to go to work or school? I doubt I'd have proof I
wanted to visit a friend in Capitol Hill, for example. Then, it will be less likely to punish all those who are in
the bus for no reason, and more likely to be done arbitrarily.
As the transit police will likely target poorer people, especially Black people and other people of color,
aren't people who are struggling or poor people more dependent on transit than rich people? Do you
really want to punish those who need help the most? Not to mention it makes life tougher for those
experiencing homelessness instead of letting Colorado give them an option to escape the suffering.
In that case, let's pretend that this policy is not only able to be implemented in the first place, but is not
also done arbitrarily-- even in that case, it's still kind of problematic. People use transportation for a
variety of reasons, including pointless ones. For example, when it comes to driving, or biking, people do
that recreationally, or for fun.
Likewise, there's a surprising amount of people who ride transit for fun. Or maybe they feel depressed
and need to have a moment on the train. This is not quite as important as someone who needs to go to
school or the hospital or an appointment or something, but it still demonstrates that a lot of Colorado
politicians are so desperate to get rid of homeless people from RTD that they're willing to make their
ridership lower because of it.
One might think that there are a few other ways that the image problem, and also the safety problem
could be solved. But I have a potential solution that might work. No, it would work-- provide actually good
transit service. For example, New York obviously has the famous subway. And even though there are
strange characters on the subway, everyone still uses the subway.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Mr. Warton, your 3 minutes has been up for a bit here, if you wouldn't mind
wrapping up. We really appreciate your comments. There'll be other opportunities.
RILEY WARTON: So essentially, I think that the policy in terms of crime-- or rather in terms of not letting
people do transportation-- essentially, I believe that the policy is just not the right direction to go. And I
believe RTD could do so much better. Because I truly believe that the RTD has so much potential to be
one of the best transit agencies in the country. Thank you very much
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. We appreciate it. OK, Ms. Parish, who is next?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: We have Richard Bamber.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Mr. Bamber, welcome.
RICHARD BAMBER: Hi, there, good evening, everybody. So I'd like to start with a little bit of a
confession. 13 years riding RTD, and I've probably been in violation of number 11, that's alcoholic
beverages, 12, eating on RTD, 13, drinking a beverage without a lid-- I think that was a can. I think

probably 15, I dropped a potato chip once. 27, because coming back from the airport, needed another
seat for my baggage.
43, that was an accident, just being idle-minded really-- feet on seats. So I throw myself at the mercy of
RTD's management. And if you want to send me a letter suspending me from the system, I'll take it in
good grace.
Yeah, let's be honest here, suspension even I-- unless you guys are going to go full-on Madison Square
Garden, with photo recognition on every bus and train, probably going to risk riding the system within a
few days. You're cheaper than Uber.
And that's the thing with the homeless people-- they are suspended and thrown out of everything. They're
moved along-- they're told to move on from RTD, the 16th Street mall, Civic Center, Starbucks,
everywhere. Their whole life consists of staying here until they get moved on.
RTD has enough rules to throw people off buses and trains. There are rules saying that drugs, criminal,
behavior, non-payment, you know, no-fare, are all there. You have the rules to throw the people who are
really causing a problem off your trains.
The people who really have nowhere to go are just going to come back. OK? You're playing-- and this
one, you're starting to bring in a rule that is totally discretionary-- riding around with nowhere to go? At
least not being able to have a fare, that's kind of-- you either can produce a fare or you can't. It's not
discretionary.
You know, but this idea of a day pass only being a day pass for some people and not others is-- we can't
see how it's enforceable. Now to RTD's credit, and even I don't think they should have to do this but
you're doing it, the homeless outreach people are good. I understand the agency's employing more
people related to mental health.
It's sad that the transit agency should feel it has to do this, because that's the failure of other departments
on the city. You've been let down. But it's good that you're trying to at least fill the gap.
Firstly, the message needs to be the city and the people who should be supporting what is not a transit
problem need to start actually supporting you. So I encourage everybody on the Board to start talking
about this. RTD should have somewhere to hand these people off to.
They should be willing to go, because day after day, you see-- even security staff at Union Station are on
first name terms with some of the people who show up every day. Move along, Marie, move along, Marie.
Marie's like, where to? Sheridan Station? Oh, right. You know? Clearly, the whack-a-mole and push
around is not working.
So I urge the Board to think and set policy that we're going to attack this problem our way it's actually
going to get solved and serious inroads are made into it. And that is, let's redouble our efforts to get these
partnerships, let's put the city on blast for not stepping up and not providing people to help drug addiction,
mental health, or just plain homelessness.
And let's get back to doing things like that, rather than going to a point where we're making up really
arbitrary rules which are only going to just annoy regular riders. And by the way, if you bring the rule in
that says the air electrical outlet's banned, I'm really, really screwed. Thanks very much.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Bamber. We've heard your comments. Thank you all. Anybody else
in the queue?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Yes, we have Ryan Keeney.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Mr. Keeney?
RYAN KEENEY: Hello, my name is Ryan Keeney. I wanted to comment on our recent service schedule
changes. So I live in the Capitol Hill neighborhood and I commute to the Denver Tech Center. In order to
do this, I take the 12 on Downing, the bus number 12 on Downing, to the Louisiana Pearl station, and
transfer to the E-Line light rail train, where I then continue on down to the Tech Center.
Effective with the new changes, the bus and the train are scheduled to arrive at the station at exactly the
same time. So the one I would be arriving at for myself, personally, would be 7:48 in the morning. If the
buses and trains are on time, this means that making this transfer is impossible, and you are essentially
forced to wait the entire 15 minutes.
I did communicate this through the service schedule email communication channel, but I just want to
emphasize this here again. Because it's ultimately the Board that approves the schedule changes. And I
think it might be worth examining whether this-- might be worth examining the seamlessness of the
transfers, because people really don't like waiting around.
And I recognize that 15 minutes isn't the longest time in the world, given that many of RTD services are
on half-hour headways. But I do think it's important, especially with this connection, because Capitol Hill is
one of the most walkable, dense, and transit-dependent neighborhoods, and the Denver Tech Center is
one of the largest employment hubs. And a lot of people do get off and transfer at this station in my
observations.
So yeah, I just wanted you guys to consider that. Thanks for your time, and have a good rest of your
meeting tonight.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much, Mr. Keeney. And I'm glad you sent that to service changes
email, as well. That's a good approach.
All right, anybody else, Ms. Parish?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: There are no additional hands raised. And I did want to note that there were three
emails received from Christopher, Diane Graves, and Tim Lovato, and those will be included in the full
transcript once that is ready for public transparency.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, thank you very much. With no other participants in the queue, we'll close the
public participation at this time.
Next item is the external entities report. This month, we have two entity reports-- the first report is from the
Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee, or APAC. Ms. Julie Jennings, please start when you're
ready.
JULIE JENNINGS: Here we go. My name is Julie Jennings. I'm presenting you a summary of the minutes
from the January 10th APAC meeting.

First update we discussed was queue ride software and its mobile app-- they will replace the Route Match
software and the RTD app. That software-- the queue ride software is scheduled to go live on April 1st of
this year. The mobile app will be ready for APAC volunteers to test in February.
The access on-demand-- we've had an Uber pilot program. And now, in addition to Uber, there will be
Metro transportation, Z-trip, and Lyft. Anyone interested, any Access-a-Ride customers, I should say, that
are interested, will need to sign up, even if they've been using the Uber pilot program.
The RFP for Access-a-Ride services vendors was rereleased. The current vendor contracts are extended
through June 2023. The new anticipated start date is July 1 for new vendors-- for new contracts.
A customer service-- a customer satisfaction survey-- the research contractor will randomly call Access-aRide customers until they've had approximately 400 respondents across demographics. If a respondent
chooses to take it in writing, they will be given a link for that option.
And finally, we had a review and approval of APAC operating protocols. There were four edits proposed.
The first one is to differentiate voting participants from the new, ex-officio participants. The second was to
clarify that if a voting participant is officially representing an organization, the organization must submit a
letter confirming that they are representing.
The third adds a new section for ex-officio participants. And the fourth clarifies that a conflict of interest is
when an APAC participant has a financial interest in conflict and not a personal interest. And that
concludes my presentation. Thank you for having me.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you so much, Ms. Jennings.
The second report is from the Citizens Advisory Committee, or the CAC. Mr. John Fussa, the floor is
yours.
JOHN FUSSA: Thanks, Chair Guissinger. I appreciate the opportunity, and thank you for accommodating
the CAC on your agenda. As indicated, I'm John Fussa, I'm co-chair of the CAC with Matt Applebaum.
Matt can't be here tonight because he's at the RTD Northwest Rail peak service study open house, so we
look forward to hearing all about that in February from him.
So I'll be giving the update. And kind of briefly, with the holidays putting us into hiatus, we did not meet in
December 2022. So a quick update on our last meeting in November, and then I'll step through January
and some of the things we're working on for you, Chair, and the Board members.
First, I want to thank RTD staff for continuing to be so involved and supportive of the CAC as a body, and
as its members, particularly Brandon Figliolino who's terrific. Also Jennifer from Catalyst, and Colleen and
Loretta, and the whole team from Peak Consulting. So kudos to all of them.
In November, we heard from Todd Nicol of the RTD staff, with a presentation about the RTD budget
process. Really, as an educational, informational item for the CAC, as well-- and he was outstanding and
answered all of our questions. Even ones that aren't answerable, currently.
We also heard from Charlie Stanfield of the RTD staff about the RTD call for partnership process. Really
interesting-- and with a number of community-based members on the CAC, RTD's interest and having a
potential process for partnership with the community throughout the region is really of interest to the CAC.

We are also working as a body-- we have a subcommittee working on drafting a mission statement, and
hopefully simple bylaws for the CAC how to operate. And once we have those in good draft form, and
once they've been reviewed by the full CAC, it's our intent and hope that we can share them with the RTD
Board for the Board's review and comment, if there are any.
That was mostly November. As I said, in December, Chair Guissinger and Board members, we did not
meet. We've spent January-- our January meeting welcoming new CAC Board members. Kind of a meet
and greet, and also helping them understand the CAC role and process and helping them onboard.
We also were very lucky I think to have a couple RTD Board members, including you, Chair Guissinger,
so thank you for joining us in January and sharing your background, and kind of your thoughts on RTD.
We also were lucky enough to have three other RTD Board members, so I want to recognize them and
thank them-- Michael Guzman, Ian Harwick and Marjorie Sloan joined us, and we heard from them. And it
was terrific to meet both some new and returning Board members. So thank you very much for your time
and interest in the CAC.
We met in January and had a present-- a brief talk with Stuart Summers, the new Chief Communications
Engagement officer for RTD, and we do think kind of that strategic communications and engagement is a
critical piece for RTD to tell its story about what it does and the benefit it brings in the region. The CAC
supports that, so we were glad to hear from Mr. Summers.
We had a very extensive legislative update from Michael Davies at the state and federal level, and he
spent quite a bit of time for us-- that he doesn't have, I know-- so thanks and kudos to him.
We heard an update, and the CAC continues to be very interested in the subregional service council
initiative. It's an effort that the CAC is very supportive of and hopes to lend that support to RTD this year
as that process both evolves and unfolds. We think that's a terrific effort by RTD to engage its district, and
also to follow up on the accountability committee final report.
We continue to work on chartering in January, hopefully more to come in February. We also had kind of
an initial conversation as a body about 2023 priorities and interests. And without going through the whole
list-- because you have other business to attend to-- CAC for 2023 has identified a few interest and
priorities-- legislative affairs and updates, the sub-regional service councils, any update on the RTD fare
study and process from last year, also system safety and the user experience. And we did express a
desire to, through RTD staff, to perhaps invite the Police Chief or the Deputy Chief to talk to us about that
issue, which is foremost to the user experience.
And also learning from RTD staff, and to the degree, Board members would like to talk to us, about
partnership opportunities-- whether it's with Dr. Cog for funding, the Front Range Passenger Rail district,
which is just getting stood up for their efforts, which might be complimentary and supportive of RTD
Northwest Rail.
So lots of interest-- we'll have to narrow it down. And then with that, the last comment and request, if I
may, Chair Guissinger and Board members, is that the CAC would like to schedule meetings with as
many of the RTD Board members who are willing to meet with us over coffee, or perhaps for a lunch, in
the first half of 2023. We did that last year and in prior years, and we have found it was very helpful-- at
least to the CAC-- in terms of building relationships, talking about issues where the CAC may have
interest, and may be able to lend its support. And also, expanded communication.

So if we can, I'd like to request Board consideration of meeting with CAC members, one or two at a time,
and helping us with scheduling, if you're willing to do that as a Board, and as individual Board members.
And that's it for me.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you so much, Mr. Fussa. And I will say that that meeting, and other meetings
that I've been able to attend from time to time with the CAC, I always find it to be a really interesting
discussion, very thoughtful, very knowledgeable group. And I appreciate that.
I think people did appreciate the meetings last year, one on one. And at some point in the past, we did
them groups together. So perhaps, let's carry on that conversation and see what we can put together this
year.
JOHN FUSSA: Thank you very much. We appreciate that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You bet.
JOHN FUSSA: Have a good evening. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And you, too. All right, now we come to the committee reports. Some of these may
be short-- we haven't dived into a lot of the substance, yet. But there is some. Director Dishell, do you
have anything to report on the Zero-Emission Vehicle ad hoc Committee?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes, thank you so much, Director Guissinger. This is Bobby Dishell. I chair the ZEV ad
hoc committee. Earlier this month, the ZEV-- so the 25th-- the ZEV ad hoc committee prepared for a
roundtable that's coming up on Thursday, where we will have outside guests visiting us. We worked and
discussed with staff about questions to ask those folks who will be visiting to better draw up on their
knowledge and marry it with what our staff really needs in order to better analyze and better leverage the
knowledge of those who are joining us.
So we will be having our second roundtable, again, this Thursday afternoon. After the round table, around
March, it is anticipated ZEV will be bringing the scope of work related to a fleet transition plan to the
committee. At which point, the committee will collaborate with staff in order to better define the scope of
work, as we evaluate what a zero-emission transition can be.
Following that meeting, the plan is to allow the scope of work to go through its process so that we can see
a full fleet transition plan and better evaluate costs, timing, and other critical factors such as infrastructure,
ownership of vehicles, ownership of facilities, and what may actually be required to transition RTD to a
zero-emission fleet, as opposed to pushing forward with a goal and managing the plan towards the goal,
the committee discussed it would be a more prudent use to evaluate the amount of public funds it may
take to transition over to a zero-emission fleet, versus putting out a goal and possibly committing the
agency to costs that it may not be able to meet.
We look forward to continuing to collaborate with staff. Please continue to check your emails for when
these committees or roundtables are meeting. Of course, all are welcome.
I also have audit, if you want me to roll right in.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, Director Dishell, you are also committee chair for the Audit Committee. If you
would like to report from--

BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Director Guissinger. The Audit Committee met on January 18. As our
kickoff meeting-- as a reminder, last year, the ad hoc Audit Committee worked to re-evaluate and
constitute the Audit Committee as a separate, independent committee comprised of three directors and
two independent directors who are-- excuse me, two independent committee members who help round
out the expertise that's needed for an Audit Committee to be able to evaluate Audit.
The Audit Committee evaluates both internal audit and external audit. And it looks at both enterprise risk
assessment audits, cyber audits, as well as the traditional financial audits that most folks are familiar with.
During the January 18 meeting, which was really more of a kick-off meeting with our outsourced internal
audit service provider, Reuben Brown. Reuben Brown has conducted one-on-one interviews with Board
members and members of our RTD senior staff. We had 12 Board members participate, as well as 10
members of senior staff, to help inform the survey that will be provided to Directors-- I believe staff, as
well-- in order for our enterprise risk assessment.
Enterprise risk assessment is key for the Audit Committee to also come before the Board to evaluate
what risks we see, and how well prepared we are to address those risks.
The Audit Committee is currently in the midst of scheduling its next committee meeting. However, there
will be about a one-week turnaround time from when the enterprise risk assessment survey is provided,
to when the enterprise risk assessment survey period will be concluded. So we appreciate folks' prompt
attention to time.
I know Director Davidson circulated-- I believe it was an article surrounding sort of other things to take into
consideration when going through an audit. We look forward to continuing to work with both our internal
auditors, as well as our external audit-- which is done by Plante Moran, to the extent there are any
questions on either the ZEV committee, or the Audit Committee, I'm more than happy to answer those.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, thank you very much. Finance and Planning Committee, Chair Tisdale-- do
you have anything you would like to report?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. The work of the Finance and Planning Committee
is accurately and adequately set forth in the minutes that form a part of this agenda. And so I won't
burden this discussion further with other comment. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Operations and Safety, Committee Chair Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. The 2022 Committee Chair opened the meeting-- a new
Chair and Vice Chair were elected at that meeting. There were no items on the agenda, as the committee
was just being formed-- with some desultory discussion under other matters. Invitation to future meetings
were sent out to a number of staff, community advocates, and interested entities.
So we hope to have a more lengthy report next time. And we appreciate everyone's interest. The meeting
will be later on this month. And as Director Dishell said, we are always open to the public.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. The next item is approval of the Board meeting minutes and
committee reports. The Board and committee meetings were included in the Board packet. Are there any
corrections from the Directors?

I actually have a very small one, and I apologize, I meant to call you, Ms. Parish. It's just that when we
postponed the ZEV proposal, it says, in one place, that Director Dishell made the motion and Director
Davidson seconded it. And then, it says that I made the motion-- I think it was Director Dishell and
Director Davidson.
But otherwise, I'd say the minutes, as always, were excellent. And we appreciate the Board Office help.
Unless there's objection to considering these minutes all at the same time, may I please have a motion to
approve the minutes for the January 12th, 2023 Executive Committee meeting, the January 17th Finance
and Planning Committee meeting, January 18th Audit Committee, January 18th Operations and Safety
Committee, and the January 26, 2023 Executive Committee?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved Director Williams.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I will second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Who is that?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Guzman will second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I heard Director Williams as the movement, and Director Guzman as the
second. Is there any discussion on this motion? Are there any no votes on this action?
All right, with 15 yes votes, and no no votes, and zero abstentions, that this motion passes. Thank you.
Next item is the Chair's report. And my first three weeks have been busy. Thank you very much for all of
you-- so many of you have been helping and having conversations with me along the way. I am just
returning from the Northwest Rail open house that our staff and consultants have put on here in Boulder.
And it was very well attended. I think that it was a good turnout. It is an open house style, with boards
around the room, and there were plenty of staff members and community members-- people from our
advisory committee who were there to answer questions at the various boards-- and help people. And
then, encouraging people to-- in addition to making comments there-- to go online.
There is another meeting on Thursday night, February 2, in Westminster, if people are listening and are
interested, please try to attend that, as well. And then there is an online comment period that is ongoing
for a bit here.
So they're making great progress on the Northwest Rail peak period study. And we look forward to getting
more public comment.
Many of the things I've been spending time on are on our schedule tonight, thinking about the retreat, the
in-person versus remote. Some of those things, the ZEV roundtable, I'll join Director Dishell in inviting
everyone to come and attend that on Thursday afternoon. I think it's at 3:00-- certainly in the two-week
calendar.
And we will start next month with our lobbyists coming to join us. So I think with the legislative session in
full swing, that will be of interest to everyone. And I want to take a minute to congratulate our former

Chair, Angie Rivera-Malpiede who was named woman of the year by the Colorado WTS organization.
Yeah.
She has been involved in transportation and leadership in the Denver area for many years, and we're
very proud to have her recognized in that way. That's all I have. General Manager Johnson, do you have
a report to share with us?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly, Madam Chair. And good evening to you, to all Board
members, and to all those who are virtually assembled. I am Debra Johnson, the General Manager and
CEO of the Regional Transportation District.
This evening, I will share with you the following information centered around the agency's strategic
priorities regarding community value. I will discuss a number of meetings in which I have engaged since
the last regular Board meeting, including a community transportation meetup held in Longmont,
December meetings that involve the Arapaho County mayors, managers, and commissioners. The Metro
Mayors Caucus, as well as [INAUDIBLE] solutions.
The joint transportation SMART Act hearing held earlier this month, by engagement with members of the
Metro Chamber of Commerce's leadership Denver program participants. A meeting held just yesterday
with the Douglas County commissioners, and my engagement earlier today in a panel discussion entitled
Courageous Leadership as part of a workshop for participants of the Texas Transit Institute Leadership.
Pertaining to both community value and employee ownership, I will share information regarding the stock
show parade, the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. parade. And regarding community value, customer
excellence and financial success, I will briefly discuss the Front Range Passenger Rail Board retreat in
which I participated in December, as well as the Board meeting held immediately following at our retreat.
And then, a Board of Directors meeting held this past Friday, January 27.
Speaking to the priorities of community value, customer excellence, employee ownership, and financial
success, I will discuss the establishment of a temporary sales outlet in Boulder. And regarding customer
excellence, I will share an update regarding customer appreciation outfit events held in November and
December of last year, as well as the ongoing RTD buy-ride account-based ticketing transition.
So with that, as we transition to community value with more specificity, on Friday, December 2nd, Director
Tisdale and I attended the Arapaho County mayors, managers, and commissioners meeting, during
which I presented an overview of efforts to restore service to the R-Line, which had reopened earlier that
same week, following the September derailment incident.
Additionally, I presented information on the Zero Fare for Better Air initiative from 2022, and the
takeaways we were able to glean through our analysis. Also discuss the call for projects partnership
program, which you all heard about this evening from Mr. Fussa regarding the Citizens Advisory
Committee in the presentation of which they had. And of course, the system-wide fare study and equity
analysis that is in full swing. And the third phase of community engagement, of which this Board will hear
next month in the February cycle as the project team comes forward and provides an update.
On Saturday, December 3, I joined Mayor Joe Peck of the city of Longmont, in addition to Director
Davidson, who served on a panel along with me and Chair-- then Director Guissinger, but now Chair
Guissinger-- attended at a well-attended community transportation meeting held in Longmont, during
which time I presented an update on the Northwest Rail Peak Service study, as well as potential Front

Range Passenger rail partnerships with the agency. More specifically the Colorado 119, bus rapid transit
project, and again, the call for project partnership program.
The following Monday, December 5, I met with the Metro Mayor's Caucus, specifically the Transportation
Committee, to share takeaways from the August 2022 Zero Fare for Better Air initiative, as well as
information regarding the call for project partnership. Your could deduce there's a theme there-- as we
have been out talking to a myriad of our partners, recognizing that there's an opportunity for us to connect
and provide some localized services to connect people to the broader transportation network.
And then, additionally conversations ensued with the Mayor Metro Caucus as it relates to the agency's
transit policing efforts, including leveraging cost savings from our third party security contract and utilizing
those dollars to the expansion of sworn police officers for the Regional Transportation District, and our
collaborative theft prevention partnership with Boulder Police department. And finally, an update on RTD's
people power.
Later that week on Wednesday, December 7, I presented to the community solutions organization and
shared takeaways from the 2022 Zero Fare for Better Air initiative, as well as the call for project
partnership program. Our efforts collectively as we strive to restore a welcome transit environment. The
fare study was a topic of discussion once again, and the Northwest Rail Peak Service study.
I, along with Chair Guissinger, and Directors Whitmore and Guzman, attended the joint transportation
SMART Act hearing on Tuesday, January 17. Chair Guissinger did speak to the new composition of the
Board, as well as the officers. I addressed members of the respective House and Senate Transportation
committees to briefly share status updates regarding our people power, recognizing that we're a laborintensive organization-- that's top of mind for a myriad of different audiences, and quite naturally recurring
theme once again with our system-wide fare study and equity analysis.
And of course, Zero Fare for Better Air initiative, recognizing that we acknowledge the leadership and
support of our legislative leadership in reference to putting forth an investment to provide Zero Fare for
the betterment of the air quality here in the metro region.
On Thursday, January 19, I met with participants of the Denver Metro Chamber's leadership-- a Denver
program. For those that may be unfamiliar, it's an 11-month program that develops actively engaged civic
leaders, and community champions through in-depth experiences with a network of lasting personal,
professional relationships. The premise behind this engagement was to provide them with information
relative to some issues that may be prevalent as it relates to transportation, public transport, I should say,
within the Denver Metro region, provided information about data points, and made recommendations of
resource materials, along with others with whom they may want to engage.
And the community impact projects, or the group with whom I engage, dealt with a range of transportation
issues, and they're going to hone in on what that may be. And I'd be remiss not to acknowledge that my
colleague, Adam Phipps, who leads the Department of Transportation and Infrastructure, joined me in
that session.
Just yesterday, Director Bouquet and Director Tisdale, who was virtual, and Government Relations officer
Michael Davies and I, traveled to Castle Rock to meet with the Douglas County commissioners to discuss
the state of RTD, to talk about how we could work in a more collaborative fashion. The meeting was wellreceived by all participants, and I provided some insight into our people power.

Of course, the fare city and equity analysis, and the call for projects partnership program. And the Nexus
with the county, as well as public safety and security concerns, that had been broached, as well, during
the course of our engagement.
And just earlier today, I engaged with participants of the Texas Transit Leadership Institute, comprised of
25 transit agency executives in various roles. The Institute is the Texas Department of Transportation's
leadership program for small, urban, and rural transit operators. And the topic of the panel discussion in
which I participated was courageous leadership.
Transitioning to community value and employee ownership-- for the first time in the more than 60-year
history of the National Western Stock Show parade, Board members, including Directors Williams and
Bouquet, and employees throughout the agency participated in the event. RTD's horse-drawn float
resembled a bus, and employees held signs encouraging spectators to take RTD services. That's my
understanding, it was well-received by all.
If you recall at a special Board meeting, our colleague, Brian Figliolino referenced this under Other
Matters, and we had the opportunity to promote the usage of our commuter rail line being the N-Line and
bus route 48 to the stock show. The parade brought more than 50,000 spectators to lower and upper
downtown Denver, and as a result of the agency's participation, RTD was crowned the reserve champion.
On Monday, July 16, which was the holiday recognizing slain Civil Rights leader, Dr. Martin Luther King,
Jr., Director Bouquet, and members of staff from across the agency, marched the annual Martin Luther
King, Jr. Marade-- and the marade is one of the longest running and largest MLK celebrations in the
nation.
In reference to the duration of the parade or the marade route, I should qualify, it was nearly three miles
and approximately 60,000 participants walked from City Park to Civic Center Park to celebrate the work of
Dr. King, Jr.
As I transition, quickly, to talk about the Front Range Passenger Rail Board retreat I participated in, I want
to provide a gentle reminder, for some and orientation for others, that I serve on the Front Range
Passenger Rail as a non-voting member, representing the Regional Transportation District, recognizing
the intersectionality, with this entity and potential opportunities, as we look at passenger rail along the
Front Range.
So with that as the backdrop, on December 8 and 9 of 2022, I took part in the Front Range Passenger
Rail Board retreat, during which time members of the Board discussed the varying interests and visions
for success, for Front Range Passenger Rail. We outlined the parameters, of a service development plan
and the group's decision making process, and identified work items and priorities for the 2023 and 2024
calendar years.
I also attended the Front Range Passenger Rail Board meeting, immediately following the retreat, and
just participated this past Friday in the first Board meeting of January 27. And I want to share that, at the
long lead up, that took place in December, the Executive Director and General Manager of Front Range
Passenger Rail was also on that committee. And when we were at the SMART Act, before the state
legislature, the Executive Director and Chair of Front Range Passenger Rail were in attendance and
spoke from the vantage point that there is clear partnership with RTD as we forge this new trail.

With that, I would like to share, in closing, from a customer appreciation vantage point, during the month
of November and December, our communications engagement team leveraged some great holiday
happenings in and around the district. And at Civic Center, in Union Station to be more specific, during
the event, staff were able to thank customers for using RTD services. And these two events coincided
with a targeted marketing campaign, called "Holiday Happenings," on social media, for which the agency
promoted several holiday-themed events and how customers can take transit to them.
As of January 19, 2023, Customer Care has transitioned over 13,000 previous generation MyRide cards
to new rides-- to the new MyRide accounts. And it represents nearly 93% of a number of previous
generation cards in use between January 2021 and July 2022.
By December 16, 2022, all new Validators, previously experiencing technical problems, were replaced, by
the vendor, as agreed upon. The system appears to be fully functioning. And we are in the final stages of
acceptance testing with the vendor. And we're just about at completion.
I've been rounding out my report. And I recognize this is long, because we're going from November and
December and, here, to January. Regarding the strategic priority of employee ownership, I was fortunate
to be able to engage with over 30 new employees, running or ranging the gamut, here, at the
organization, during the new hire orientation session, held last Monday, January 23rd.
Additionally, as we talk about people power and Charlene Polege, our Chief People Officer, will be
presenting to the Operations and Safety Committee in March. But I wanted to share that I have been able
to participate, along with members of leadership and people. And employees, from our People Office,
have attended several operator graduation ceremonies over the past few months, ranging from bus and
rail operators, to engineers on Commuter Rail and conductors. And the volume of new employees joining
the agency speaks to the efficacy of the recruitment efforts underway. And I am encouraged to see the
progress in this area.
And with that, Madam Chair, I will conclude my remarks. Thank you very kindly for the opportunity to
present before this body.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Phew. Thank you. Three months-- it's a lot, huh? Great. Director Broom, you have
a question?
BOB BROOM: Thank you. I'll try and make it a long question, so she can catch her breath.
LYNN GUISSINGER: [LAUGHS]
BOB BROOM: I noticed on tonight's agenda that we recognized three bus operators that retired. And in
the newsletter that came out this past week, it looked like, in the past month or so, we've brought on at
least 25 operators. Have we now turned the corner in terms of filling some of the vacancies?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Of course.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very kindly, Director Broom, for your question. We are now at a point
where we would qualify ourselves to being in a recovery mode, whereby we have more people, I would
say, joining the agency than we have exiting. But with that as a backdrop, we still have quite a few
vacancies.

Budgeted positions-- we have 3,199. And we're probably at 2,600 employees, holistically, that span the
gamut of all the classifications that we have. But what we clearly are seeing-- what we netted last year?
We hired approximately 410 new employees, where we lost 307.
So I'm sorry, I had that wrong. I apologize. We basically were able to net 307 new employees. And let me
follow up, because I'm speaking off the top of my head from yesterday, and I don't want to misquote. But
this will be coming to you all. But just yesterday, when I met with the Douglas County Commissioners, I
was talking about this. But we are outpacing our exits. And so that's how I'll qualify it, because I know this
is being recorded, and I want to be transparent. And I just don't have those numbers at my fingertips.
But we will be making a full presentation, our Chief People Officer, in March, at the Operations
Committee. And we will have information relative to all of our recruitment strategies and retention
strategies, because they go hand in hand, sir. So thank you for that question.
BOB BROOM: Thank you very much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I just didn't want Director Guzman to be left out. He was also at the Stock Show with
Director Bouquet and I. And he can dance. So we remember that he was there, don't we, Director
Bouquet?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks for that correction.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. I apologize. As I was not there, I was unaware, and my intentions weren't
deliberate. So thank you very much, Director Williams, for acknowledging Director Guzman's
participation. That's very important.
KATE WILLIAMS: If you had been there, you would not have forgotten it, believe me.
[LAUGHTER]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, for sure. I just remember a lot of cold and getting people
excited and Director Williams shouting, you can take the bus to the Stock Show. So that was good
advertising. My note is just regarding just a quick thank you, Ms. Johnson also Mr. Davies, for coming all
the way down-- or going all the way down to Castle Rock and attending and speaking with
Commissioners Laydon, Teal, and Thomas. I think they were all very enthusiastic. And I think it was a
really good message that ultimately left from that meeting.
Big thing, again, going forward, is the emphasis on partnerships, going forward, as an agency. And I
really appreciate the presentation, that you showed, and really appreciate you taking the time and, again,
Mr. Davies taking the time to come on down. I think it was a very successful meeting and looking forward
to the future of Douglas County partnerships and RTD. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Oh, you're muted.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. I was able to retrieve the information that Director Broom asked. So if
you will indulge, I can just answer that question quickly.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Good.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So as it relates to the employee numbers, that I was speaking about, so in
comparison, in 2021, we hired, throughout the agency, 302 employees. In 2022, we hired 708. In 2021,
we had 1,165 employees that separated from the agency. In 2022, we had 401.
So when I was talking about being on the upswing, holistically, that's where we're going. So these
numbers are current as of about three weeks ago when I went before the SMART Act Committee. And
so, as we look at active employees, we're up to 2,631 employees, where we have budgeted positions,
both full-time and part-time, equivalent to 3,199. So you all will be getting information, in a formalized
presentation, from Ms. Polege so stay tuned as we continue to make strides. So thank you very kindly for
the opportunity.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. No further questions. I don't see any other hands raised. All
right, our next item is unanimous consent. There are no items for unanimous consent this evening. There
are three recommended actions listed as item 16a through c.
The first recommended action the 2023 committee appointments. And the action is for the Board of
Directors to ratify the 2023 Standing Committee appointments. Do we have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
BOB BROOM: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I heard Director Williams is the movement and Director Broom is the second. Is
there any discussion on this motion? OK, I'll call for the vote. Are there any no votes on this motion?
Right, with 15 Yes votes and 0 No votes and 0 Abstentions, the motion to amend-- the motion to approve
passes. That's it. Thanks.
OK, the second recommended action is approval of the proclamation, "Zero Fare For Better Air" initiative.
This is for the Board of Directors to approve the proclamation recognizing contributions to the successful
"Zero Fare For Better Air" initiative. Do we have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. So moved, Director Williams.
[LAUGHTER]
LYNN GUISSINGER: It looks like you're the movement, tonight, Director Williams.
DOUG TISDALE: Second, Director Tisdale.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, I heard Director Williams as the movement and Director Tisdale as the second.
Is their discussion?
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guzman has his hand up.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Sorry. I just wanted to make sure this is the approval [INAUDIBLE]

LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm sorry, I can't understand you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: This is to approve the proclamation with the corrected language?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, it's to approve the proclamation. The discussion is now to approve the
proclamation. And then I will make a motion to amend or ask for a motion to amend. OK? Is there any
discussion on the motion to approve the proclamation? OK.
I would like to make a motion to amend. This was sent out earlier. It's the section that reads, "Whereas
the RTD Board thinks the Alliance to Transform Transportation, which includes Denver Region CoPIRG,
Denver Streets Partnership, Green Latinos, Servicios de La Raza, Conservation Colorado, NAACP
Colorado, Wyoming, Montana State Conference, Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition, SWEEP, Bicycle
Colorado. ATU local 1001, and NRDC. The Board also appreciates the support of Greater Denver
Transit.
And my motion is to add our local governments and TMOs.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Madame Chair-KATE WILLIAMS: I second that.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Madam Chair, I think it maybe would be more appropriate if one of us made the
motion, since you're Chair. But if-LYNN GUISSINGER: Hmm.
TROY L. WHITMORE: OK. So if that's the case, I will make the motion. And I think you already have a
second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. And here's Director Whitmore.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And the second is Director Williams. All right, is there discussion on the second? Is
that-- I mean on the amendment? No? All right. All in favor? Or are there any No votes on the
amendment? The amendment passes with 15 Yeses and 0 No votes.
Is there discussion on the main motion? Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Thank you so much, Director Guissinger. I know that transit and every industry
is full of acronyms. And just for the record and for the public, would you mind just reading out-- I know the
proclamation lists the various acronyms. Would you mind reading out what those are, so folks know about
the great work of the organizations that are out there who helped us with this.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Of course. And in fact, what I'd like to do-- I think I still have it up-- is just read the
proclamation, if I may. God, I had it up a minute ago. I think I can find it, here, in a second. And to answer
the-- I'll answer that question first.

So I see CoPIRG is the Colorado Public Interest Research Group. The SWEEP is the Southwest Energy
Efficiency Project. And NRDC is the Natural Resources Defense Council. NAACP is in there. I think that is
well known, National Association for the Advancement of Colored Persons, I think.
So the proclamation recognizing contributions to the successful Zero Fare For Better Air Initiative-"Whereas, the Regional Transportation District Board of Directors appreciates the success of the Zero
Fare Transit services, in August 2022, through the initiative Zero Fare For Better Air; whereas, RTD
experienced a 22% increase in ridership, from July 2022 to August 22, customer and constituents
reported a positive experience, when utilizing RTD services during Zero Fare For Better Air, and RTD
Directors heard from appreciative constituents and frontline employees, supervisors, and RTD Police
Department reported no significant increases in public safety and security issues.
Whereas, the RTD Board of Directors sincerely appreciates the efforts of Governor Polis, his staff, and
the Colorado Energy Office, in supporting this plan to enhance public transportation in Colorado and,
specifically, in the RTD; whereas, the RTD Board of Directors offers a very special thank you to the
legislative authors of Senate Bill 22-180, the Board thanks Senator Faith Winter, Senator Nick Hinrichsen,
Representative Matt Gray, and Representative Jennifer bacon for sponsoring this legislation and for their
continuing dedication to improving public transit.
Whereas, the RTD Board thanks the Alliance to Transform Transportation, which includes Denver Region
CoPIRG, Denver Streets Partnership, Green Latinos, Servicios de La Raza, Conservation Colorado,
NAACP Colorado, Wyoming, Montana State Conference, Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition, SWEEP,
Bicycle Colorado, ATU local 1001, and NRDC-- the Board also appreciates the support of Greater Denver
Transit and our local governments and TMOs.
Whereas, the RTD Board thanks RTD staff members and our frontline workers and members of ATU
1001, the teams worked in close partnership to make this initiative a success; whereas, the RTD Board
thanks all customers who made the effort to utilize RTD services during Zero Fare For Better Air and to
those who continued to ride; whereas, RTD shares the commitment to the regional and state goals
addressing ground level ozone and greenhouse gases and shares the commitment to help Coloradans,
who rely on public transit to get to their places of employment, medical appointments, and other major
activity centers.
Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the RTD Board of Directors that Zero Fare For Better Air and RTD's
partnership, with the Polis Administration, members of the Colorado General Assembly, and other
stakeholders, was a success for RTD. RTD's Board looks forward to working together to expand the Zero
Fare For Better Air in the future."
Make it back here. I'll now call for the vote. We just passed this-- or did we just pass the amendment? We
passed it? All right. All right, good.
The final recommended action is support of House Bill 23-1101, Ozone Season Transit Grant Program
Flexibility. The recommended action is for the Board of Directors to adopt a support position on HBS 231101, Ozone Season Transit Grant Program Flexibility, and to support changes to the bill to allow more
flexibility that is in support of RTD's goals. Do we have a motion?
TROY L. WHITMORE: So moved, Director Whitmore.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And a second?

KATE WILLIAMS: Second, Director Williams.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, I heard Director Whitmore as the movement and Director Williams as the
second. I will call for discussion on this motion. But I believe that-- yeah. Michael Davies has made it back
from the Northwest Rail Open House and found a place to give his report. Mr. Davies, do you have some
staff report to provide us?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes Thank you, Chair, members of the Board, Michael Davies, Government
Relations Officer. I'll just give a brief report that was also given to the Executive Committee on this item.
I'm pleased to bring before you a recommendation to support HB 23-1101, Ozone Season Transit Grant
Program Flexibility and to support changes to the bill, to allow more flexibility that is in support of RTD's
goals. And I'll go into that in just a moment.
So House Bill 23-1101 amends Senate Bill 22-180 that created the grant program that allowed RTD to
offer Zero Fare For Better Air. Two primary changes that impact RTD within that bill-- the first change is
that the bill allows unspent money that was available, through a grant received by RTD, in 2022, to be
available in 2023. And then the second change is to remove the 20% RTD match that was applicable to
the 2022 grant. And this bill removes that 20% local match requirement and puts RTD in parity with all the
other transit agencies, in the state, with applying for funds through this grant program.
And then just to touch on the changes and the discussion that happened in the Executive Committee.
And the supported changes were the way the language is worded with regards to that unspent money, in
2022 versus 2023, was it is for unspent money for a grant received.
And the Executive Committee supported changes to that bill to broaden that, from just a grant received, to
all eligible funding that was unspent in 2022 and available to RTD. We'd like to see that moved and
available in 2023. So it is ultimately creating more flexibility with those unspent funds. And again, these
funds have already been appropriated by the General Assembly. And this is just creating another
opportunity for RTD to take advantage of all the funds that were appropriated, to the agency, through this
grant program.
So I'll end there and happy to take any questions on the bill. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. Director Whitmore?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Yes. Thank you very much, Michael. Because of the way the bill is crafted and the
carryover, we have no fiscal note on this to the state general fund on this bill, right? So there's no other
expenses, which certainly simplifies the process of going through the legislature. Am I correct on that
assumption?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes, Director Whitmore. So by removing the 20% requirement, it certainly eliminates
a portion of funding that would have been required for RTD to put into this grant program. I guess there is
always a potential that any funding that RTD spends on a Zero Fare program above the total allotted
money that's available in 2023, that could result in a fiscal impact to the agency. But that would be a
decision for the Board when we look at the application process that's put together by the Colorado Energy
Office.
TROY L. WHITMORE: OK. Madam Chair, if I may.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Of course.

TROY L. WHITMORE: So I guess my reference was to fiscal. And obviously, there could be expenses for
us if needed or warranted. But no general fund hit on the State of Colorado with this program because of
the carryover, if I read the fiscal note correctly. I think I did.
Anyway, one item that's not directly germane to RTD, but I found it interesting, that there's flexibility
written into the bill for other transit agencies to use this program when the timing is right for them on
ozone issues. The ozone issues in the Western Slope are not the same as they are here. So I think that's
great. And it enhances the program for other transit agencies to do their best to help with ozone when the
time is appropriate for their geography. So anyway, thank you. Enough said.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Any further discussion? Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I had a question for Mr. Davies, if that's OK?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. You mentioned the word "amendment" a couple of times. And I just want
to clarify, we are talking about a bill that amends statute. We're not talking about a bill that's currently
introduced and an amendment to the bill that hasn't been presented before the committee. Is that correct?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes, that's correct. I think, if the Board approves this position, with the changes to
amend, RTD would testify, would file an amend position and testify that the Board has supported
amending this bill with the changes that I described.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. But you don't have language for us to see?
MICHAEL DAVIES: No. Not at this time.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Oh. Well, I'm in support of the bill. And as a trust exercise, I'll be a Yes. But for me,
personally, would be helpful if even concept language were shared, so we have time to follow up with
questions. And then, Madam Chair, I don't know if this is a point where I can make a comment on the-this phase, or we're just in a follow up question phase-- clarification.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. Yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: May I? OK, thank you. So I did-- the bill, at least as introduced, I had noticed that the
flexibility is such that a grant recipient could use the funds for free fares programs that it already has. We
do have a couple of those, like Mall Ride. And I'm definitely a Yes, tonight and in support of this bill.
Thank you, so much, for your work, everyone.
But I just wanted to put out there that I think it's just incumbent upon us, as an agency, to make sure, for
this fund and any future monies that we might receive, that we apply that to programs that actually can
demonstrate a reduction in emissions. And that's all I have. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I have a question in that regard. But go ahead, Mr. Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. So in terms of the proclamation that we just passed and
then the support statement that we are doing about 1101, assuming we vote Yes, which we will, how will
we be letting the legislature know? So obviously, we will be testifying in committee, or, Mr. Davies, you
will be and GM CEO Johnson will be and our lobbyists will be, potentially, as well. Or they'll be lobbying

the legislators on committee and also on the House and Senate side. But I mean, are we sending both of
those to them by email or are we by mail? How is that working?
And then second part of a question is, are we sending this to county commissioners, mayors, city council
members, and all the members that we mentioned, all the different organizations that we mentioned in the
proclamation, so that they know that we appreciate their efforts and support.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Chair, if I may? Yeah, certainly. Thanks, Director. I can't speak totally to exactly how
we would send out the resolution. I know Chair Guissinger is going to an event tomorrow and will present
that. And I'm certainly happy to work with the Board office to make sure that we can get copies out of the
resolution.
With regards to your question on the amendment, one, we would file that we've taken a position to amend
this bill and then, ultimately, with the discussion and the changes that I described tonight. And I think the
intent is certainly clear, on my behalf, of what we would be seeking. We would work with bill authors,
through our lobbyists, to seek those changes and support an amendment that would accomplish those
changes.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I guess building on Director Ruscha's line of questioning, so the bill that was passed
last year, it's law. It's not a bill anymore. And so basically, we are supporting passage of a bill, this year, to
amend the current statute. Is that maybe a better way to put it? Is that right?
MICHAEL DAVIES: The current bill would amend last year's bill or current statute.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Right, correct.
MICHAEL DAVIES: And we are seeking to make it an amendment to this year's bill. And really, if I can
maybe clarify exactly the difference there. There is unspent money, that RTD received in 2022, for the
grant that we received for Zero Fare For Better Air. But RTD did not apply for the full amount that was
available to RTD, which was $11 million. We applied for less.
So the unspent money, that would be flexible and moved into 2023, currently is a lesser amount than the
full appropriated amount that was available, through the full 2022 allotment of appropriated money that
the General Assembly gave, to this grant program. So it is just expanding to use all of the available
money that is unspent and creating more flexibility for what is available for 2023.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK. And then, finally, sort of building on Director Whitmore's line of questioning. So
if we go from 80% to 100% of reimbursement, and, obviously, we haven't seen the fiscal note yet, but
would that mean that we would see a smaller amount on this bill? Because now they're not just funding
80%, they're funding 100%. So are we looking for more money to be put in to this effort or about the same
or is there going to be less? And actually, my concern is that it'll be just a wash, where we're just going to
get about the same amount of money, whether it's 80% or 100%. I just want to make sure that we actually
receive more funding this year. And that we will use all of it, hopefully.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yeah. Certainly, Director, this just simply allows that funding to be available when
RTD goes forward with the application process. Which, of course, the Energy Office has to initiate that
process and put out a call for applications. And in our case, it's really a call for one application, because
we're the only eligible entity for this pot of money through this grant program. This just allows more
funding to be available, to RTD, to take advantage of in our application.

The difference is that we do not have to put in that match. So therefore, last year the matching funds
came out of RTD's budget. This year, we do not have to identify that match, as a result of their change, in
this bill, with the 20% match requirement removed.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I forgot to put my hand down, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Apologize. [LAUGHS]
LYNN GUISSINGER: That happens all the time. Director Whitmore?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Thank you, Michael. And I apologize, in sitting through some of the meetings prior
to this, for this relatively benign question, but we have the bill up in committee on Thursday afternoon.
And I just wanted to get a sense from you. The proposed amendments that we're blessing, are they
blessed by the bill's sponsors and are they fully aware of what our ask is? I assume they are. But I just
want to double-check on that. Or do I have my wires crossed again today?
MICHAEL DAVIES: No, Director Whitmore. So I think the point of the Board taking a position on this is
really for us to then confirm, with the bill's sponsors, that the language that they may intend to offer as an
amendment is one we support. And if they are going to offer an amendment, and we get that
confirmation, I can't speak to that, that the bill author or any author is going to offer this amendment, for
sure, right now. But if we get that confirmation, then we can lobby other members of the committee to
support that amendment, as well.
TROY L. WHITMORE: OK. And I appreciate that. That would be great if we are made aware of that as
soon as we know, as well, because some of us are getting a few calls from some committee members.
So Thank you. Thanks for the time.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks, Madam Chair. Just to provide some insight for folks, for the benefit of the full
Board, about the discussion that was had at Executive Committee regarding adding that amendment
language, if I may, just it seems like there's a lot of questions about it. It may benefit everyone to be part
of that conversation.
I was the one who brought forward that suggestion. And the logic there is that it's important for our
lobbyists, including-- excuse me-- our Government Relations Officer and Government Relations Team to
have flexibility. And when this originally came forward-- there's still some changes we want to make. And
so adopting a flat-out support position may prejudice our ability to further amend the bill, to further our
goals.
And the other one would be that, that amendment needs to further RTD's goals. For those of us who have
been around the legislature, things happen quickly. They move quickly. And they don't always look as
good as they've got in reality. And so the intent of the amendment and, further, of RTD's goals, is to give
the flexibility for our team to say, yes, RTD's supportive of this. However, there's a few changes that we

want to see. Given that the session is very young, I think we'll probably have updates on this, as it works
its way through, or if it gets out of committee. I don't know if we know that's likely or not. But just wanted
to provide that background, for folks, to help better explain the logic behind the language. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Dishell. All right, Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think we have two votes before us. Or I'm reading that
we are voting to support the bill but with an amendment. In our agenda packet, we have the introduced
bill in front of us. And so, in addition, we cannot register both support and amend. So I wonder if the
motion is actually an amend position per what Mr. Davies shared with us.
And then-- yeah, so I guess I will get back to you, Madam Chair, to figure out where we are in Robert's
Rules. But we can't vote on two things at once. And we can't have what is a subsequent vote, just
because we voted for one thing, I guess is what I'm trying to say. And I think that we're actually talking
about an amend position and not a support position, which I would still be in support of the amendment.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. We'll hear from Director Tisdale, and we'll come back to that. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, actually, if I may, Madam Chair, I was going to address that directly. At DRCOG
and at the Colorado Municipal League, for example, we would always either support or oppose or support
with amendments. Those are the three positions that we used to take when I chaired the policy committee
at CML and was Vice Chair at DRCOG, so we do have the opportunity, here, as well, for a single motion,
which is support with amendments. And that would be-- and I think Mr. Davies would confirm that. But
that's my take on it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. That may be a motion to amend our recommended action. Michael, any
comments there?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yeah. Thank you, Chair. And speaking to Director Ruscha's point, when we file an
official position with the Secretary of State's office, you only have three options, amend, support, or
oppose. So I think my recommendation would be that the Board-- and following on this discussion and the
discussion in Executive Committee, we'd be taking an amend position when we file, officially, with the
Secretary of State's office.
For the purposes of this, the language and the recommended action in the Board report, it is a support
position with changes. And I think the intent of the discussion in the Executive Committee was to take an
amend position. So I think it's just a difference of wording. But to Director Ruscha's point, the official
position filed by RTD's Board of Directors is an amend position with the Secretary of State on HB 231101.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So perhaps it would be-- I think we could vote on it as a single item, as Director
Tisdale said. But perhaps it would be clearer to say, for the Board of Directors to adopt a support with
amendment position on HB 23-101, Ozone Season Transit Grant Program Flexibility, and to support
changes to the bill to allow more flexibility that is in support of RTD's goals. Would that be helpful? I'll start
with you, Mr. Davies.
MICHAEL DAVIES: If others are in agreement, the intent is clear to me with that. Again, it would be an
amend position that we would file, officially, with the Secretary of State's office. You can't file a support
with amend. But knowing the discussion that we've had and the resolution that the Board just passed, we

know the Board feels that Zero Fare For Better Air was a success. And we can speak to that, as part of
our testimony, certainly.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Would someone want to make an amendment to this, want to propose an
amendment? Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: I move to amend the recommended action to read as follows-- "For the RTD Board of
Directors to support and amend-- excuse me-- to adopt and file an amend position on HBS 23-1101,
Ozone Season Transit Grant Program Flexibility, and to support changes to the bill to allow more flexibility
that is in support of RTD's goals."
LYNN GUISSINGER: May I suggest that we want to go on record as supporting the bill and that maybe it
makes sense to say to adopt a support and amend position?
BOBBY DISHELL: That's not an option.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, well, i we file differently. But this is a recommended action from the Board. I
guess it would be a friendly amendment if you're open to that. It will be filed in as an amend position. But I
think it's important to say that we support this bill.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes. Let me give it the old college-- let me, if I may, try again.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great.
BOBBY DISHELL: Move to amend the recommended actions such that it reads in its entirety-- "For the
Board of Directors to adopt a support and amend position on House Bill 23-1101, Ozone Season Transit
Grant Flexibility, which will be filed with the Colorado Secretary of State as an amend position, to support
changes to the bill to allow more flexibility that is in support of RTD's goals."
LYNN GUISSINGER: Do we have a second?
DOUG TISDALE: Second. Tisdale. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, I hear a motion from-- the movement is Director Dishell, the second from
Director Tisdale. Is there any comment or discussion on the amendment? OK. Are there any No votes?
And the amendment passes with 15 Yes votes and 0 No votes. Is there any further discussion on the
motion, itself, as amended? And are there any no votes? All right, the motion as amended passes,
recommended action as amended passes with 15 Yes votes and 0 No votes. Thank you very much.
Thank you, Mr. Davies, for the report.
Next item is report of Director activities. Would anyone like to report on their activities for the months of
December and January? Director Williams?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm happy to hear that we are doing this. This is something
that we used to do. And I would like to see us do it. In January, I attended the WTS, Women in
Transportation, Awards, as mentioned earlier by the Chair. I also attended DRCOGs Advanced Mobility
Partnership Working Group.
I had a great time at the Stock Show Parade, with Directors Guzman and Bouquet. I attended CDOT's
Transit Monthly Meeting. I attended the Denver Streets Partners Steering Committee, Denver Moves

Cherry Creek Monthly Review. I had my RTD Risk Assessment Interview. I attended the APTA ZEB
committee and the RTD ZEB committee. And I attended the Curbside Action Plan Mobility Focus Group. I
did miss a number of meetings that I normally attend and will be reporting on in the future. But I was out
of the country part of the month. Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Williams. Great job. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. We had the APTA Board Talk, live, regarding
safety and security, which was conducted virtually, yesterday, as a regular outreach activity of APTA's
Transit Board Member Committee, which I Chair. It was a great discussion by GM CEO India Birdsong
Terry, for the Greater Cleveland RTA, and the GCRTA Police Chief, Deirdre Jones. Watch your mailbox
for an email from APTA with a link to the video, for the presentation, and the slide deck. I think you will
find it very interesting and helpful.
Last week, I participated in the meeting of APTA's Diversity and Inclusion Council Steering Committee.
Please contact me if you wish to see the materials from that meeting. And then also, last week, I was at
the Transportation Solutions Arapahoe County Strategic Planning Session. And lots going on with TSAC
and, obviously, with all of the various local coordinating councils that we have around the state. Thank
you very much, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Sorry, they're all in my head, before I forget. So it's been a busy month.
January came charging in like one of the trains at the station. I went to the Community Solutions
Legislative Breakfast. And I also met with the Northwest Transit Community. C is the Northwest corner of
Denver. And so I meet up with the folks from Lafayette [INAUDIBLE].
BOBBY DISHELL: Point of personal privilege.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You're a little hard-- it's a little hard to understand you, Director Guzman.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, would you mind calling in the audio. A lot of times, I've found that it makes it a
lot easier when it comes through.
KATE WILLIAMS: Or you can turn off your camera while you're speaking, and that might give you some
more bandwidth.
LYNN GUISSINGER: We'll try that again.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Is this better?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Speak up, if you can, too, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Is this better?
LYNN GUISSINGER: That is better.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK. So January started quick. I went to the Commuting Solutions Legislative
Breakfast. I did participate in the Stock Show Parade but only as an Director Elect, at that point, because
it was a few days before swearing in. I went to the Boots and Business, and I also got to go to the rodeo.

So I'm really excited we participated with the National Western this year. A lot of reading and responding
to the information from constituents and community groups, participated in the Finance Committee.
The CAC did all of my orientation meetings, met with the Legal Counsel, the CEO GM-- thank you for
your time-- and with Mr. Summers for media preparation. Today, I got involved with the Latinos in Transit
group. And I'm really excited to begin in that area. Also, I did my risk assessment. And I am looking
forward to being involved in the DRCOG group, as well, as we go forward.
So I just wanted to point all of that out and say thank you for the opportunity and for all of your help and
support. All of the Directors have been great. The staff has been amazing.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks so much, Director Guzman. Director Whitmore?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Just quickly, monthly basis, many of us attend the North Area Transit Alliance
Meeting, which gathers together Adams County and sometimes Broomfield and the cities in the North
Metropolitan area. They met last week. We had a lengthy meeting and a good discussion. And I always
appreciate staff support at that meeting. Michael Davies was there and helped out with some clarifying
questions and some programming highlights, including our partnership program.
And then a little bit earlier in the month, met with three North Metro mayors, as we meet, usually, the
second Friday of the month for breakfast, just to keep pace with what's going on in the cities and in the
district and beyond. So that's a regular monthly kind of schedule for Director Buzek and I. So I won't bring
it up every month but just a reminder as we start the year. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Anyone else? Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I had a wonderful meeting with Greater Denver Transit last
week. I would recommend to my fellow Directors, if you haven't checked in with them, lately, do so.
Richard is just as entertaining in a one on one as he is in public comment. And I found, I just found the
information very informative as it relates to my district and constituents within B.
I also took some informal meetings with Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition and partner organizations.
And I wanted just to report back that, while there are some areas of concern, where we might be able to
improve, regarding paratransit and transitioning from pilot into more permanent service with on demand,
overall I have heard, now, from several people that RTD has really improved services for people with
disabilities over the last couple of years.
And so if I may, I'd also just like to commend our CEO and GM, Ms Johnson, for that. I think she's shown
a lot of leadership. And I think we've improved our standing with various constituent groups. And I wanted
to recognize that. I've also gotten some inquiries from constituents in Montebello regarding the state of
bus stops. I followed up with DOTI for a response. So if someone from DOTI is listening, I appreciate
when you're able to get back to me.
And I also-- and again, I just wanted to note, for those who might be listening or maybe fellow new Board
members, I am always open for comments, read everything, especially stop signs. And I did have an
issue with my email or wasn't receiving all emails, so I'm working with IT just to ensure that doesn't
happen again. So if I am slow to respond to anyone on the Board, or you're not sending me an email from
a recognized email address, it's not a matter of ignoring. And I'm happy to participate, listen, and show up
when requested. So thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you Director Ruscha. Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thanks, Madam Chair. I'll keep it brief. A lot of things happened in the last two
months. But just something came to mind that I do attend the quarterly Colorado 7 Coalition meetings.
For those that may not be familiar, up in the northern area, here, Colorado 7 has seen quite a bit of
growth and has quite a bit of growth planned, including some higher density development, including some
affordable housing.
And it's a challenging corridor. It's flagged by the North Area Mobility Study, or NAMS, that was done
several years ago, as a corridor that may involve express bus service. And at that meeting, this past
quarterly meeting, which was this past Friday, it was suggested that one of the next two quarterly
meetings will involve an in-person tour to go up and down the corridor.
They expressed-- the coalition, which includes members from a number of the communities along the
corridor, as well as CDOT-- had expressed interest in having RTD involvement. We actually do plan to
organize bus service from CDOT to go up and down the corridor.
So I just would open up the invitation, if Directors are interested in that, whether you're from the area or
not, please feel free to reach out to me and I'm happy to coordinate once we have the schedule. And then
also, I'm sure Ms. Johnson staff will be talking a little bit about this, because there was this request to
have some folks from RTD there.
So I just figured I'd highlight that as one of the meetings and one of the outcomes. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks. Anyone else?
We still have two items on the agenda for discussion. First one is the plan for remote versus in-person
meetings and the idea that-- a couple of ideas came out of the Executive Committee. And I think what we
suggested in Executive Committee is that we would move, put forward these ideas and also other ideas
that come from the Board tonight and then send out a poll and have people vote on what they prefer to
do.
The ideas that came out of the Executive Committee, one of them was to do every other month in person,
where the Board meeting and the committee meetings would be in person. So we would start in February
with in-person meetings. And then the other month would be remote. And I should say, even in in-person
meetings, we have Zoom now. If you're out of the country, if you're out of town, if you're not, if you have a
reason you can't be here, you can always attend remotely.
The other proposal that came out of the Executive Committee was that all meetings should just be inperson at this point. And I would just say that let's open it up and have the discussion. I think it's important
that we not say, do what you want, that they're hybrid, come if you want. Because I'm on another board
that does that and very few people show up. The idea of doing in-person meetings is that we do get back
together, we can sit down beforehand and have dinner together. That's what we always did. It's a different
experience.
I know many of you have never had an in-person meeting in the RTD boardroom. But they have just
redone the hearing and the streaming and the Zoom and all of those options. And Ms. Parish tells me that
it's almost ready to go. They're waiting for some TVs to be put into the room, apparently. But we're almost
ready, so we could start in February.

So the idea would be that we would send out-- I'll work with the Board Office and get out, hopefully
tomorrow, a poll on what we would like to do. But those were the two suggestions. All meetings in person,
every other month the meetings in person and then the opposite months the meetings are remote. And if
you can't attend, you can always attend remotely.
So other suggestions, other discussion? Director Rosenthal, I saw your hand first.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. So not to add more choices to our-LYNN GUISSINGER: That's fine.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: --to our poll, but I think we should have all of our full Board meetings in person. And
that way, we're all together at the same place and talking together and being able to work together. I think
that's really critical.
In terms of the committees, I'm more flexible for them to meet in person or remote. But I really do think it's
very important to have all of our Board meetings in person, now with the exception you noted, if
somebody is out of town and there's a snowstorm and somebody is in Parker, let's just say, Director
Bouquet, or something like that, then I can understand not being able to make it. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right. Thank you very much, Chair. So I guess somewhat of a new suggestion,
sorry to add on, I just wanted to throw it out there. Again, as one of our full-time employees is a school
teacher down here in Douglas County School District. It's a little bit of a hike. I like the suggestion of
having full Board meetings being in person. I think that's more than fair. Again, this is coming from
someone who's working full-time. I could definitely make it at least once a month in person.
I would suggest having our committee and ad hoc committee meetings be over Zoom. Again, I want to
caution my other Directors regarding, we have staff too that have to make this possible and working
around their schedule. It's not just us as our 15 Board Directors. So my suggestion would be full in-person
Board meetings once a month for the full Board meeting, and then have our committee and ad hoc
meetings be virtual.
I just bring that up because, as pointed out, we did not have any agenda items besides electing a Chair
and Vice Chair for our Operations Committee. And to be fully frank, I don't really want to drive all the way
down or take the train all the way down to Denver just to vote for a Chair and Vice Chair.
I also would note that having the option for virtual for even our full in-person Board meetings would be
excellent. So that would be my big suggestion would be in-person once a month with our full Board
meetings, because we will have agenda items. I do agree that it is good for us to connect and actually
see each other in person. My one thing would be Zoom meetings or virtual meetings for ad hoc and then
standing committees. So that'd be my suggestion. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: How are-- whatever decision we make, I want to encourage the Board to remember
that we have a commitment to zero emissions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guzman, you need to speak up, please.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'm doing my best. The Board has a commitment to zero emissions. And we need to
take that into consideration when we make this decision.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And so are you-- Great. Are you suggesting a different option or just to consider
that? OK. All right. Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I have to agree with Director Guzman and Director Bouquet that we are committed to
reducing emissions. And there is really not any reason that we need to meet in person, other than we like
to see each other and we want to have a meal beforehand.
I'm perfectly happy to have every meeting possible be virtual, so that I work full-time also, as do a number
of the Board Directors here. And I have to leave work early in order to get to RTD by 5:30, whereas I can
get online wherever I am. And then I also have to get home at night, late, in the dark. Some of our
meetings, it's going to be 8:00 here. And I've been at work for 12 hours now.
So I would like to recommend that unless it's necessary for us to meet in person-- I'm thinking of our staff,
who have the same thing. I'm sure Ms. Johnson, and I'll just go down, Brian Welch and Marie and Doug
MacLeod and Joe Fitzgerald and Melanie Snyder and Michael Davies have all been at work since 8:00
this morning. And it's probably much better for their health and for the health of our air if we all meet
remotely. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madame Chair. I just had a question, or I just wanted to raise the
concern, the point that when we do meet in person if we can ensure that whatever room we're meeting in
is wired appropriately so that folks listening in can hear us. There was a lot of difficulty trying to listen to
the Executive Board meeting that was in person, because that room wasn't set up.
And I wanted to ask, or put out there, if we are going to have some in-person meetings, and I think we
will, will we still allow the public to comment remotely and Zoom in? I think it's important for us to keep
that option open. We might have a duty to come down to Blake Street sometimes. But just to increase
access for the community, I'd like to keep that remote option for individuals who like to do public
comment.
And then I also wanted to make a note about the time. And I think other folks have touched on this. Some
of us do work day jobs with varying degrees of flexibility. And so I would just ask for the standing
committees, if they could take that into consideration. Not all of us are able to cut away in the middle of
the day to join and we might want to participate.
But overall, I think this discussion has been fruitful and I appreciate being able to hear from other
Directors, because that certainly would impact my vote when it comes to it. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. And I will say they have, that's what they've been working on in
the room downstairs. And already, I know that the Board Office is getting bids for upgrading the sound in
the conference room. And yes, public would be able to testify remotely. That's all good points.
Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Chair Guissinger. I would also agree with Director Williams. However, if we do
go back into in person, there are some of us that are just not comfortable doing that. We're still in the

middle of a pandemic and a flu season and RSV season. So for health reasons, you've got to have a
virtual option for people that are simply not comfortable being in that room down in the basement. So
that's my two cents. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I would say that that raises another thought that is whatever we decide can be
revisited in the near future.
VINCE BUZEK: Sure. And just clarification. I mean, you should be able to attend virtually not just because
there's a snowstorm or something else. It should be your choice. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Just taking some notes here.
Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: So I largely agree with Director Bouquet's idea. I think there is extreme value in
meeting in person. And yes, there's risks to be considered and we do need to have the options. I would
be for Board meetings in person, or the every other month in person. You can't substitute getting to know
your fellow Board members and staff members as well virtually.
We're one of the few entities that are comprised of elected officials that have gone so long without hardly
any in-person meetings, and I think there's a transparency problem with that. Now we all know we've had
supply chain issues and AV equipment is very hard to come by. Then when you do get it, half the time it
doesn't work and you start over.
But I do think remote testimony needs to be accessible. It's utilized very well at the state capitol, where
you have half the folks there testifying in person and the other half from all over the state, which is handy
and obviously helps with pollution and ozone issues as well, and timing.
So I am for a hybrid approach of some meetings in person, whether it's just Board meetings every month
or whether it's doing an alternation type scenario that somebody else had mentioned. But I do think we
should move to some semblance of in-person meetings, especially at the Board meeting level. Thanks.
That's all.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Director Dishell. Director Ruscha, you still have your hand up. But I assume
that's-- OK. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just again wanted to provide a bit of color to the discussion
that was had which put this on the agenda, which was that-- and the other folks on the Executive
Committee, please feel free to correct me if I misspeak-- which is that the intent is always to have a virtual
option for the public, for public transparency, for testimony, for folks who can't make it, whatever the case
may be.
Second, the intent is that the survey will be a ranked choice vote survey. And from today's discussion, we
might have 17 options from 15 Directors in the survey. But I think there's benefit to that. And I think it also
sounds like, from what I've been hearing, that there's really, there's two different sort of decisions, right?
One is, are we going to meet in person and how often? And the other is what is the expectation that we
hold of each other? Is it we're all there all the time, it's up to you, do what you want, it's-- and those to me
are sort of two distinct issues that we may want to have two different surveys for. But I will leave that in
the Chair's discretion, but just wanted to provide that bit of extra color. Thanks.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. Up until 11:00 this morning, I was fully in support of having
100% participation for the Board meetings in person. And I still am leaning toward that, recognizing that
there are sometimes some circumstances beyond our control.
I do like Director Bouquet's proposal that we offer that the hybrid or something of that sort for the
committee meetings. So I am still in support of the in-person Board meetings, with some possible
exceptions. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you, Director Catlin. And I think that goes to Director Dishell's point
that we kind of have two different questions. But I think-- well, I think that we're in a world now where if
you can't make it, if you're out of town, if you're injured, if you have reasons that you can't make it, that is
always an option.
Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thanks, Madam Chair. I don't envy your position as summarizing all these
options, or Ms. Parish's. But I just wanted to-- I had my hand up about the ranked choice voting, and I just
would second what Director Dishell, and thank him for bringing that up, had said about I think it's
important whatever we do here, we lay out a couple options, we do a ranked choice, so we all have a
chance to not just bet it all on one.
And I just would add for the group, I'm personally open to a variety of different options I think it's just the
sooner we can get this calendar to make it predictable, the better. I definitely think that some time in
person is really important. Our species wasn't successful because we're smart or strong. It's because
we're social. So whether we like it or not, that hasn't changed about us. And I do think that it has an
impact.
So I'd be open to a variety of things. I figured I'd offer for the group that I would vote in support of
something that is hybrid, in the sense of some sort of alternating. I initially was in favor of the monthly
plan, all meetings in person one month and then off the next. I could easily switch over to the plan of
Board meetings every month. But I do think it's important we get together in person. And I do think it's
really important we do a ranked choice vote on this. So thank you very much
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I originally had argued for the notion that all the
meetings should be in person. And I do recognize and I hear the concerns that are raised by my fellow
Directors. And there are some very legitimate concerns there that give us pause.
That said, there is no other elected Board, of which I am aware, that continues to meet virtually, except
for some study sessions and other of their committee meetings. But when the full body meets, no elected
Board is meeting virtually. Of course, there is always the option that if you are incapacitated or
unavailable, you can participate virtually.
We used to have people on the phone all the time before we had the pandemic. That's just the way we
worked. If you couldn't make the meeting in person, you dialed in and you participated in the meeting.
What's wrong with saying, if you're incapacitated or if you are out of town that you can participate. You're
welcome, you're encouraged to participate, and you can do so virtually.

So I guess my view is I come down on the side of I think all of the full Board meetings need to be inperson, with the virtual option available, and that the committee meetings could, at least for a while,
continue to be virtual. And those are my thoughts and I thank you for letting me share.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Ms. Parish, you had something to add?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Yes. Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to reiterate to everyone that Zoom will
continue. So even when we are in person, we will still have that option moving forward for the public and
for the Board. And for right now, our building is unavailable to guests. So when we do have in-person
meetings for the Board, in the short term, depending on when those begin, it would only be the Board
members and staff at that time in those meetings until our building opens up to guests.
But the meetings will be via Zoom, as well in person. So they'll be able to see everything that you see and
they'll be able to participate in public comment as they do now.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. I'm going to skip over to Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Madam Chair, for the opportunity to offer some further
clarification to Ms. Parish's comment. Recognizing that we are a public agency, the building has been
closed because we've been under the executive order as related to COVID-19 pandemic. With the recent
announcement the Present has made, we would be looking to adjust as we go forward.
But to previous points that Director Buzek shared as it relates to a myriad of different issues relative to
public health and safety, i.e. COVID, RSV, flu, and people with compromised immune systems, we too do
have outbreak sites still. But as we go forward, I just wanted to share, as relates to the building being
open, that position holistically, that would be up to the Board to decide relative to what it is. But from a
staff perspective, we do have a policy in place currently. So I wanted to share that as we go forward. We
wouldn't anticipate the building being open prior to May. So thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. All right. Got a couple here, another round here, Ms. Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair, I apologize. Actually, I concur with Director Tisdale. I don't
know of anybody, any body, that is still meeting remotely [INAUDIBLE]. So I would lean towards that
option, of course, always having remote [INAUDIBLE].
And I also don't want to ask of staff what we can't do. And if we have staff who are still down at Blake
Street at 8:00 at night, I know for me personally, unless something comes up, I'll be there as well. But
[INAUDIBLE]
LYNN GUISSINGER: I can't hear the end of what you said there.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sorry. I'm on RTD technology on the tablet. Oh.
Now I lost what I said.
LYNN GUISSINGER: It was just the last line that I couldn't hear.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I apologize, I don't remember where I was. Just that if we ask it of staff, we should
consider also showing up as well.

And appreciate the clarification on public participation. I'm also not aware of any public buildings in the
metro that are still closed, when the seat of government is meeting. So I would put it out there that as
soon as possible we [INAUDIBLE] to open back up to the public when we have our meetings, particularly
[INAUDIBLE] it's meaningful to allow folks to come down if they want to. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I want to point out that the other elected officials that we're talking about are all paid
and they have three or four staff per person and they adjust their schedules accordingly. So if they're
going to meet until 10:00 at night, they don't go to work. Their paid job, until noon, and their support staff
is the same.
We, on the other hand, are essentially unpaid, and most of us have to work. So we have to go to our day
job first and then we have to come here. So whenever RTD can adjust with my boss that I don't have to
go to work until noon, so that I can stay here until 8:00, I'll be more interested in coming to 1660 Blake
Street.
Number two, when we do our weighted poll, are we going to include our staff? We're going to ask them
how they feel about being here at night? And they are paid. But I don't know if we can afford-- and this
would be Ms. Johnson's call-- to allow them to come to work at noon so that they can be at 1660 Blake at
the meeting until 8:00 at night.
I feel really strongly about this. We cannot go back. We're not going back to riding horses. The world is
not going back to what we used to do before the pandemic. And we are all here tonight. Everybody is
doing well. Everybody's wherever they are. And we have been functioning and the agency has been
functioning and this Board has been functioning for three years just fine without meeting in person.
And anybody who wants to meet in person, just call me. I'm happy to go to lunch in the daytime. I'm
happy to have a committee meeting in the daytime. But I see absolutely no reason for this Board to meet
at night in person. Thank you. And now I'm done. Sorry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Rosenthal.
Director Ruscha, do you still want your hand up? OK. Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. And I know this is my second bite at the apple. I think the operative
word there was functioning, and that means we're working. We're making do. And I think if you look at the
previous Board, which I wasn't on, they met far more often and they met in person. And so I think, and as
I hear-- now again, I wasn't on the Board-- but as I hear from previous members, they built relationships.
And I think that is really critical at a time when so much is virtual.
How do you build relationships with other Board members so we make good decisions, better decisions,
that we actually-- and I'm going to be probably a bit more blunt and honest and say, look, we have had
Board meetings of this Board and previous boards, and I've seen in previous Boards before that, when I
was watching Board meetings when I wasn't on the Board, of Board members like sniping at each other
and treating each other disrespectfully. And that comes when you don't know each other.
And I think that's so critical that we get to know each other better. It's not just-- we have a dynamic. And
good governance comes from a dynamic when we get to know each other. Like three, four, six of us all

together and we're mingling and we're talking about ideas and talking about amendments and things like
that.
And all I'm asking is for once a month. And I think the General Manager/CEO can give allowances to staff
that, coming in later and staying later. And again, I'm not trying to tell you, General Manager, what to do
with your job, I'm just saying there are ways that we can allow for employees to have that. That was a
good suggestion, Director Williams.
So I really do feel very strongly that we do need to meet at least once a month. I do not believe that's too
much to expect of any of us. We are elected officials. We run a very large agency. And I think it's
important that we get to do our work together. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. All right. I see Director Davidson and Dishell, and then hopefully we can
move on. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. Thanks for the second bite at the apple here. Not to
throw another option in the mix here, but I'm about to show my public, or my private sector roots here. It's
pretty common to have Quarterly Business Reviews, or QBRs. And Director Williams, you bring up some
good points that the world's kind of moved on. With Board slammed schedules, a structure that I've seen
quite a bit is having Board meetings that happen on a more than quarterly basis, a monthly basis, happen
virtually, so people join where they are. But still, to preserve the collaboration time and sometimes even
stickier big topics that benefit from in-person discussion, those go to the quarterlies.
So I don't know if anyone wants to react to this. And I know we don't want to spend a ton of time on this.
But it is an option we could consider, where given that there's been good points, it sounds like there's
some folks who would go all the way to everything in person. Some would say nothing in person. We
could also start-- and to your point, Chair Guissinger, we can change whatever we come up with here-we could start with something on a quarterly cadence and borrow a little bit from some of the private
boards that have struck that kind of cadence.
But the second thing I just wanted to ask was-- and I certainly, General Manager Johnson, don't want to
put you on the spot if you don't want to comment on this-- but staff has come up, staff time has come up
several times. I'm wondering if you'd like to weigh in on whether there have been discussions, whether
yourself or others on the team, and if there are any preferences at this time. And certainly if not, I would
welcome the comments as we make this final decision or consider our vote. But General Manager
Johnson, anything that you want to weigh in on?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Well, thank you very much, Director Davidson, and Madam Chair, if I may
proceed. I'll just share that several of us are in the office. I'm actually sitting in my office right now taking
this meeting. So I'm not sitting at home. And I basically have an opportunity to lead a dynamic group of
people that provide public services that don't happen between 8:00 to 5:00. But on the flip side again, I
can recall when I first joined the organization whereby we were sitting in meetings till midnight. And then
the following morning at 8:00, on Wednesday, we had to turn around and be back.
So as we think about things holistically, and I've heard a myriad of different comments, I think if anything
that we have to meet people where they are holistically. As we talk about, there is other entities providing
in-person meetings. I understand that. But we also have individuals that are in their mobile offices each
and every day providing for services to people in the metropolitan region.

And through the source of interaction, we still do have impacts as relates to being exposed to a myriad of
different communicable diseases and things of the like. So that's why we're still closed, because we have
a high rate of COVID still. And so I just wanted to qualify that for everybody's edification. Because as it
relates to certain health protections, when we have a certain number of people that are reporting that they
have COVID, we have to ensure that we're providing an environment where we are minimizing that
exposure.
So with that as a backdrop, totally amenable. I'm a public servant for a reason. I know members of my
team understand their roles as it relates to public service as well. We're here to support all of you all. But
on the flip side, we do have to balance work life well-being additionally. So as we think about meetings
and there's need to staff and things of the like, I would just ask that be taken into consideration as we go
forward, because we're here to serve at the pleasure of the people. And I pride myself on being a servant
leader. And I understand that, hey, I'll go to a decision at midnight but I'm not doing that every day.
And so it's balancing that, going full circle. So long winded answer, but I felt as if I needed to provide
some clarification and qualifications to my remarks. So thank you very much for the question, Director
Davidson.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I'll come back to you, Director Dishell. We haven't heard from Director
Broom yet.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I've been listening to this discussion. And being retired, I've got more
flexibility than most people. What I think might work would be to go back fully to in-person meetings for six
months and then reevaluate. That'd give us time to get to know the other Board members. I mean, it's
embarrassing to go to a meeting somewhere and you don't even know a fellow Board meeting. I mean,
you almost have to carry around a square to put around their faces so that they'll look like you normally
see them. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Broom. Good suggestion.
Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And thank you, Director Broom. I'll be sure to save
the Zoom and print it out.
I just want to remind everyone that our fiduciary duty when we all choose to run is to the agency and to
furthering the interests of the agency, not our personal preference, not what's most convenient for us, not
what makes us most comfortable. It's to further the agency. And there is myriad evidence that in-person
meeting is better for collaboration, is better for governance, and overall helps organizations operate better
at a high executive level.
There is evidence that people can still be productive remotely, but that's not actually the work that we're
doing, when you look at those studies. We are not independent coders. We are not independent workers
who have siloed tasks. We're tasked with collaborating, cooperating, and communicating, to borrow from
Director Tisdale.
And so as we think through this, I know COVID has illuminated a new world. Accessibility is important, but
I think we need to keep our fiduciary duty in mind as we vote on this. If there are studies that say that
boards, executives, strategic decision making is better done remotely, I am happy to read them. But I will
say I am only aware of those studies which demonstrate that in-person collaboration time, time before

and after meetings is some of the best time for that, and getting to know people better is some of the best
time for that.
So I just wanted to remind everyone that that should really be what is best for the agency, and what
allows us to operate at our best and finest is really what should be leading the decision. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Dishell. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. Like Director Broom, I've been listening to this discussion and it's fascinating
and it will inform every Director's remote choice voting. I'll be interested to see how it comes out. I would
just like to make a couple comments about the idea of our being downtown for a long time. I think there
are ways that we can-- actually, this goes on to the next item at our retreat-- we can talk about more
efficient meetings. And I think at remote meetings, people tend to be more comfortable and repeat a lot.
And knowing that at least from my line, transit ends at 11:00. So I think we could tighten up the meetings
and make it more comfortable for people to be downtown if they know that the meeting is going to be over
at a certain time. And many city councils have actually set a time limit on their meetings. They can always
vote to extend it, but the default is it's over at a certain time.
I agree with people who are saying it's important for us to interact with each other in person. And I think
Director Davidson had some interesting ideas. But I think if we scheduled the stickier meetings, or the
stickier issues for in-person meetings, we would be meeting until midnight and have some difficulties
getting home and with staff.
So that is my consideration in determining the ranked choice voting. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. I have a couple of comments.
I agree with those who say that it is important that we meet some in person. How that's structured, I feel
flexible. I'm hearing the conversation, a lot of people saying let's do the Board meetings in person. I think I
had originally suggested every other month we do all the meetings that-- it may be more complex than it
needs to be.
Our meetings, even before we went virtual, and even currently, I think it's pretty rare when we go real late.
I agree that we don't want to do that. I'm fine with setting a limit on it. But we have had I think maybe one
or two in my four years on the Board that went to past 11:00 sort of thing. Probably more than one or two,
but maybe not more than two or three.
Again, the one thing that I personally feel strongly about is whatever we set, that is the presumption. And
always you can attend another way, if you've broken your hip, Peggy, or just can't make it. But that that
would be the presumption.
So I will endeavor to work with the Board Office to put together a full slate of options and to put it into a
ranked choice voting set up and get that out to everyone. And yeah, I think whatever we're doing can be
revisited. I'm fine with Director Broom's suggestion that we look at it again in six months. And so if that's
OK, we will move on and talk about the retreat.
The retreat. I think maybe what we want to do is do another little bit of polling to ask more free form
questions about what people would like to address. And we've had some suggestions come in. We've

talked about the date of March 25. I think it makes-- I would really like to try to find a time when everybody
can be there, or as close as possible.
And one idea that came up as we talked about that with some who couldn't make it then would be just to
go to maybe an offsite, pick a Tuesday that we don't have a meeting, pick an offsite, go somewhere, and
try to address some of our bigger issues. What are our goals? What kind of Board do we want to be? I
would really like to see us take the next step in terms of our Board engagement with our communities by
leaving something like that with a Board engagement plan for each individual Director.
But again, we can send this out and ask for direction. We can maybe use some of what we did last year
as a start and some of what the Executive Committee has discussed. But if we could do it, I guess my
question is, would you be open to a Tuesday, or maybe two, where we start these conversations, maybe
we have a fall retreat. It looks like to get everyone there, we keep having to push it back. And so I'm
wondering if we could have a kickoff mini retreat and then follow up with a fall retreat so that we're really
ready to kick off next year having had the retreat and ready to go.
And we can do this by-- I'd like to keep this discussion shorter. We can do some of this by email and get
opinions on how we move forward on the retreat. I think that we've had some good ideas come up in
terms of where we go.
Director Williams, you have your hand up.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have a couple questions. Are you-- and we could take
them in stages-- are you proposing that we meet in person for a retreat?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. So there would be an opportunity for all of us to get to know each other. Are we
proposing that-- normally in the years that I've been doing this, we have met on a Saturday for a long day.
Is that not proposed any longer?
LYNN GUISSINGER: We could do March 25 and get most people there. So that would be one option.
And I was just trying to find a night where we could, a way to do this that we could get everyone on the
Board there.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. So could we do something simple, like a Doodle poll, that went out to everybody
that listed every Saturday between now and kingdom come and see when we could get most people
there? Because in light of our previous conversation, if there are people who feel like they don't know
their fellow Board members-- me personally, I've met with everybody here at length, and I don't feel like
there's anybody here that I don't know, so I'm OK with that. But a Doodle poll really works. And then
everybody can say yes or no. And you might pick a date where you get 13 people and the other 2 people
will have to come virtually.
But that's all I had to say. Thanks, Lynn.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, I think I brought this up earlier on. I would be in favor, again, that I really like
the idea of a long-- I hate to say it-- but a lot of hours dedicated just to a Saturday. If we have a vast
majority of the Board that can agree to it, I think that's more than fair to start this in that March 25. If we

can't get every Board member, Board members who can't attend can submit their comments via email,
and that can be ultimately a suggestion.
I just wanted to clarify that the retreat's main purpose, the retreat's main purpose is ultimately what, from
your perspective, Chair?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, I think that's a group discussion. Like I said, I would send out-- we did send
out the scope of work the other day, or a week or so ago. And I haven't received any comments on that.
So my plan, if we want to move forward with March 25 or sometime soon, would be to send that scope, to
post that scope of work as a part of the RFQ or RFP, and just say that we are still bringing it together.
Some of the things on that scope of work were community engagement, Board communication, decisions
that come to the Board, and there was one other one.
I personally would like to see us come out with very concrete steps. We had good conversation last year.
But I think, again, a personal engagement plan for all of the Directors so that we are going out to our
communities and our legislators or whoever else, and I would like to see that done in b consultation with
our public affairs teams, because I think they can be very helpful on that. That's just one example.
I think the Board may be able to help with workforce connections. Because everybody, all of our cities
and counties and everybody else, and maybe we're talking with all of them, but just some very specific
things there. At the same time, I've had good suggestions made to me about talking about what kind of
Board we are and what our goals are.
So I think we want to engage a higher level discussion there. But it may be following up with some email
and polling.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I just want to clarify. Because the way I imagine this ultimately is, this is us focusing
as us as 15 Board Directors focusing what our policy goals are going forward for the 2023 year and going
for the future. I think that's what the focus is that I was hoping from a retreat. Because again, I feel that we
have a lot of great ideas. We have a lot of ambitious Board members. But it really comes down to
solidifying and coming together for our scope of work of understanding what do we want our policy goals
to be ultimately as a Board of Directors.
Again, I'm going on my third year of serving here. I think that is a more than fair question for us, as a 15
Board, to focus on what are our policy goals going forward and specifically how I can answer constituents'
questions. That's what I was hoping to focus on. And again, I want us to move quickly, you know,
diligently but quickly. And that's why I would propose the March 25 and sticking with that Saturday, having
again, a time for, going back to the whole idea of actually collaborating and speaking with each other in
person.
This is Director focused. This is a Director agenda. Take the couple hours on a Saturday. If all of us can't
attend, then we have the option of Directors submitting virtual comments. That's what I was ultimately
hoping for from a retreat like this.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Harwick.

IAN HARWICK: I would just like to second Director Bouquet there. I think that if we're going to do this,
there's no time like the present. And March really isn't the present, but it's as close as we're going to get
at this point. And I think a long meeting on a Saturday for as many of us as possible is the best choice of
action versus doing a smaller one on a Tuesday evening and then following back up in the fall. At that
point, especially for us new Board members, we will have kind of lost that ability to really lay out where
we're interested in going.
So I think the sooner we get the opportunity to get together, to connect with other people and really sort of
hear where other people want to go and where our visions dovetail, or where they don't fit, is a good thing
to know, so we can sort of figure out where we're all at and where we want to go together. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Great. Any other comments? We'll be sending something out.
Director Sloan. You're muted.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yeah, got it. Yeah. I don't want to extend this meeting, and I agree with Director
Bouquet, the ultimate goal of the retreat. But I think a short portion on internal relationships, Board
relationships, Board-staff relationships, would enable us to fulfill our policy goals much more efficiently,
adequately, and have a greater impact on the agency if we do take the time to discuss internal
relationships and procedures during the retreat.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great.
Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Sorry, second time. I'll make it quick. I guess it would just ultimately be, again, I know
you're going to send out a survey, is the hope of it, ultimately, is again if we find common connections,
that should be kind of our scope of work when it comes down to policy decision. I think that would be the
big thing is first step, identifying, hey, are there some common policy goals between us as Directors, from
a virtual standpoint? And then that could be ultimately a conversation that happens on the 25th. And
hopefully, it is a robust conversation that potentially could lead to new ideas. So that's what I would say.
Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks. Anyone else?
I will pull the scope of work, some of the language from last year, and what I'm hearing here. But I think
setting the goals and talking-- some of this is kind of what we were discussing last year-- and send it out
and ask for Directors to comment and make suggestions. And am I hearing that March 25 is the way
people want to go? OK. All right.
Thanks. That's good feedback. Are there any other matters? Nope? All right.
Seeing none, I'll entertain a motion to adjourn.
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I think we are adjourned. Thank you. This was a great call.
DOUG TISDALE: Good night, all. Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: I appreciate it. Yeah. Good discussion.

