1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303/299-2303

Regional Transportation District
Board of Directors
Chair – Lee Kemp, District I
First Vice Chair – John Tayer, District O
Second Vice Chair – Matt Cohen, District M
Secretary – Angie Malpiede, District C
Treasurer – Kent Bagley, District H
Vacant, District D
Larry Hoy, District J
Kenneth Riley, District K
Bruce Daly, District N
Bill James, District A

Barbara Deadwyler, District B
William “Bill” McMullen, District E
Jack O’Boyle, District G
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Tom Tobiassen, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday August 16, 2011 at 5:30 PM
I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL-DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Ten (10) Board Members were present at roll call. Directors Cohen and Malpiede arrived after
roll call. Directors Daly and Deadwyler were absent from this meeting.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
David Ahlberg, Bus Operator, 20 years
Mr. Ahlberg was not present at this meeting to receive his award.
Special Recognition
Director Barbara Brohl
Chair Kemp explained that there were several recognitions that we would like to do this
evening. The first person we want to recognize is former Director Barbara Brohl who had
recently resigned to assume the appointed position by Governor Hickenlooper as the
Executive Director of Revenue, Barbara Brohl.
General Manager Washington added that on behalf of the Senior Leadership Team they would
also like to give their appreciation for her help to level the playing field for minority, women
and veteran owned businesses.
Barbara Brohl expressed her sincere thanks, and indicated that being on this Board she
learned what Transit really meant. The staff at RTD at all levels make it seem almost
seamless, and is a great testament to the organization. Ms. Brohl indicated she was very
proud of her work and contribution to the DBE/DBE committee and was very thankful for all
of the opportunities that RTD had afforded her.

Government Finance Officers Association Award (GFOA)
Todd Nikkel, Senior Budget Analyst, was awarded the Finance Officers Association
Award Certificate for budget preparation. Chair Kemp acknowledged the magnificent
work of all the employees, especially the finance staff for their hard work and dedication.
He invited Terry Howerter, CFO to the podium to present this award.
Todd Nikkel noted that this award is RTDs 26 th consecutive award and his fourth and
indicated his sincere thanks for the award and recognition.
IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Chair Kemp noted that several members of the public had already signed up to speak and
deftly reminded those individuals that this participation is not for interaction with the Board,
but a conduit for the public to bring forth issues they might have.
David Swanis indicated his desire to see the Federal Station to be placed on the West side of
Federal Boulevard.
Paige Merriman added that she urges the Board to place the Federal Station on the West side
due to safety reasons. She cited environmental safety concerns as well as physical safety
due to the number of transients on the east side and the cost of cleanup.
Max Scott, who stated he was from a professional survey firm, noted that a recent survey of
a one mile radius near the proposed station reported that 89% of survey participants favored
the West side of Federal Blvd.
Bill Husson speaking on behalf of Regis University indicated that the West side of Federal
Blvd. would be optimal for the safety and convenience of the students, faculty and staff of
the university. He also expressed how TOD and accessible rail will improve the blight along
Federal Boulevard.
James Hohn noted his preference to have the station on the East side and added that it is
time to clean this up this area and turn it into a non-blighted area as it has been referred to.
Kim Gillan indicated that it was hard to believe that RTD is willing to entertain the notion of
the station placement for the third time and the station should remain on the East side. This is
a rehash and a waste of taxpayers’ time and money. Students from Regis will take the
shuttle. She also has concerns of insufficient parking similar to the issues being played out
today at the Englewood light rail station.
Tom Stevens representing the concerned citizens for compatible development, read a letter
prepared by Steve Hiratsuka. a small business owner who indicated that Federal East was the
best option.
Pat Daley inquired why this subject keeps getting approached after it has been signed off on
for the East side two times prior. We need to support the EIS.
Rebecca Skrivanek expressed her support for the West side and would be more beneficial to
the community in the long run. She expressed tow benefits: (1) This will put RTD on the
map and provide an opportunity to make a world class on the West side (2) Need to look at
long term financials-government trending and federal funding is more available where the

intersection of smart private and transit comes together (i.e. walkable communities, transit
oriented communities, etc)
Gloria Rudden, VP for Berkeley Water Sanitation, voiced her preference for Federal West and
preposterously stated several reasons why it makes sense to pursue a station on the east
side.
Kim Tadych explained that 25 ago, Federal East was an illegal dumping ground and would be
costly for cleanup efforts and Federal West has better access for emergency services.
Rick Gillan stated his support for Federal East.
Dana Gillan also showed support for Federal East, especially since it was the original choice.
Maggie King demonstrated support for Federal West and indicated that the majority of the
community shares her sentiments.
Allan Gillan indicated his support for Federal East.
Mary Funk expressed her support for Federal West. She invited the Board members to take a
tour of the contamination on the east side and make a financial decision over whether it is
more costly on the east or west side.
Theresa Kruse strongly supported Federal East and urged that all the facts be checked before
moving forward. She offered point by point rebuttals from statements made earlier by people
in favor of the west side.
Michael Rudden asked that the Board consider underhanded motivations by individuals in the
community and indicated his support for Federal West.
Seeing no other speakers, Chair Kemp closed the public participation portion of the meeting.
V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS-(See Minutes)
Planning & Development Committee - Chaired by Director Hoy
Legislative Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Cohen
DBE Committee – Chaired by Director Malpiede
Operations/Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
Financial/Administration Committee – Chaired by Director James
GM Oversight and Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee – Chaired by Director Tayer
CDOT – Director Cohen
E-470 – Director O’Boyle
ACED – Director Hoy/Riley
Northwest Parkway-Director Anderson & Chair Kemp
Pension Committee – Director O’Boyle
Chair’s Report- Chair Lee Kemp
Director James noted that in the Financial Administration and Audit Committee a comment by
General Manager Washington included the term negligible and wondered if that was the

incorrect term. Paula Perdue indicated that the Board Office would review the recording from
that meeting to determine if that statement should be changed. A review was made and the
minutes remain as stated.
Director Tayer indicated that his statement in the FasTracks Monitoring Committee was not
as expanded as his comment in the meeting and would like it noted that the disconnect he
referenced was between RTD and corridor representatives over the vision for BRT.
VI.

GENERAL MANAGER OVERSIGHT & PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT UPDATE
Director Bagley noted that an email had been sent by Paula Perdue to all of the Directors
concerning the 2nd Quarter GM Evaluation. The survey is to be completed by August 26th
and 100% participation is expected.

VII.

METRO MAYOR TASK FORCE UPDATE
No updates were available at this time.

VIII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF JUNE 21, 2011
MOTION:

Director Cohen moved for the adoption of the June 21, 2011
Board Meeting Minutes.
Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 9 votes in favor (Cohen,
Hoy, Kemp, James, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Riley, and
Tobiassen) and 0 against. Directors Anderson, Bagley, and
Tayer abstained. Directors Daly and Deadwyler were absent
from this meeting.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

IX.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF JULY 19, 2011
MOTION:

Director Malpiede moved for the adoption of the July 19, 2011
Board Meeting Minutes.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 9 votes in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Hoy, Kemp, James, Malpiede, O’Boyle and
Tayer) and 0 against. Directors McMullen, Riley, and Tobiassen
abstained and Directors Daly and Deadwyler were absent from
this meeting.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

X.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT










XI.

General Manager Washington noted that last week he attended a Western
General Manger’s CEO Roundtable event in Portland. Attendees were from
Salt Lake City, Phoenix, Houston, San Diego, TriMet, Dallas, Austin, and
Sacramento. Issues discussed included Fare Policies, Fare Systems, Rail
System Safety, Para-Transit Costs, and Passenger Safety and Security.
General Manger Washington added that he had an introductory meeting with
Aurora City Manager Skip Noe. Mr. Noe has been on the job about six months
and we discussed things that were important to Aurora, specifically the I-225
joint project we have with CDOT.
General Manger Washington highlighted his “Rappin’ with Phil” Sessions
where he travels around the district to speak with RTD and privately
contracted employees on an informal basis.
General Manager Washington added that Leadership APTA is a yearlong
program that APTA has created with a very aggressive curriculum to prepare
the next generation leaders in transit. We have nominated an RTD employee
for this program, and we are happy to inform the Board that Jesse Carter was
selected for this program. The program will meet once a month in Washington
DC over a 12 month period. This is a great honor not only for Mr. Carter, but
for our agency as well.
General Manager Washington explained that the DRCOG Annual FasTracks
Review and Determination Report went over very well. DRCOG has
recommended that our plan be accepted.
General Manager Washington indicated that the City of Englewood decided not
to proceed with the parking project at Cushing Park and we will abide by their
wishes to not pursue parking in that area.
Director O’Boyle asked if there were any reasonable options. General
Manager Washington indicated we are looking for alternatives.
Several Board members congratulated the General Manager and his staff for
the outstanding DUS event. General Manager Washington indicated this was
a great event and the staff including the contractors worked in collaboration to
make this happen. Because they were able to do it this time, they will not
have to cut over West corridor in 2013.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
Director O’Boyle asked that item D be moved to Recommended Action for further discussion.
Chair Kemp noted that item D will be moved to the Recommended Action Items.
Chair Kemp asked for a motion to approve items A thru E, excluding D, on the unanimous
consent agenda.
MOTION:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve the
unanimous consent agenda, items A thru E.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 12 votes in favor
(Anderson, Bagley, Cohen, Hoy, James, Kemp,
Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Riley, Tayer, and

Tobiassen) and 0 against. Directors Daly and Deadwyler
were absent from this meeting.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.
A. Authorization to Award the Construction Contract for the Table Mesa Pedestrian Bridge
Project
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to enter
into a construction contract with PCL Construction Company in the amount of
$6,448,938.59. This contract is for the construction of the RTD pedestrian bridge over
US36 at Table Mesa Drive and associated bus pull-out and plaza improvements. Funding for
this project is partially from CDOT ($3.5M, Senate Bill #1 IGA signed October 28, 2010) and
partially from RTD FasTracks local funds. The funding for this project is included in the 2011
FasTracks budget.
B. Extension and Amendment of Goldman Sachs Contract
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to authorize the second option year of the
contract with Goldman Sachs for Financial Services Related to Public–Private Partnerships
advisory services which will extend the performance period from September 1, 2011 to
August 31, 2012. The original contract period was from September 1, 2007 to August 31,
2010 with two one-year options to extend, and the first of these two options was exercised
in August 2010.
Additionally, it is recommended that the contract scope be amended to include, on a workorder basis, assistance in the review and development of proposals, which may include a
possible availability-based concession or other public-private partnership arrangement
involving all or a portion of the remaining RTD FasTracks projects such as North Metro, I225, US 36, Northwest Rail and the Southeast and Southwest extensions. This contract
amendment would increase the maximum value of the contract by $2,500,000, to a new
combined contract maximum of $19,868,250 for Goldman Sachs and JP Morgan. Funding
for this work-order contract amendment in 2011 is included in the 2011 Amended expense
budget for FasTracks, and funding for 2012 will be included in the 2012 expense and capital
budgets for FasTracks.
C. Resolution No._______ Series of 2011, Appointment of Trustees to the RTD Pension
Trust and Defined Contribution Plan.
E. Budget Transfer for CCTV at Denver Union Station
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the transfer of $353,399 for the Denver Union Station CCTV project,
and the associated Homeland Security grant funds, from the base system capital budget to
the FasTracks capital budget to facilitate proper accounting for the assets. This project is
100% funded by a federal Homeland Security grant.

XII.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
D. Board Policy for Organizational Memberships

It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board of Directors adopt this policy
on the process for establishing Board individual and agency memberships in community
organizations.
Director O’Boyle noted that this is a Board Policy where the Board is delegating its authority
solely to the General Manger in collaboration with the Chairman of the Board and the
Executive Committee. He is not prepared to do that.
Director Cohen added that we were provided a list of current agency memberships and within
those agency memberships we’ve identified that there are different levels of membership.
Additionally, we’ve identified each Board member’s discretion to look for different
organizations they may or may not want to belong to in their district. Those are the requests
that will go to the Executive Committee.
Director James explained that Director Cohen had a correct description of the process for the
opportunity of individual Board members to apply to the Executive Committee for the purpose
of participating in an organization more often than they would otherwise. To respond to
Director O’Boyle, the Board is not giving away any authority that they already have.
Director O’Boyle added that he would remain in violent disagreement and agrees with the
notion that there should be some type of review, but nevertheless believes that requests
should be a Board action and will not support this.
After further discussion, Director Anderson called for the question.
MOTION:
Director James made the motion to approve the
unanimous consent agenda, D.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 11 votes in favor
(Anderson, Bagley, Cohen, Hoy, James, Kemp,
Malpiede, McMullen, Riley, Tayer and Tobiassen) and 1
against (O’Boyle). Directors Daly and Deadwyler were
absent from this meeting.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

F. Approval of Contract Value for 2011 Granite Paver Pilot Test Contract
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to enter
into a contract with Atkinson-Noland & Associates, Gallegos Masonry, Inc. in the dollar
amount of $1,474,433.00. The contract is for the design and construction of one block of
the 16th Street Mall to test alternate concepts for the rehabilitation of the mall pavers.
Funding for this project in the amount of $2.8 million, including $800,000 in grant funds, is
included in the 2011 budget.

Director O’Boyle indicated that for 30 years or so RTD has been supporting the design,
construction, and maintenance of the mall. Director O’Boyle questions the spending of $2
million dollars when we are questioning how we are going to survive the next 7 years. If we
are not under contract obligation to do this, it should be postponed.

General Manager Washington explained that we are responsible for the maintenance of the
mall until the end of 2012. We are not contractually obligated to do this, but staff is
recommending this one block section to determine if a new technology will work. If it is
successful, we would seek grant funding for the entire mall.
Director James added that this is a test program for one block which is in conjunction for
future renovations plans for the mall. Part of the qualifications for the grant applications is to
have a successful pilot program. A well tested and successful renovation is advantageous.
Director Tayer expressed some concerns that all participants were not sharing in the cost.
For this reason he would vote no.
MOTION:

Director James made the motion to approve the
unanimous consent agenda, F.
Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 10 votes in favor
(Anderson, Bagley, Cohen, Hoy, James, Kemp,
Malpiede, McMullen, Riley, and Tobiassen) and 2 against
(O’Boyle and Tayer). Directors Daly and Deadwyler
were absent from this meeting.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

G. 2012–2017 Strategic Budget Plan (SBP)
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors adopt the 2012-2017 Strategic Budget Plan (SBP).
MOTION:

Director Anderson made the motion to approve the
unanimous consent agenda, G.
Director James seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 12 votes in favor
(Anderson, Bagley, Cohen, Hoy, James, Kemp,
Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Riley, Tayer and
Tobiassen) and 0 against. Directors Daly and Deadwyler
were absent from this meeting.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

XIII.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
Chair Kemp noted that an Executive Session would not be held at this meeting.

XIV.

NEW BUSINESS
Chair Kemp noted that Director Tobiassen would be the new Pension Fund Representative

and thanked him for taking on that extra duty.
Marla Lien explained that staff would provide a brief presentation regarding US 36 BRT IGA
between RTD, the Colorado High Performance Toll Enterprise and CDOT. It is very significant
for the closing of the TIFIA loan that an IGA be executed between RTD and those agencies
before closing on September 1st. We ask that a Special Board Meeting be held on the 23rd to
vote on authority to enter that IGA to facilitate the closing of the loan and the development of
the project.
Director Bagley asked for more information regarding the Telephone Town Halls which will
eventually replace the newsletter.
Director Tayer introduced the new Bus Birding Program, which is a creation of the minds of
Boulder to advance marketing for RTD services and to get people to understand the
environment around them as they travel in their bus. This is a fun program, and encourages
ridership and speaks to the quality of life benefits of transit by sitting back and watching the
birds go by. This was of no cost to RTD, but through generous contributions from a variety
of institutions.
Director Malpiede added that this Saturday at 11:30 a.m. the Sun Valley/Villa Park
neighborhood is having a picnic to thank them for their patience as we’ve built out FasTracks
and would love to have as many of you attend that can.
XV.

ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned at 7:48 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

___________________________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the RTD Board of Directors

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD meeting
you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD MEETING
Tuesday, August 16, 2011

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
John Tayer, First Vice Chair
Matt Cohen, Second Vice Chair
Angie Malpiede, Secretary
Kent Bagley, Treasurer
Lorraine Anderson
Larry Hoy
Bill James
Bill McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Kenneth Riley
Tom Tobiassen

District I
District O
District M
District C
District H
District L
District J
District A
District E
District G
District K
District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS ABSENT
Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

District N
District B

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Rick Clarke
Jeff Cluphf
Susan Cohen
Libby Cox
Sherry Ellebracht
Kevin Flynn
David Genova
Mike Gil
Cory Granrud
Terry Howerter

Nadine Lee
Marla Lien
Barbara McManus
Anthony Menendez
Todd Nikkel
Tai-Shrae Parish
Paula Perdue
Carla Perez
Scott Reed
Janette Scarpino
Teresa Sedmak

Daria Serna
John Shonsey
Walt Stringer
John Tarbert
Pauletta Tonilas
Bill Van Meter
David Vaughn
Del Walker
Phil Washington

OTHERS PRESENT:
Barbara Brohl, Megan Carter – Regis University, Pat Daley, Chuck Easterling, Mary Funk, Alan Gillan,
Dana Gillan, Kim Gillan – CCCD, Rick Gillan, Nehemiah Hall – National Federation of the Blind,
Donald Harvey – Atkinson-Noland, James Hohn, Bill Husson – Regis University, Maggie King, Teresa
Kruse, Paige Merriman, Todd Peterson, Tom Reynolds – Regis University, Gloria Rudden, Michael
Rudden, Max Scott, John Slocum, Tom Stevens, Rebecca Strivanek, David Swanis, Kim Tady, Chris
Taylor – Spectrum AV, and Jeff Walker.

