2025-06-24
Board Meeting
JULIEN BOUQUET: I will now call the Tuesday, June 24 RTD Board meeting to order. We're convened
as of 5:30 PM. I'd respectfully ask everyone to remain muted unless you are recognized to speak. Thank
you all for joining us this evening.
As the Board has gathered to in-person meetings for our monthly gatherings, please note that the
Committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will still be held remotely via Zoom, and will be audio
and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be
posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Please visit rtd-denver.com. A livestream of this
meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
During tonight's meeting, we're also providing Communication Access Realtime Translation, also known
as CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided.
Additionally, the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like
to access a live transcript of this meeting in Spanish. I will now call on Director Gutschenritter, if you
wouldn't mind leading us with the Pledge of Allegiance.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the
Republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director. I'll now call on Director Whitmore, if you could please read out
the land acknowledgment.
TROY L. WHITMORE: The RTD Board of Directors acknowledges that the land on which our buses and
trains operate is a traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and other contemporary tribal
nations that are historically tied to these lands. We honor our Indigenous elders who have traveled,
inhabited, and stewarded these mountains, hills, and plains throughout generations.
May this acknowledgment demonstrate a commitment to working to dismantle the ongoing legacies of
inequity of the Native and all historically oppressed peoples, and recognize their current and future
contributions in the district as we move forward. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director. I'll now call the roll. Treasurer Benker? Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler?

KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter?
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'm present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick is an excused absence. Director Larsen?
MATT LARSEN: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Online.
JULIEN BOUQUET: First Vice Chair O'Keefe?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha? Second Vice Chair Whitmore?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: So we currently have 13 Directors present, two absent. I'll now call on Director
Larsen to please read out the Statement of Employee Appreciation.
MATT LARSEN: The Regional Transportation District Board of Directors recognizes that RTD's dedicated
workforce is the lifeblood of the agency. Every day, RTD employees do extraordinary things to make lives
better through connections. We honor their work of delivering transit excellence, service, and value to the
community, especially demonstrated during difficult and stressful moments. May the actions taken by the
Board of Directors demonstrate our profound gratitude, commitment, and support towards all RTD
employees.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director. Moving on, we're going to go to our retiree awards.
This is one of the most rewarding responsibilities of serving on this Board, and that's the opportunity to
recognize and honor our RTD retirees. The time has come for us to acknowledge the dedicated
employees who have recently concluded their careers and transitioned into retirement.

At this time, I'd like to read the names of those employees who have retired since March, or who will be
retiring by the end of this month. Susan Altes, Senior Manager, Real Property, 31 years. Jill Fontaine,
Lead Dispatcher, 20 years. Luis Carlos Lucero, Jr., Bus Operator, 21 years. Bud Nicholson, Light Rail
Vehicle Maintenance Supervisor, 32 years. Kirk Osborn, Mechanic, 25 years. Theresa Rinker, Manager,
Market Development, 25 years.
We do have one retiree in attendance this evening, and that is Jill Fontaine Mr. Greg Smith, our acting
Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations, would you like to please say a few words before we give
the floor to Ms. Fontaine?
GREG SMITH: Thank you, Chair Bouquet and members of the Board. As introduced, I'm Greg Smith,
acting AGM of Bus Operations. I would like to take a moment to introduce our retiree in attendance, Ms.
Jill Fontaine.
Jill started her career actually with our fixed route contractors where she held positions such as bus
operator and instructor for 12 years. Jill joined RTD officially in 2005, where she held positions of bus
operator, station starter, dispatcher, and most recently as lead dispatcher for six years. Whether it be a
flood, blizzard, or large event, Ms. Fontaine set the gold standard for leadership in our dispatch center.
Thank you, Jill, for all your contributions to the Bus Operations department. We will miss you. In
recognition of your dedication to RTD, I would like to present you with this retirement plaque and invite
you to say a few words.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]

JILL FONTAINE: Thank you all very much. I've been doing this, as Greg said, for a total of 32 years, and
it's been a wild ride sometimes. But I've had the chance to learn, and grow, and progress, and I
appreciate that very much. And I thank you for what you said about the employee appreciation.
My job also is about assisting the operators out on the street. When they have a problem and they need
police, they need help with a broken down bus, they have an impromptu detour because somebody
closed the street and didn't tell us, it's my job to figure out what kind of help they need and how to get it to
them.
And some days it's hard. Some days it's fun. But like I said, it's been a wild ride, and I appreciate you all.
Thank you very much.
GREG SMITH: Thank you very much.
JILL FONTAINE: Do you want to come up?

JULIEN BOUQUET: Congratulations, Miss Fontaine. And again, congratulations to all our retirees. All
right. Moving on, we're going to be moving to our public participation. This is our time for public
participation, which is open to anyone who'd like to address the Board.

I do want to note that earlier this afternoon, the Board voted to approve an Intergovernmental Agreement,
or an IGA, to further a project to bring joint rail service to the Northwest corridor. This IGA will help
facilitate the ongoing planning for potential rail service in that corridor. If you are here to speak of that
IGA, we welcome your comments, and wanted you to know that the Board has approved the IGA and
looks forward to continuing to examine ways to bring rail service to the Northwest corridor.
As we have both in-person and remote attendees, in-person comments will go first, followed by those
who are participating remotely. For those attending in person, please come up to the podium when your
name is called. If you have not already signed up to speak and would like to do so, please approach the
podium when I call for any additional speakers.
For those attending virtually, if you wish to speak and have not already done so, please make sure you
raise your virtual hand or press Star-9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak.
And if you're dialed in, please press Star-6 to toggle your mute settings.
And please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to
be recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted via writing. If any speaker has documentation
or reference materials for the Board, or if any member of the public would like to submit their written
comments, please email those materials to the Board Office at rtd.directors@rtd-denver.com.
During this time, the Board will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would like to
be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board Office at rtd.directors@rtddenver.com.
Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names, and will have up to three minutes to provide
their comments. Our first speaker of the evening is James Flattum from Greater Denver Transit.
JAMES FLATTUM: All right. whitmore Good evening, RTD Board, Chair. Thank you for the opportunity to
speak. My name is James Flattum. I'm with Greater Denver Transit. Tonight, I'm going to be commenting
and expanding on a piece that GDT contributed for the Executive Committee that is relevant to the entire
Board. But first, I would like to congratulate the RTD Board on proceeding with the IGA. This is a step that
GDT finds to be absolutely critical in cooperation of furthering intercity passenger rail, so thank you for
that.
I'd like to talk about peer comparison and benchmarking tonight. And I brought a little bit of transit
advocate lore. So for those of you who may not know, I actually was an RTD employee in 2014. I had an
internship. And my internship at RTD was performing a benchmarking analysis.
I benchmarked the construction and the completion of the W Line, which had just been completed one
year earlier, against similar projects in the Western US. Part of the project was coming up with the list of
the peer projects, as well as the agencies that supported them. And this is actually something that I have
continued to do beyond my internship. I've continued to benchmark RTD.
And this is something-- and it's an exercise that I think whether we're looking at evaluation of RTD's
performance, also informing what is possible in terms of operational improvement strategy, I think peer
comparison is important. There is certainly no agency in the United States that is exactly like RTD.
But GDT did an analysis of a group of 12, including RTD, we call the Western Dozen. All of these
agencies operate a combination of local bus, street-running bus, commuter buses, on-highway coaches,

as well as light rail, and they also include-- most of them have some sort of commuter rail operation as
well.
Each of these delivered their rail between the late 1980s and early 2000s to mid 2010s, similar to RTD.
And each of these agencies has operational environments that have an enormous amount of similarities.
So the list that we are recommending RTD adopt includes Salt Lake City's UTA, San Diego's MTS and
CTD combined, Austin's CapMetro, Houston's METRO, Sacramento SacRT, Dallas-Fort Worth DART
and Trinity metro combined, Seattle's Sound Transit, King County Metro combined, RTD, of course,
Portland TriMet, Minneapolis-St. Paul's Metro Transit, Phoenix's Valley Metro, and St. Louis Metro
Transit.
We believe that a consistent comparison of RTD on as many metrics as are available to this consistent
set of peers that do not benefit from pre-World War II infrastructure of East Coast agencies that are
exceptionally expensive and difficult to recreate in the modern day will further and advance conversations
that ground RTD's performance in an operational reality, and we believe will point the way toward
possible enhancements and improvements in terms of identifying best practices.
We think this is going to be critical in terms of the agency going forward in informing what's possible. So
that concludes my comments for this evening. Thank you all for listening, and thank you for the
opportunity to speak.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, James. Our next speaker is Mary Henneck.
MARY HENNECK: Hello. My name is Mary Henneck. I'm an Advisory Board Member with Parent to
Parent of Colorado. Parent to Parent is a nonprofit that connects families of people with disabilities for
advocacy, support, and resources. I'm here to talk about paratransit.
I'm also a retired teacher, so today, I have three lessons for you. Lesson 1, equity does not equal
equality. The disability community is diverse. The one-size-fits-all model doesn't work. A blind person, a
wheelchair user, and a person with an intellectual disability all have different needs.
RTD staff seems to be mired in technical language like complementary, supplemental, and premium to
describe paratransit services. This doesn't do anything to serve the needs of the riders. It would be better
to focus on the actual needs of the riders. For some, Access-a-Ride is the best fit for. For others, it's
Access-on-Demand. As you know, Access-on-Demand is the most cost-effective option.
Second lesson is doing some Live Math-- "live" or "liv." What is that program? That one. Math. [LAUGHS]
It's a math lesson. The federal poverty level for a single adult is $15,650. That program eligibility is 250%
of FPL. It sounds like a lot, right? But let's do the math. 250% of $15,650 is $39,125.
Now, Denver minimum wage is $18.81. If you work 40 hours a week for 52 weeks a year, full time, that's
exactly $39,125. There's no coincidence there. If you're working full time at minimum wage, anything
above that, you won't qualify for that program. So Access-on-Demand is already-- Lesson number 3,
Access-on-Demand is already too expensive.
Uber and Lyft have raised fares approximately 7% over the past year. There's also surcharges involved
with Access-on-Demand. If you're working an 8:00 to 5:00 job and you need to get to work at the same
time everybody else needs to get to work, you might get hit with those-- the fare-- the surge charge-surge pricing, which would put you over the $25 trip cap.

You also need to tip the drivers. If you don't tip the drivers, you might get stuck in a loop where they start
canceling your rides. So the true rider costs are often overlooked in the RTD planning. So I ask that you
please do not increase the Access-on-Demand rider costs via trip caps, reducing subsidies, or putting
upfront fees. Look for better ways to meet the needs of all users of that program. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you Mary. Our next speaker is Isaac Shull.
MARY HENNECK: I'm going to request a reasonable accommodation so that I could do Q&A with Isaac
as he presents. Say your name.
ISAAC: Isaac Shull.
MARY HENNECK: Do you work, Isaac?
ISAAC: Yes, I do.
MARY HENNECK: What do you do?
ISAAC: I work for IT.
MARY HENNECK: Do you like what you do?
ISAAC: Yes, I do.
MARY HENNECK: Do you work full time?
ISAAC: Yes.
MARY HENNECK: All right. How do you get to work?
ISAAC: Uber and Lyft.
MARY HENNECK: Good. Is it expensive?
ISAAC: Yes, a little bit.
MARY HENNECK: [LAUGHS] Do you sometimes have to pay more for your rides?
ISAAC: Yes.
MARY HENNECK: Do you have to pay more than what RTD covers for your rides?
ISAAC: Yes, I do.
MARY HENNECK: What happens if you try to book a ride and it looks like it's going to be really
expensive? What do you do?
ISAAC: Well, I have two apps that I'm running, so if one is expensive, I use the other app.
MARY HENNECK: OK.

ISAAC: Because I have-MARY HENNECK: Uber versus Lyft. Sometimes Lyft is cheaper.
ISAAC: Yeah.
MARY HENNECK: Do you tip your drivers?
ISAAC: Yes, I do.
MARY HENNECK: All right. For the record, Isaac spends about $400 a month using Access-on-Demand
for his transportation to and from work and for meeting up with friends and going to grocery stores, and
doing other things that typical people do in a day. I'm good if we could move on to the next presenter.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Great. Thank you very much, Isaac, and thank you, Mary. Our next presenter or
speaker is Tessa Putnam.
MARY HENNECK: Same request for questions.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Absolutely.
MARY HENNECK: What is your name?
TESSA PUTNAM: My name is Tessa Putnam.
MARY HENNECK: Do you work?
TESSA PUTNAM: Yes.
MARY HENNECK: What do you do?
TESSA PUTNAM: I work at a preschool.
MARY HENNECK: Good. How did you used to get to work?
TESSA PUTNAM: Uber.
MARY HENNECK: Why don't you use that-TESSA PUTNAM: It's costing me too much money.
MARY HENNECK: Right. Why don't you just ask your mom for more money?
TESSA PUTNAM: Because she doesn't have enough.
MARY HENNECK: OK. So now you-TESSA PUTNAM: I use-MARY HENNECK: Access--

TESSA PUTNAM: Access-a-Ride.
MARY HENNECK: OK. You just started doing that, though, right?
TESSA PUTNAM: Yeah.
MARY HENNECK: OK. So it's been working OK?
TESSA PUTNAM: Yes.
MARY HENNECK: All right. Do you know-- do you have any other friends who use paratransit? Accesson-Demand or Access-a-Ride?
TESSA PUTNAM: Wes and then Kay use Access-a-Ride.
MARY HENNECK: Right. Have they ever had any issues with Access-a-Ride, maybe not picking-TESSA PUTNAM: Yes.
MARY HENNECK: Yes? What happened?
TESSA PUTNAM: It never came.
MARY HENNECK: Never came? Well, then how did they get a ride? What did they-- they have to do?
TESSA PUTNAM: They have to call their parents.
MARY HENNECK: Yeah. OK. So there's some issues with that, right?
TESSA PUTNAM: Yes.
MARY HENNECK: OK. I think that's all we need to say. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Tessa. Thank you, Mary. Our next speaker is Claudia Folska,
former Director for District E.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, thank you. Where's this-- OK. So I was like-- well, I don't know who all does this,
but I was cleaning my closet out the other day, and I got this box. And you can see it's pretty old. And I
opened it, and what did I find in here? This is kind of slippery here. So many cute things.
Well, look at this. This is my little ballerina costume! And with the sparkles and the feathers. I was a
Bluebird. Yeah. OK. Is that adorable? And the little headpiece with the feathers. I don't know what
happened.
OK, so there was that. And then-- oh my god, there were these little ballet slippers. You know, your feet
grow faster than anything first when you're a kid, so that's why my nickname was Clodhopper. Yeah. I had
to live with that for years.

Anyway-- oh, yes! And then look at this. So I got to perform this ballet at the Seattle Opera House when I
was about six. And then I found my Girl Scout sash. This is LA Troop 1212. We moved to LA after
Seattle.
And I brought this because I was able to go to those things and enrich my childhood, even though I was
blind then. Because my mother had, you might recall, the good old Cadillac Coupe DeVille. And she was
driving me all-- see, I knew you'd appreciate this-- all over town so that I could be having an enriched
childhood.
But then I became a single parent, and I couldn't do that for my daughter. [CRYING] I didn't think that was
such a big deal, but it really is. Today, with Access-on-Demand, I could have done that.
God, sorry, guys. It wasn't my plan. You always want to do something really great for your kids. Today, I
could. And today, others here can, and they do because of Access-On-Demand. So I think it's really
important you think hard about this.
The other thing I just wanted to-- see? The other thing I wanted to mention-- whew-- is you have a new
RFP out that came out yesterday for next transit to integrate, which is part of your strategic plan for this
year, to integrate all of your mobile apps.
And I've seen it, and it's woefully inadequate to support accessibility. And that's because the people who
are writing these RFPs don't have a very good understanding of what accessibility is and how technology
today can transform all of these things. And we know that's true, because even the machine you're using
here tonight to vote on your agenda still isn't accessible, because RTD doesn't require that of the thirdparty vendors.
So I think it's important for you all to really give a deep dive. But if you could reconsider this RFP, take it
back to the drawing table-- even though it's already hit the street, addendums can be made, or it could be
withdrawn and improved upon. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, former Director Folska. Our next speaker is Richard Bamber.
RICHARD BAMBER: All right. Good evening. Hi, again, Richard Bamber, Greater Denver Transit. I want
to talk about two agenda items, which is the approval of two contracts. One is for HVAC in the light rail
facility. The other is the reconstruction of the Kalamath Grade Crossing, key parts of the downtown rail
construction.
Once again, we have a situation where the Directors are being asked to approve millions of dollars of
public money on the face of a few pages of text. Not really any details.
Now, some of you may know that my day-to-day job is working for a well-known commuter railroad. I
won't name it, but my t-shirt gives you a clue. That railroad is operated by a joint powers authority. It
automatically rolls up to a transit agency board.
When we want to do anything, we want money. The minimum myself and my very capable office engineer
have to do is provide a 10-page pack to the Board, and that gets sent to our deputy, our capital projects
director, who will then take that onto the Board.

As a minimum, we've got to write in things like justification memos, like, why do you want the money?
What are we doing? We have to put in a very detailed cost breakdown. Basically, if the contractor sends
us line items and cost breakdown by line item, those line items have to carry on and go up to the Board.
I have to do an independent cost estimate, so that's get a second opinion of what our contractor is
proposing so we can see whether it's reasonable. There are a number of other things depending on
whether we're going to run into union issues, whether we're going to run into time, whether we're going to
cause major disruption. A lot of things, boxes that we've got to tick and prove to the Board that we
assess.
And these packs are all part of basically making sure that transit agency board knows exactly what they're
approving. Every cent can be accounted for. And then we have to do it when there's a change order,
when we want more money, when something changes. And that can be-- and even we have to do it when
we might reduce the scope of the contract. So we're actually going to hand money back to that railroad.
And I think this is what you need to do to, provide accountability. GDT supported Directors. We asked
Directors to sign a pledge that they would oversee.
You know, I need to make a point. There is no reason not to think that these contracts have a problem.
It's not all about saying that there's a problem with staff's work. It's about providing the oversight that the
public elected 15 of you to do.
I'd like to also finish by supporting the appointment of our Chair, Julien Bouquet, to the Accountability
Committee. We're quite excited about this. But we would remind the Chair that we want this Committee to
continue the work that was done four years ago. We have lots of reports, lots of data from 2021. Continue
it. Please don't do it again. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Mr. Bamber. Our next speaker is Paolo Solorzano.
PAOLO SOLORZANO: Hi. Paolo Solorzano, RTD Riders Alliance. Sorry, I'm a little tired. I just came back
from the mountains and elevation was high. But I just want to bring up the article that came out regarding
Director Ruscha and the tensions within the Board.
I just-- I want to stand up for her as far as I've known her and her character. As many of you guys know, I
was very livid and I crossed the lines myself a lot of times, I can admit, reaching out to RTD Board and
staff. I was going through a lot of mental health things, partly due to RTD and PTSD about getting beat
up, and I was off the rails a lot of times with phone calls.
But in July-- July 2023, I called her very livid about the R Line SCADA failures. People were apparently
getting hit by cars, police cruisers at fast speeds, people possibly getting severely injured.
And she was very gracious, and she listened to me. I'm not sure-- if I would have talked to anybody else,
I'm not sure that things would have been resolved. I know that R Lines were shut down, but with her cool
head and the way she treats constituents, at least myself, I think she's doing a great job. And I like to
point to the ADA stuff she's done, the handicapped stuff, the Access-a-Ride, a lot of the work she's done
for low income.
But the main thing is that the only other major articles I can think of-- I really can't think of any major
articles of RTD Board working together and getting things done. The last major article I remember is

2019, '18, Paul Solano. Not me, but some other that-- cursing, screaming, insults on an elevator with
other Board members. That's all I remember now.
And this is-- we've got to think about how RTD is coming across right now. Maybe this is the correct-- the
way we should have gone in the similar fashion with the Police Chief, Joel Fitzgerald. This is coming out
very-- I don't know-- too suddenly, I think.
As an agency and publicly facing, we need to show that we're taking urgent things very seriously, not
fighting while we're just pulling out of a police scandal, the maintenance. This is what the public is seeing.
So I hope things change. And yeah, I hope so, because the public, again, is-- they're very frustrated,
right? So they need to see some good stuff. So thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, Paolo. Our next in-person speaker is Eric Smith.
JACK KROLL: Chair Bouquet, Eric is actually with the CAC, and you've got some time later in the
agenda. Mr. Smith's under External Entities update if you would prefer to provide your report then.
ERIC SMITH: Yeah.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Sounds good.
JACK KROLL: Sorry for the confusion.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Eric. All right. Mr. Kroll, online participants?
JACK KROLL: Yes. At this time, we have one individual online who has raised their hand. That is Tim
Keenan.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Tim, you're recognized.
TIM KEENAN: Hi, there. My name's Tim Keenan. Thanks for listening to me for a sec. So I would be there
in person, but I am going to run right up to the 60-trip cap of Access-on-Demand this month because I
picked up a lot of shifts at work. And a lot of times, I work double shifts where I have a chance to go eat
between shifts, and that takes another two rides. So they go pretty quickly sometimes over a span of a
month.
So I just wanted to refer to the latest staff recommendations. I'm grateful to see that they've increased the
trip cap to 60 trips per month, but they did raise the fare to $6.50 per trip. Given the fact that Access-onDemand is the cheapest, $20 subsidy per trip, the fare of $6.50 for that seems rather high.
That means you could be paying $390 a month if you go up to 60 rides a month, and that's not even
including anything you might go over, because I work out in Amazon out in Aurora. So almost all the time,
I go over at least by a little bit, so I have to pay that out of pocket. So that's quite a chunk of change
overall.
And as far as implementation, I thought that we were-- and I know I'm not alone in this-- I thought that
nothing was going to be done until next year or in December when the new service updates come out.
But the implementation timeline says August through October. So if you guys pass whatever you pass in
July and you're going to start implementing this right away, that seems real quick and not something we
would want to see.

And I noticed that the 3/4 of a mile reverting to the Access-a-Ride boundaries and hours is still part of the
recommendation. And I would, again, urge you to reject that. I know some of the-- I know Director Nichols
and some other Board members spoke up against this at the last meeting.
And I would urge that-- because I mean, the people who are outside the area or who need this outside of
hours really need it. So it just seems like it would not be worth the savings to get rid of this lifeline,
because that's what it is, a transportation lifeline for these people.
And I would just like to ask, again, to allow multiple stop rides, people to use that. It's less expensive, and
it's super convenient for the people who need to use it, whether it's picking up something on the way
home from work or dropping your kids off on the way to work, or whatever it is.
It's really valued by the people who use it, and there's no equity basis for denying it. If you were to go that
route, then the whole premise of Access-on-Demand doesn't make sense, because you can't do that with
Access-a-Ride. So I really hope that you take a look-- another look at multiple stops. And thank you very
much.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, Tim. Mr. Kroll, do we have any other speakers
online?
JACK KROLL: At this time, Chair Bouquet, I see no further hands raised.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. Are there any speakers in attendance who would like to speak? If so,
please approach the podium now. OK. Seeing none, were there any emailed comments for today's
meeting, Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Yes, there were several. I'll read them off here. Greater Denver Transit wrote in with a
letter regarding many of the topics they discussed tonight, including the Central Park development,
Kalamath Rail contract, HVAC action item, and the appointment of Chair Bouquet to the Accountability
Committee.
Jaime Lewis and Tim Keenan both wrote in with comments with respect to Access-on-Demand. Christian
Cruz and Alvin Cohen wrote in with respect to special event service improvement. And Alvin Cohen
added comments about real-time communications.
Brooke Shelley and Cody Bates both wrote in around E Line service. Mary Anne Overbay wrote in
regarding Route 32 route extension with respect to the proposed service changes. And Don Anderson
wrote in with respect to Route 24 frequency increase.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. With no other participants in the queue, we will now close
public participation at this time. Moving on to our next item, we're going to be moving to our External
Entities report. There is one External Entity report, and that is from the CAC, or the Citizens Advisory
Committee. And CAC Co-Chair Eric Smith, the floor is now yours.
ERIC SMITH: Good evening. So I'm Eric Smith, Co-Chair of the CAC. I don't have too much to go into
tonight. One of my colleagues from the CAC, Joe Meyer, did brief the Board earlier this evening about a
letter that we wanted you guys to take a look at. And I do want to emphasize, again, please read that
letter, digest it, and get back to us if you feel that you need to.

Right now, what I do want to go over is news from our community. Just some updates that our community
has shared with us, and some concerns as well. Let's see. Right now, I don't have too many.
The ones that I do have, one member did note that a route was renamed from P to PE, which caused
some confusion about service changes. And-- let me see. Requests were also made for increased
service frequency, clear flag stop schedules, and better transparency regarding revised stop locations
and service intervals along that particular route.
There was also confusion between service changes for Route 34, as Jack talked about earlier, and Route
38. And riders are calling for more clarity on the RTD website as well when complex service changes are
proposed. There also was a recommendation for the H Lines stop at Southmoor Station in favor of
Broadway Station, citing improved connectivity and accessibility to other routes and other transfer
services.
Last but not least, I do have-- oh, actually, one more concern. There was a concern raised about the
usability of RTD's Service Change surveys. Specifically, members noted that the survey for LD1 lacked
sufficient detail about the proposed changes, making it difficult for the public to provide meaningful
feedback.
Last but not least, we have what we call transit wins. Basically, it's when we share successes from the
community and updates across our region.
So from Highlands Ranch, they do have what they call the microtransit launch. And basically, it's a new
microtransit service in Highlands Ranch that began operating on Memorial Day. Early feedback so far has
been positive. Expectations for continued growth in ridership and improved local access is ongoing.
Also, we have what we call micromobility development. Basically, a new scooter sharing project was
recently introduced in Greenwood Village and in Centennial. Also, Arapahoe County is progressing with a
micromobility study to assess the potential for expanded active transportation options in the region. I
believe also Denver is doing something-- or the City and County of Denver is doing something similar, or
wanting to do something similar along certain paths downtown, but don't quote me on that.
Last but not least, service changes to Route 44 have been well received with reports of strong ridership.
And riders are really appreciative of the 30-minute service frequency. And that's it.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Eric. We appreciate you coming here. Thank you. Moving on
to our Audit Committee report. Committee Chair Buzek, do you have anything you'd like to report?
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Yes. I was unable to attend this month's meeting due to a work
conflict. And I want to start my report by thanking Audit Committee Member Jim Brendel, who chaired the
Committee meeting in my absence. As a reminder, Jim is one of two external members of the Audit
Committee, which is comprised of three Directors, as well as two external members. Jim did a great job
chairing the meeting in his capacity as Vice Chair of the Committee, and we're grateful for his service to
RTD.
Our external auditors at Plante Moran presented on, and the Committee unanimously approved, the
Annual Comprehensive Financial Report and Report to Governance, which is now on tonight's unanimous
consent agenda. I want to thank Plante Moran, as well as former CFO Doug MacLeod, CFO Kelly
Mackey, Accounting Senior Manager Byron Aten, and the Finance team at RTD for working to pull

together a great annual financial audit. Once again, our auditors were able to provide an unqualified
opinion that indicates that the financial affairs and controls of the agency are in good condition.
Lastly, the Committee heard updates on the progress towards our Board-approved audit plan. Our
Internal Audit team at RubinBrown shared the results of the performance audit, which examined how our
Rail Operations team is handling corrective action plans. Overall, the auditors rated this area as needs
improvement, and the Audit Committee heard discussion on management's plan to improve in this area.
The next meeting of the Audit Committee will be Thursday, July 10, at 2:00 PM. I expect the majority of
that meeting to occur in executive session as the Committee will be briefed on certain cybersecurity
matters. Thank you, Mr. Chair. That concludes my report.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Buzek. Moving on, we're going to go to our
Finance and Planning Committee report. Committee Chair Guzman, do you have anything you would like
to report?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Finance and Planning met June 10. I would like to thank the
Operation Safety and Security Chair Ruscha and Co-Chair Harwick and the Committee for working with
us and being so gracious on updating our work plans to achieve the goal of getting all of the Board's work
done in a timely manner.
We sent three recommended actions to the Board tonight on a unanimous consent. We received the
2025 Quarter 1 financial update and the 2026 budget development discussions in that meeting. If you
have not had a chance to review it, I would encourage Directors to do so. There's a lot of information
there, and now is the time to receive that information back. There was a request to send any questions or
concerns to myself, to the Board Office so that we can work with our CFO and team to be able to bring
back and prepare-- continue preparing our budget development process.
Our next meeting will be July 15 of 2025. And I do believe the Finance and Planning Committee, as part
of the audit, one of the audit requirements that we were given last year, began the discussion on peer
comparators. And we will return to that conversation later in the year. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Committee Chair. It does look like neither Committee Chairs
for Operation Safety and Security are on or present for tonight, so we'll skip that. And Committee Chair
Guzman for performance. It's back to you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. The Performance Committee met twice this month. The first
meeting was on June 2 where we discussed the results of the 2025 Employee Survey.
Good news all around. We are one RTD Board and agency. All of our 3,000-plus employees are satisfied
with their work, and they are demonstrating that through their responses to the results of the survey. I
encourage everybody to take a look at that. I'm really happy that that has happened, and it was well
received information under the leadership and guidance of our General Manager and CEO, Debra A.
Johnson.
We did go into executive session with General Manager/CEO Johnson to have a one-on-one
conversation, find out where things are at. We returned to the Committee on June 23 where we discussed
and received amazing survey results for the 2025 customer and community. We also received the data
analysis.

We are doing really well. We have a three-year trend all to the positive. We are leading nationally. There's
always more work to do, and we all know that.
But what we are demonstrating is that the time that the Board and the agency and staff have put in to
develop our people power, to ensure a welcoming transit environment, to secure and make more safe our
services while being mindful of our budget and our finances have led to positive outcomes. And we're
excited to see that work continue. Excuse me. I'm having trouble with my allergies, so I'm trying not to
cough while I do this.
A large part of that work should be significantly and appropriately credited to our General Manager and
CEO, who has hired a team of people around her who are supporting the mission of making lives better
through connection. And I think that on behalf of the Committee, I can soundly say we appreciate all of
your hard work. Everybody is doing their part, and we see the changes coming. They can feel really slow,
but the remarkable increase in these results over time has been incredible.
We also entertained the first discussion of the 2025-2026 General Manager goals as a draft discussion.
At that meeting, we had a robust conversation about the goals that were presented as a result of our
retreat in June that happened between these two meetings.
The General Manager did present to us a set of goals that reflected what our priorities were. And as a
result, a request was sent both by email and during the meeting to all Directors of this Board to please
submit in writing by email to myself and General Manager/CEO Johnson any comments, questions for
clarification purposes, so that we can engage in the conversation to bring forth a recommended action to
the Performance Committee that will return to this Board in July for approval going forward.
That is the first step in the performance framework. And we are willing to do the work, and we are excited
to work forward to that. I am not going to exclude the Vice Chair on this, and I made that clear in the
meeting. But due to open records while we are having the primary discussion, please just send it to my
attention and General Manager/CEO Johnson.
We will be meeting to discuss the feedback that we receive. Thus far, I have received feedback from one
Director only. I look forward to receiving it from the rest of you. If you did not attend the meeting or were
unable to review it, the email does have the link to both the video and the document. And I believe the
beginning time on the video, the YouTube video that's posted online, is 43:03.
So you can start there if you want to get right to the meat of it. But go back and look at the review results
for the surveys. They're really important. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent report, Committee Chair. I do see Secretary Nicholson, your hand is up.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to comment that I was incredibly impressed
with the facilitation of the most recent Performance Committee meeting on the short-term goals and the
community and customer survey. We had not much time to get through two very important topics, and
Chair Guzman really handled that meeting incredibly well. People were heard.
I was skeptical in advance that we would be able to get through all of it, and I feel like he did a yeoman's
job of facilitating that process so far. And I feel really comfortable that we're in a good place on getting to
some very solid goals by the end of this, so I just wanted to call that out.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Secretary. Yeah, just my PSA for Board members. Please
make sure you watch the recording if you have not gotten a chance. And I can't stress enough, please
send via writing to Committee Chair Guzman and GM/CEO if there's any comments that you have or
questions that you have in regards to those goals going forward. So thank you.
All right. Thank you all. Moving on is the approval of Board meeting minutes and Committee reports. The
Board and Committee meeting minutes were included in the Board packet. Are there any corrections from
the Board for the minutes to be approved this evening? Secretary? Never mind. Anyone else?
OK. Unless there's objection to considering the minutes all at the same time, may I please have a motion
to approve the minutes for the following meetings? May 28, Special Board meeting. May 28, Board
meeting. June 2, Performance Committee. June 10, Special Board meeting.
June 10, Finance and Planning Committee. June 11, Operation, Safety, and Security Committee. June
12, Audit Committee. June 18, Executive Committee. And these all happened in the year 2025.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So moved, Guzman.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Do I have a second?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Guzman is the mover, O'Keefe is the second. Is there any discussion on this
motion? I'll now call for the vote since we see no discussion. Any no votes? Perfect. All right. That'll pass
13-0, two absence.
All right, moving on to our Chair's report, I do have some stuff to share with all of you. So I'd like to start
off with a huge thank you to all of you as my fellow Directors, GM/CEO Johnson, General Counsel
Snyder, our Board Office staff, and our Media team for being present for our second Board retreat of the
year that took place on June 7.
Our June 7 retreat was dedicated to identifying the major themes that we wanted to see for GM/CEO's
short-term goals going into 2026. I want to thank you all for a robust conversation and discussion that we
had on June 7. I do truly believe all of you have brought forward the best interest of your constituents, and
we were able to identify three major themes from this retreat.
One, a goal of increasing our overall customer satisfaction and creating a more welcoming transit
environment. A goal related to an increase in boardings or ridership. And finally, a goal related to service
reliability.
Directors, we were presented with a draft of these three main goals for the GM/CEO during our
Performance Committee meeting yesterday. The goal for this Board-- one of the goals for this Board was
to pass-- for this to pass prior to the finalization of our agency's budget.
So I do want to thank you all for taking your Saturday morning and dedicating that. It helped meet one of
our Board goals for this year, and I was very impressed with the discussion we had. I was glad we were
able to lead that.

So the goal for this Board going forward is to have these goals passed during our next Performance
Committee meeting, which will be happening in July. And like I said, I do highly recommend, my fellow
Directors, please watch that recording if you did not get a chance to be there.
Directors, last Wednesday, June 18, I got the opportunity to do several media appearances. I would like
to thank CBS 4, Denver 7, Fox 31, and KOA-- KOA Radio for taking the time to conduct these interviews.
I also want to say a huge thank you to our RTD Communications team. Thank you, Marta, Tina, and Tara
for all your help with this. It wouldn't have been possible without all of your help. And of course, Mr. Kroll,
for being present and helping with any potential feedback. So I did want to thank you all.
First time in a little bit where we've had a Chair sit down with media and open up to media for potential
inquiries. So it was a very fun experience for me. And if anyone is interested in checking it out, it is part of
an email with RTD in the news. And hopefully, folks get to learn a little bit more about their Board.
Finally, I would like to say a thank you to GM/CEO Johnson's leadership and to all our RTD staff for some
terrific results in our recent customer survey. From 2024 to this newest data for 2025, we saw an overall
satisfaction increase in almost every area that was rated.
I just want to say a huge thank you not only to your staff, GM/CEO Johnson, but to all of our employees. It
is all the effort that our people do to make this agency great and continue on a path of greatness. And we
are people ultimately moving people, and we can't do it without great people. And we've had some great
results, so I just wanted to thank you and all our staff members for the incredible work that has happened.
And again, I highly recommend the public to check out some of those survey results. I think we're on an
excellent path going forward. Always room for improvement. Always room for improvement, but I'm very
optimistic about this agency's future. With that, I'll give it over to you, Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair Bouquet. And good evening to you, all Board members, and to
those that are assembled, both virtually and here in the boardroom. As introduced, I'm Debra Johnson,
RTD's General Manager and Chief Executive Officer. And at this time, I will share with you just a few
highlights of activities and strategic endeavors since our most recent regular Board meeting held on
Wednesday, May 28.
On Wednesday, June 4, I, along with Chief Steve Martingano, attended a monthly meeting of the Metro
Mayors Caucus to share updates regarding transit security and agency's efforts to support a welcoming
transit environment. For those who may be unfamiliar, the Metro Mayors Caucus is a collaborative
membership organization for the elected leaders of 41 municipalities in the Denver metro region.
The caucus focuses on working relations-- working to enhance relationships among localities, and
leverages dialogue to identify common purposes, challenges, and solutions that benefit both the region
and member municipalities. I would like to say that our engagement was very well received and further
amplifies those survey results, and that those assembled shared their anecdotal information that they
have garnered from their constituencies relative to notable changes they have seen in and around our
network.
From Thursday, June 12, through Tuesday, June 17, I attended the UITP Global Summit. UITP is the
International Association of Public Transport. It is a nonprofit, member-led organization for public
transport authorities, networks, and operators, policy decision makers, scientific institutes, and the public
transport supply and service industry that works to advance sustainable urban mobility. The summit

welcomed over 10,000 public transport professionals, industry experts, and leaders representing all public
transit modes from over 100 countries.
Having recently been appointed to serve as one of four United States representative members of the
UITP Policy Board for a term commencing this month and continuing through June 2027, I was asked to
moderate a session on Monday, June 16, titled Safe Travels, Global Perspectives on Transport Safety
and Security. A discussion of technology-driven solutions, policy frameworks, and collaborative
approaches to transit system safety ensued.
Panelists included leaders from the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority, Transport
for London, Metro Sao Paulo, and CDC NSW, which is an agency in New South Wales, Australia. The
panelists each presented an overview of specific challenges they have been working to address in their
respective transit systems, many of which mirrors what happens right here in Denver and elsewhere in
the US.
For instance, the panelists from Brazil spoke about security enhancements to curtail rail system copper
wire theft. My colleague from Transport for London was talking about assault on transit workers. So
suffice to say, transit systems globally have the opportunity to learn from one another to improve
operations locally.
On Friday, June 20, I, along with First Vice Chair O'Keefe and Director Chandler and Government
Relations Officer Michael Davies and commander John Holloway participated in a meeting of the
Arapahoe County commissioners, mayors, and managers. RTD's delegation welcomed the opportunity to
engage with the local municipal and county leaders to discuss transit service delivery and system
maintenance, as well as personal security, as well as showcasing data that basically amplified our
improvements in security-related incidents.
And much like we experienced in Metro Mayors Caucus, had a warm welcome relative to the different
initiatives that we have undertaken, and talked about the partnerships that we can leverage to go forward.
And as we heard from Director Guzman, we don't want to rest on our laurels, because we do know this is
about continuous improvement, and we're here for it.
Additionally, I'd like to share something that's critically important as we talk about people in the people
business. Just on last Wednesday, June 18, I and members of the Leadership team joined our learning
and development colleagues to acknowledge the agency's investments in its greatest asset, which is
people. This event was a celebration of individuals who have leveraged the Professional Development
Program funds, or PDP funds, as we refer to them, to succeed in academia.
The PDP funds are available to all RTD employees to pursue education related to their jobs, as well as to
seek professional certification or licensure, participate in professional organizations in furtherance of their
job performance, and other related activities. In total, eight individuals were honored during the ceremony
in recognition of their completion of their degrees. Several received bachelor's degrees and some
master's degrees.
I am immensely proud of those individuals for earning their degrees while continuing to contribute to RTD.
And I can tell you that these individuals are rock stars within our agency.
Our encouragement of employees' use of PDP funds is one of many factors contributing to the increases
in favorable responses seen in the Employee Survey conducted in April 2025. More specifically is

Directors who were in attendance at the June 2 Performance Committee are those that have watched the
video. Overall measures of employee satisfaction and engagement have continued to increase over the
last two years with a 15% increase in favorable responses in 10 at the 17 areas surveyed, including
questions related to feelings of engagement and support, organizational alignment, physical and
psychological safety, and many other areas.
Just last week, RTD's administrative offices were closed on Thursday, June 19 in observance of
Juneteenth, which became a federal holiday in 2021. Juneteenth commemorates the emancipation of the
last enslaved people in Texas, specifically Galveston, Texas, on June 19, 1865, which was actually 18
months after the Emancipation Proclamation, marking the end of slavery in the United States. This
observance honors the resilience, contributions, and ongoing fight for justice, equity, and liberation within
Black communities.
Transportation has always played a pivotal role in shaping access to opportunities. The limitations on
mobility faced by underserved groups, including Black Americans throughout history, underscore the
need to create transportation systems that are accessible and equitable for all. Today, Juneteenth serves
as a reminder that true freedom is not only about legal rights, but also about the freedom of movement
and the ability to access vital services and opportunities.
As this Board is aware, RTD's organizational values include passion, respect, diversity, trustworthiness,
collaboration, and ownership. These values are shared beliefs demonstrated in all we do collectively.
In keeping with these values, RTD honors the legacy of the LGBTQI+ communities' enduring fight for
equality, justice, and acceptance through the celebration of Pride Month each June. The agency's
observation of this month closely with our ongoing commitment to ensure that public transportation is
accessible, welcoming, and equitable for all, regardless of gender identity or sexual orientation.
And as we know, public transit is not merely a service. It is a vital lifeline connecting individuals to
employment, education, health care, and community. For the LGBTQI+ community, equitable access to
transit is not just about convenience, but also about safety, dignity, and respect.
As part of this month of celebration, I am proud of the members of Team RTD who have volunteered to
participate in the Denver Pride Parade, which will be held on Sunday, June 29. And lastly, but certainly
not least, related to the strategic priority of customer excellence, at this time I will share an update on
forthcoming agency state of good repair efforts over the course of the second half of 2025 and 2026.
OK. There we are. Thank you, Tai-Shrae. So really quickly, what I want to do is to ground the Board in a
path forward relative to back to basics and talk more about our proactive strategies as we look to further
our asset renewal program as it relates to downtown rail reconstruction, and talk about next steps.
So as we know-- and I do understand that many of you most recently heard from our colleagues in our
Asset Management workgroup as we talk about the importance of state of good repair. And one thing
that's keenly important, like many transit agencies, RTD is an asset-intensive organization.
Manning assets in a state of good repair is critical efforts for several reasons, and they're outlined on
those subbullets there. As we talk about guarantees, previous investments in the system remain intact,
supports operationally safe, accessible, and dependable services, and preserves investment in reliable
transit infrastructure.

More importantly, recognizing that we have a federal partner with the Federal Transit Administration,
transit agencies within the purview that are federal recipients of those dollars must ensure that they have
a transit asset management plan. And recognizing that RTD's Transit Asset Management Plan continues
to be evaluated and adjusted and prioritized.
And this is keenly important, especially as we talk about where we are with our budget development
process, and more so, recognizing the special Board meeting that took place earlier today. We heard
from Director Guzman, who spoke about the importance of state of good repair. So I'd be remiss not to
flag that, because we're actually in a position now, because decisions were made two decades ago that
we're playing catch-up on now. So as we talk about the adherence to the TAM Plan, it informs intentional
development of the agency's annual budget, as I previously stated.
One thing that's quite important-- and I'm sorry, I keep moving around this mic as I ensure that I'm on
point here-- as we talk about our fixed assets, RTD must maintain an inventory of its assets and their
physical condition. And so recognizing that we must employ analytical processes or tools to assist in our
capital asset investment prioritization and a list of prioritized investments. And the rail segments in
downtown Denver that will undergo reconstruction are such prioritized assets.
This slide speaks for itself as we talk about agency assets, critically identifying three enhanced focus
areas as it relates to asset renewal. It's basically ensuring that we identify equipment and infrastructure at
the end of its useful life. We want to minimize risk and maximize safety, and then prevent unplanned
service disruptions.
And I really do think that we as an organization over the course of the past three years have been able to
capitalize on the experiences learned, i.e. when we did the retaining wall caps, for instance, and we
commenced that project in 2023, and we only had a small window in which to do that just by virtue of
where we reside with the four seasons. We in turn had a better understanding, leveraging our service
planning to minimize those impacts to the riding public. And you will clearly see that's why we are being
intentional from a proactive strategy vantage point.
And as we talk about infrastructure, as we know, being proactive, we are planning service disruptions.
And this just further encapsulates what we intend to do. And I will refresh as it relates to what we have
done. But clearly, we're talking about the full-depth rail reconstruction, overhead wire replacement that's
critically important.
I was sharing this with the Chair earlier today. Just over the weekend, Dave Jensen, Assistant General
Manager of Rail and I, were on the telephone, because due to the fact where we reside, we often have
problems with our overhead contact system due to the heat. In the winter, we have snow that gathers and
a wire could break.
I mean, woulda, coulda, shoulda, but there are certain elements that we could do as we go forward to be
more intentional and purposeful about ensuring the sustainability of our network. Hence, that's why we're
here now as we talk about proactive strategies.
So intentionally, I have a picture of Elati, our light rail operating facility. Some of you may recall I talk
about our transit network from the light rail transit perspective and say, we only have one operating
facility. The reason why I call this out is because oftentimes, we hear from members of the public, your
constituents, talking about, oh, they should do work at night and they should do this in this window.

I'm orienting you intentionally to showcase where our Elati light rail facility falls, because it's actually on
the D Line. And the reason why I point that out is when we look at all the light rail lines that we have-- the
LDH, the E, and the R, and the W-- when you look at the furthest location-- I'm going to give you
example-- our light rail pullout and times Monday through Thursday, the W Line, the last trip leaves
Denver Union Station at 11:52 PM.
The last train arrives at Jeffco at 12:36 AM. That train is then deadheading all the way back to Elati. That
trip takes an hour and 17 minutes. And so for all intents and purposes, the first train pullout is at 3:56 AM
the next morning. So there's only two hours and three minutes in which there's not revenue service.
The reason I call that out, by virtue of that network, if you're doing any work, you have to de-energize the
rail. That means all the trains have to pull in. So considering where the L Line runs, it only takes 26
minutes for that consist to get back to Elati. So it runs the gamut with deadhead times between 26
minutes all the way up to one hour and 17.
As we go to the next slide, right-of-way access, this further illustrates what I was just communicating,
because I wanted to showcase the network relative to the operating facility. When we think about deenergizing power and you look at the graphic that you have there, for all intents and purposes, 20 hours
out of 24 we are providing some form of light rail transit services to the public.
And all light rail vehicles, as I indicated, must return to the yard before we can start work, because we
have to take down power. And if you take down power, you can't get a train off the track, but that limits
the window.
So as we go forward, we're talking about being intentional, and that's why I'm sharing this with you all. As
you consider, come July, the service changes that we are putting forward, because they go hand in hand
with the work that we are planning to ensure that we can keep our system in a state of good repair.
And so these strategies and tactics that are before you on this slide basically are what we're doing,
leveraging these elements to ensure that we have an understanding from the time perspective, the
consolidation of work, how we need to communicate, and then what's critically important, just by virtue of
where we are, providing bus shuttles. It's another important factor where we don't do this at this agency,
be it good, bad, or indifferent.
A lot of multi-modal transit agencies in this country and six others where I work, typically when you hire
somebody to come into the agency to be a light rail operator or rail operator, they start out in bus, so they
possess a CDL. And so you're not looking for volunteers as you go forward to do a bus bridge, because
you already have people that are allocated to a work shift. You're just putting them on a rubber tire vehicle
instead of a steel wheel one.
But we have to make concessions, because decisions were made as we were building out the system.
Let's bypass bringing them into the bus operator first. We're hiring directly for a light rail operator. Hence,
they may not have a commercial driver's license, because that's not needed to operate a light-rail
[INAUDIBLE].
So as we talk about communicating out specifically what it is that we are doing, there's different tactics
being leveraged for different audiences. And Mr. Summers and his team, as we saw last year, did a
yeoman's job relative to engaging with various stakeholders in and around the City and County of Denver,
leveraging different community-based organizations and neighborhood organizations. And so as we talk

about our diverse audiences, this is just a snapshot of what our communications plans will entail as we go
forward with the critical work we need to ensure the sustainability of our network.
So really quickly-- and I'm going to move on and wrap this up so we can get on with the meeting, but this
is important from the vantage point of managing expectations. Here, reconstruction project.
Most of you all were here, but there's some that weren't engaged with us from the vantage point of being
on the Board of Directors. But one thing's for certain. When we talk about the reconstruction and why it's
so vitally important, we prioritize this because of service-related wear and degradation, due, in part, to deicing chemicals used on the roadway, but more specifically, recognizing those intersections aren't just
bearing the weight of a rail-car [INAUDIBLE]. You had buses, garbage trucks, standard vehicular traffic
compromising the integrity of that embedded track, due to the fact that it's not dedicated right-of-way.
And so we want to ensure that we can invest in the network for an additional 30 years. And so as you
know, Phase One of the project involved the full-depth reconstruction of the five intersections in the
Downtown Loop. And the Phases Two, Three, and Four will commence 2025/2026. And I'll get into that
momentarily.
But it's important to note, when I came before you in March and when I was doing monthly updates last
year that the numbering of these phases does not necessarily correspond to the order or their
importance, but are rather segmented to denote the focus of the specific sections. And one thing that's
critically important as we go forward, we will ensure that you are made aware and we'll talk a little bit
more about that.
But just as a gentle reminder, I know I've showed this before, but this gives you from a graphic vantage
point the full-depth reconstruction. Because when you see the paved tracks, you do not have an
opportunity to see what is happening subterraneanly, relative to the duct bank, the subballast, the ballast,
because all of those can shift.
Unlike what you see with our commuter rail, where the ballast-- for those that may not be aware, I'm
talking about the rocks that you see with the railroad ties and things of the like. And so happy to say last
year that we did complete Phase One, and it was very successful in the sense that we've learned some
lessons. And as we go forward, we will be in this cycle of renewal.
Phase Two, what I do want to call out, these rail segments and these areas between the intersections
undergoing reconstruction last year will be reconstructed in Phase Two. And this will impact the D, H, and
L Lines.
As it relates to Phase Three, fell-depth rail reconstruction will take place along a segment of track that
runs parallel to Colfax. Momentarily, you will see that we are carving out a piece, and that's what's before
you on unanimous consent relative to the Kalamath Crossing at Colfax.
And it's important to note that this work does not include any segments near the Colorado Convention
Center, as that was subject to recent targeted repairs, because the convention center is newer,
considering that this rail network opened back in 1994. And the D and H Lines will be impacted.
And so Phase Three right here, the Kalamath Street Crossing, just want to take a quick second to orient
you to the work that we have planned here. So this is at-grade crossing as part of RTD's original light rail
line, and it's served by the D and H Lines out of the Downtown Loop. And approximately 16 trains
traverse this section each hour, not to mention vehicular traffic as well.

So quickly, this graphic showcases the Kalamath Street Crossing and the work that's entailed and what
we plan to do. If this Board adopts the service changes on August 31, the schedule that is being put
forward would basically accommodate the Kalamath Street Crossing from September 2 to November 27,
and in turn would be in alignment with the next service change as we go forward.
As I talked about, it's full-depth rail reconstruction. And then as we talk about the whole aspect of
consistent service delivery, we want to ensure the operational safety and integrity of our network and the
alternative services, as we talk about. We are capitalizing on what we have done previously. The D Line
will be rerouted to Denver Union Stations. There's the Route 0 and the 0 Limited that'll be available, and
Route 43 for L Line service.
And this quickly, as I already talked about, proposed August service changes. So I'll move on from this,
and I'm just about finished. And then the Welton Street Corridor. Again, full-depth reconstruction of track
along the Welton Corridor between Welton and Broadway, the intersection in 30th and Downing. And the
L Line, of course, would be impacted.
So really quickly next steps. So keeping in mind where we are right now, in June staff is finalizing the
communications plan relative to the tactics and the strategies that I showcased on the previous slide. July
Board actions associated with this, i.e., progressive design build contract for Phases Two, Three, and
Four. And of course, the August service changes.
If, in fact, this is approved, the service changes, they would go into effect the 31st. Then we would
subsequently have the work that would commence concluding in November. As I indicated, Kalamath,
and then the next phases starting in 2026.
And so with that, that concludes my presentation as well as my report to the Board. Thank you very
much, Mr. Chair, and to all of you all for your time.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, General Manager Johnson, for that detailed report and
detailed presentation. It's greatly appreciated. Directors, any questions or comments for the GM/CEO at
this time? OK. Well, thank you very much, Ms. Johnson.
All right. Moving on, we're going to move on to unanimous consent. There are six items on the una-nuna-- whoa-- unanimous consent agenda listed under Section 16, Actions A through F.
Those items are for the authorization for General Manager and CEO for the Central Park development,
the Kalamath Rail Reconstruction Project contract award, light rail operating facilities and Security
Command Center replacement HVAC contract award, the 2024 Annual Comprehensive Financial Report
and Report to Governance, the State Lobbying Service contract, and then finally, the appointment of
Chair Bouquet to Senate Bill 25-161 Accountability Committee.
Are there any items that we'd like to pull from unanimous consent? OK. I will not be opposed to that as
well. [LAUGHS] So seeing none, may I have a-MICHAEL GUZMAN: I would move to-JULIEN BOUQUET: You approve the consent agenda? [LAUGHS]
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Let's go. In.

TROY L. WHITMORE: Enthusiastically seconded.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I have Guzman as the mover and then I have Whitmore as the second. Is there any
discussion, or is there-- no discussion, actually. It's unanimous consent. So is there any no votes on that?
Oh, my goodness gracious. This is a first right here, folks. All right. So that will-TROY L. WHITMORE: [INAUDIBLE]
JULIEN BOUQUET: [LAUGHS] So that will pass 13-0 and two. All right. Moving on, Report of Director
Activities. Any activities we'd like to report, Directors? I see Secretary Nicholson, Treasurer Benker, and
Director Guzman. Secretary and Director Chandler. Nicholson, you are recognized.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. So I am actually up at the Colorado Municipal League Conference this
week, and I'll be speaking with city leaders from across the state about the awesome work that we are
doing, and just building those connections to facilitate all the things that we're going to be doing in the
future. So very excited for it. And thank you to the Board Office for facilitating and making this an easy
process to get registered for.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. Great job representing, Secretary. Treasurer Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Yes, just a quick FYI. The city of Longmont, we're putting on an educational event with
regard to Northwest Rail. It's going to be on July 14 at the Longmont Museum.
We've got quite a few elected officials that have been invited, and so far, everyone's accepted. We're
hoping to get a couple hundred people from our communities to just talk about Northwest Rail and
everything that-- where we are to date. And so everyone is invited. So if you can, please come. I know it's
a long drive, but you're welcome to come.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Treasurer. Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I was asked at the beginning of this year by my constituents to make sure that I was
doing as much training as possible. I've taken full advantage of the ability to do the NTI courses and
receive several certifications. This month, I worked on a class that took three days, and it was the Crisis
Communication for Transit Management.
After that class, was able to work back with General Manager/CEO Johnson and our Chief
Communications Officer, Stuart Summers, about how we do things here at RTD. As a Board member, it's
an interesting place because we're not often in the loop of communication around a crisis, and there's a
reason for that.
But there's also a need, because we are public officials, to get information regarding crises that are
happening in the district when it's an appropriate time. And so I would just want to suggest to all of you, if
you have the opportunity to look at those classes, take advantage of them, because there's quite a bit of
information that helps. But that's one more certification to add to this year's work. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director. Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I have the privilege of speaking to the Aurora Ward 3 update, Mr. Medina's
group. And it was really good. It was very well received. And I think that area of Aurora, it doesn't get a

whole lot of love. So I really am excited to start interacting with more and more of the Aurora City Council
members.
And this afternoon, I was able to represent RTD at the State of the Aurora Luncheon. And I think it was
really well received, having Mayor Coffman speak about how a lot of transit is going on because of BRT
headed out there towards Anschutz Center. And Anschutz is going through a major redevelopment area.
They're really excited in partnering. They got a update from the Colorado Commission on College and
Education system where now, hundreds of acres out there is going to be redeveloped. And I think it's
exciting to see how RTD can really partner out there with what's going on in the outer reaches out there
near Anschutz. So thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Pardon my moment of privilege. I was going through a bunch of old stuff at my house,
purging and going through some records. And I ran across a document from 32 years ago that was a
roster of the 50 for Colorado Leadership Team that I was on.
And Lo and behold, I came across the name of Jim Brendel [LAUGHS] And I knew when he was
appointed to our Audit Committee that there was something gnawing at me, that he was-- I knew that I
had run across him before, and he was in my class for a year. And so [LAUGHS] we reconnected, and
that was just kind of a fun moment. But it also pointed to the fact that we've both gotten pretty old.
[LAUGHS] So anyway, that was just fun, so just wanted to share that little coincidence.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director. Any other Director activities? Just as a reminder, Directors,
please make sure you are documenting those. By the way, when you are out and about meeting with your
stakeholders, we are going to review those in July, and looking forward to seeing everything and
everyone you've met. OK, moving on to other matters.
OK. I'm not-- I just want to say, this might be a record right here with the quickest Board meeting ever. So
with no other matters, do I have a motion to adjourn?
TROY L. WHITMORE: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I have Whitmore as the mover. And we are adjourned at 6:54, before 7 o'clock. Have
a great night, everybody.

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Submitted as Public Comment to the RTD Board Meeting, June 24th, 2025
June 23rd, 2025
 ulian Bouquet, RTD Board Chair
J
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Dear Chair Bouquet,
Greater Denver Transit (GDT) writes regarding the following four agenda topics:
Central Park Development
 hile GDT welcomes the decision to turn excess and little used parking lots at Central Park Station into
W
affordable housing, we note that there appears to be no provision in the proposed agreement to upgrade the
currently sparse facilities at stop #34671, which is located on the edge of the development at the 7800 Block of
Smith Road. As this stop will be the closest transit infrastructure to the development, GDT would like to see it
upgraded with amenities including, but not limited to: seating, a trash can(s), shelter, lighting and a location for
printed map / schedule(s) to be displayed. In addition, the means to install digital signs (e.g. power and data
connections) should be provided. Providing these amenities will allow for the transit customers it is claimed the
development will attract to have a dignified experience while waiting for their bus.
Kalamath Rail Reconstruction Project Contract Award
 DT notes that once again Directors are being asked by staff to approve the expenditure of $3,585,990 of
G
public funds without the opportunity to thoroughly review the contracts scope, provisions and pricing. Directors
should make it clear to staff that this is clearly unacceptable in the publics eyes as it prevents them performing
their oversight role effectively.
 ight Rail Operating Facilities and Security Command Center Replacement HVAC
L
Contract Award
 DT notes that exactly the same situation exists as with the contract above, only this time the public funds
G
being requested are $3,510,598.
Appointment of Chair Bouquet to Senate Bill 25-161 Accountability Committee
 DT is in support of appointing Chair Bouquet to the Accountability Committee (Part Deux) created in
G
SB25-161. We encourage Chair Bouquet to serve with the output of the previous 2021 Accountability
Committee in mind and ensure that the work delivered four years ago is taken forward and built upon, rather
than duplicated.
www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page1

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Thanks for all you do,

James Flattum

Richard Bamber

Emma Griffin

Joe Meyer

CC:

 TD Board of Directors
R
Debra Johnson, RTD General Manager & CEO
Angel Pea, RTD Deputy CEO

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page2

