Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held Tuesday, May 1, 2007
Page 1 of 3
Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

May 1, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held
on Tuesday, May 1, 2007 at 5:00 p.m. in Rooms T and D

Please Note:

Beginning with the new committee assignments in 2007, FasTracks
Monitoring Committee meets the first hour preceding the Board Study
Session and is a Committee of the Whole.
****

Committee
Members Present:

Committee Chair: Director Chacon; Chairperson Martinez, Director
Busck, Director Brohl, Director Christopher, Director Daly, Director
Kemp, Director Kinton, Director McMullen, Director Pulliam, Director
Ruchman, Director Tayer, Director Yamrick

Member Absent:

Director Quinlan

Staff Present:

Senior Staff: Cal Marsella, Bruce Abel, Ron Dodsworth, Marla Lien,
Lloyd Mack Paula Perdue, Liz Rao, Scott Reed, and Phil Washington.
Gideon Berger, Rick Clarke, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova ,Kenn
Harden, Caitlin Magee, Brian Matthews, Jerry Nery, Bill Porter, Daria
Serna, Dave Shelley, John Shonsey, Joe Smith, James Starling,
Henry Stopplecamp, Errol Stevens, Stan Szabelak, John Tarbert,
Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Liz Telford

Others Present:

Kevin Flynn, L.W. Morrow, Roger Sherman, Joe Racosky, Don Ulrich,
Gary Sears, Bill Anderson, Saeid Saeb, Jonnie Thomas, Ralph Lufer,
Toti Cadavid, Wayne Oakley, Olga Woodsyn, Nancy Fenton, Joey
Bunch (Denver Post),Ty Perry, Greg Jenifer

Call to Order:

Director Chacon called the meeting to order at 5:05 p.m.

I.

FasTracks Monitoring Corridor Update
a. Gold Line Environmental Impact Statement—Liz Telford, Project Manager,
provided a briefing on the progress of the Gold Line Environmental Impact.
The discussion centered on the EIS process, what has been accomplished,
final two alternatives (EMU: BNUP and Streetcar: Harlan Update) and next
steps. For a copy of the presentation, please refer to the FasTracks minute
notebook located in the Board office.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on Tuesday, May 1, 2007
Page 2 of 3
Liz shared that as a result of a law passed called safety loops, RTD must
have milestone checks with the public on various aspects of the EIS plan.
RTD is in compliance with this requirement and has had several public and
agency involvement activities.
Board members had numerous questions around this presentation including
how did RTD arrive at the two alternatives, cost differentials between
DMU/EMU, when is the decision final, Community and local officials
positions on the type of technologies, how the outreach was done, decision
criteria used by FTA and what happens if the Board disagrees with the
recommended alternative.
A pivotal question expressed by Cal is the concern by the Board that
although the analysis may show the EMU as the preferred alternative, the
cost analysis may suggest the DMU. What is the option for change should
this occur? Liz indicated that should a change be recommended, we would
need to go back through the safety loop process to show a rational and
reasonable positioning. This process would take about six months to a year
with possible cost escalations. However, the decision is not unchangeable.
Liz Rao indicated they would be reviewing the EMU/DMU with the Directors
prior to the May 19 retreat.
Cal indicated that information around cost analysis and how these
recommended alternatives were reached would be shared at the May 19
retreat. Director Ruchman asked how would we have more information on
the cost if the design will still be at 5% during the May 19th meeting?
b. North Metro Corridor Environmental Impact Statement—Dave Shelly, Project
Manager, provided an update on alternative alignments under consideration,
rationale to advance DMU/EMU along railroad ROW to Level 3, level 3
options, public outreach efforts and community issues. For a copy of the
presentation, please refer to the FasTracks minute notebook located in the
Board office.
Board Members asked various questions on this update including possible
cost impacts of the east/west detour of the level 3 alignment options.
II.

Metro Chamber proposal for Advisory Committee—Cal Marsella indicated that
they were not ready to come up with a recommendation at this time.
The Board had several concerns and thoughts around this committee:
Director Ruchman:
Expressed this should be a separate entity and
independent of RTD
Chair Martinez/Director Brohl: Needs more information on the scope of this
Committee and how it will differ from the Citizens Advisory Committee.
Consider the possibility of making this a sub-committee to the Citizens
Advisory Board.
Elfenbein/Busck/Kemp/Christopher: Generally expressed that to have the
Metro involvement would be a good thing. Their purpose is to know what is
happening and they can serve in an ambassador type role with the
community and their membership.
Christopher: The involvement of the local business leaders is good as long
as we channel it properly.
Martinez: Supports the concept in general but want it noted that no
advisory committee should have access to information before the Board has

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on Tuesday, May 1, 2007
Page 3 of 3
been advised. The Board is the top dog who makes the policy decisions.
III.

Other Matters
Director Ruchman asked about the May 19 retreat content and was asked to
defer this discussion to the study session.
Director Busck reported on his trip with the Brighton and Fort Lupton City
Officials to Dallas, Texas to tour the Union Pacific Intermodal Transfer Facility.
Director Busck felt it was a good trip and the City officials were enlightened
about the advancements in the technology to mitigate noise vibration.
Chair Martinez reported that he and Directors Kinton and Yamrick had met with
representatives at Fitzsimmons on their projected transit growth. Currently they
are at 6800 employees with a projection of 13,000 employees in 2 years. Chair
Martinez expressed the need for RTD to work with them to make sure the type
of system they put in place will be compatible with the LRT and to look for
interim solutions.

IV.

Next Meeting Date – The next meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee
will be June 12, 2007 at 5:00 p.m.

V.

Adjournment – Director Chacon adjourned the meeting at 6:12 p.m.

