2022-09-14
Operations and Safety Committee
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. The Operations and Safety Committee will now come to order. We are
convened as of 5:30 PM. I respectfully ask that anyone attending this meeting mute yourself unless you
are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us. Please note that under the current circumstances, the official meetings of the
RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. For
the immediate future, the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held via Zoom and will be
audio and video recorded.
The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as
practicable on the Board's website. Visit rtd-denver.com, and scroll to the bottom of the page for the link
to the Board of Directors page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceedings, I would ask you to please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call you before
proceeding to speak. Speaking out of turn will only add confusion to the record and to the proceedings.
Veterans and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to indicate that they would like
to speak by pressing star 9. To toggle your mute setting on a phone, press star 6. I would now like to call
the role for the committee members. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis? Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Rosenthal? I know that Director Rosenthal will be joining us later. So for the
record, I see that we have three of the committee members present, and I'd like to acknowledge other
Directors that are also on this call. I see Director Catlin, Director Sloan, Director Broom. Let's see. Who
am I missing?
Director Jessie Carter. Oh, no, that's wrong.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Davidson, I believe, is with us.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Thank you, Director Tisdale. There you are, Director Davidson. My apologies. OK,
first we're going to open public comment to anyone who would like to address this committee regarding
any topic listed in the public meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month.
If you wish to, speak and have not already done so, please raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your
phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you're dialed in, press star 6 to toggle your
mute settings. Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do
not wish to be recorded, your comments will need to be submitted in writing.

If any speaker has documentation or reference materials for the committee, or if any member of the public
would like to submit written comments, please email those materials to the Board Office at the following
email address-- rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
During public comment, the committee will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may
contact speakers following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow up.
Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their name. Each speaker will have three minutes to
speak. Tai-Shrae, other speakers in the queue?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: I do not see any hands raised at this time.
KATE WILLIAMS: And are there any emailed comments for tonight's meeting?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: No, there are no emails.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, that was easy. With no participants in the queue, we will close the public comment
at this time. The next item on the agenda is information from external entities. Contrary to last night's
meeting, there is no information from external entities this evening.
There is one recommended action on the agenda this evening, which is the 2023 Public Transportation
Agency Safety Plan, referred to as PTASP. And the action is for the Board of Directors to approve the
2023 Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan, as required by 49 CFR, Part 674 and 673, and 4 CCR723-7, rule 7345. Do I have a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: Move to approve the PTASP.
KATE WILLIAMS: And a second?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second. Second.
KATE WILLIAMS: That was Director Bouquet. Thank you. I would like to ask Dan McClain, the Chief
Safety Officer and Senior Manager of Safety and Environment, to present this item. Dan?
DAN MCCLAIN: Thank you, Director Williams. Let me pull up the presentation and share my screen.
Please let me know or confirm, Tai-Shrae, when we can see the full screen version of the presentation.
Are we good?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: You're good.
DAN MCCLAIN: OK. So this is the 2023 update of the Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan. Just a
little background for everybody on the call on the Board.
Last year, we did significant changes to the PTASP, but the most major change was to align it with the
strategic plan, such that we were focused on one system that allows us to meet both the strategic plan
and the requirements of the Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan at the same time. So focused both
in the mission, the values, the strategic priorities and outcome, and what do we measure going forth.
Specifically aligning with the values in the strategic plan. Emphasizing employee, contractor, and
customer safety on really the onus of employee ownership. So the passion, trustworthiness-- which is,
we're going to say what we're going to do, and then we're going to do it. We're going to put resources to

it. Respect, collaboration, working with everybody to solve problems, diversity of thought, and diversity of
solutions within the PTASP.
Why do we do this? We are required by the Federal Transit Administration and the Colorado Public
Utilities Commission Part 673, as Director Williams talked about, and Part 674 reference is the
requirements. And that why this is one of the most important pieces of regulation that we have within
public transit that requires board level approval.
It states the responsibility of the Accountable Executive, which is the CEO and GM, Ms. Debra Johnson.
But it also requires board-level approval. One of the new things that's happened in 2021 is the new
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, which set out requirements which are now incorporated into the new 2023
Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan.
And let's talk a little bit about what a Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan is. Just for the
understanding of what we're trying to do here, this is an annual snapshot of what we have in our Safety
Management Systems.
Safety Management Systems strive to have systems in place, such that no matter who's in that role, no
matter who's doing that role, no matter what adversity we might see, we have systems in place-- mature
systems in place, or maturing systems in place-- to ensure that we are continuously learning from what
we find and making improvements in the system to make safety culture and performance targets
achievable.
It is required that this be reviewed and updated annually. But what it really is, it's the snapshot of the
Safety Management System, which is a formal-- which means we have documentation of who does what,
when, and why, and how we check to see if it's working.
It's interconnected and interdependent processes, which means that nothing's done in a silo. These are
all things that are working together such that we get the results consistently across the organization.
Focused on enabling safe and healthy work places and behaviors, prevention of workplace related
events, and continually improving and learning from our mistakes in the system.
2023. What is new in 2023? A couple of things that are pretty significant changes to the PTASP. We have
worked over about 18 months with subject matter experts and a project-level team to put together an
Operational Risk Management Framework. This was approved by the leadership and the CEO GM in
May, and we're currently implementing that, and we have incorporated that as part of the exhibits.
And in the PTASP itself, because there has been changes related to the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law,
the Colorado Public Utilities Commission had to update their program standard, and also updated
program standards related to some events that we've had in our past.
But the biggest change is-- a couple of big changes-- the 24-hour reportable events for light rail. So
expanding their reach of what's going on in our system. And then the inward and outward facing cameras,
which will have to be in our light rail systems by 2027.
And also the Public Utilities Commission. And the FTA incorporated the new Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
requirements, which is to have a Joint Union Management Safety Committee and to ensure that we have
language in the PTASP that addresses public health emergency requirements, such as we've been living
through the last two years in the pandemic here.

One of the other things that was identified through the Public Utilities State Safety Oversight audits was
that the safety performance targets that we were using weren't aligned with the National Public
Transportation Safety Plan. And so this is also included, as part, in response of a finding that they had.
We are working with NTD, and the PUC, and the FDA because there is a great deal of ambiguity in some
of these requirements, and we just want to make sure that they're effective in making us learn better and
get better in safety.
The targets that were agreed upon by the leadership-- again, maybe back up from last year. There was a
ton of collaboration last year that really resulted in a successful transformation of the PTASP. Again, we
had the same collaboration this year, with all of the groups in and participating in, and identifying and
making the PTASP better and more effective, and being able to be more applicable to day-to-day work.
The targets we have is less than 1 event per 100,000 miles for bus and light rail. 5% year-after-year
reduction in on-the-job injuries. Lost time days, which is significant and we're working to that. We have
some several good things that I think you will see significant results in 2023. The reduction of slip and fall
injuries and strain injuries, and just to maintain the system reliability without increase in cost for-- this is a
PTASP requirement that ties the Transit Asset Management Plan and with the PTASP.
What activities are we going to do? Continuous improvement. We're still going to look at implementation
of the Operational Risk Management System. We have done cascaded training-- leadership training,
cascaded training throughout the organization in that we're giving everybody the basic knowledge, and so
we can be consistent in how we address risk how we look at risk and how we speak about it in
everything, from site-level safety committees up to the boardroom.
Event notification reporting and investigation. That's going to really roll out the end of this year, but mature
in 2023. We'll continue with leadership and employee safety skills training, which we have had very
positive impact this year. And implement the pre-job safety briefing. And this is a quick hazard analysis of,
what are we going to do, what are the risks, and how do we keep them from happening before we do
high-risk activities and non-routine ones.
Next steps. Today, we review and discuss this Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan. And I implore
all of the Board members that are on this call-- this was in the packet. Please take this. Take the time and
review it. It's not a hard read. Take it with some tea. But the first 10 or 12 pages is the real meat of it. The
rest of it is how we make the sausage. The exhibits is why we make the sausage, and how we build the
culture, and how we make the decisions we make as a management team.
And then Wednesday the 28th, we'll go to the full Board for recommended action. And then we have to
have this submitted by November 1 to the Public Utilities Commission to meet their deadlines. So any
questions? Appreciate your time. Compared to last year, it was a minor update, but there are still some
significant changes that I think will have a great impact with RTD.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr McClain. That's a great report. And I do want to note that anybody who
wants to see more of it, it is the full 300 plus page report is attached to the agenda. So if you want to look
at that, please feel free to do so.
At this time I'm going to ask if the Directors have any questions, or wish to speak to the subject. Please
raise your virtual hands. And I would like to note that Director Rosenthal and Director Rivera-Malpiede
have joined us on this meeting.

I see no hands raised at this time, so I'm going to call for the vote. Are there any no votes? OK. Hearing
no votes. That means that the rest of the committee will be aye votes. I believe that there are four of us
here. And there are no abstentions, so that motion passes out of committee.
There is one discussion on the item this evening, which is January 2023 service change proposals. And
I'm going to ask Mr. Ford, our Chief Operations Officer, and Jessie Carter, the Senior Manager of Service
Development, to present this item. Mr. Ford?
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you very much. I'd like to just give an update on the January 2023 service
change proposals. With the Board adoption of the Reimagine RTD System Optimization Plan, known as
the SOP, several of the proposals herein initiate the first phases of implementation of the SOP.
The January 2023 proposals related to the SOP were selected, modified, and based on RTD's current
capacity to provide service. People, power, problems persist, tying the sequencing of SOP route
proposals more directly to specific operating divisions capacities for additional work assignments.
It should be noted that efforts to increase operator availability through intensified recruitment and
increased employee outreach continue. By way of discussion, following the guidelines contained in the
strategic plan relating most directly to community values, customer excellence, and recognizing the RTD's
workforce challenges, the proposals herein are directed at improving on time performance, maintaining
collective bargaining agreement compliance, and implementing the first phase of the Reimagine RTD
System Optimization Plan.
As you know, the Board adopted guidance for proposed service changes continues to focus on service
performance evaluations based on RTD service standards, the effects of the overall integrity of the transit
network, and transit dependent markets, the availability of alternative services to effective riders, cost
effective distribution throughout the district and family of services, and the ability to enhance service when
possible.
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act-- benefits and services are provided without regard to race, color, or
national origin, also disparate effects on low income and minority populations, and response to changes
in communities where services are provided.
There's a list of services that are summarized and detailed in Attachment A in your packet for reference
materials, as well as attachments B, C, D, E, and F. Those are highlighting the January 2023 Reimagine
RTD Service Optimization Plan and Adjustments. They also focus on service reduction efficiencies, mixed
service improvements, service efficiencies as well, service adjustments, scheduling adjustments, and
scheduling analysis.
The financial impacts that are proposed are designed to be cost neutral, and there are three public
hearings that are scheduled. They're virtual public hearings, scheduled for September 26 at noon and
September 27 at noon and at 6 PM.
So with that, I am concluding my report. I would ask the Senior Manager of Service Development, Jessie
Carter, to join me. And we'd be happy to answer any questions that you may have at this time.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you very much, Mr. Ford. Hi, Jessie, you want to speak-JESSIE CARTER: Madam Chair, I would like to add just one bit of information about our public hearings.
So our public hearings can be found. There are links available on our RTD website at rtd

denver.com/service changes/january 2023. There, our customers can click on the links to join the
meetings or use the phone numbers provided on the page to join the meetings. So with that, I'd like to
open to any questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super Thank you very much. That's good information to have out to the public.
Directors, if you have any questions at this time. There was some really great information attached and
some lovely maps that define. I see Director Tisdale has his hand up. Sir?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. First, I do want to say thank you very much to
Michael and to Jessie for the hard work you've put in on this. I know it is always a challenge, because no
matter what you do to suggest changes and improvements in the system, there is criticism. And
sometimes the criticism is forcibly stated and, in fact, unfair.
That said, I do appreciate what you've got. I looked through it to see if there was anything that stood out. I
saw nothing that stood out. Is there anything that you might point out that you think might be a bone of
contention?
I literally am looking at each of the routes listed and looking at the comments made. Didn't see anything,
but I know that there are some people who are saying, but you still haven't restored my service to what it
was pre-pandemic. And I think it perhaps merits at least a comment that the reason we have not restored
that level yet is we still remain short of operators and are trying to work on that. And what we're doing
here is addressing specific problems, many of them having to do with buses arriving late.
And in at least one case on Yale, I guess, I saw arriving early on a regular basis. But maybe if you just
wanted to add a comment to that effect, I think that would be good for the benefit of people who are
listening.
JESSIE CARTER: Madam Chair, if I might?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Jessie. Please go ahead.
JESSIE CARTER: OK. Thank you, Director Tisdale. That's it's a really good question. A loaded one. But
it's one that I think if you were to look at some of the changes that are there, you see a number of
proposals for running time analysis and addressing on time performance. But also there is the formalizing
the change to the C and F line, permanently discontinuing those services.
That's what I expect to be the largest point of contention when it comes down to this particular service
change. But as you know, those services currently are not operating, and the reasons behind it were
clearly stated during the Systems Optimization Plan description during the Reimagine process. So I
believe we will hear quite a bit concerning the formalization of that cancelation.
And of course, there could be questions coming about any number of the other changes. The 228 is
another one where we are removing the service from the Kestrel low income housing development in the
north. But we're extending it, but at the same time we're not taking away the service altogether. So that
was something that actually had been requested, that we actually removed that service, about a year
ago. So we're actually complying with that. So we may hear some comments on that, as well.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I appreciate your response.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: I wonder-- General Manager Johnson, do you have anything you want to add at this
time? If you're good, I'm good, but just in case.
DEBRA JOHNSON: No. I appreciate that, Madam Chair. And no, I'm good. Very good question posed,
and Mr. Carter, who we know is very capable, answered that well.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super. I do not see any other hands raised at this time. So we're going to remind
everybody that all of the information is attached to the packet, which is available at the RTD Board packet
spot on the RTD website. And then we will move on to other matters.
I have something here. Mr. Ford, or any of your staff who are here, can we have an update on issues with
the A line?
JESSIE CARTER: Yes. Michael Ford, COO. I was going to refer to Dave Jensen to provide an update on
that.
DAVE JENSEN: [INAUDIBLE] Madam Chair, if I may?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes. Please, sir.
DAVE JENSEN: OK. I believe you're referring to really an update on dropped trips and service levels as it
relates to the A Line. So a couple of things for us to keep in mind. One, I think context is important and
the big picture. The level of service that RTD provides on our commuter rail network is very high. To run a
commuter rail system with 15 minute headways, which is what we do on the A line is unusual.
So that being said, one of the things that we understand is that our goal and objective is to provide the
highest quality of service we possibly can. And if any one trip is missed, that's hard for all of us, and we
look deeply at that. But I think context is important. And so I have some numbers some data I'd like to
share with you that might show where we're at, which I think is what the question is at hand.
And so we have been making progress over the last several months, starting with May. In the month of
May, we scheduled 4,500 trips on the A line. Of those 4,500 trips, we operated 4,268, which means we
dropped 232, or operated roughly 95% of the scheduled trips.
In June, there was a slight improvement. We scheduled 4,400 trips. Of them, we operated 4,184 trips,
dropping 216, which is roughly again about 95%. Then in July, we went to scheduling another 4,500 trips.
And of them, we operated 4,323 trips, dropping about 177, which is 96%.
So we're seeing a little bit of improvement. In August, we scheduled 4,500 trips, operated 4,377, dropping
123 trips, which is 97% of the scheduled trips were operated. So we're seeing that incremental
improvement. So far in the month of September, as of the 12th, we've scheduled roughly 1,700 trips and
have operated 1,672 of them. Really only dropping 28 trips so far in the month of September, which is
roughly about 98%.
So we're seeing the progression that we'd like to see. Again, our goal is really 100%. We don't think it's
unrealistic for us to be operating days of 100% service, and a month.
Some other things I'd like to have all of us keep in mind. We work really hard at making sure that we don't
drop two trips in a row. So when a trip is lost, we've made every effort to make sure that following trip is

there. Running a 15 minute headway means that the length of time that a customer may have to wait is
minimized to the extent that we can.
The other thing that we work really hard at is making sure that we don't miss the last trip of the night so
that we don't strand anybody. We think that's highly important, and we would allow a small gap in service
in order to make sure that nobody gets stranded.
RTD staff meets weekly on this. We are looking at the numbers closely, which is why I have them close at
hand. RTD staff meets weekly with Allied staff who is providing the second crew person service for us. So
that's a weekly meeting. We are reviewing their schedules weekly, sometimes daily.
Some of our observations is that it's a struggle for them on weekends when they get last minute call-offs.
And so they have employees-- on a nice weather weekend, if it's a holiday, they're more inclined and the
numbers would support that they get more call-offs, and then we're all struggling to try and fill those shifts.
But I want to assure you that DTO is also highly engaged, and they're using all of their available
personnel to fill in the gaps where they can to minimize the impact.
And RTD is-- we are following the contract that we have with Allied closely and strictly to try and
incentivize and make sure that we're getting the highest quality service that we can. But at the end of the
day, we know we are still dropping trips, and we're working really hard to prevent that. But Allied is
suffering from the same labor shortage that the nation is, and they simply do not have enough people.
So again, collectively, we're working to overcome this and we're seeing progress. And that's where we
are. And I see that there's other hands up, and I'm sure Miss Johnson has something to add.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you very much, Mr. Jensen. Director Broom, I'm going to let our General
Manager speak first, and then I will call on you. Miss Johnson, you have the floor.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you so much, Madam Chair. And I just wanted to thank Mr. Jensen for his
comments. And I just wanted to share that this is a very critical matter for all of us. And I wanted to just
ensure that Board members knew that I, as well, have had meetings-- and I just had one yesterday with
Doug Allen, who serves as the General Manager of DTO, and we had the same conversation, where he
conveyed to me-- and I know Mr. Jensen and Mr. Ford are aware of this-- that they are trying to do
everything in their power by leveraging their own staff to cover the second crew membership to ensure
that we can deploy service, and more specifically, have the opportunity to have a meeting with Allied
Universal Executive Staff, in which Chief Fitzgerald and Deputy Chief Marc Garneau attended with me, as
well.
So I just wanted to say that we are not resting on our laurels here. That members of the team, of the
leadership team, all of us, are all hands on deck as we try to minimize the impacts to those that rely upon
our service. And so I just wanted to share that. So thank you so much, ma'am, for the opportunity.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Mr. Ford, I'd like you to note that you are unmuted, just in case you were
going to answer your phone or anything. Director Broom, you have the floor, sir.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I just had a question about when we have to shut down the A line for
maintenance and we put a bus bridge into place, are there any safety hazards that come about as a
result of that, and do we have supervisory staff on hand? Because people are naturally going to try to run
to make that connection so they can make their flight. And I worry that they're going to trip, or fall, or
whatever.

KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Jensen?
DAVE JENSEN: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, sir.
DAVE JENSEN: That's a great question. Thank you for asking that. We are also very concerned with that
very thing. So in the case of the A line, that is typically DTO personnel and RTD bus personnel that are
coordinating that connection. They're required to have supervisors on scene. We send RTD Oversight
Team, which is the team that we have at RTD that works within rail operations that provides oversight of
the contract to make sure that we've taken appropriate steps, or DTO has taken appropriate steps, to
make sure that the operation is safe.
So safety is paramount. And we are looking very closely to make sure that they don't. Where what you're
talking about becomes a challenge for us as if the connection isn't claimed between bus or rail, or vice
versa, and people feel compelled to hurry to catch the bus, or catch the train. And there takes careful
coordination on our part in communication with our customers to ensure that they know the train will wait
for them, or the bus will wait for them.
And that is a challenge for us. And we are working on that. So I hope I answered your question directly.
BOB BROOM: Yes, I think you did. Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: And thank you, Mr. Jensen. I'd also like people to know-- I'd like to go on the record
here, you did a great job of explaining that. Although sometimes on the alerts-- and I do get all of the
alerts myself on the A line-- it looks like a lot of trains are not running, but in fact they are. 95% of those
routes are being filled. So those were some great numbers to help alleviate people's concern about their
trips to the airport.
And that is all that I had. Director Tisdale, I do see your hand up.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I appreciate that. I also appreciate GM CEO
Johnson responding to my inquiry that I sent regarding the naming rights for the A line.
The contract with our prior sponsor-- he who shall not be named-- expired last May. And we knew that for
six months or so before, and we are now looking at releasing a scope of work for that naming rights
opportunity sometime before the end of the year, which is after all, a year after we knew that we'd need a
new sponsor.
I do appreciate and applaud the fact that we're getting a scope of work out now, but I just wanted to urge
all deliberate speed in going ahead with that, because it is what I have described as found money. It's an
opportunity that we are missing. And every month that we delay, we could be putting cash in our pockets.
So I just wanted to state that for the record. But again, thank you very much, General Manager CEO, for
getting back and letting me know that we're going to have that scope of work out. But I urge again, all
deliberate speed in that process. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Perhaps we could speak to Russell Wilson. He might
have better luck with that than he had last Sunday. OK. On that note, I do not see any other hands raised
at this time. It looks to me like our next meeting date is Wednesday, October 12th. October 12th at the

same time, in the same location. And seeing nothing else, I will adjourn the meeting at this time. It is 6:07,
for the record. Thank you all so much for attending this evening.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Chair.
SPEAKER 1: Thank you.

