Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Julien Bouquet, District G
First Vice Chair – Patrick O’Keefe, District H
Second Vice Chair – Troy Whitmore, District K
Secretary – Chris Nicholson, District A
Treasurer – Karen Benker, District I
Vince Buzek, District J
Peggy Catlin, District N
Kathleen Chandler, District F
Lynn Guissinger, District O
Chris Gutschenritter, District D

Michael Guzman, District C
Ian Harwick, District L
Matt Larsen, District E
Brett Paglieri, District M
JoyAnn Ruscha, District B

SPECIAL BOARD MEETING
Wednesday, March 12, 2025
IN-PERSON/REMOTE MEETING
4:15 PM
To join the meeting Register Here
(connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 815 2056 5560#
Passcode: 1660#
For Public Participation in the meeting: raise your virtual hand
in Zoom or indicate you wish to speak via phone by pressing *9
If you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment(s),
please email the RTD Board office using the address below.
Public Comments can be emailed in advance to be
included in the record to
RTD.Directors@rtd-denver.com

I.

Call to Order

II.

Roll Call

III.

Public Comment

IV.

Recommended Action
A.

Inaugural Collective Bargaining Agreement with Fraternal Order of Police Lodge 72

For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO (GM/CEO) to
execute a three-year Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) with the Fraternal Order of

Police, Lodge 72 (FOP Lodge 72), effective January 1, 2025, through December 31,
2027.

V.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assistive hearing devices
• Documents in alternative formats and language translations
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

4.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Committee Meeting Date:
Inaugural Collective Bargaining Agreement with Fraternal
Order of Police Lodge 72

March 12, 2025
Board Meeting Date:
March 12, 2025

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO (GM/CEO) to execute a three-year
Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) with the Fraternal Order of Police, Lodge 72 (FOP Lodge 72),
effective January 1, 2025, through December 31, 2027.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Debra A. Johnson, General Manager/CEO
Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer
PRESENTATION LENGTH
15 Minutes
BACKGROUND
On February 26, 2025, negotiators for RTD and FOP Lodge 72 reached tentative agreement (TA) on an
inaugural CBA. On March 10, 2025, the FOP notified RTD that over 90% of eligible members voted and
the ratification passed overwhelmingly.
DISCUSSION
The approval of the CBA demonstrates the agency’s commitment to meet the Strategic Priorities of
Community Value, Customer Excellence, Employee Ownership, and Financial Success by ensuring
employees are paid a competitive market-based wage and improving employees’ quality of life while
enhancing operational efficiencies.
RTD and FOP’s bargaining teams began meeting on February 18, 2025, to negotiate an inaugural CBA.
In working toward said CBA, proposals put forward by each side were carefully assessed and discussed
during the negotiations. Outlined herein are significant terms included in the CBA delineated by article.
There are approximately 65 eligible employees in the Bargaining Unit that includes Transit Police Officers
and Transit Police Corporals who have completed field training.
Article 1: Definitions
• Establishes the definitions of common terms used throughout the CBA
Article 2: Recognition/Representation
• Establishes recognition of the bargaining unit
•

Establishes that any eligible employee may or may not join the union

Packet Pg. 3

4.A

Article 3: Management Rights
• Establishes that the Employer shall have the sole right to manage the Department as provided by
law, including, but not limited to, the right to determine departmental policy, budget,
departmental organization, hire, promote, or change the level or nature of services provided by
the Employer to the extent authorized by law
•

Lists other specific rights under the Employer’s authority

Article 4: FOP Rights and Responsibilities
• Allows the use of Inter-department mail and email to announce scheduled FOP meetings and to
provide communications not otherwise prohibited by Employer policy
•

Provides for quarterly Union orientation

•

Provides the FOP a bank of 60 hours of paid time off per year for bargaining unit members, to
conduct all necessary Union business on behalf of the FOP and an additional bank of 60 hours of
paid time off that may only be used to attend collective bargaining negotiations

Article 5: FOP Member Dues
• Sets process for dues collection and distribution
Article 6: Seniority
• Sets process for determining seniority
Article 7: Hours of Work
• Employees shall work four 10-hour shifts per week, unless staffing levels are such that the
Employer cannot provide 24/7 coverage
•

The Employer reserves the right to assign work as needed when there is a major incident or a
public safety emergency that requires an immediate law enforcement response. The Employer
shall return to normal hours of work as soon as practical following the incident or public safety
emergency

•

Bargaining unit members assigned to patrol shall bid annually for job assignments, shifts and days
off in accordance with their seniority; probationary employees shall be placed in positions
following the bid at the discretion of the Chief of Transit Police and Emergency Management

•

When a bidded assignment is vacant either due to promotion or separation of employment, the
position shall be posted for bid by eligible employees; employees may only bid for the first
vacancy created as a result of an employee’s exercising of their rights under Article 7, Section 6

Article 8: Job Opportunity Announcements
• The Employer shall notify all members of sworn officer job opportunities via e-mail before a
selection decision is made (job opportunity shall have the meaning as defined in the Colorado
Equal Pay for Equal Work Act)

Packet Pg. 4

4.A

Article 9: Administrative Investigative Procedures
•

Bargaining unit members shall be entitled to have an available FOP representative where the
employee is the subject of the investigation or at an interview by RTD personnel that may result
in formal discipline. Only when the employee is the subject of a criminal investigation and
associated workplace investigation shall the employee be permitted to bring an attorney to the
interview. Any FOP representative or attorney present during any of the above-listed interviews
shall not interfere with the interview

•

Bargaining unit members are not entitled to have an FOP representative or attorney present during
routine personnel management affairs, including but not limited to constructive feedback
conversations, performance management meetings, or non-disciplinary counseling sessions

Article 10: Discipline
• Discipline shall be defined as a written reprimand, suspension, demotion, or termination.
Discipline shall be for just cause. The authority to discipline officers shall rest solely with the
Employer. The Employer shall generally employ a system of progressive discipline, provided that
the Employer may terminate an employee if it is warranted under the circumstances
Article 11: Holidays
• The following are recognized holidays for all employees: New Year’s Day (January 1), Martin
Luther King Jr. Day, President’s Day (third Monday in February), Memorial Day (last Monday in
May). Juneteenth (June 19), Independence Day (July 4), Labor Day (first Monday in September),
Thanksgiving Day (fourth Thursday in November), Friday after Thanksgiving, Christmas Day
(December 25)
•

For each of the above listed holidays, employees will receive eight hours of straight pay.

•

Employees with less than 10 years of service with the Employer will be provided four 10 hour
floating holidays per year. Employees with ten years or more of service with the Employer shall
receive five 10 hour floating holidays per year

•

Employees who must work any recognized holiday will be compensated for the holiday at oneand-on-half times their regular rate of pay for any hours worked if they have worked 40 hours,
including the holiday time off, that week

Article 12: Paid Time Off (PTO)
• PTO hours are accrued on a pro-rated basis effective on the date of hire. PTO hours accrued
within a month are not available for use until the month following the accrual. Employees are not
able to use PTO hours in advance of accrual

Packet Pg. 5

4.A

•

•

PTO Accrual Rate
Years of
Continuous
Employer Service
0-2 years
3-5 years
6-9 years
10-14 years
15-19 years
20+ years

Accrual Rate
Hours Per Year

Maximum
Accumulation

160 hours
176 hours
208 hours
224 hours
240 hours
256 hours

320 hours
352 hours
416 hours
448 hours
480 hours
512 hours

Employer will facilitate the vacation leave process, guaranteeing a minimum of two weeks leave
time. 10 days prior to the vacation bid process commencement, a form outlining the procedure
for the bid will be sent to participating officers with a seniority list and a due date. The
Department will facilitate the selection of time off by officer seniority

Article 13: Extended Illness Bank (EIB)
• Bargaining Unit members shall accrue 2.66 hours of EIB each month for a total of 32 hours per
year. Up to a maximum of 520 hours of EIB from year to year. EIB hours will not be paid out
upon separation
Article 14: Bereavement Leave
• Employees will be provided 40 hours of Bereavement Leave with pay for an absence due to a
death of an immediate family member. The duration of such leave must be approved by the
Employer
Article 15: Injury Leave
• If an employee has been disabled due to an on-the-job injury and is entitled to receive benefits
under the Worker’s Compensation Law of the State of Colorado for temporary partial disability or
temporary total disability, work time missed shall be charged as injury leave. Injury leave is paid
at the employee’s normal rate of pay for a maximum of 500 hours per injury. Injury leave pay will
be reduced by payments provided by other sources (e.g., Social Security). The employee shall
submit to the Employer evidence of such payments
•

Employees who exhaust the 500 hours of injury leave may be eligible to continue

•

to receive compensation at a rate as authorized by the Worker’s Compensation Act

•

An employee who is injured while on duty and/or acting within the scope of their employment
with the Employer will be entitled to injury leave

Article 16: Wages
• Retroactive to January 1, 2025, Transit Police Officers and Transit Police Corporals will receive a
five percent wage increase. On January 1, 2026, Transit Police Officers and Transit Police

Packet Pg. 6

4.A

Corporals will receive a four percent wage increase. On January 1, 2027, Transit Police Officers
and Transit Police Corporals will receive a four percent wage increase
Article 17: Overtime, Compensatory Time, And Other Paid Time
• The designated work period for all employees covered by this agreement shall be a seven-day
period with an overtime threshold of forty (40) hours. Hours worked in excess of the designated
work period shall be paid at the rate of one and half (1.5) times the employee’s regular rate of
pay
•

Employees may, at their discretion, elect to receive compensatory time in lieu of payment for
overtime. Compensatory time shall be earned in accordance with the Fair Labor Standards Act.
The maximum number of compensatory time hours that an employee may accumulate shall be
limited to 40 hours of compensatory time

•

As RTD does not currently have the capability to track compensatory time within its human
resources information system, the agency intends to work with a third-party contractor to create
such a tracking function. RTD currently anticipates it will be able to complete the required
updates to its human resources information system and offer compensatory time to bargaining
unit members within six months of Board approval of this agreement. If RTD experiences delays
related to the buildout of a compensatory time tracking system, it will notify the Union and
provide an updated good faith timetable for implementation

Court Time, Administrative Hearing Compensation and Jury Pay
•

“Court Time” shall mean any time spent attending a hearing involving criminal, civil, or traffic
cases to which the employee has been subpoenaed or summoned. Court time shall also mean
required meetings with the District Attorney’s office outside of the employee’s regular scheduled
shift

•

This Article does not apply to appearances at hearings involving internal discipline or involving
private or personal matters not related to employment with the Employer

•

An employee who is placed “on-call” by the Employer shall receive one hour of pay for every
eight hours, he or she is placed on call, at the employee’s regular hourly pay rate. In addition,
employees recalled to service shall receive a minimum of two hours at their overtime rate
including drive time

•

Transit Police Corporals who are assigned to work as an Acting Sergeant as a result of a
separation or approved leave of another employee shall be paid 10% above their base hourly rate.
In all other instances where a Transit Police Corporal is assigned to work as a Sergeant, they shall
be paid one hour of their overtime rate for every 10 hours worked as a Sergeant

Article: 18 K-9 Care/Field Training Officer Pay
• Bargaining unit members who work as K-9 officers shall receive their regular rate of pay for all
time they are assigned as K-9 officers and shall receive one additional compensated hour per shift
to compensate them for the care and maintenance of the K-9

Packet Pg. 7

4.A

•

Any Transit Police Officer that is assigned to serve as Field Training Officer shall receive two
hours at their overtime rate for each day that they are assigned a trainee

Article 19: Reimbursements
• The Employer will provide all required uniforms and equipment to newly hired employees and will
operate a quarter master system for the replacement of lost, destroyed or no longer serviceable
uniforms and equipment. Newly hired officers shall be reimbursed up to $800 for the purchase of
their duty weapon
Article 20: Insurance
• Health Dental and Vision Insurance. Health, dental and vision insurance plan premium contribution
percentages (employee/employer split) that exist in accordance with Employer Policy shall apply
to all bargaining unit employees for the duration of this Agreement
•

Basic Life Insurance, Supplemental Term Life Insurance, Long Term Disability and Voluntary
Accidental Death and Dismemberment. Bargaining unit members shall be eligible for these
benefits as provided by Employer policies

Article 21: Line of Duty Death
• When an employee is killed in the line of duty and eligible for such benefits as defined by the
state Workers’ Compensation Act, the employee’s family shall be eligible for reasonable funeral,
burial or cremation expenses incurred
•

When an employee is killed in the line of duty, the Employer will pay to the deceased officer’s
spouse or beneficiary designated on the Life Insurance Enrollment and Change Form provided by
the Employer the officers’ accrued paid time off at the time of his or her death as well as the paid
time off that would have been accrued for the remainder of the year in which the officer’s death
occurs

Article 22: Grievance Procedure
•

Employees who have completed one year of service beginning on the date they receive their
badge number may file and process grievances in strict conformity with the procedure and
provisions of this Article. Any grievance shall be filed in writing by a Union steward on behalf of
the grievant

•

Any Union Steward on behalf of an employee may seek redress or adjustment of grievances or
complaints by discussion with Labor Relations

•

A “grievance” is defined as a dispute raised by an employee or the FOP concerning the
interpretation or application of the express provisions of this Agreement. A grievance shall not
include a claim relating to a claim of discrimination, harassment, hostile work environment, failure
to accommodate, or retaliation, which shall be reported, investigated and resolved in accordance
with the procedures established by the Employer for such matters

•

Authority of the Arbitrator. The arbitrator shall have no authority or jurisdiction to amend,
modify, nullify, ignore, add to, or subtract from the provisions of this Agreement. The arbitrator

Packet Pg. 8

4.A

shall consider and decide only the question of fact as to whether there has been a violation of a
specific provision(s) of the Agreement. The arbitrator shall be empowered to issue a decision
concerning only the issue raised by the grievance as submitted in writing at Step 3(b), above. The
arbitrator shall have no authority or jurisdiction to render a decision on any issue not so submitted
or raised. If the decision or award of the arbitrator is rendered within the limitation of this
Section, it shall be binding upon the Employer, FOP, the grievant and the employees covered by
this Agreement

•

In arbitrations challenging discipline arising out of allegation of excessive force, illegal search,
unlawful detention, racial profiling, fabrication of evidence, and making knowingly false
statements, the arbitrator shall have no authority to reinstate the officer, adjust discipline, or
award backpay unless the arbitrator concludes that the officer did not commit the alleged act(s).
In addition, in arbitrations challenging the above-described allegations, the arbitrator shall have no
authority to consider the officer’s complimentary history, length of employment, length of career
as a police officer, or any other collateral effects of the discipline

•

Any grievant may, upon request, be represented by a Union steward at any level of this grievance
procedure except arbitration. At arbitration a grievant shall be represented by a representative of
the FOP or its counsel, with the approval of the FOP, but no employee may be represented by
any representative of any employee organization other than the FOP

Article 23: Retirement
• The Employer will offer to all bargaining unit members a 401(a) plan with the Employer
contributing a percentage of the employee’s annual salary consistent with the Employer’s existing
policy. The Employer will also continue to offer a 457(b) deferred contribution plan with the
employee being responsible for all contributions to that plan
Article 24: Severability
• Should any Article, Section or portion(s) thereof this Agreement be held unlawful and
unenforceable by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall apply only to the
specific Article, Section or portion(s) thereof directly specified in the decision, and the remaining
parts of portions of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect
Article 25: Exclusiveness of The Agreement
•

This Agreement constitutes the complete and entire Agreement between the parties and
concludes collective bargaining between the parties for its term. This Agreement supersedes and
cancels all prior practices and agreements, whether written or oral, which conflict with express
terms of this Agreement

•

All obligations of RTD under this Contract that require funding are subject to prior annual
appropriations of monies expressly made by the RTD Board of Directors for the purposes of this
Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed by either the Union or RTD as a
multiple fiscal year obligation as described by Article X, Section 20 of the Colorado Constitution.
The Employer shall immediately notify the FOP in writing, if during the course of the Employer’s
annual budget preparation the Employer reasonably believes the Employer will be unable to

Packet Pg. 9

4.A

appropriate adequate monies to meet the Agreement’s fiscal obligations. Concurrent with such
notice, the Employer shall also enter good faith negotiations with the FOP regarding any
mandatory subjects of collective bargaining relating to the potential impact of non-appropriation
Article 26: Applicability of Employer Policy
• In the event of a conflict between this Agreement and the Employer’s Policies, as they may be
changed from time to time, this Agreement shall govern. In the event that an issue is not
addressed in this Agreement, but is addressed in Employer Policy, Employer Policy shall govern
Article 27: Strike and Lockout
• There shall be no strike, sympathetic or otherwise, walkout, slowdown or work stoppage of any
nature by any employee during the term of this Agreement. There shall be no lockout by the
Employer during the term of this Agreement
Article 28: Term
• This Agreement shall be effective upon approval by RTD’s Board of Directors and shall terminate
at 11:59 p.m. on December 31, 2027. In the event the Parties do not reach an agreement prior
to the expiration of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall continue to be in effect
until a subsequent agreement is ratified
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The increased cost of the FOP Lodge 72 CBA for 2025 is $850,000 and has been included in the Boardapproved 2025 Budget. The incremental additional FOP Lodge 72 CBA costs in 2026 and 2027 are
$714,000 and $743,000, respectively, and have been included in the 2025-2029 Five-year Financial
Plan (FYFF) with request for Board appropriation to occur during the 2026 and 2027 fiscal year
budgeting process. This financial impact is predicated on the CBA terms and does not include any
related compression adjustments for non-represented Transit Police staff.

ATTACHMENTS:
•

RTD-FOP Tentative Collective Bargaining Agreement 2025-2027

•

FOP Results of Ratifiation 03.11.25

(PDF)

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Kent Enwright, Interim Human Resources Manager
Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 10

4.A

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 11

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION
DISTRICT,
AND
FRATERNAL ORDER OF POLICE,
LODGE #72
2025-2027

Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: RTD-FOP Tentative Collective Bargaining Agreement 2025-2027 (5095 : Inaugural Collective Bargaining Agreement with Fraternal

4.A.a

Table of Contents

PREAMBLE..................................................................................................................... 3
ARTICLE 1 ...................................................................................................................... 3
DEFINITIONS ................................................................................................................. 3
ARTICLE 2 RECOGNITION/REPRESENTATION ......................................................... 4
ARTICLE 3 MANAGEMENT RIGHTS ............................................................................. 4
ARTICLE 4 FOP RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES .................................................... 5
ARTICLE 5 FOP MEMBER DUES .................................................................................. 6
ARTICLE 6 SENIORITY ................................................................................................. 7
ARTICLE 7 HOURS OF WORK ...................................................................................... 7
ARTICLE 8 JOB OPPORTUNITY ANNOUNCEMENTS ................................................. 8
ARTICLE 9 ADMINISTRATIVE INVESTIGATIVE PROCEDURES ................................ 8
ARTICLE 10 DISCIPLINE .............................................................................................. 9
ARTICLE 11 HOLIDAYS ................................................................................................ 9
ARTICLE 12 PAID TIME OFF (PTO) ........................................................................... 10
ARTICLE 13 EXTENDED ILLNESS BANK ................................................................... 11
ARTICLE 14 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE.......................................................................... 11
ARTICLE 15 INJURY LEAVE ........................................................................................ 11
ARTICLE 16 WAGES .................................................................................................... 12
ARTICLE 17 OVERTIME, COMPENSATORY TIME, AND OTHER PAID TIME ........... 13
ARTICLE 18 K-9 CARE/FIELD TRAINING OFFICER PAY........................................... 15
ARTICLE 19 REIMBURSEMENTS .............................................................................. 15
ARTICLE 20 INSURANCE ............................................................................................ 15
ARTICLE 21 LINE OF DUTY DEATH ........................................................................... 16
ARTICLE 22 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE .................................................................... 16
ARTICLE 23 RETIREMENT .......................................................................................... 20
ARTICLE 24 SEVERABILITY....................................................................................... 21
ARTICLE 25 EXCLUSIVENESS OF THE AGREEMENT.............................................. 21
ARTICLE 26 APPLICABILITY OF EMPLOYER POLICY .............................................. 22
ARTICLE 27 STRIKE AND LOCKOUT ........................................................................ 22
ARTICLE 28 TERM ...................................................................................................... 22

2
Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: RTD-FOP Tentative Collective Bargaining Agreement 2025-2027 (5095 : Inaugural Collective Bargaining Agreement with Fraternal

4.A.a

PREAMBLE
This Collective Bargaining Agreement (Agreement) entered into on this_______
day of ___, 202____, between Regional Transportation District of Denver, Colorado
(Employer) and the Fraternal Order of Police Lodge 72 (FOP). It is the purpose of this
Agreement to establish a productive relationship between the Employer and its
employees and to set compensation and certain other conditions of employment. It is
understood that this Agreement was negotiated in good faith to protect the health, safety,
and welfare of the public by assuring at all times the orderly and uninterrupted operations
and services of the Employer and shall not be violated or abridged in any way by either
party.
ARTICLE 1
DEFINITIONS
The following definitions shall apply to this Agreement:
Agreement – The Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Employer and FOP.
Bargaining Unit - All Transit Police Officers and Transit Police Corporals working for the
Employer and who have completed field training.
Chief – Chief of Police or their designee.
Employer – Regional Transportation District of Denver, Colorado.
Employee/Member – Any employee who is included in the bargaining unit.
Immediate Family Member—relatives by blood, marriage (including stepfamily
members, and in-laws), or a civil union to include spouse or partner, children, parents,
grandparents, grandchildren, and siblings of an employee or employee’s spouse or
partner.
Overtime Rate – shall mean the rate arrived at by multiplying the member’s regular hourly
rate by one and one half (Hourly rate x 1.5).
Union/FOP - Fraternal Order of Police, Lodge 72.

3
Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: RTD-FOP Tentative Collective Bargaining Agreement 2025-2027 (5095 : Inaugural Collective Bargaining Agreement with Fraternal

4.A.a

ARTICLE 2
RECOGNITION/REPRESENTATION
1.
Recognition. The Employer recognizes the FOP as the sole and exclusive
bargaining agent for the bargaining unit.
2.
Union Membership. No employee shall be required to become a
member of the FOP as a condition of employment or continued employment by the
Employer, and the Parties to this Agreement shall not discriminate against any
employee on account of their membership or non-membership in the Union. All eligible
employees may or may not join the Union, at the individual employee’s discretion.
3.
Terminology. All terms used herein denominating gender shall be generic
and, whenever appropriate, the singular shall include the plural and the plural shall
include the singular. Words used in this Agreement, regardless of the gender specifically
used shall include any other gender as the context indicates is appropriate.
ARTICLE 3
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
1.
It is mutually agreed that the Employer shall have the sole right to manage
the Department as provided by law, including, but not limited to, the right to change the
level or nature of services provided by the Employer to the extent authorized by law.
2.
Except where limited by express provisions of this Agreement, nothing in
this Agreement shall be construed to restrict, limit, or impair the rights, powers and any
applicable laws of the State of Colorado. These rights, powers and authority include but
are not limited to the following:
a.
b.
c.
d.
e.
f.
g.

The right to direct the employees of the Department, and the right to
hire, transfer, promote, or lay off any Department employee
The right to discipline, suspend, demote, or discharge for just cause;
The right to relieve employees from duty because of a reduction in
force or other proper reasons;
The right to schedule hours and require overtime work;
The right to establish, modify, or change work schedules;
The right to allocate and assign work to all employees within the
Department;
The right to determine the number of classifications and staffing of
classifications, staffing levels; and,

4
Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: RTD-FOP Tentative Collective Bargaining Agreement 2025-2027 (5095 : Inaugural Collective Bargaining Agreement with Fraternal

4.A.a

h.
i.
j.
k.
l.

m.

The right to establish work rules, policies, and procedures pertaining
to the operation of the Department;
The determination of the Department’s policy, including the right to
manage the affairs of the Department in all respects;
The determination of policies affecting the selection and training of
employees;
The determination of the safety, health and property protection
measures of the Department;
The right to organize or reorganize the Department in any manner it
chooses, including the determination of the size of the Department
and determination of job classification and ranks based upon duties
assigned;
The determination of the Department budget, organization, and the
merits, necessity and level of any activity or services provided.

This statement of management rights, powers, duties and authority is not exclusive
of other functions not herein contained, provided, however, that the exercise of these
functions shall not be in conflict with the express terms of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 4
FOP RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
1.
Use of Inter-department Mail and Email. The FOP shall be allowed to
use the Employer’s mail and email system to announce scheduled FOP meetings and to
provide communications not otherwise prohibited by Employer policy. Meetings between
the FOP and the Employer must be mutually agreed to each time by the FOP and the
Employer. Use of Employer mail is restricted to access to employee physical mailboxes.
2.
Orientation. On a quarterly basis and at a time determined by RTD and
the FOP, two (2) members designated by the FOP shall be permitted to address any
newly hired employee(s) in the bargaining unit about FOP membership and benefits. The
FOP shall be permitted to make such presentation while in paid status if the orientation
occurs during the FOP member’s regular duty hours, but such presentation shall not
exceed one (1) hour.
3.
Current Agreement. The Employer shall make a copy of this Agreement
available on the Employer’s electronic database accessible by all employees.
4.
Union Business. The FOP shall be given a bank of sixty (60 hours of paid
time off per year for its Officers, Executive Board Members, and Stewards, all of whom

5
Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: RTD-FOP Tentative Collective Bargaining Agreement 2025-2027 (5095 : Inaugural Collective Bargaining Agreement with Fraternal

4.A.a

must be bargaining unit members, to conduct all necessary Union business on behalf of
the FOP. The paid time off may only be used for administering quarterly FOP new hire
orientations, to serve as a representative of another member, to attend grievance and
labor - management meetings, and to briefly (< 5 min and not during roll-calls) speak to
members while on duty about issues related to the administration of the Agreement and
their rights under it as long as such conversations do not unduly disrupt the operations of
the Department and with prior approval of the employee’s supervisor. In the final year of
this Agreement, the FOP shall be given an additional bank of sixty (60) hours of paid time
off that may only be used to attend collective bargaining negotiations. The hours of paid
time off will be equitably used between the above-listed members, with the understanding
that some FOP business will be conducted on the employee’s own time. It is the Union’s
responsibility to manage the use of Union leave. Because such activities are for the
benefit of the FOP and its members, time spent on these activities shall not constitute
hours worked for the purpose of calculating overtime. The above-listed members shall
enter time spent on Union leave time in the Employer’s timekeeping system.
ARTICLE 5
FOP MEMBER DUES
1.
The FOP shall provide to the Employer and the Employer shall accept a
signed dues and continued deduction authorization form from any member of the FOP
covered by this Agreement, in the amount of the monthly dues uniformly assessed by the
FOP as certified by the Treasurer of the FOP as being the proper amount. Such
authorization shall remain in full force and effect unless a member of the bargaining unit
revokes any such authorization by written notice to the Employer’s Human Resources
Department or other designated Employer representative who will send a copy to the
FOP.
2.
Deduction of FOP dues shall be made on each paycheck following the pay
period in which the authorization was received. Deductions provided herein shall be
remitted to the Treasurer of the FOP no later than twenty (20) working days following the
payment date in which deductions were made.
3.
The Employer shall not be liable to the FOP, by reason of the requirements
of this Article, for the remittance of payment of any sum other than that constituting actual
deductions made from employee wages earned. The FOP shall indemnify, defend and
hold harmless the Employer and its officials, representatives and agents against any and
all claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability (monetary or otherwise) and for all
reasonable costs for counsel that shall arise out of or by reason of action taken or not
taken by the Employer in complying with the provisions of this Article provided that the

6
Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: RTD-FOP Tentative Collective Bargaining Agreement 2025-2027 (5095 : Inaugural Collective Bargaining Agreement with Fraternal

4.A.a

Employer does not initiate the action. If an improper deduction is made, the FOP shall
refund any such amount directly to the employee.
ARTICLE 6
SENIORITY
Unless otherwise stated, seniority for the purpose of job bidding and other rights
shall be determined by Badge Number which shall be issued when the employee is sworn
in as a Transit Police Officer. For Transit Police Officers who graduated from their
respective Academy in the same cycle, Badge Numbers shall be assigned based upon
the test score achieved by the Officer on the P.O.S.T. Examination. In the event one or
more employees are hired as a lateral or P.O.ST. certified officer on the same date, the
lowest employee ID number shall be used to determine seniority.
ARTICLE 7
HOURS OF WORK
1.
Hours of Work. Employees shall work four (4) ten (10) hour shifts per week,
unless staffing levels are such that the Employer cannot provide 24/7 coverage.
2.
Hours. Employees assigned shall work forty hours per week subject to Article
17, Section 3 (Assignment of Mandatory Overtime) and Article 7, Section 2 (Hours during
Emergencies).
3.
Hours during Emergencies. The Employer reserves the right to assign work
not subject to the requirements of Article 7, Section 1 (Hours) and Article 17, Section 3
(Assignment of Mandatory Overtime) when there is a major incident or a public safety
emergency that requires an immediate law enforcement response. The Employer shall return
to normal hours of work as soon as practical following the incident or public safety
emergency.
4.
Patrol Bid. Bargaining unit members assigned to patrol shall bid annually for
job assignments, shifts and days off in accordance with their seniority. Bids shall be
submitted through an Employer issued ballot. Bidding shall be completed on or before
October 15th of the calendar year. Probationary employees shall be placed in positions
following the bid at the discretion of the Chief.
5.
Meal Breaks. Employees shall be provided a sixty (60) minute paid meal break
for each shift, provided that employees shall be subject to recall during their meal break.
Employees will not be paid any additional compensation if they are not able to take their meal

7
Packet Pg. 18

Attachment: RTD-FOP Tentative Collective Bargaining Agreement 2025-2027 (5095 : Inaugural Collective Bargaining Agreement with Fraternal

4.A.a

break. The sixty (60) minutes may be taken as determined by the employee’s immediate
supervisor.
6.
Mid-Year Vacancy. When a bidded assignment is vacant either due to
promotion or separation of employment, the position shall be posted for bid by eligible
employees. The bid shall remain open for a minimum of ten (10) calendar days (excluding
holidays and weekends), and after the bid period expires, the position shall be awarded to
the most senior bidder.
7.
Re-Bids. Employees may only bid for the first vacancy created as a result of
an employee’s exercising of their rights under Article 7, Section 6.
ARTICLE 8
JOB OPPORTUNITY ANNOUNCEMENTS
The Employer shall notify all members of sworn officer job opportunities via e-mail
before a selection decision is made. For purposes of this article, job opportunity shall have
the meaning as defined in the Colorado Equal Pay for Equal Work Act.
ARTICLE 9
ADMINISTRATIVE
INVESTIGATIVE PROCEDURES
1.
Conduct of Investigations. The Department shall conduct all internal
investigations in accordance with Department Policy, state and federal law, and the
provisions of this Agreement. When there is a conflict between Administrative Policy and
this Agreement, the language of this Agreement shall control.
2.
FOP Representatives. Bargaining unit members shall be entitled to have
an available FOP representative where the employee is the subject of the investigation
or at an interview by RTD personnel that may result in formal discipline. Only when the
employee is the subject of a criminal investigation and associated workplace investigation
shall the employee be permitted to bring an attorney to the interview. Any FOP
representative or attorney present during any of the above-listed interviews shall not
interfere with the interview. The FOP shall not designate any individual as a
representative if the individual has a conflict of interest or if their presence would
otherwise undermine the integrity of an investigation. Under no circumstances shall the
request for the presence of a representative or attorney be used to delay the interview.
Bargaining unit members are not entitled to have an FOP representative or attorney
present during routine personnel management affairs, including but not limited to

8
Packet Pg. 19

Attachment: RTD-FOP Tentative Collective Bargaining Agreement 2025-2027 (5095 : Inaugural Collective Bargaining Agreement with Fraternal

4.A.a

constructive feedback conversations, performance management meetings, or nondisciplinary counseling sessions.
3.
Notice of Complaint. A notice of complaint shall be prepared and provided
to the accused bargaining unit member in any Internal Investigation as soon as possible
but no less than twenty-four (24) hours prior to the member’s Internal Affairs Interview.
The notice shall include the allegations made against the member, a list of possible
violations, and the member’s rights and responsibilities relative to the investigation,
including but not limited to their right to FOP representation.
4.
Garrity Warning. Bargaining Unit Members who are compelled to provide
an administrative statement by the Chief shall be provided a written Garrity warning
requiring them to answer questions in lieu of possible job forfeiture.
ARTICLE 10
DISCIPLINE
Discipline shall be defined as a written reprimand, suspension, demotion, or
termination. Discipline shall be for just cause. The authority to discipline officers shall rest
solely with the Employer. The Employer shall generally employ a system of progressive
discipline, provided that the Employer may terminate an employee if it is warranted under the
circumstances.
ARTICLE 11
HOLIDAYS
1.
Recognized Holidays. The following are recognized holidays for all
employees:
a.
New Year’s Day (January 1)
b.
Martin Luther King Jr. Day
c.
President’s Day (third Monday in February)
d.
Memorial Day (last Monday in May)
e.
Juneteenth (June 19th)
f.
Independence Day (July 4)
g.
Labor Day (first Monday in September)
h.
Thanksgiving Day (fourth Thursday in November)
i.
Friday after Thanksgiving
j.
Christmas Day (December 25)

9
Packet Pg. 20

Attachment: RTD-FOP Tentative Collective Bargaining Agreement 2025-2027 (5095 : Inaugural Collective Bargaining Agreement with Fraternal

4.A.a

For each of the above listed holidays, employees will receive eight (8) hours of straight
pay.
2.
Floating Holiday. Employees with less than ten (10) years of service with
the Employer will be provided four (4) ten (10) hour floating holidays per year.
Employees with ten (10) years of more of service with the Employer shall receive five (5)
ten (10) hour floating holidays per year.
3.
Working on a Holiday.
Employees who must work any recognized
holiday will be compensated for the holiday at one-and-on-half times their regular rate
of pay for any hours worked if they have worked forty hours, including the holiday time
off, that week.
ARTICLE 12
PAID TIME OFF (PTO)
1.
PTO Leave Accrual. Paid time off (PTO) hours are accrued on a pro-rated
basis effective on the date of hire. PTO hours accrued within a month are not available
for use until the month following the accrual. Employees are not able to use PTO hours
in advance of accrual.
2.
PTO Accrual Rate. The following schedules shall be used to calculate the
amount of PTO an employee accrues for years of continuous service with the Employer
and how much an employee can accumulate based on years of service:
Years of Continuous
Employer Service
0-2 years
3-5 years
6-9 years
10-14 years
15-19 years
20+ years

Accrual Rate Hours
Per Year
160 hours
176 hours
208 hours
224 hours
240 hours
256 hours

Maximum
Accumulation
320 hours
352 hours
416 hours
448 hours
480 hours
512 hours

3. Use of PTO. Vacation Leave shall be used in accordance with Employer
Policy. Employees wishing to use PTO must obtain prior approval from the Employer.
4. Annual Vacation Bid. Shift and job rotations occur annually. As soon as
shift assignments and the scheduling software schedules are finalized, the Employer will
facilitate the vacation leave process, guaranteeing a minimum of two weeks leave time.

10
Packet Pg. 21

Attachment: RTD-FOP Tentative Collective Bargaining Agreement 2025-2027 (5095 : Inaugural Collective Bargaining Agreement with Fraternal

4.A.a

The available number of continuous weeks available for the bid varies by year and is
based on minimum staffing requirements. Ten days prior to the vacation bid process
commencement, a form outlining the procedure for the bid will be sent to participating
officers with a seniority list and a due date. The Department will facilitate the selection of
time off by officer seniority. Vacation bid shall be conducted in December of the year prior
to the use of the bid vacation.
ARTICLE 13
EXTENDED ILLNESS BANK
1.
EIB Accrual- Bargaining Unit members shall accrue 2.66 hours of EIB
each month for a total of thirty-two (32) hours per year.
2.
EIB Maximum Accrual. Employees may accrue a maximum of 520 hours
of EIB from year to year. EIB hours will not be paid out upon separation.
ARTICLE 14
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
1.
Bereavement Leave. Employees will be provided forty (40) hours of
Bereavement Leave with pay for an absence due to a death of an immediate family
member. The duration of such leave must be approved by the Employer. Bereavement
Leave cannot be carried over into the following calendar year and has no cash value. The
Employer may request reasonable documentation to verify eligibility for Bereavement
Leave.
ARTICLE 15
INJURY LEAVE
If an employee has been disabled due to an on-the-job injury and is entitled to
receive benefits under the Worker’s Compensation Law of the State of Colorado for
temporary partial disability or temporary total disability, work time missed shall be charged
as injury leave as follows:
If an employee misses work due to an on-the-job injury, the employee is permitted
to be off work only when a designated physician has certified the time off as related to the
injury, in writing, prior to the taking of the time off. In cases involving an emergency, the
Officer’s physician’s certification for time off must be received as soon as practical.
An employee’s leave time will be charged to injury leave unless there is some
question as to whether the claim will be admitted for liability by the Employer. Injury leave
is paid at the employee’s normal rate of pay for a maximum of five hundred (500) hours

11
Packet Pg. 22

Attachment: RTD-FOP Tentative Collective Bargaining Agreement 2025-2027 (5095 : Inaugural Collective Bargaining Agreement with Fraternal

4.A.a

per injury. Injury leave pay will be reduced by payments provided by other sources (e.g.,
Social Security). The employee shall submit to the Employer evidence of such payments.
If a question arises concerning liability for the claim, leave time will be charged to
the employee’s accrued PTO, EIB, or other leave balance until there is an admission of
liability. If an admission of liability is entered, the employee’s PTO, EIB, or other leave
time will be reinstated.
Appointments for treatment related to an on-the-job injury must be made outside
normal working hours; time absent due to medical appointments cannot be charged to
injury leave. If scheduling appointments outside of normal work hours is not possible due
to the medical provider’s schedule, time missed for the length of the medical appointment
only (not travel time) may be charged to injury leave.
Injury leave shall terminate after five hundred (500) hours or as it applies below:
1) On the date a ruling of permanent disability is made.
2) At such time as the employee is declared capable of performing their normal
duties by the primary authorized treating physician.
3) At such time as the employee is declared capable of participating in the
Employer’s light duty program by a designated physician, if a light duty
assignment is available.
4) When the employee reaches maximum medical improvement (MMI).
Employees who exhaust the five hundred (500) hours of injury leave may be
eligible to continue
to receive compensation at a rate as authorized by the Worker’s Compensation Act.
An employee who is injured while on duty and/or acting within the scope of their
employment with the Employer will be entitled to injury leave.
ARTICLE 16
WAGES
Retroactive to January 1, 2025, Transit Police Officers and Transit Police
Corporals will receive a five percent (5%) wage increase. On January 1, 2026, Transit
Police Officers and Transit Police Corporals will receive a four (4) percent (4%) wage
increase. On January 1, 2027, Transit Police Officers and Transit Police Corporals will
receive a four percent (4%) wage increase.

12
Packet Pg. 23

Attachment: RTD-FOP Tentative Collective Bargaining Agreement 2025-2027 (5095 : Inaugural Collective Bargaining Agreement with Fraternal

4.A.a

ARTICLE 17
OVERTIME, COMPENSATORY TIME, AND OTHER PAID TIME
1.
Work Period. The designated work period for all employees covered by
this agreement shall be a seven (7) day period with an overtime threshold of forty (40)
hours. Hours worked in excess of the designated work period shall be paid at the rate of
one and half (1.5) times the employee’s regular rate of pay. There shall be no duplication
or pyramiding of overtime pay and employees shall not be paid more than once, for more
than one reason or under more than one provision of this Agreement for the same hours
worked.
2.
Call-back Time. Call-back is additional time worked that requires the
employee to return to a work site after the end of, or prior to the beginning of, their
scheduled shift; or to return to a work site on a regular scheduled day off. Employees
who are called back to work shall be paid a minimum of five (5) hours or actual hours
worked, whichever is greater at the overtime rate. This section shall not apply when an
employee is directed to come in immediately before or remain at work immediately
following their scheduled shift.
3.
Assignment of Mandatory Overtime. Subject to Article 7, Section 2, when
the Employer determines that officers must work mandatory overtime, the Department
shall first solicit volunteers to work the mandatory overtime shifts. If there are insufficient
volunteers, the Department shall employ a rotating reverse seniority system for the
assignment of mandatory overtime. Once Bargaining Unit Members have been required
to work mandatory overtime, they shall go to the bottom of the list and the next least
senior officer shall be assigned to work the overtime. Bargaining Unit Members who are
notified with less than seventy-two (72) hours of notice of the need for them to work
mandatory overtime, shall be paid double time for the entire mandatory overtime shift
where they did not receive the required notice unless prior notice is not possible due to
unforeseeable or emergency circumstances.
4.

Compensatory Time
a.

Employees may, at their discretion, elect to receive compensatory
time in lieu of payment for overtime. Compensatory time shall be
earned in accordance with the Fair Labor Standards Act. The
maximum number of compensatory time hours that an employee
may accumulate shall be limited to forty (40) hours of compensatory
time.

13
Packet Pg. 24

Attachment: RTD-FOP Tentative Collective Bargaining Agreement 2025-2027 (5095 : Inaugural Collective Bargaining Agreement with Fraternal

4.A.a

5.

b.

An employee, who has accrued compensatory time, may request the
use of such time by submitting the appropriate leave request.

c.

As RTD does not currently have the capability to track compensatory
time within its human resources information system, the agency
intends to work with a third-party contractor to create such a tracking
function. RTD currently anticipates it will be able to complete the
required updates to its human resources information system and
offer compensatory time to bargaining unit members within six
months of Board approval of this agreement. If RTD experiences
delays related to the buildout of a compensatory time tracking
system, it will notify the Union and provide an updated good faith
timetable for implementation.

Court Time, Administrative Hearing Compensation and Jury Pay
a.

“Court Time” shall mean any time spent attending a hearing involving
criminal, civil, or traffic cases to which the employee has been
subpoenaed or summoned. Court time shall also mean required
meetings with the DA’s office outside of the employee’s regular
scheduled shift.

b.

This Article does not apply to appearances at hearings involving
internal discipline or involving private or personal matters not related
to employment with the Employer.

c.

If an employee, outside of his or her regular scheduled shift, reports
for Court Time or an administrative hearing for which he or she was
subpoenaed or summoned, and is called off en route or upon arrival
at that location, then the employee shall be paid a minimum of two
(2) hours. Should any overtime occur, such pay can also be
converted into compensatory time.

d.

Any employee who is required to serve as a juror in a Federal, State,
County or Municipal Court during the employee's regular work hours
shall be granted jury leave with pay to serve in such capacity. An
employee who is called for jury duty shall present to the employee’s
supervisor the original summons from the court, and at the
conclusion of such duty, a signed statement from the clerk of court
or other evidence showing the actual time of attendance at court. For

14
Packet Pg. 25

Attachment: RTD-FOP Tentative Collective Bargaining Agreement 2025-2027 (5095 : Inaugural Collective Bargaining Agreement with Fraternal

4.A.a

the purposes of this Section, such jury leave shall be considered to
be with pay if the Employer pays the employee the difference
between the employee’s regular salary and any jury fees paid to the
employee, exclusive of meals and travel expenses.
6.
On-call Pay. An employee who is placed “on-call” by the Employer shall
receive one (1) hour of pay for every eight (8) hours, he or she is placed on call, at the
employee’s regular hourly pay rate. In addition, employees recalled to service shall
receive a minimum of two (2) hours at their overtime rate including drive time.
7.
Out of Classification Pay. Transit Police Corporals who are assigned to
work as an Acting Sergeant as a result of a separation or approved leave of another
employee shall be paid ten percent (10%) above their base hourly rate. In all other
instances where a Transit Police Corporal is assigned to work as a Sergeant, they shall
be paid one (1) hour of their overtime rate for every ten (10) hours worked as a Sergeant.
ARTICLE 18
K-9 CARE/FIELD TRAINING OFFICER PAY
1.
K-9 Pay. Bargaining unit members who work as K-9 officers shall receive
their regular rate of pay for all time they are assigned as K-9 officers and shall receive 1
additional compensated hour per shift to compensate them for the care and maintenance
of the K-9.
2.
Field Training Officer Pay. Any Transit Police Officer that is assigned to
serve as Field Training Officer shall receive two (2) hours at their overtime rate for each
day that they are assigned a trainee.
ARTICLE 19
REIMBURSEMENTS
The Employer will provide all required uniforms and equipment to newly hired
employees and will operate a quarter master system for the replacement of lost,
destroyed or no longer serviceable uniforms and equipment. Newly hired officers shall
be reimbursed up to eight hundred dollars ($800) for the purchase of their duty weapon.
ARTICLE 20
INSURANCE

15
Packet Pg. 26

Attachment: RTD-FOP Tentative Collective Bargaining Agreement 2025-2027 (5095 : Inaugural Collective Bargaining Agreement with Fraternal

4.A.a

1.
Health Dental and Vision Insurance. Health, dental and vision insurance
plan premium contribution percentages (employee/employer split) that exist in
accordance with Employer Policy shall apply to all bargaining unit employees for the
duration of this Agreement. Should premium contribution percentages change for nonbargaining unit Employer employees in accordance with Employer Policy, those
premium contribution percentages shall also apply to bargaining unit employees.
2.
Basic Life Insurance, Supplemental Term Life Insurance, Long Term
Disability and Voluntary Accidental Death and Dismemberment (AD&D). Bargaining
unit members shall be eligible for these benefits as provided by Employer policies.
ARTICLE 21
LINE OF DUTY DEATH
1.
When an employee is killed in the line of duty and eligible for such benefits
as defined by the state Workers’ Compensation Act, the employee’s family shall be
eligible for reasonable funeral, burial or cremation expenses incurred.
2.
When an employee is killed in the line of duty, the Employer will pay to the
deceased officer’s spouse or beneficiary designated on the Life Insurance Enrollment
and Change Form provided by the Employer the officers’ accrued paid time off at the
time of his or her death as well as the paid time off that would have been accrued for the
remainder of the year in which the officer’s death occurs.
ARTICLE 22
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
1.

Filing
a.

Employees who have completed one year of service beginning on
the date they receive their badge number may file and process
grievances in strict conformity with the procedure and provisions of
this Article. Any grievance shall be filed in writing by a Union steward
on behalf of the grievant.

b.

Any Union Steward on behalf of an employee may seek redress or
adjustment of grievances or complaints by discussion with Labor
Relations.

c.

Any grievance that proceeds to arbitration must be approved by the
FOP.
16
Packet Pg. 27

Attachment: RTD-FOP Tentative Collective Bargaining Agreement 2025-2027 (5095 : Inaugural Collective Bargaining Agreement with Fraternal

4.A.a

d.

2.

Wherever the word “days” is used in this Article and is not
otherwise specified, that word shall mean calendar days excluding
weekends and holidays.

Definition. A grievance, as defined in this Agreement, is:
A “grievance” is defined as a dispute raised by an employee or the FOP
concerning the interpretation or application of the express provisions of this
Agreement. A grievance shall not include a claim relating to a claim of
discrimination, harassment, hostile work environment, failure to
accommodate, or retaliation, which shall be reported, investigated and
resolved in accordance with the procedures established by the Employer
for such matters.
a.

Any grievance must be in writing on the grievance form developed
by the Employer and the FOP and must contain each of the following
items:
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.
v.
vi.

vii.
viii.
b.

3.

The matter complained of;
The date(s) on which the matter complained of occurred;
The individuals involved;
The sections or the provisions of the Collective Bargaining
Agreement alleged to be violated;
The disposition sought by the aggrieved employee;
The signature of the filing Union Steward and the employee
who claims to be aggrieved by the matter being complained
of and whom any remedy shall apply;
Tracking information to track the dates;
The date of the grievance.
A grievance that fails to comply with the requirements detailed above
shall be defective and shall be rejected. The rejected grievance shall
be returned to the employee with a copy to the FOP President. The
aggrieved party shall have five (5) calendar days (excluding holidays
and weekends) from the date the grievance was returned to the
employee to correct the defect and resubmit the grievance or it shall
be deemed untimely.

Procedure. The grievance procedure shall be as follows:

17
Packet Pg. 28

Attachment: RTD-FOP Tentative Collective Bargaining Agreement 2025-2027 (5095 : Inaugural Collective Bargaining Agreement with Fraternal

4.A.a

4.

a.

The grievance form must be presented to Labor Relations, in written
form, in accordance with the conditions set in the Definitions Section
of this Article, within fourteen (14) calendar days (excluding
weekends and holidays) from the first date on which the incident or
event giving rise to the grievance occurred. After the grievance is
presented to Labor Relations, the Employer shall give their written
answer to the grievance within fourteen (14) calendar days
(excluding weekends and holidays) from the date the grievance was
filed.

b.

If the employee is not satisfied with the answer provided by the
Employer, the employee may request a meeting with RTD’s Labor
Relations Manager, or their designee, to hear such grievance. The
Labor Relations Manager, or their designee, shall answer the
grievance in writing within seven (7) calendar days (excluding
weekends and holidays) of the date on which the meeting was held.

c.

If the employee is not satisfied with the answer provided by the Labor
Relations manager or their designee, the FOP may request
arbitration of the dispute within fourteen (14) calendar days
(excluding weekends and holidays) of the date the Labor Relations
Manager or their designee rendered the decision.

d.

Promptly after receiving demand for arbitration, the parties shall
attempt to agree upon an impartial arbitrator to hear the dispute. If
the parties are unable to agree upon an arbitrator within fourteen (14)
calendar days (excluding holidays and weekends), the parties shall
jointly request the American Arbitration Association to submit a panel
of seven (7) arbitrators. Each party retains the right to reject one
panel in its entirety and request that a new panel be submitted. Both
the Employer and FOP shall have the right to alternatively strike
names from the panel with the party requesting arbitration striking
the first name. The person remaining shall be the arbitrator. The
arbitrator shall be notified of his/her selection and shall be requested
to set a time and place for the hearing, subject to the availability of
the Employer and FOP representatives. The Employer and FOP
have the right to request the arbitrator to require the presence of
witnesses and/or documents. The Employer and FOP retain the right
to employ legal counsel.

Binding Arbitration
18
Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: RTD-FOP Tentative Collective Bargaining Agreement 2025-2027 (5095 : Inaugural Collective Bargaining Agreement with Fraternal

4.A.a

a.

Authority of the Arbitrator. The arbitrator shall have no authority or
jurisdiction to amend, modify, nullify, ignore, add to, or subtract from
the provisions of this Agreement. The arbitrator shall consider and
decide only the question of fact as to whether there has been a
violation of a specific provision(s) of the Agreement. The arbitrator
shall be empowered to issue a decision concerning only the issue
raised by the grievance as submitted in writing at Step 3(b), above.
The arbitrator shall have no authority or jurisdiction to render a
decision on any issue not so submitted or raised. If the decision or
award of the arbitrator is rendered within the limitation of this Section,
it shall be binding upon the Employer, FOP, the grievant and the
employees covered by this Agreement.

b.

Authority of the Arbitrator in Certain Matters. In arbitrations where the
grievant challenges disciplinary action arising out of allegations of
excessive force, illegal search, unlawful detention, racial profiling,
fabrication of evidence, making knowingly false statements that are
material to an incident, the arbitrator shall have no authority to
reinstate the grievant, adjust discipline, or award backpay unless the
arbitrator concludes that the grievant did not commit the alleged
act(s). Additionally, in determining whether discipline was for just
cause the arbitrator shall only have authority to consider whether the
provisions of Article 22 (Grievance Procedure) were followed,
whether the grievant committed the alleged act(s), and whether the
discipline was proportional to the act(s). In the circumstances
described in this paragraph, the arbitrator shall have no authority to
consider any other information, including but not limited to the
grievant’ s complimentary history, length of employment, length of
career as a police officer, or any other collateral effects of the
discipline.

b.

The arbitrator shall submit his/her decision in writing within thirty (45)
calendar days (excluding holidays and weekends) following the close
of the hearing or the submission of the briefs by the parties,
whichever is later. Any party may elect to submit a post-hearing brief
within 15 calendar days (excluding holidays and weekends) of an
arbitration. More than one grievance may be submitted to the same
arbitrator if both parties mutually agree in writing.

19
Packet Pg. 30

Attachment: RTD-FOP Tentative Collective Bargaining Agreement 2025-2027 (5095 : Inaugural Collective Bargaining Agreement with Fraternal

4.A.a

c.

Expenses of Arbitration. The fees and expenses of the arbitrator and
the cost of a written transcript shall be divided equally between the
Employer and the Union; provided, however, that each party shall be
responsible for compensating its own representatives and witnesses.

5.

Time Limits. No grievance shall be entertained or processed unless it is
submitted at Step 3(a), above, within fourteen (14) calendar days (excluding
holidays and weekends) after the first occurrence of the event giving rise to
the grievance. If a grievance is not presented or appealed within the time
limits set forth above, it shall be considered “waived” and may not be further
pursued by the employee or the Union. If a grievance is not appealed to the
next step within the specific time limit or any mutually agreed extension in
writing, it shall be considered settled on the basis of the Employer’s last
answer. If the Employer does not answer a grievance or an appeal thereof
within the specified time limits, the FOP may elect to treat the grievance as
denied at that step and immediately appeal the grievance to the next step.
If mutually agreed upon in writing, the parties may waive one or more steps
of the grievance procedure.

6.

Miscellaneous Provisions
a.

No reprisals shall be taken against any participant in any grievance
procedure because of such participation.

b.

Any grievant may, upon request, be represented by a Union steward
at any level of this grievance procedure except arbitration. At
arbitration a grievant shall be represented by a representative of the
FOP or its counsel, with the approval of the FOP, but no employee
may be represented by any representative of any employee
organization other than the FOP.

c.

The processing of any written grievance filed under this Agreement
shall be, whenever reasonably possible, during non-working time of
the aggrieved employee and the FOP representative involved, if any.
ARTICLE 23
RETIREMENT

The Employer will offer to all bargaining unit members a 401(a) plan with the
Employer contributing a percentage of the employee’s annual salary consistent with the

20
Packet Pg. 31

Attachment: RTD-FOP Tentative Collective Bargaining Agreement 2025-2027 (5095 : Inaugural Collective Bargaining Agreement with Fraternal

4.A.a

Employer’s existing policy. The Employer will also continue to offer a 457(b) deferred
contribution plan with the employee being responsible for all contributions to that plan.
ARTICLE 24
SEVERABILITY
Should any Article, Section or portion(s) thereof this Agreement be held unlawful
and unenforceable by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall apply only
to the specific Article, Section or portion(s) thereof directly specified in the decision, and
the remaining parts of portions of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
Upon the issuance of such a decision, the parties agree immediately to commence
negotiations for a substitute for the invalidated Article, Section or portion(s) thereof.
However, if the parties are unable to agree within thirty (30) days following the
commencement of the negotiations then the matter shall be postponed until contract
negotiations are reopened. This thirty (30) day time period may be extended at the mutual
agreement of the Employer and the FOP.
ARTICLE 25
EXCLUSIVENESS OF THE AGREEMENT
This Agreement constitutes the complete and entire Agreement between the
parties and concludes collective bargaining between the parties for its term. This
Agreement supersedes and cancels all prior practices and agreements, whether written
or oral, which conflict with express terms of this Agreement.
The Employer and the FOP, for the duration of this Agreement, each voluntarily
and unqualifiedly waives the right, and each agrees that the other shall not be obligated
to bargain collectively with respect to any subject or matter referred to or covered in this
Agreement, including the impact of the Employer’s exercise of its rights as set forth herein
on wages, hours or terms and conditions of employment. In so agreeing, the parties
acknowledge that, during the negotiations which resulted in this Agreement, each had the
unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any
subject or matter not removed by law from the area of collective bargaining, and that the
understandings and agreements arrived at by the parties after the exercise of that right
and opportunity are set forth in this Agreement.
All obligations of RTD under this Agreement that require funding are subject to
prior annual appropriations of monies expressly made by the Board of Directors of RTD
for the purposes of this Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed by
either the Union or RTD as a multiple fiscal year obligation as described by Article X,
Section 20 of the Colorado Constitution. The Employer shall immediately notify the FOP
21
Packet Pg. 32

Attachment: RTD-FOP Tentative Collective Bargaining Agreement 2025-2027 (5095 : Inaugural Collective Bargaining Agreement with Fraternal

4.A.a

in writing, if during the course of the Employer’s annual budget preparation the Employer
reasonably believes the Employer will be unable to appropriate adequate monies to meet
the Agreement’s fiscal obligations. Concurrent with such notice, the Employer shall also
enter into good faith negotiations with the FOP regarding any mandatory subjects of
collective bargaining relating to the potential impact of non-appropriation.
ARTICLE 26
APPLICABILITY OF EMPLOYER POLICY
In the event of a conflict between this Agreement and the Employer’s Policies, as
they may be changed from time to time, this Agreement shall govern. In the event that an
issue is not addressed in this Agreement, but is addressed in Employer Policy, Employer
Policy shall govern.
ARTICLE 27
STRIKE AND LOCKOUT
There shall be no strike, sympathetic or otherwise, walkout, slowdown or work
stoppage of any nature by any employee during the term of this Agreement. There shall
be no lockout by the Employer during the term of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 28
TERM
This Agreement shall be effective upon approval by RTD’s Board of Directors and
shall terminate at 11:59 p.m. on December 31, 2027. In the event the Parties do not reach
an agreement prior to the expiration of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall
continue to be in effect until a subsequent agreement is ratified.

22
Packet Pg. 33

Attachment: RTD-FOP Tentative Collective Bargaining Agreement 2025-2027 (5095 : Inaugural Collective Bargaining Agreement with Fraternal

4.A.a

Attachment: FOP Results of Ratifiation 03.11.25 (5095 : Inaugural Collective Bargaining Agreement with Fraternal Order of Police Lodge 72)

4.A.b

Packet Pg. 34

