2025-03-12
Special Board Meeting
SPEAKER: But my guess is that it's probably-JULIEN BOUQUET: I will now call the Wednesday, March 12 special board meeting to order. We are
convened as of 4:18 PM. Thank you all for your patience. I would respectfully ask everyone to remain muted
unless you're recognized to speak. I will now call the roll. Director banker. Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET:: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET:: Director Caitlin.
PEGGY CAITLIN: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET:: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET:: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Director Gutschenritter. Not-- he's going to be absent. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'm present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: I'm here.
JULIEN BOUQUET:: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET:: Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET:: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET:: Director Ruscha. Director Whitmore.

TROY WHITMORE: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET:: I currently have 13 present and two absent. We do have a quorum. I would like to
open public comment to anyone who would like to address the Board. If you wish to speak and have not
already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone.
During this time, the Board will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, we would like to be- however, if you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please make sure that you
email the RTD Board at rdt.directors@rdt-denver.com.
Mr.-- oh, excuse me. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you're dialed in, press star 6 to
toggle your mute settings. Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you're being recorded.
If you do not wish to be recorded, then your comments will need to be submitted via writing.
Comments can be submitted to the Board at the following email address, rdt.directors@rdt-denver.com.
Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names, and each speaker will be given two minutes
to speak. Mr. Kroll, do we have anyone in the queue?
JACK. KROLL: There are no individuals present in the room or online who have raised their hand in
indication that they wish to provide public comment.
JULIEN BOUQUET:: Excellent. And were there any emailed comments received for today?
JACK KROLL: There was one emailed comment, and this is-- excuse me-- there were two email comments,
one in relation to the eco pass program from a land in Hilliard, and additional comment was submitted, in
which the individual wanted to provide commendation to the Board and to RTD. And both of these will be
entered into the record with this meeting.
JULIEN BOUQUET:: Thank you, sir. With no other-- well, with no other public participation.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: [INAUDIBLE]

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Guzman. With no other participants in the queue, we'll close the
public comment period at this time. There's one recommended action on the agenda this afternoon. That
item is for the inaugural or collective bargaining agreement with the Fraternal Order of Police Lodge 72.
This is for the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO to execute a three-year
collective bargaining agreement with the Fraternal Order of Police Lodge 72, or the FOP Lodge 72, effective
January 1, 2025, through December 31, 2027. Do we have a motion?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET:: Whitmore is the mover. And I have-PATRICK O'KEEFE: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek second.

JULIEN BOUQUET:: I will give it to O'Keefe as the second. All right. Perfect I would like to ask Ms. Debra
Johnson, our General Manager and CEO, and Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer, to present this item.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Greetings to all that are assembled, both here in this
meeting space and virtually. As introduced, I'm Debra Johnson. Serve as the General Manager and Chief
Executive Officer. It gives me immense pleasure to be before you with my colleagues this afternoon, as we
seek authorization from this body for me, in my capacity as the General Manager and CEO, to execute a
three-year collective bargaining agreement with the Fraternal Order of Police, Lodge 72.
You often hear me talk about that we are people in the people business, where people moving, where
people securing people, where people supporting people. And one thing that's quite evident as we look at
the individuals that comprise this agency is that we clearly have a one RTD mindset that we've been working
towards, as we have our strategic plan and our vision to be the trusted leader in mobility, delivering
excellence and value to our customers and community. I'd like to say that the bargaining team for RTD, as
well as for FOP, Lodge 72, clearly exhibited that one RTD mindset and that collectiveness.
This afternoon, I am joined by my colleagues on the RTD management bargaining side as well as those in
the audience that represent FOP 72. And I'd like to acknowledge Charlene Polege, who will be presenting.
She's our Chief People Officer. Associate General Counsel, Marcus Barrington, who served as the Chief
Negotiator for the agency in this endeavor, and then Kent Enwright, our Manager of Labor Relations.
These individuals clearly showcase what it can be when we lean in with the ultimate purpose of ensuring
that we have agency that puts people first in relationship to what we are about to hopefully witness with
your action. So at this juncture, I'm going to yield the floor to Ms. Polege and our colleagues, whom I just
introduced to go through the collective bargaining agreement for your edification. Thank you very much,
Mr. Chair.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Thank you. As introduced, Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer. I have with me,
as GM and CEO, Johnson indicated, two members of the bargaining committee on the management side.
I would like to also acknowledge, though, that we had acting Chief Steve Martingano, as well as
Commander Broderick Fowler. Also served on that committee, and they worked collaboratively with the
Fraternal Order of Police Lodge 72. I'd also like to acknowledge that we have members from that executive
for the FOP.
And this body may recall that we had come-- gave an update earlier, where we had acknowledged that the
FOP had agreed to the lay bargaining for this inaugural agreement while we were concluding our
negotiations with the Amalgamated Transit Union 1001. And I just want to acknowledge that because that
is evidence of their willingness to work collaboratively with us.
They have done so every step of the way and have really demonstrated that I think both sides by having
six days of bargaining scheduled and only requiring three in order to achieve the agreement that you have
before you. So I just really wanted to acknowledge that this is not something that could have been done by
one side alone. And I really wanted to thank them for their willingness to work with us.
So with that, just a high level, we have the-- in your package, you have a detailed recommended action
report. That report has a tremendous amount of detail for every article we wanted to-- because it's an
inaugural agreement, we wanted to summarize the essence of each one of those articles.

In addition, you also have the full agreement before you. We'll be happy to answer specific questions that
you may have, but I would just like to call out that there is provisions for wages certainly that would take
effect as of January 1, 2025. For a moment, I thought I was in '26. I don't know why. And so that represents
the three-year contract, with 5% in the first year, 4% in the second, and 4% in the third.
There are also significant provisions related to time, compensatory time, leave time. It's a very challenging
role that our sworn officers undertake. And making sure that they have time available to take care of their
health and wellness is critically important, and that is recognized here, as well as things that you would
traditionally see in an agreement, in a unionized agreement around seniority. We have a grievance process
that both sides have agreed to and other standard articles that you would see. So I think at this point, I
would pause to see and take any questions that there may be.
JULIEN BOUQUET:: Directors, any questions at this time? Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Appreciate it. In terms of the compensatory time tracking, I noticed in there that we
don't-- the system is being outsourced for tracking that. What's the timeline look like for implementation
there and what's going to happen in the meantime until that system is in place?
CHARLENE POLEGE: Thank you for the-- can I go ahead, Sheriff? Sorry. Thank you for the question,
Director Nicholson. So we have a couple of things that we're going to need to do from a housekeeping
perspective to bring this contract into fruition. It's not unusual. We can't plan in ahead for any conditions
that haven't been bargained. That said, during bargaining and during negotiations, the team did check with
our payroll team to see what we could do and how we could track it.
So tracking will be manual for the short term. And we'll work through, and we'll work collaboratively with the
FOP on exactly how we're going to report that time. But ultimately, it'll be built into workday. There will be
a whole new, I'll say, tenant, but in our HRIS, that's dedicated solely to transit police. We anticipate through
our work with a consultant that that'll take-- for that full cycle would be 6 months. If we can do it sooner,
great, but we're committing to a six-month time frame.
JULIEN BOUQUET:: Secretary.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. I appreciate that. That makes sense. You also mentioned that the
projections in there don't include compression adjustments for the nonunion transit police. How much do
you see that impacting the financial implications of the agreement?
CHARLENE POLEGE: Thank you. We did not include that, but we have run those numbers. And that's
approximately $55,000.
JULIEN BOUQUET:: Thank you, Secretary. Thank you, Ms. Polege. Any other directors? And I don't see
any hands online regarding questions. Any comments from directors? Yes, Secretary.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Sorry to be that guy. I just wanted to say that in terms of the grievance limitations in
Article 22, I was really impressed with both the work of your team and the FOP. We want to set a high
standard for the quality of the individuals and the quality of the performance of our officers.
More so now than ever, people need to trust the police. And the way that that is written basically says, if
there's any evidence of significant violations, then the arbitrators can't just go back and say, you're
reinstated. So I really appreciated the thought that was put into that on your part and the FOP's willingness
to come to the table on those provisions.

JULIEN BOUQUET:: Thank you, Secretary, for your comments. OK. Well, I'll wrap us up then with some
comments. And I just wanted to just say a huge thank you to all that have been involved. This is exciting,
having an inaugural CBA go forward with this agency. I will be addressing this during our media event later,
but some things to highlight is a sworn officer starting pay will be brought to over $77,000. Correct. It also
looks like it will lift starting pay for Academy recruits to $71,000.
So we're not only people moving people, but we are transitioning to people protecting people, and that's
excellent to see. And I think this CBA is going to allow for a better welcoming transit environment for RTD.
I think that this is going to be recruiting the best individuals possible.
I've really appreciated the transition that the agency has done, transitioning to having our transit police force
as present as they have been. And there has been great improvement, and I think we're just going to build
upon that improvement. So thank you all. This is a very exciting time. So those would be my closing
remarks.
All right. So let's-- I did have Director Whitmore as the mover and Director O'Keefe as the second. Are there
any-- no votes on this action. OK, seeing none, the motion will pass 13 to 0 and two absent. So
congratulations. Let's give round of applause for that.
[APPLAUSE]

Would also-- prior to us adjourning, I will note that we'll have our regular scheduled OSS committee meeting,
Operation Safety and Security, at 5:30 PM later this evening. So with that, any motion-- with any further
discussion? Do I have a motion to adjourn?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET:: All right. I have Director Guzman as the motion to adjourn. All right. Thank you all.
Congratulations.

