2021-06-08
Communications & Government Relations
Committee
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, I'll give this just a few more seconds, and we'll call the meeting to order.
OK if everyone's ready, the Communication and Government Relations Committee will now come to
order. I'm Lynn Guissinger, chairing the committee. We're convened as of 7:18 PM on June 8, 2021. I
would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to
speak. I'm not going to repeat all of these introductory comments but I would note that this meeting is
being held remotely and is being held via Zoom and is audio and video recorded. The meeting
recordings, along with the unofficial minutes will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website,
and you can find them there.
I think that we have gone through all of the other introductory information. Tonight we do have one
recommended action but we are going to start before that with an update from our Citizens Advisory
Committee and I believe Matt Appelbaum is here to give us that update. Are you there Matt?
Perhaps not. I'm looking to see if Matt is with us-- he was with us earlier. We can always come back to
him if he's stepped away, and maybe we should do that. All right. We will come back and see if Matt is
with us in a little bit.
We do have one recommended action tonight. Our first recommended action is the system advertising
contract for the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her authorized
designee, to execute all documents necessary to negotiate and enter into a contract with Lamar Transit
for the system advertising program agreement, in an amount not to exceed $63 million during the base
10-year term and a 70% revenue share to RTB, above the minimum annual guarantee, with two five-year
options. Do we have a motion?
BOB BROOM: Of approval.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Second, Director Lewis.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom I hear, is the movement and Director Lewis is the second.
At this time, I'd ask staff to present any pertinent information regarding this action. Is that you, Miss
Tonilas?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes Madam Chair, thank you so much. And hello, everybody. Just real quickly
wanted to hit a couple of key points about this. So we've had a system advertising contract of course, for
many years this has been external and internal bus and rail advertising on vehicle. So we have talked for

the past number of years about enhancing that by including a digital display component to that, that gives
us the opportunity to share customer information digitally and also generate additional revenue for the
agency.
So the three main goals are obviously giving us a chance to enhance the customer experience by
providing real-time relevant information to our customers. These would be service impacts, rider alerts,
special events, anything going on in a particular community, and also generating additional revenue, but
then unifying our existing public information displays that we have out of the system. So perhaps you've
seen those along the US36 corridor. In alignment with our Flatiron Flyer service or in Denver Union
Station.
So it's unifying the system that manages the data and the content for those screens with these new
screens that we're going to see deployed across major transit stations and hubs. And so those are our
main goals. I am tag teaming this with one of my colleagues, Adrian Mabry. Who is the manager of
contracts and projects, so I'm going to turn it over to Adrian to just give a very brief overview of the
procurement for this enhanced approach to system advertising. Adrian?
ADRIAN MABRY: Good evening my Board of Directors, thank you, AGM Tonilas. The procurement
process for this-- we've been looking at this process since about 2017, doing research and building our
level of knowledge around the digital advertising world. RTD released a digital-only RFP in 2018. Based
on the responses and the market at that point in time, we pulled that RFP-- that procurement back, and
made the active decision to combine our advertising approach as we're doing here with this system
advertising.
We did some additional-- we presented an additional RFI to receive some more information that informed
the final RFP, which was published late last year. And we've gone through a procurement process. We
received four proposals from vendors. One was determined to be immediately nonresponsive because it
was mostly just a price sheet for services that were peripherally related to advertising. Three of the
proposals were evaluated. An additional one was determined to not really meet the technical
specifications to go through the full evaluation.
And so the selection committee evaluated two proposals, and as we went through that proposal process,
both through the evaluation of the technical proposals presentations by those two companies and
reference checks and follow-up conversations with several other transit agencies who are using-- were
utilizing services from both of those companies, the unanimous decision from the group has been to
recommend Lamar Transit be entered into negotiations for the system advertising program.
PAULETTA TONILAS: And with that, Madam Chair, we're happy to answer any questions that the Board
has.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, thank you. If you have questions, Board members, please raise your virtual
hand. I don't believe anybody's calling in, but if you are it would be nice to use star-9. Questions or
comments? Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair, I have two questions. The first is, do we have a-- legal right
is not the right word-- ability to pull an advertisement in the event that it doesn't align with RTD?
PAULETTA TONILAS: We actually have an advertising policy, and I'm going to toss this to Adrian to
answer that.
ADRIAN MABRY: We have a commercial advertising policy that provides specific direction to the
allowable advertising, both external on our vehicles as well as at our stations and platforms. So that policy
is published on our website as well as was included in the RFP and it delineates that the real pivotal point
to the policy is that advertising must promote the sales, goods and services. And so that really focuses in
on commercial advertising. There are a number of categories such as tobacco and inappropriate content
that are excluded, regardless of whether they're for commercial. So the policy that was revised in 2016
and updated again in 2018 has been looked at pretty thoroughly and does provide, I think what you're
looking for, which is really protections around the content that's out there on our stations and platforms.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks, and the second-- which I would be remiss if I didn't ask, given my statements
earlier this evening-- is do we, when someone chooses to no longer advertise with RTD, be it through
Lamar or otherwise, do we have an exit interview or do they have to give a reason why?
ADRIAN MABRY: We don't generally find-- we don't really have a policy around folks, or companies as it
were, that no longer advertise with us and understanding why that is. That really-- that conversation
would reside more with the advertising partner who's doing the sales and implementation process. It
would certainly be something that we could work with them on if there were a substantial advertiser who
decided to move away. My understanding of the relationship that the advertising company has with
advertisers and the agencies that they work with is that they probably do ask that question and
understand why an advertiser no longer is spending money. But in most cases it largely has to do with an
advertiser no longer deciding to continue with a particular campaign.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK, thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Any other questions or comments? OK, we will move to the vote. Are there any
"No" votes on this action? No? Did I see a hand?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Just-- Chair Guissinger, thank you. I will be abstaining from this vote for industry
conflict of interest.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, thank you. That is Director Davidson that is abstaining. Any "No" votes? No?
OK then, Director Broom has his hand up. Director Broom, let's see-- Why am I not seeing you? Your
hand is up as a no vote?

BOB BROOM: No, I just had a question.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
BOB BROOM: As it pertains to the A Line and the affiliation with the University of Colorado, could we
have a brief explanation in that?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Actually, yes. I was going to brief the Board on that in the next item, which is the
overall communications update. I had a couple of highlights I wanted to share with some matters. So
Director if you you're OK, I can mention that in just a couple of minutes with—
BOB BROOM: That would be fine. Thank you.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Now are there any "No" votes? No. OK, in that case, the motion passes. It was
moved by Director Broom and seconded by-- who was it seconded by? Director Lewis, right. Thank you.
And we have one abstention from Director Davidson for a potential conflict of interest. All righty. We have
two discussion items-- I do not see Matt Appelbaum unless I'm missing you. Matt, let me know. He may
have had to go earlier. Communications report. Again, AGM Tonilas.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes, thank you very much, Madam Chair. This will be quick because you have the
materials in your packet. I just wanted to highlight a couple of things for the Board's awareness. So we're
doing a lot of community connection, a lot of engagement right now for various purposes. One of them will
be as we kickstart the fare study and equity analysis, we'll be doing an overarching region-wide telephone
town hall meeting on Wednesday, June 30 with General Manager Johnson and others that will start the
conversation about the fare study, and start getting input.
Because this phase will be about getting input from our customers, our stakeholders, that will help inform
our process and the RFP for the consultant that will work with us on the fare study. So we have that. We
also are going to be doing some outreach at the Meet in the Street event that will be over the 4th of July
weekend. The Major League Baseball all-star weekend we'll be doing similar outreach and engagement
at that. And then already working with some community-based organizations to get some outreach
through those mechanisms. Also, another big outreach event we're doing this month is, we'll be holding a
couple of meetings to talk about safety and to talk about the safety of our system as more people start to
come back to transit and are returning to the office.
We want to let them know that we're ready, that riding RTD is safe. As was mentioned earlier, there has
been-- I think it was Director Williams, used this as a safety moment that there has been zero evidence
that has tied contracting COVID back to riding transit, and so we want to share with the public those great
pieces of information. So we'll be doing two virtual meetings later this month-- June 24th and 25th. Also,
our public hearings for the September service change.

So this will be the draft service plan that the Board will hear next week. We'll release that for public
comment, and that will be happening. Reimagine RTD, and then also the Board member annual
telephone town hall meetings and that aligns really well with some of the input we're going to want to get
about the Reimagine RTD process and other things that the directors want to talk about. And those will be
more in the September, October time frame so I just wanted to outline that because those will be big
engagement things that we have coming up in the coming months. And then Director Brewer mentioned
about the University of Colorado A Line, as you know, we recently celebrated the 5th anniversary.
It's worth noting that during COVID, during the pandemic, the A Line was really the best performing
commuter rail line in the country. And this was reported in a report at TRB, the Transportation Research
Board, in January. So our A Line has been very well performing all through COVID it as it relates to
maintaining our ridership.
But one thing is, the University of Colorado A Line name will be changing down the road because we
have recently heard from our partners at the University of Colorado that they don't plan on renewing the
agreement we have with them for naming rights. So we are going to be actively recruiting someone out
there, some company, that might want to enter into an agreement with us. The current agreement with
the University of Colorado will go through next May 2022, but we're going to be actively soliciting takers
that are interested in working with us. And our overarching naming rights policy is available of course, for
any rail line, any service, any station, so if you all have ideas, send them my way. Adrian also is my
partner in that, and so Adrian I will be leading the team on working through that. And that is really just a
very quick high-level report and I'm happy to answer any questions that you might have.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you so much, Pauletta. Do we have questions, comments? Anything on the
communications report? Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much. I just-- it's OK if I ask a question about the report packet?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Of course.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, I was looking at page 20 and I just wanted-- if you could go into a little detail, I
was looking at the most common complaint types that we receive as an agency. Could you just dive a
little bit deeper in what looks like as general discourtesy?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Right, OK, great. That's an excellent question Director. So, what all bounds into
the general discourtesy. It can be anything from our operators who might be rude or who might say
something that didn't sit well with someone, it could be any other of our staff. It could be a Customer Care
agent, it could be someone who was in a virtual meeting and was not pleased with how an RTD
representative addressed something. So it's really a myriad of things that get into that particular category
of general discourtesy.

JULIEN BOUQUET: And so just to clarify-- it was just general discourtesy from an RTD staff member or—
PAULETTA TONILAS: Correct. Correct.
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right, OK. Thank you very much for the clarification.
PAULETTA TONILAS: You're welcome.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, if I may?
LYNN GUISSINGER: You may, thank you. Go ahead.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you and I apologize that my hand has disappeared from my toolbar. I guess
because I left it up so long before it decided it was going to retire early for the evening.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You've been punished.
DOUG TISDALE: In any event, relative to the statistics concerning complaints received, I was wondering,
does that incorporate any interaction that is reported to us through the Transit Watch app?
PAULETTA TONILAS: No it doesn't. That's a great question and a great point, but it doesn't. How we
compile this data is through our new sales force customer relationship management system that we just
launched-- actually over the past months. And it's been wonderful to have sales force because it's very
nimble and easy to navigate and easy for us to pull information and reports.
But the Transit Watch app is separate. It's a separate platform. That doesn't, however, mean that we can't
figure out a way to integrate the holistic comments. We are actually working with our various internal
partners to come up with more of a comprehensive report back to the Board for all customer comments,
because you get quarterly, I believe it is, the report on the bus services, the comments related to that. So
we had a team meeting this week where we'll be coming back to you with a little more of a
comprehensive report and we can take a look at how the Transit Watch app comments fit into that.
DOUG TISDALE: Excellent. Thank you very much.
PAULETTA TONILAS: You're welcome.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Anyone else? Dr. Lewis. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. I just have a quick question about-- similar
to Director Bouquet's comment-- are we using any of the data that you all are collecting? Specifically
when folks are asking about reinstatement of services-- to inform how our services are reinstated as we're
coming out of the pandemic? Well, I don't know if we're coming out of it, but things are changing.

PAULETTA TONILAS: So the questions and the comments that we get-- I think, Director Lewis, what you
might be referring to is through the public feedback mechanism related to our service changes, is that
correct?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Well it was actually on-- it was the slide or the packet page-- I probably should find
it for you-- it says here the most frequent complaints that you all are-- most frequent calls, I'm sorry-- that
you all receiving and I'm curious-- the one that says the request to reinstate service, if that's being used to
actually reinstate service.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, actually, great. I see what you mean now. The category comments about
not enough service route, line suspended, those items also I will check on that because I don't see any
reason why we can't integrate those with informing the service change process that Jessie Carter and his
team can take into consideration.
DEBRA JOHNSTON: So if I may, Madam Chair, make a comment. Most definitely we can leverage that. I
was not aware that we weren't utilizing that. But recognizing what Miss Tonilas has said, I believe there is
an opportunity for us to consolidate data, and as she indicated, we have been talking about that because
right now we provide that to you in disparate fashions. And I would like to see as we move forward that it's
combined. It gets back to our previous meeting with the question that Director Davidson has posed, I
really think that we are data-rich and information-poor in the sense of utilizing it to make informed
decisions going forward. So that's something that I endeavor to do as we march down this path. So we
can ensure that we are making decisions with the intention to serve the betterment of the communities.
Thank you.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you so much, that's very helpful. Appreciate you both.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Anything else? OK, our next discussion item is our Government Relations report
which is being presented tonight by our Government Relations Officer, Michael Davies. I see a number of
our lobbyists and public affairs team are participating and I guess I would start off by saying today was
sine die, if I say it correctly, the legislature has gone home. So this is kind of a wrap up. Go ahead,
Michael.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes, thank you, Chair and members of the Board. Michael Davies, Government
Relations Officer, I'm going to give a quick report on Government Relations activities over the last couple
of months. And to get right into it, to start on the federal side, I just want to mention a big thank-you to
Senator Hickenlooper, Senator Bennet, Congressman Perlmutter. They were original authors and
sponsors of the Railroad Rehabilitation and Innovative Financing Equity Act, or the RRIF Equity Act, and
that is aka our credit risk premium authorization language that would return that credit risk premium from
the 2010 RRIF loan that RTD took out. So, that's good news.
Also the good news about that bill-- and I'd also add in that co-sponsors, representatives, to get Crow and
Congressman Buck also co-sponsored that legislation, so a big thank-you to them. The good news on

that is that legislation was included in the Chairman's bill for the five-year surface transportation
reauthorization bill. That was introduced on Friday and will actually be marked up tomorrow in the House
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. I'll go into that briefly in just a moment. But it was good
news that that language from there authorizing bill was included in the Chairman's bill.
With regards to the White House negotiations on the larger infrastructure package-- the president did call
off his negotiations with Senate Republicans earlier this afternoon. There was indication that he was
continuing negotiations with a broader bipartisan group of senators. No real sense of where that
negotiation is going to go, I don't think it necessarily means that a five-year surface transportation bill
doesn't move independently. And if negotiations on a larger infrastructure investment package goes
through that can be also incorporated into a surface transportation bill. So those things aren't necessarily
tied together, but can also integrate in moving further into the summer when Congress considers how
those two issues can be blended together.
The next thing I want to touch on is the reauthorization bill. Senate EPW, Environment and Public Works
Committee, they're in charge of the highway portion of the authorization bill. They passed their bill
already. That was on May 26th, and that was a 303 billion highway bill, and it's a little different in the
Senate, that the Senate separates out all of the portions of the larger surface transportation bill, so the
Senate has only passed the highway portion of it.
As I mentioned, tomorrow the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee will mark up the five
year Invest in America Act-- is the title of the bill-- and Chairman DeFazio, Peter DeFazio of the T&I
committee is the sponsor of that and that bill does incorporate all of the aspects of the traditional surface
transportation bill. Your transit title, your rail-- passenger rail title, the safety title, the highway title,
financing title does come later but T&I is in charge of all of those other policy pieces.
So for transit policy wonks out there, tomorrow is kind of like the Super Bowl of transit policy wonk.
There'll be lots of amendments and lots of debate at the federal level. I'm personally excited and looking
forward to watching, and of course we'll report back to the Board on what the outcome of that bill is.
Just generally, that bill is seen as a very good bill for transit. It does invest quite a bit more in transit than
we currently have. For example, FY22-- fiscal year 22-- if the bill will be passed, basically stays at our
current levels and then the new bill kicks in FY23. FY22's levels would be somewhere around $12 billion
for transit. FY23's levels would be more closer to $17 billion. So it's essentially a 70% increase in
investment in transit formula programs. And so that's good news for transit agencies like RTD. So we'll be
watching the bill closely.
There's a number of other-- besides the investment overall in transit-- there's some pieces to incentivize
bus frequency. There is grant programs that are created in that bill to grow bus programs above and
beyond just the useful life of your bus and retiring buses. And essentially it will give money to grow and
expand fleets outside of that useful life swap. So those are good news in terms of bus investment from
the federal government. I do want to mention the Prime Grant.

This is the-- it's a new grant program that was offered last year in the House Transportation Bill that did
not pass. They've renewed it and put it back in there again this year. This is the passenger rail-- the innercity passenger rail grant program that would invest in new inner-city passenger rail projects such as the
Front Range Passenger Rail project. So that grant program is funded at $25 billion over the five year bill.
That's a $5 billion increase over the House's proposal last year so, good to see that there's more money
being put into that program overall. They do put in some language that says priority will be given to
projects that incorporate regional planning, that have air quality benefits, and/or serve disadvantaged
communities. So just wanted to include that language for the Board's information, that they do have that
in there.
I think that that will conclude on the federal side of things. With regards to the state, the Chair indicated
that the General Assembly session has just about concluded, and that's good news. Overall, was a very
productive session for transportation. As you all know, May 24th the governor signed HB21-1186, that's
the Regional Transportation District Operations Bill. That was the accountability committee's
recommendations, and that bill was signed. SB-260 is the Sustainability of the Transportation System,
that's the large transportation investment bill that happened this session. And that's been signed and-sent to the governor's desk for signature. And then of course, the Front Range Passenger Rail Bill was
also approved by both Houses. So we'll be tracking that and keep the Board updated when those either
get signed or become law.
Lastly, I just want to highlight as a summary-- there were a number of bills that we have tracked over the
session. RTD did register fiscal note impacts on some of these bills. I think the good news, and as a
summary for the Board that we were able to resolve a lot of those issues. And either those bills were
amended to resolve the issues that RTD had with them, or those bills were postponed indefinitely. And
certainly I just want a big thank-you to Jennifer, Megan, and Julia of BBMK for their work this session, and
it was a good session for RTD. And I think with that, I will conclude my report, and happy to answer any
questions. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, thank you. Good report. Do you have questions for Michael or for any of our- we have BBMK and Patty Doersch and Mike Dino. Questions? Comments? I will comment that I agree
with Michael. It was a very good legislative session. There were some things-- kind of side pieces that
Michael was working on with Jenifer and Megan, but pieces that could have had some significant effects
for us. And so we appreciate all that good work and of course, our federal lobbyists are working hard,
continuing and making good progress. Finally, we hope on the RRIF CRP, so appreciate all of that. OK,
no questions no comments? Thanks, I think that's it for our discussion items. Last item we have is other
matters. I have one item, just an update but-- others with other matters?
Just a quick update on the Accountability Committee, that you have received the survey that they put out,
which started out as being much longer and I think the committee members asked that it be shortened.
So it's now, I think a 10 question survey. Attached to that are the full recommendations. If you have
questions you're welcome to go take the survey, you can encourage your constituents and others to take

the survey, and what will happen now-- that survey is open through June 15th. On June 14th at 8:30 AM-and I believe we've been sent the link to this too-- there is a public hearing where people can come in and
give oral comments. And from that on June 28 the committee will meet and make their recommendations
final.
The original proposal envisions that there would be a final report by July 1, so there will be. And then as a
reminder, it comes back to RTD, and staff and Board will be responding to the recommendations. If we
say no to anything, we're required in the proposal to give reasons for the no. And then I think there's no
date set for it, but the committee envisions coming back with RTD and I think with others potentially-- the
legislative leaders that put the committee together and the governor's office-- to go through any of the
items that we have said don't work for RTD, and why they don't, as a follow up.
So that will be sometime-- we have 45 days after July 1st or whenever the report is final, and then that
meeting will be sometime after that. So I encourage you to go and listen to the public hearing if you can,
8:30 AM on June 14th, and let us know if you have questions. Michael I think, is prepared to answer them
and Debra Johnson's been attending most of the meetings and Troy and I are happy to help. Thanks.
Broom-- Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yeah, I just had a comment, I guess. Since the legislature's done I'd like for our lobbyists
to come in and explain to us what a fee is and how RTD might be able to utilize fees to increase our
available funding. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, we can-- I'll talk with Michael Davies about that, and we can talk to our
lobbyists. That sounds like an interesting question. Mr. Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you Director Guissinger. Recognizing that 45 days, given there's 15 of us, is a
pretty short amount of time to come to consensus on what is currently like a 12 to 15 page document full
of recommendations. Do we have time on our calendars for July or August to do this? What is-logistically, what does this look like, or is this response coming from the General Manager and CEO, and
her team?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Miss Johnston, do you want to address that? We have discussed this—
DEBRA JOHNSTON: Yes we have. Thank you very much, Chair Guissinger and to you, Director Dishell.
In previous meetings when we've had this discussion, the optimal way in which I recommend we proceed
is for staff to lead the responses and share those with you all so you can make edits as you see fit. I think
that would be the most prudent course of action. It's very analogous to what we did when we received the
state audit and basically disseminated that information, recognizing there are 15 of you and more so,
some of these elements that have been put forth are from an operational vantage point of which we have
greater understanding and acumen in relationship to that. And I think with that is the backdrop, that would
facilitate the use of your time and enable you to have a laser focus in reference to editing or having
discussions pertaining to that. Thank you.

BOBBY DISHELL: Just a quick follow if I may. Is it less helpful for you and your team for us to wait to
provide comment until you all have time to digest, sort of put out to us, or is it more helpful for us to read
it, send our comments in, whether it's the Board Office or elsewhere, and then react on the front and back
end?
DEBRA JOHNSTON: So Director Dishell, if I may, I believe we could provide some guidance as it relates
to that. Because recognizing, as Chair Guissinger says, that my team and I have been attending the
meetings on a regular basis and I can say that I have been engaging with the Accountability Committee in
recommendations that were put forward in draft form received some input from us in the first place. So
recognizing we would not be starting at square one with just addressing the comments, we have already
done various work in relationship to that.
So I don't believe that the undertaking will be as arduous as one may think. So as we get to the point in
relationship to having a public hearing, and if those recommendations are refined, we in turn could put
forward a schedule that may be conducive to shore that up. And I will be working with Chair Guissinger as
well as with Director Whitmore, recognizing that they are the ad hoc-- not ad hoc, I meant to say ex
officio, members to the Accountability Committee to draft out the course of action. Thank you very much.
BOBBY DISHELL: Got it. Thank you so much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, great. Marjorie.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes this is not related to the Accountability Committee but another Board, our
Citizens Advisory Board, will that be put on a later agenda? And I hope Matt is all right.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I texted Matt but I haven't heard back. But he may have just-- it may have just
gotten later than he expected, but certainly we can bring him back at some other time. I think that would
be good. Great. Director Williams, I think I passed over you. I apologize.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, I wasn't going anywhere.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: I just wonder if you or Director Whitmore can comment on-- and I have a vested
interest in the status of the subregional councils because I know that the local coordinating councils are
very interested and are following that closely. So I just wonder if you have any comment on the status of
that part of the accountability committee's recommendations.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore doesn't, since he's not here, but-- and I guess I'm hesitant to
comment too much until I've talked more with staff. Although I do sense-- I do believe Miss Johnson, if

you want to add anything here that the staff finds the prospect interesting. And, you know-- devil's in the
details and-- do you have more to add to that Miss Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSTON: No, I would concede your point in the sense that the devil is in the details, and I
would like to see they come forward with because recognizing that there is a lot of different opinions as it
goes forward, and we're going through a public participation process. So I will refrain from commenting at
this juncture, recognizing I don't know what's contained therein.
KATE WILLIAMS: And I think—
LYNN GUISSINGER: Go ahead. I'm sorry, Miss Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I just wanted to make sure that we acknowledged interest from local groups.
LYNN GUISSINGER: We did comment to them that the LCCs and other local groups are interested and
should be considered to be members of that. They're turning-- the recommendation turns it over to RTD
to put together a stakeholder group, specifically looking at the geography. Is it travel sheds or is it Countybased geography? But I think in that process, that some of the other pieces would be finalized as well, if
we move that direction.
KATE WILLIAMS: Also, the TMAs. I want to give credit to them too, so thank you for that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure. Anything else? Our next meeting date is August 10th and nothing else from
anyone? We are adjourned.

