Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, June 09, 2009
Page 1 of 7

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

June 9, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee meeting held on Tuesday, June 09,
2009 in Rooms R, T & D
***

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Vice-Chair James, Director Bagley, Director Brohl, Director Chacon, Director
Christopher, Director Cohen, Director Daly, Director Kemp, Director Martinez, Director
McMullen, Director O’Boyle, Director Pulliam, Director Tobiassen

Director Busck, Director Tayer

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Phil Washington, Dave Genova, Scott Reed, Bruce Abel, Bill Porter, Liz
Telford, Bill Van Meter, Daria Serna, Carolyn Conover, Larry Buter, John Shonsey, Tony
McCaulay, Greg Yates, Cal Shankster, John Tarbert, Terry Howerter, Robert Merriman,
Dean Shaklee, Paula Perdue, Caitlin Magee

Others Present:

Jeff Leib, Rick McNeil, Bill Shockley (Owens Corning), Paul Courtois (Owens Corning)

Call to Order: Vice-Chair James called the meeting to order at 6:21 p.m. Director Cohen left early.
Director McMullen opened the meeting by giving a report on the tour of the Owens Corning plant. The plant
is very impressive, clean, and safety conscious. It is a very active place that creates jobs that would be
welcome in any community. This plant is a big asset to the community. Director McMullen felt that there
were some very good conversations and cleared up some miscommunications. He expressed hope for good
negotiations between RTD and Owens Corning that result in both companies getting their needs met. The
Board still has a decision to make about the Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility and Director McMullen
hopes that it works out for all parties involved. Director McMullen wanted to make it clear that RTD is not
doing away with anyone’s job. If the District does need to acquire property we will do our best to come up
with the best solution.
I.

Recommended Actions
a. Resolution No.____, Series of 2009 Authorizing the Execution and Delivery of a Reimbursement
Agreement, a Bank Note, a Second Supplemental Indenture and a Reoffering Memorandum
Relating to the District’s Outstanding Commercial Paper Notes, and Other Matters Related
Thereto

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, June 09, 2009
Page 2 of 7

It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the attached Resolution No.____, Series of 2009 authorizing the execution and
delivery of a Reimbursement Agreement, a Bank Note, a Second Supplemental Indenture and a
Reoffering Memorandum relating to the District’s outstanding Commercial Paper Notes, and
other matters related thereto.
b. Resolution No.____, Series of 2009 Authorizing the Execution and Delivery of a Supplemental
Indenture of Trust Relating to the District’s Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks Project),
Series 2006A
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the attached Resolution No.___, Series of 2009 authorizing the execution and
delivery of a First Supplemental Indenture of Trust relating to the District’s Sales Tax Revenue
Bonds (FasTracks Project) Series 2006A and other matters related thereto.
c. Resolution No.____, Series of 2009 Authorizing the Execution and Delivery of a Supplemental
Indenture of Trust Relating to the District’s Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds (FasTracks
Project) Series 2007A
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the attached Resolution No. ___, Series of 2009 authorizing the execution and
delivery of a First Supplemental Indenture of Trust relating to the District’s Sales Tax Revenue
Refunding Bonds (FasTracks Project), Series 2007A and other matters related thereto.
d. Exercise of Contract Options – Wells Fargo
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to exercise the option to extend the term of the commercial
banking contract with Wells Fargo Bank for two additional one year periods beginning July 1,
2009.
Motion:
Director Bagley made a motion to forward items A-D onto
the June 23, 2009 Board Meeting Agenda.
Second:

Director Pulliam seconded the motion

Discussion: Director O’Boyle asked question about the Wells Fargo contract, is this a good time to
be looking for a better deal with other financial institutions? Terry Howerter, Chief Financial
Officer responded that this contract is three years old and Wells Fargo has provided excellent
service to the District. Wells Fargo is one of the premier banks in the industry. Mr. Howerter felt
it would be a financial and operational disadvantage to change providers at this time. Director
Brohl wanted to know if the Board could only extend the contract for one year option instead of
two. Director Chacon spoke about the importance of relationships and spoke about how much
Wells Fargo is invested in the community. She spoke of a desire to support a business that gives
back to the community as well as maintain continuity.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, June 09, 2009
Page 3 of 7
Friendly
Amendment: Director Brohl made a motion to consider Item D separately
from Items a – c.
Second:

There was no second on the friendly amendment. The
motion failed.

Director Cohen asked about the fees that Wells Fargo charges on the contract and are they
considered excessive for the amount of service they provide? Mr. Howerter responded that the
fees were in line with industry standards. Cal Marsella, General Manager, shared that this contract
was a competitive bid four years ago. The District received two proposals and the Wells Fargo
proposal was much stronger on a number of counts.
Director Brohl said the reason she wanted to approve one year at a time to give the Board an
opportunity to look at the contract and see if better pricing could be obtained. Approving one year
at a time gives the Board maximum flexibility.
Vote on
Motion:

II.

The original motion passed unanimously.

First Quarter 2009 Investment Report – Terry Howerter gave this update. This District met one out of
its three benchmarks. AIG, Citigroup, Wells Fargo, and Goldman Sachs have all been downgraded since
purchase. Staff does not see any additional risk in those investments at this time. Staff will continue to
monitor the positions which have dropped below the minimum credit ratings at purchase and notify the
Board of further deterioration in the credit quality of the District’s holdings, should that occur.

III. 2009 Performance Report – First Quarter - Robert Merriman, Manager of Budget and Financial Analysis
gave this update. The District met all the performance goals in the first quarter with the exception of
the following three: ridership (slightly below goal), fare revenue (also slightly below goal), and
headcount for bus mechanics. Since then the goal has been met for bus mechanics.
Director O’Boyle wondered about the operator/passenger assault ratio. Cal Marsella responded that
this usually relates to verbal assaults on the operator by the passenger. Director O’Boyle felt that this
might be a goal that is somewhat out of our control. Mr. Marsella responded that part of the bus
operator’s training is how to avoid confrontations on the bus and to diffuse tense situations. Incidents
are investigated and then bus operators are brought back in for additional training. This figure shows if
we need to do more training with the operators on avoiding difficult situations and verbal assaults.
Director O’Boyle noticed that there are a number of categories where the goals have been met handily,
not only in the first quarter but in prior years. What is the process for increasing goals? Mr. Marsella
responded that performance measures are the first step in the budgeting process. The Board reviews
the goals and if they want to enhance the performance, staff will come back and explain what the
budgetary implications may be to make the goals more aggressive. Mr. Marsella said that these
performance standards are very high and comparative to other agencies around the country.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, June 09, 2009
Page 4 of 7
Director Tobiassen asked about Table 3.3 “Improve Miles between road calls” and wanted it explained.
This performance measure counts incidents when a bus breaks down and service is lost.
Director Tobiassen was curious about the First Transit number of 52,005 between road calls. Cal said
this is because they have a newer fleet and good preventative maintenance. Also, part of this is
Longmont where they have a smaller fleet and very positive maintenance results.
Director Brohl asked about bus mechanic vacancies and wanted to know what the plan is to improve
this number with regard to bus mechanics. Cal responded that as of March 31, 2009 we are at
headcount for mechanics.
IV. April 2009 Financial Status Report and 2009 Budget Update – Robert Merriman presented a summary
of this report. Ridership is up slightly over last year but still below goal for 2009. Fare revenue is up.
Sales tax has been erratic this year. We are 13.8% under run rate of last April. This is a significant
decline since the last report. The District is within budget on operating expenses.
Cal added that the District is struggling with sales tax receipts. We hoped to see a trend in the
opposite direction; receipts are 18% below where they were last year. We are 13% below last year
overall. Because of the aggressive actions the District has taken to date, service levels should be
maintained for 2009. Staff distributed a memo titled “Sales Tax Revenue Projections and Shortfalls”
that details the measures the District has taken to balance the budget.
One of the things staff is suggesting to the Board is that the District use some of the Capital
replacement fund (established to pay for replacing buses) to strengthen the operating budget so we
don’t have service impacts. The District has done a good job of monitoring, staying on top of and
adapting to difficult economic times.
Vice-Chair James made a suggestion of letting the public know the rationale behind dipping into the
reserves to maintain operations.
Director Pulliam said with the state of the economy, the District really doesn’t have any alternatives
than to dip into the capital reserve.
Cal stated that Director James made a good point. This is a strategic decision. The stimulus monies
had to be used for shovel ready projects or purchase capital equipment (buying buses). The District still
maintains (by Board policy) a 5% operating reserve which has not been touched. Cal said we are in
good shape as far as being good stewards of the public’s money and keeping our mission of keeping
service on the street.
Director Bagley wanted to know if this needed a Board action. Mr. Howerter responded that it does not
require a Board action as it is not tied to a Board policy. The operating reserve requires Board action.
Director Bagley asked when the transfer would happen. Mr. Howerter responded that $7 million would
be transferred in 2009 and the balance (of the $24 million reserve) in 2010. Director Bagley asked
does this need to be done now. Mr. Howerter responded that if sales taxes turn around we may not
have to touch it.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, June 09, 2009
Page 5 of 7
Cal said that the Board will be kept apprised of the status of the capital reserve. Should it be necessary
to make the transfer in 2010 the board will be informed.
Robert Merriman said that the amended budget will come to the Board in July 2009 which will have
these measures in it for Board approval.
V. Board Budget Retreat Follow-up on Presentation Suggestions and Requests - Terry Howerter spoke to
this and referenced the follow up in the committee packet.
Marketing – Phil Washington spoke of the changes staff has taken in this area, improved the website,
and improved operations at TIC. Robert Merriman said that there are several areas that are monitored in
performance measures – response to facility complaints, response to vehicle complaints and timely
response to complaints about drivers. The District has been meeting its goals in these areas.
Director Martinez feels that the District is reactionary as far as public information and would like to see
it be more proactive. We don’t talk enough about the savings that we do as an agency. Let the public
know that jobs are being created through FasTracks procurements. The public is missing these details
and we’re not doing a good enough job talking about the economic development through this agency.
These are the kinds of things that Director Martinez would like to see stressed in public information and
marketing. Director Bagley agreed with Director Martinez, it is absolutely critical that we “toot our own
horn.”
Director Chacon commented on the “FasTracks Friday facts” and how useful they are. Perhaps we
could do something like that to go out to the public.
VI. 2010-2015 Transit Development Program and 2010 Budget Update - Phil Washington said that staff
has received some budget suggestions and those will be presented at the July F&A Committee. Staff
has also received the Blue Ribbon report and an executive summary will be presented to the Board.
Terry Howerter reviewed the TDP with the Committee. For this year, staff broke out operating
revenues and source of funds so Board can see how that moves throughout the TDP period.
Use of Capital Acquisition Reserves will go down by 7 million this year and the balance to be used in
2010 to maintain a balanced budget.
In 2012, Terry plans to use $5 million of the operating reserve to balance the budget (should the
economic downturn continue) which is then scheduled to be replenished in 2013 bringing the reserve
full again. This is a contingency plan with Board option to approve or disapprove.
Mr. Howerter then reviewed the capital acquisition section. He plans to finance all of our rolling stock
throughout the TDP; the assets will be financed over their useful lives. The District will use Certificates
of Participation to secure those assets.
Regarding the Transit Development Reserve, Terry said that if we should hit worst case, 6.4 million will
come out of TDP, leaving the District with a balance of $2.5 million. At this point in time we can
manage two of our worst case that we have in the sales tax projections. Terry has had conversations
with the economist over at CLC. Their 2009 projections have been holding at 6.2% and that it will

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, June 09, 2009
Page 6 of 7
probably go down another 1 – 2% and that projection is due out June 19, 2009. Staff will analyze
that and report back to the Board in July and discuss the sales tax projections.
Cal Marsella explained that the TDP is a good financial planning tool so the Board can see upcoming
low points.
Terry Howerter reviewed that current plans call for a balanced TDP throughout 2010-2015. Staff is
looking for comments from the Board to incorporate before final review and adoption in July 2009.
Director Daly was surprised that the District is responsible for the trees on the mall. Director James
spoke about the renovation plan for the mall. The policy for the trees is to replace them as needed and
replace them with types of trees better suited to the environment.
Director Tobiassen was wondering why the CAD/AVL system was not listed in the TDP. Terry
Howerter responded that the CAD/AVL is part of the projects for 2009. This TDP reviews projects for
2010 and beyond.
Bagley had a question about redistricting. He’s received some requests from areas in Douglas County
that would like to come into the District: Windcrest site and Quebec south of C-470 on the south end.
How is this done? Cal replied that these sites would have to hold an election to come into the District.
VII. Other Matters – Cal Marsella wanted to provide information to the Board on TABOR issues with regards
to the P3. It is staff’s position that a concession agreement (a long term agreement subject to annual
appropriation) is analogous to a COP (certificate of participation). The difference is that a long term
obligation creates a bond. Payments are not subordinate to other payments so it is a long term debt
obligation. However, the issue that we have with the concessionaires is that there is a lot of
international money that will be invested in these agreements. Not knowing what TABOR is all about,
they are concerns about the bankability of the project when this uncertainty exists. Staff is looking at
this closely and looking at alternatives that could obviate the TABOR question and what the cost would
be.
The P3 RFP release has been delayed due to the following three issues:
1.
2.
3.

DUS lawsuit
CRMF
Full Funding Grant Agreement – don’t have the Next T funding authorization yet.

Staff is working hard to put parameters around all of these issues so the Board and the
concessionaires can understand where the District is at. It is Cal’s position that it is better to be
forthright with the concessionaires about where we are and what could go right and what could go
wrong. He is still fully supportive of the PPP and the Federal government concurs. This is not a step
back; this is a prudent step - a time out.
Director McMullen sees this as being pragmatic and still keeping to a plan. Director James said it
seems like we are waiting for conditions to be right to “pull the trigger” and when those things
become right, we are ready to pull the trigger quickly.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, June 09, 2009
Page 7 of 7
Director Christopher is concerned about how long of a delay are we going to have on the P3 RFP. He
would like staff to provide a memo to the Board as to the best guess and timeline to overcome each of
the “showstoppers”. Director James asked staff to please add the level of importance to each of
these items. Perhaps updates on this quarterly so that everyone can inform constituents.
Director Bagley mentioned receiving an email that talked about authorization by the 30th of September
and a second batch of stimulus money for ARRA.
Director Daly asked if a TABOR override vote is a thought. Cal Marsella responded that there have
been some internal discussions and now is not the best time to pursue this. Staff is trying to come up
with alternatives that would not require a vote.
VIII.

Next Meeting – The next meeting of the Financial Administration Committee will be July 14, 2009.

IX.

Adjourn – Hearing no objection, Vice-Chair James adjourned the meeting at 7:28 p.m.

