1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, May 13, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Bruce Daly

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Daly called the meeting to order at 8:49 P.M.
Attendee Name
Title

Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Kent Bagley
Bruce Daly

Director, District L
Director, District H
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present
Present

8:50 PM
8:49 PM
8:47 PM

Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District B

Present

8:49 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy
Bill James

Committee Chair
Director, District J
Director, District A

Remote
Present
Present

8:48 PM
8:49 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Present

8:48 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

8:47 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

8:48 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District C
Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present
Present

8:48 PM
8:49 PM
8:49 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

8:47 PM
8:47 PM

Director Folska participated via telephone. Director Hoy left early.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Joseph Christie, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Kevin
Diviness, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Kevin Flynn, David Genova,
Svetlana Grechka, Kenn Hardin, Genevieve Hutchison, Terry
Howerter, Kate Iverson, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien,
Patrick McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Vivian
Morales, Paula Perdue, Chris Quinn, Scott Reed, Pranaya Shrestha,
Bill Sirois, Greg Straight, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta
Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Phil
Washington

Others Present:

Zack Alexander, Greg Amparano, Jenifer Brandeberry, Dan Cohen,
Marion Combs, Audrey DeBarros, Mike Dino, Aaron Epstein,
Sherman Hamilton, Dan Heilig, Julie McKenna, EJ Meade, Daniel
Pearsall, Laura Rinker, Marta Sipeki, Johnnie Solo, Cindy Stovall,
Jonnie Thomas, George Thorn, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Sean
Vonfeldt, Monte Whaley, Christina Zazueta

B. Recommended Actions

• State Legislative Liaison Services Contract
It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an agreement for
state legislative liaison services with Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs
(BMPA) to exercise a one-year option (June 30, 2014 through June 29,
2015) to extend Contract No. 13-DX-001, at a cost of $112,000, pursuant
to the Contract Award agreement.
Motion:

Director Lasater made the motion to move this
item to the May 27, 2014 Board meeting.
Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded the motion.

Discussion: Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer, encouraged a
yes vote from the Directors, noting how pleased Staff is with
the work Jenifer Brandeberry and Julie McKenna provide for
and on behalf of RTD.
Director Tobiassen agreed with Sherry Ellebracht’s comments.
He commended Megan Gilchrest, Executive Assistant for

BMPA, for her prompt and at times off-hours communication
with the Directors.
Director Folska described BMPA as outstanding, incredibly
professional and articulate. She is pleased with their
representation and their availability to the Directors.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [13 TO 1]
MOVER:
Gary Lasater, Director, District G
SECONDER: Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Claudia Folska
Committee Chair Daly declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• State Legislative Update - Brandeberry~McKenna
Julie McKenna thanked the Directors for their kind words and for allowing
their firm to represent RTD at the Capitol. Jenifer Brandeberry was in
attendance but left early due to a prior commitment.
Julie McKenna noted that BMPA’s efforts during this session focused on
educating legislators on RTD’s work. The Senate Transportation Chair, the
Hon. Nancy Todd, requested a tour of Denver Union Station (DUS), the I225 corridor, and the DIA construction for her committee members. Some
Congress members were briefed on the Northwest Area Mobility Study.
There is interest from other Congress members to attend tours and/or future
briefings.
She pointed out a few bills that were of special interest to RTD:
 Senate Bill 197 was created out of concerns over the US 36 Public
Private Partnership (P3) and public input process. The bill would
require Senate approval for certain contracts over 35 years including
contingency provisions. A number of entities expressed their concern
over the constraints proposed by the bill and pointed to RTD and its
success with P3 as an example of the collaboration potential. The bill
passed the legislature. The next step is for Gov. Hickenlooper to sign
or veto.


House Bill 1152, regarding passive surveillance records, passed. The
original bill prohibited record retention beyond 6 months. Marla Lien,

General Counsel, provided amended language allowing record
retention for criminal proceedings, felony issues, etc.
Three other bills dealing with construction defects were introduced during
the last months of the session. The goal was to address the lack of owner
occupied housing at TOD sites. None of them passed. Julie McKenna
pointed out they may be reintroduced during the next session.

• Federal Update - Patton Boggs
Michael Dino, Senior Policy Advisor for Patton Boggs, congratulated RTD on
the success of the DUS Grand Opening. He updated the Board on two
pieces of legislation introduced in Washington, D.C.:
 On May 12, 2014 the Senate Environment and Public Works
Committee introduced their version of the Transportation
Reauthorization bill. Their focus is on freight regulations as well as
programs with regional and national significance (in 2005 DUS
received $50 million through such programs). They continue to
support the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act
(TIFIA). It is in RTD’s interest to monitor the Banking and Finance
Committees and their response to this bill.
 Two weeks ago the White House introduced their version of the
Transportation Reauthorization bill. It includes funding Bus Rapid
Transit (BRT), workforce development, and the Transportation
Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) program.
Michael Dino added there may not be further activity during the rest of the
session. The Transportation Reauthorization Bill may see a one year
extension as parties figure out how to continue to fund it.
Director Tobiassen thanked Patton Boggs for the successful trip in March to
the APTA Legislative Conference in Washington, D.C. and for their part on
the DUS project.
Director Walker noted that Canada recently tightened their requirements for
freight trains carrying oil. He asked if Patton Boggs could foresee any
repercussions in our country, specifically for RTD. Michael Dino said that
both the Department of Transportation and the Federal Railroad
Administration are under some scrutiny. He projects there may be some
tightening of regulations though the specifics are yet to be determined.
Director Folska thanked Patton Boggs for their work with RTD.
Phil Washington, General Manager, noted that the Secretary of
Transportation’s office called him on May 12, 2014 to apologize for
Secretary Anthony Foxx’s last minute cancellation to the DUS Grand

Opening. Phil Washington said he extended an invitation to Secretary Foxx
to visit at a later date and reiterated RTD’s desire for the TIGER grants.
Sherry Ellebracht pointed out it was Patton Bogg’s idea to hold the P3
roundtables the morning of the DUS Grand Opening. Their collaboration
assured the sessions included the right speakers.
Committee Chair Daly noted the Highway Trust Fund is running out of funds
and asked if there has been any discussion on how to keep the fund solvent.
Michael Dino said there is some discussion but he doesn’t foresee any
conclusion to the conversation as it would involve a tax conversation during
an election year.

• Local Government Update
Sherry Ellebracht gave the Local Government update on behalf of Roger
Sherman of CRL. CRL was logistically involved in the DUS Gala held on May
8, 2014. They are working closely with BMPA during the closing days of
the Legislative Session. CRL will attend the Colorado Municipal League and
Citizen’s Climate Lobby conferences during the summer to network on
behalf of RTD. They are closely watching Senate Bill 197.

D. Other Matters
Director Tobiassen noted that three Directors are going to Washington D.C. in June
for the Accelerate Colorado Conference. They will meet with Federal Legislators
and will communicate the Board’s message, stressing the desire for the TIGER
grants.
Director Rivera-Malpiede thanked Staff and everyone who worked on the DUS
Grand Opening and Gala logistics. She shared she has received feedback from
constituents and from people across the country who were able to participate via
the live stream video.
Phil Washington mentioned DUS had a few logistical adjustments over the first few
days of operations but overall is running great.

E. Next Meeting Date - June 3, 2014
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Daly adjourned the meeting at 9:11 P.M.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

