Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday September 25th,
2012 at 5:30 p.m.
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Erin Klaas, Senior Board Office Assistant

Date:

September 28, 2012

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, September 25,
2012 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler,
Gore, Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer and
Walker.
Director Cohen arrived late.

Board Members
Absent:

Director Tobiassen.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke, David Genova, Terry
Howerter, Brian Iacono, Erin Klaas, Barbara McManus, Tony
McCaulay, Doug MacLeod, Anthony Menendez, Scott Reed,
Jannette Scarpino, Daria Serna, Cal Shankster, Henry
Stopplecamp, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Phil
Washington, Francisco Olivas, Joe Berdaus, Linda Ober, Steve
Reilly, Cheryl Holmes, Mikki Wilder, James Czupor, Brenden
Morgan, John Elias, Dana Steele

Others Present:

Brodie Ayers, Joni Goheen, Sherman Hamilton, Joe Racosky

****
I. Call To Order
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:37 p.m.
II. Communications Update
Scott Reed began by thanking the Board for the opportunity to make this
presentation. He explained that the Communications department would be
using a team approach so the Board could hear from the managers of each
department. Scott stated that Communications consists of five divisions
including Customer Information, Government Relations, Public Relations,
Marketing and FasTracks Public Information. He explained that the Internal
Audit division reports to him administratively but since they have direct access
to the Board to provide periodic updates they would not be included in this

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday September 25th,
2012 at 5:30 p.m.
presentation.
Scott Reed stated that for the 3 rd year in a row the Board identified
Communications as an area of priority through the Board and Senior
Leadership Advance and goal setting process.
Joe Berdaus and Linda Ober reviewed the Customer Information Division
portion of the Communications Power Point for the Board. This division
includes the Telephone Information Center (TIC), Customer Sales, Customer
Services Correspondent, Training and Customer Services, and Senior
Volunteer Program. Joe reviewed the increase in customer contacts that
these divisions are experiencing.
Scott Reed stated that the Board receives regular updates on the Government
Relations Division through the Government Relations Committee. He noted
that the Local Government Liaison contract is now separate from the Public
Relations contract; the contract is headed up by CRL.
Daria Serna and Lisa Trujillo reviewed the Public Relations Division portion of
the Communications Power Point for the Board. This division is made up of
the Public Relations Manager and Public Relations Specialist and covers
external communications, traditional media relations, social media relations,
website content and internal communications. Daria stated that they are
currently looking for a part-time intern for their team.
Daria Serna explained that external communications consists of writing
approximately 100 news releases per year that are distributed to 500 email
recipients. Daria shared that the Public Relations Division also manages the
Public Relations in-box. This is the email address on the RTD website under
the Media section. She stated that this year they have received and
responded to over 1,000 emails from the community. Daria also shared that
they produce and publish a monthly newsletter that is distributed to the media
and all Public Information Officers within the 8 counties of the District. They
also coordinate all tour, video and photo shoot requests for the Base System.
Daria Serna stated that traditional media relations include communications
with the local news organizations like Channel 9 and the Denver Post. She
explained that the division averaged between 50 and 75 media calls per
month in which they must research, gather and fact check the information to
get it back to the media in a timely manner. Daria stated that they put the
media as a priority and always meet their deadlines.
Daria explained that RTD has been using social media for about two and a half
years. She shared that we have acquired 2,800 followers on Facebook and
2,400 followers on Twitter.
Daria stated that the Public Relations Division manages the website content

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday September 25th,
2012 at 5:30 p.m.
on The Hub and the content on the external website relating to news and
communications.
Daria explained that while their emphasis is on external communications, they
touch on internal communications by monitoring the Monday Morning Q and
by providing an educational platform for all employees titled RTD on the Road.
This roadshow highlights important topics effecting RTD employees.
Lisa Trujillo reviewed the events that the Public Relations Division is
supporting. These include the Broadway/Euclid Completion, 30 th Anniversary
of the 16th Street Mall Celebration, Presidential Debate, Opening of the West
Rail line and Smart Media Rollout. She explained that they assist by writing
news releases, pitching media, coordinating internally with the Board, General
Manager, Senior Leadership and Staff.
Tony McCaulay, Steve Reilly and Cheryl Holmes reviewed the current and
upcoming marketing efforts. Steve Reilly began by reviewing the current
marketing campaign explaining how public transportation riders can save
$10,000 per year. Steve explained that the numbers used are based on a
recent APTA report. These advertisements are based on positives that people
want to achieve in their life with fun and colorful messaging. Steve directed
the Board to the RTD homepage where a hello bar will allow you to see all the
ads. He shared that these ads will be on RTD vehicles and billboards.
The Marketing team showed the Board the new mark that will be used in
promotion of the West Rail Line. Steve explained that it is very architectural
and similar to the bridges that are seen over the corridor. Steve shared that
they plan to have messaging up and down the corridor that will be progressive
and comprehensive. At the end of each corridor will be a ticker that is
counting down to when the Line will open.
Steve Reilly explained that the team was working on a new website. The
design is based on the metrics of what pages are accessed today. He stated
that the design will be very clean and open. The goal is to have everything
exposed and readily available. Steve shared that they are further integrating
the RTD and FasTracks websites. He explained that there are some technical
hurdles that need to be overcome to fully integrate the sites but the team will
continue to merge the sites to show people we are a unified agency.
Tony McCaulay shared that they won two APTA Ad Wheel Awards. They
won one award for a scratch and sniff mail piece that is used to introduce
people to RTD when they move into the community. The second award was
for the Rockies Ride Brochure.
Pauletta Tonilas and Sherman Hamilton reviewed the FasTracks Public
Information Division portion of the Communications Power Point with the
Board. Pauletta shared that one of the focuses has been to revise the

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday September 25th,
2012 at 5:30 p.m.
strategic public information plan that was created in 2005 and revised in
2007. She explained that they had meetings with each Board member and
General Manager Washington to understand what are the communication
priorities. The team also received public feedback from the Telephone Town
Halls and surveys. The communication priorities were identified as promoting
the progress/positive, being proactive, building trust, developing relationships
and focusing on regional cooperation.
Pauletta stated that based on the
communications priorities, the focus of the FasTracks PI Division is to promote
what we have accomplished, not what we are unable to do at this time.
Sherman Hamilton explained that the focus was on the citizens and what
would speak to them.
Pauletta Tonilas shared that in working with the Marketing Division they were
able to come up with a tagline that they believe people will grab onto:
“Railvolutionary”. She stated that this campaign will feel visionary, show
movement, and is progressive. Pauletta explained that this is a short term,
community focused campaign that will run through January 2013 and
highlight the progress that has been made by FasTracks so far. She also
explained that the goal of this campaign will be to highlight the phrase “One
Region, One Mission” to remind everyone that one region brought the project
together and it will take one region to see the project through.
Pauletta stated that the team is working on a fact sheet that will include some
key bullets on what is happening on each project. This fact sheet will be
updated quarterly so it can be used as a cheat sheet or for handouts.
Pauletta Tonilas explained that they will conduct a public opinion survey after
the election. She also shared that the team plans to conduct more Telephone
Town Halls beginning in the spring.
Director Anderson asked if it was possible to measure if there had been an
increase in complaints for Adams County, Boulder County and Longmont. She
thought that may be a way to track the feelings for RTD within those
communities. Scott Reed explained that we do not specifically ask where a
complainant is calling from. He said that most of the complaints are service
related. Scott also shared that he understood everyone was very concerned
that RTD’s high overall rating had gone down since last year. Scott explained
that the Boulder Area Board of Realtors had conducted a survey and it came
out at the exact same favorable rating.
Director Anderson asked if within the Government Relations Division if we
were just dealing with PIOs or if we were reaching out to the elected
leadership. Scott Reed stated that we are reaching out to elected officials
throughout the District though our contract with CRL.
Director Anderson asked how the FasTracks advertising would relate to areas
in the North where they cannot see any kind of progress. Pauletta Tonilas

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday September 25th,
2012 at 5:30 p.m.
explained one of the missions of the progress messages is to show that there
is progress happening in every part of the Region. She stated that North
Metro is in final design for the Stock Show to 72 nd. While this is not
something people can see, this is progress. Pauletta shared that construction
had began at Denver Union Station for the North Metro Line. She explained
that it was their charge through various tools that are appropriate for the area
to make sure that people understand that while progress does not look the
same in all areas, it is happening everywhere.
Director Malpiede congratulated General Manager Washington and Assistant
General Manager Scott Reed for having such a friendly communications staff.
She believes that RTD has the best Marketing and Public Information teams.
She also expressed her appreciation for the scratch and sniff mailers.
Director Malpiede asked why the logo looked so different on some of the
pieces the Marketing Division showed the Board. Scott Reed explained that
as part of the overall branding the RTD logo will be used when the marketing
is specific to RTD’s big picture but when things are more targeted they try to
stray away from that logo. He shared that the team has heard over and over
again that on the bus side it should feel like the fun younger sibling of the
FasTracks project that is more serious with facts and figures. Scott stated
that the team had really taken that to heart. Steve Reilly explained that when
Marketing is working in a specific campaign they can play around with the
logo or not use it as all. An example of this is the logo they showed for the
West Rail Line. This will cover all of the pre-opening and opening events.
When the line opens it will become part of the Base System and then its
marketing will take on the look and feel of everything else.
Director Malpiede asked if there were any plans to translate the marketing
pieces into other languages. Daria Serna stated that is definitely part of the
plan. She explained that there is a contractor that we work with for
translation.
Director Daly confirmed that we were not planning on conducting any
Telephone Town Hall meetings prior to the election. Pauletta said that was
correct. They will not start again until next spring.
Director McMullen expressed his appreciation for such a terrific staff and the
great work they presented.
He believes that the Presidential Debate
scheduled for October 3 rd will be a great place to showcase RTD and the Light
Rail. He asked if we were doing anything special in terms of staffing,
security, running four train cars, etc. General Manager Washington explained
that staff was still in discussions with the event coordinators and Secret
Service about operations during the Debate.
Director James thanked staff for putting the presentation together. He
believes the idea of branding with the theme of “Railvolutionary” is a great

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday September 25th,
2012 at 5:30 p.m.
idea. He asked who came up with the theme. Pauletta Tonilas stated that it
was Steve Reilly’s idea.
Director James asked if there were any plans to use the community
organizations in our marketing and branding efforts. He believes it is
important for people to understand how we serve the community in other
ways than just driving. Even if someone does not ride, they need to be aware
of how RTD is a resource for the community. Director James encouraged
staff to utilize community organizations as much as possible. Scott Reed
stated that he believes the community organizations are a key outlet for much
of the information we would like to distribute. He explained that they are
continually updating the distribution list that is utilized to send information to
elected officials as well as chambers of commerce, TMOs and TMAs. This
keeps these organizations informed so they can then give the information to
their membership. Scott believes this will be especially important as we move
forward with FasTracks. He explained that there is a lot of information that
needs to get to the public when a project shifts from construction to
operations and these community organizations will help in doing that.
Director Bagley shared that he and staff had the first meeting with the
Highlands Ranch Community Association last week to demonstrate what the
FasTracks program is about specifically relating to the South West Corridor.
He stated that Bill Van Meter, John Shonsey and Susan Wood all participated.
Director Bagley believes it was a great example of reach out to one of the
Small Three. He stated that he wants to see these meetings continue.
Director Bagley suggested meetings occur on a quarterly basis with a smaller
group. There were about 100 people in attendance. He expressed that it was
difficult to interact with a group that large. Director Bagley asked staff to
come back to the Board with how they might structure these meetings in the
future on a smaller level that can then be expanded to a larger scale.
Director Walker shared that some of the Board Members participated in a
webcast about Atlanta’s defeated referendum. He stated that he took away
that it all hinged on the message that was delivered to the public so he
recognizes there is nothing more important. Director Walker asked if we make
an effort to reach out to the non-main stream media. Pauletta Tonilas shared
that our media distribution list contains many people who are bloggers, trade
publication reporters, freelance writers, etc. She explained that RTD has a lot
of contacts nationally and internationally that cover P3s and what RTD is
doing on a regular basis. Pauletta stated that our media distribution list is
quite expansive beyond the local mainstream media.
Chair Kemp commented that particularly with our investment in a study
looking at other modes of transportation RTD may want to be cautious in the
launch of its “Railvolution” campaign. Scott Reed explained that CDOT is the
lead agency for the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT). CDOT has their own advertising
program called Make Your Move. Scott stated that RTD will have a follow-up

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday September 25th,
2012 at 5:30 p.m.
to the “Railvolutionary” campaign that will be focused on BRT and the
managed lanes that will be launched at the appropriate time. Pauletta Tonilas
explained that one of the definitions of BRT is busses that operate similar to
rail so the team is working to incorporate that into the “Railvolutionary”
campaign.
Director Tayer emphasized his agreement with Chair Kemp’s concern over the
“Railvolutionary” campaign in the North Metro. He stated that is does sound
like staff is sensitive to the issue and he appreciates that. Pauletta confirmed
that staff is attuned to those concerns.
Director Malpiede stated that she really loves the “One Region, One Mission”
tagline. She believes the more we tie it together, the more people will
understand. Pauletta shared that staff also loves that phrase. She explained
that we are trying to remind everyone that this is a regional plan that fits into
a regional system; just because you live in one part does not mean you will
not use the system in another area.
Chair Kemp stated that it was good to hear from the team so the Board had
clarification as to what is happening both externally and internally.
III. 2013 Requested Budget
Terry Howerter explained that they were providing the Board with information
about what they will be asked to vote on over the next couple of months.
Terry stated that as the Board may know, the budget must be posted for
public review by October 15. He said staff was on track to meet this
deadline. Terry shared that the budget would be presented again to the Board
at the October Finance Administration and Audit Committee meeting, it will be
presented again at the November Committee meeting and the Board would be
asked to take formal action at the November Board of Director meeting.
Jannette Scarpino explained that staff was seeking further input from the
Board for the 2013 preliminary budget. She reiterated that this was just a
draft of the budget and subject to further revision. Jannette stated that first
and foremost she wanted to point out that no service reductions are
recommended. She shared that the Base System and FasTracks construction
budget are solid. Jannette explained that the FasTracks Operations expense
budget, which is the budget for the West Rail Line, is still being reviewed and
developed. She believes the current $16.3 million expense budget for the
West Line will probably change but it will change favorably. Jannette
reviewed the Exhibits included in the Board Report with the Board.
Director Daly noted that the budget included increases in capital maintenance
grants, fixed guideway grants and State of Good Repair grants. He stated
that these funds have not yet been awarded. He asked if their inclusion in the
budget is predicated on successful award. Jannette Scarpino stated that is
correct. Staff has included grant revenue in the budget when they are fairly

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday September 25th,
2012 at 5:30 p.m.
certain the grants will be awarded successfully. Terry Howerter explained
that the grants included are the awards that happen year after year. He
stated that for discretionary grants they are not included until RTD has
received a firm commitment of award.
Director Malpiede expressed that she was very pleased with the 2013
proposed budget. She asked if staff had locked in the cost of fuel. Terry
Howerter stated that fuel is still an unknown at this time but is being
forecasted at $3.07 per gallon in the budget. He explained that fuel is one of
the things that will change between now and when the budget is brought
back to the Board in November. He also stated that staff is discussing issuing
an RFP. Terry shared that early on they were budgeting $2.73, then it was
moved up to $3.00 and now staff is using $3.07. He shared that there have
been rumors that the cost of fuel could go as high as $3.40 per gallon.
Director O’Boyle stated that he has observed diesel currently being around
$4.00 per gallon which he believes would translate to a cost for RTD of $3.60
per gallon. Director O’Boyle believes we need to be conservative in our fuel
estimate so we do not have to amend the budget negatively based on fuel
changes. Terry Howerter said that staff has not heard any numbers as high as
$3.60 but even if it went near $3.40 per gallon that would be about a $3
million cost to RTD.
Director O’Boyle asked why sales and use tax was 4.6% but in the accounting
pages we use 7.6%. Jannette Scarpino explained that the 2013 Requested
Budget is being compared to the 2012 Amended Budget that was approved in
the June/July timeframe. She stated the projected 2012 sales and use tax
based on the CU Leeds forecast is not shown in the Exhibits. If you are
comparing requested to amended you are not going to get the CU Leeds
number.
Director Gore asked if staff had the figures from other cities and counties as
to what they were forecasting for sales and use tax or if we are only using CU
Leeds forecast. He believes some of the cities will disagree with our 4.6%.
Terry Howerter stated that many cities will disagree because their
demographics are different. He explained that we do benchmark against other
cities but exclusively use the CU Leeds forecast.
Director O’Boyle noted the decrease of $700 thousand in advertising
contracts. He stated that he assumes the advertising on rail cars has not been
producing what was promised several years ago. Director O’Boyle proposed
that this contract be terminated at a minimal loss of revenue. He stated that
he gets comments that the rail cars with the advertisements on them look
dirty. Terry Howerter stated that staff would do an analysis of the rail
advertising and come back to the Board with the numbers.
Chair Kemp asked if the cost of fuel would be locked in before the Board was

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday September 25th,
2012 at 5:30 p.m.
asked to approve the budget. Terry Howerter stated it was unlikely that a
lock would be in place by the time the budget was brought to the Board for
adoption. General Manager Washington explained that currently RTD can
purchase fuel on the market for less than the lock price so this is a benefit to
RTD. General Manager Washington stated that as Terry mentioned, we will
be putting out an RFP so we are not depending on just the companies we
have locked with over the past several years to see what competitive prices
we get.
Chair Kemp stated that the one thing a lock does is guarantee a set price for
the year. Chair expressed that having a solid, known budget is a good thing
when the time comes for the Board to make its final approval. Terry Howerter
agreed that everyone likes to have a solid budget. He explained that at this
point in time the lock price is a nickel higher than market so it does not seem
like a good practice.
Chair Kemp mentioned that in the past the Board has set a parameter as to a
preapproved number that staff could lock in without coming back to the Board
for approval. He asked if staff was considering something similar. General
Manager Washington stated that he believes that is the best approach. He
explained that after we get the results of the RFP he will come to the board
and talk about the range at that time. He stated that staff has not given a
range prior to having an idea of the lock price proposals. Chair Kemp asked
when it was anticipated the RFP process would be complete. General
Manager Washington stated that this is a pretty simple RFP and he believes
the RFP can be issued within the next 30 days.
IV. Other Matters
Director Cohen asked Bruce Abel what kind of ridership we saw on the
Broncos Ride. Bruce Abel stated that there seemed to be a renewed interest
in this service. Last year about 8,000 people took the bus for the first two
games while this year there were about 9,100 people.
Chair Kemp shared that the APTA Annual Meeting is this weekend. He stated
that the Board office had pins that would be distributed to the Board members
to wear at the conference.
General Manager Washington explained that APTA has scheduled an award
reception for the same night as the reception that RTD was planning. He
asked that the Board attend both.
V. Adjourn
Chair Kemp adjourned the Study Session at 7:11 p.m.

