1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
Planning & Development Committee
Tuesday, May 14, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning and Development Committee
Chaired by Bill James

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair James called the meeting to order at 6:18 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Absent

Arrived

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

6:12 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

6:12 PM
6:20 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Absent
Present

6:14 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Chair
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present
Absent

6:17 PM
6:17 PM

Natalie Menten

Vice Chair

Present

6:19 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Absent

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

6:17 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

6:17 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Absent
Present

6:14 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Rick Clarke, Sherry Ellebracht, David
Genova, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Lacy Bell, Kate Iverson, Tina
Jaquez, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod, Barbara McManus,
Deborah Mendez-Wilson, Tara Miller, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Bill
Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike
Turner, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington, Brian Welch, Susan Woods,
Julia Yugel

Others Present:

J. Brandsen, Michelle Brier, M. Combs, Z. J. Czupor, Melissa
Dubinsky, Joni Goheen, Doug Gragg, Stanley Gronek, James Gross,
Tom Grushka, Sherman Hamilton, David Lewis, Roger Sherman,
Marta Sipeki, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• Real Property and TOD White Paper Overview
Bill Sirois, TOD Planning Coordinator stated that they put this together as an
outline of the process. Susan Altes, Real Property Manager, reviewed the
presentation that is included in the May 14, 2013 Planning and Development
Committee Meeting Agenda Packet. This presentation covers the Real
Property and TOD responsibilities as well as the regulations governing real
property. They also reviewed the policy and operational considerations for
RTD real property management such as financial, current and future needs,
transit oriented development opportunities and goals.
As part of the process of putting the paper together they reached out to
other agencies around the country as well as multiple municipalities within
the district. All agencies emphasized obtaining fair market value for each
property. The fair market value is based on appraisal. General Manager
Washington stated that when RTD announced the RAM, they had a lot of
people asking for the properties at a deep discount; staff will not bring a
recommendation like that to the Board.
The public versus private approach survey shows that the public entities
have many more regulations than the private sector. Staff has been
addressing those regulations in a planned modification to RTD’s real property
management.

Bill Sirois and Susan Altes also presented the RTD Real Property White Paper
that describes the real property management and disposition process at RTD
and how it interfaces with RTD’s TOD functions. Included in the May 14,
2013 Planning and Development Agenda Packet were Resolution No. 10
Series of 1984 Regarding Joint Development and Disposition of Property
Rights and B-C Vacant and Under Utilized RTD owned properties that were
originally acquired with and without federal funding assistance.
Committee Chair James thanked staff for the attention they have given to
this issue. He is happy to see the staff working on this and answering a lot
of questions. As a public agency we have a number of constraints that
prevent us from doing many things. He also thanked them for the list of
properties. He thinks that what needs to improve is the interface with the
public. Many times the public does not understand what is required of RTD.
We need to find a way to better inform the public about the process.
Director Daly welcomed Susan Altes back.
Director Deadwyler asked if the list is complete or if there might be other
properties added at a later time. Susan stated that there could be other
properties added as corridors are completed. Director Deadwyler is
concerned about disposing of land that might be needed for future use and
then having to buy it back later at a higher cost. Bill Sirois stated staff looks
at all those possibilities before they make a decision about disposing of a
property. GM Washington also commented that when you hold on to
property thinking there might be a future use, there are maintenance
expenses that RTD has to incur. It cost us to hold on to land that we might
or might not use.
Committee Chair James stated that the return on investment can be
incidental to the main mission. We try to minimize the loss or maximize the
gain.
Director Sisk is wondering why we are using a resolution created in 1984;
he also noted that the resolution states that the “General Manager shall
formulate appropriate administrative procedures to be followed by the RTD
staff in connection with the disposition or development of Property Rights by
sale, lease, or other methods”. Director Sisk asked if these procedures
were available. Marla Lien stated that she is not aware of a uniform
administrative procedure. Typically when a property is ready for disposal
the staff will bring the proposal to the Board including each of the details for
the different disposal possibilities. There have been procedures for different
disposals, but not a single disposal procedure. Director Sisk commented
that some of the excess property sizes are very small. He asked how we
dispose of the properties when they are so small. Susan Altes stated that

on some of the properties the marketing approach is very limited; they will
only be of interest to the adjacent property owner(s) or RTD might have to
take care of the little piece or property for a long time. Each property will
have to be evaluated to identify the proper marketing for disposition.
Committee Chair James stated that the resolution from 1984 is an
interesting document; he suggested that the staff look at it to see if it needs
to be revised. GM Washington stated that the staff will review the
resolution and bring any recommendations to the Board.
Director Hoy stated that he has not appraised RTD land and will not in the
future. He also commented that he does not think anyone on the Board
would recommend selling below market value or selling properties that we
might need in the future. We are the leader in the industry because we do a
lot of things that other agencies do not. Director Hoy suggested
implementing a pilot program to see how we can deal with our excess real
properties in a creative and innovated way. GM Washington stated that
staff agrees with Director Hoy which is why they have planned a
modification for RTD’s real property management.
Director Bagley noted that looking at the report on Park-n-Ride utilization it
seems we have several underutilized Park-n-Ride locations. He would like to
have a better understanding of the sizes of the underutilized Park-n-Rides
and how the sites were acquired. He believes they need to be evaluated to
see if we should dispose of them. Susan commented that they have a Parkn-Ride task force that reviews these issues. They have done evaluation on
some Park-n-Rides but she will take the list to the group for evaluation.
Director Menten asked if any of the peer agencies we surveyed have an
elected board. Bill Sirois stated that the Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) has
an elected Board; there are three transit agencies that have elected Boards.
Director Walker asked if some of the Park-n-Ride purchases are based on
long term ridership projections. Susan stated that a lot of them were
purchased in association with the rail lines. Director Walker also asked if the
agencies listed on page 5 of the Power Point presentation were the only
agencies they contacted. Susan stated that they contacted other agencies
but these were the only ones that provided their disposition procedures.
Others just stated that they do or do not dispose of excess properties.
Director Walker asked if the agencies explain why they do not include
marketing as part of their real property management. Susan sated that most
agencies use their websites or have auctions of their properties. Sirois
stated that because the actual acquisition process is so arduous many
agencies want to keep their properties unless they really need to dispose of
them.

Director Menten asked if the Board has a decision that needs to be made on
disposition of a property, would there be a way that the Board can find out
what the property may sell for in an Executive Session. Marla Lien stated
that property disposition been discussed in an Executive Session. Susan
commented that for the disposition there is a minimum bid amount
established based on the fair market value. Director Menten asked if the
decision will be made property by property or if it will be a group of
properties. Marla Lien explained that this is why we do not have a single
policy as each property has different and unique characteristics. We have
done many different things such as Executive Session, auction, etc. Bill
Sirois stated that they have used different tools, such as RFPs, and that
there are some tools that have not been used yet.
Committee Chair James stated that just as Director Hoy, he has not done an
RTD appraisal since he was elected. He thanked staff for the presentation.

D. Other Matters
GM Washington stated that he wanted to provide the Board with an update on the
model rail groups at Denver Union Station DUS). Marla Lien stated that from a
contractual perspective, RTD is out of the picture. RTD is not under contract with
the model rail groups or USA regarding placement in DUS. It was USA’s goal to
keep the Model Rail groups at DUS; however, 40% of the usable space was lost
due to the ducts required and a new stairwell. They have not been able to
accommodate the model rail groups and are not required to do so contractually.
Director James asked if we have any information about where the groups might go.
Marla Lien stated that she knows they had some offers but these are very small
groups; even if they were offered space at cost they are not willing or able to pay
that. Director James asked if we have a process to collaborate with USA to find a
way to help with this situation. GM Washington stated that they are working to
define the best message going forward.

E. Next Meeting Date - June 11, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair James adjourned the meeting at 7:10 p.m. to the Government
Relations Committee Meeting.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307

THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

