2021-09-14
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
PEGGY CATLIN: Can folks hear me? OK, I'm having trouble with this device.
BOB BROOM: I hear you.
PEGGY CATLIN: It's almost like a strobe light. It keeps flashing on and off.
OK. It is, I think time. The Financial, Audit, and Administration Committee will now come to order. We are
convened as of 9:25 PM Mountain Daylight Time on-- I don't remember the date-- September 13, 2021. I
would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to
speak.
And I'm repeating what Director Williams said earlier, but thank you all for joining us this evening. Please
note that under the current circumstances, the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being
held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. For the immediate future, the official
meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The
meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable
on the Board's website. Please visit rtd-denver.com and scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to the
Board of Directors page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceedings, I would ask you to please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call on you before
proceeding to speak. Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to indicate
they would like to speak by pressing star 9. To toggle your mute sitting on the phone, press star 6.
Please note that we will not be taking public commentary during this meeting. Members of the public
interested in speaking directly to the Board are encouraged to do so during the monthly Board meeting.
And for future meeting dates, please refer to the Board's meeting portal, located at rtd.iqm2.com.
We have no action, or recommended actions for this meeting, but we do have a couple of discussion items.
The first discussion item is our state performance audit recommendation implementation status. And our
GM and CEO, Debra Johnson, will be presenting. Ms. Johnson, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. So thank you very much, Madam Chair, and good evening once again. Debra
Johnson, General Manager and CEO. At this juncture, I would like to ask John McKay to share his screen
so I can present the presentation. Thank you very much, Mr. McKay.

So tonight I will briefly review the overarching recommendations put forth by the State Auditor. And we'll
touch on the current implementation status of measures RTD staff has taken to address the State Auditor's
comments. Further, I will identify which items have been completed and which are currently still being
implemented and acted upon. And finally, I will review the timeline for RTD's responses and future
interactions with the Office of the State Auditor and the Legislative Audit Committee regarding these
matters.
So as you are aware, collectively as the Board, that in 2020 the Office of the State Auditor-- which, during
the course of this presentation, I'll just refer to as OSA-- conducted a routine performance audit of several
aspects of RTD operations. As you are aware, OSA released a report in January of this year. And broadly,
RTD agreed with all the overarching recommendations made in that report, namely to improve operator
supervision through regular performance feedback, to ensure operators receive adequate rest breaks-- and
these are listed on the screen, so I don't need to read those to you. But for all intents and purposes, this is
what we're working towards. Next slide, please.
More so, as stated here on the slide, we have began to address the recommendations contained in the
audit report. And in doing so, we collectively, in formulating thoughtful and meeting responses, staff has
engaged in such efforts as conducting peer agency surveys to garner industry best practices. We've utilized
existing training materials and engaged a peer review panel, as you're aware, convened by the American
Public Transportation Association to further examine opportunities to bolster the internal audit function.
So before I discuss the recommendations, I want to note that the initiatives noted in this presentation that
have been implemented are indicated in green type, and those items that are in progress are in the orangeish, yellowish color that contingent upon your screen. So as you see before you that we have done quite a
few things relative to looking at the employee profiles. And what we mean by a profile, we're not profiling
anybody. That's a term that we use collectively in reference to our human resources information
management system in which we utilize Workday. And it's a portal that enables information that includes
commendations, awards, and a single place for ease of employee access. I'm just going to cite a couple of
examples.
Furthermore, we have increased site visits from all levels of leadership coinciding with employees returning
to RTD facilities, in an effort to make leadership more visible and accessible to frontline staff and to break
down communication barriers. I, for one, have enjoyed going out to the various facilities, recognizing we do
have to do that with precautions, recognizing we're in the midst of COVID. But I know personally that our
employees value seeing us participate. And most recently, just last week, be it virtual, we participated in a
operator graduation for the new rail, light rail operators.
What I do want to speak to really quickly is in relationship to the enhanced bus operations program that is
in development. We are working in earnest, as we look at receiving stakeholder input, to garner a better
understanding and make it more a value for all those that are involved. Moving forward to the next slide,
please.

Also, a key element that is ongoing is in relationship to what you see on your screen before you, the
supervisorial training series focusing on leadership competencies. Well, simply put, really what that is that
we're looking to ensure that we're providing adequate information relative to providing techniques for
utilizing emotional intelligence and positive team feedback methods, while focusing on coaching,
counseling, and mentoring to promote good performance, rather than to correct performance issues. So
that's something that's imperative that I wanted to call out for everyone's understanding. And then as we
talk about what we're doing in relationship to rail, that's currently underway. Next slide, please. Thank you.
And so the recognition process, we talked about before. Customer commendations and superintendent
memoranda. We recognize that some of these things weren't happening in a fashion that would be
conducive to anybody garnering appropriate feedback on a job that they're doing. So basically, there's a
new action plan that has been placed in reference delivering timely commendations to bus and rail
operators, looking at implementing the Operator of the Month program Based on established performance
and attendance criteria to recognize those high performers, and also looking at the recognition program for
employees who perform well on efficiency checks in which the general superintendents deliver, sign
memoranda within two business days to the operator. Moving forward.
So also, you've heard us talk about the issues relative to identifying operator turnover causes. In the
previous committee meeting, there was reference made by Mr. Ford in relationship to leveraging information
about why people are leaving the organization. That's imperative as we look at best practices, ensuring that
we are retaining employees. There have been a myriad of discussions that were had by several agencies
in reference to us doing a survey. And they involve more than 10 agencies in which we got some very great
input from. Next slide, please.
Also, as we talked about, ensuring that there's rest breaks. So quite naturally, as we talk about how we
best do that, it's leveraging the direct input we get from operators. And there is the route management
program, which is designed to enhance on-time performance checks through information gathering. And
specifically, what supervisors are doing are asking operators more pointed questions about what it is in
relationship to the runtime that they may have. And we want to ensure that they have adequate time to
basically have comfort breaks.
And on this one, before you hear, improving scheduling. We are ensuring, to the point that was raised in a
previous discussion, elimination of six-day mandates. Quite naturally, as you can imagine, if anybody had
to work consecutively without any time off, that creates ample exposure to risk and things of the like, when
you're not your whole self being in a place of good health and well-being. So with the elimination of the
mandated six-day work for operators, there has been improved issues as relates with operator fatigue,
meaning that's lessened, as part of the ongoing commitment to implement service levels commensurate
with workforce availability.
And more specifically, in reference to what's before you on this side, staff has created training tools to
identify and mitigated risk associated with operator fatigue. And nearly all of the 761 eligible bus operators

have completed the training as of this date. And modified existing operator training is being developed to
customize supervisor fatigue.
Now this slide before you here describes the overarching themes identified in the audit report identified by
the Office of the State Auditor. And we have had a myriad of discussions around these. So what I like to do
here is just leave you with these thought that these are currently being addressed alongside the
recommendations made by the APTA peer review.
And as we go to the next slide, you'll see some things in green. Quite naturally, we convened the APTA
peer review, because as we went through the audit, it was stated that there was not a quality assessment
review that was done in some time. And you can also see that we developed a scope of work for a
solicitation for consultants. We selected and retained said consultant and we issued a notice to proceed.
And just as of today, there was an internal meeting with the CFO, myself, Mr. McKay, and with Ann Marie
Isaac-Heslop, serving as our Manager of Internal Audit, in which we reviewed the scope of work and are
setting the path forward, which will, quite naturally, include all of you in the sense of having informational
interviews to help frame their understanding from the different perspectives relative to how we go forward.
And then collectively, as well, just month before last, that this body adopted the internal audit charter.
And so the next item that we have before us deals with the meaningful performance metrics as it relates to
replacing that third box, recovery ratio. Quite naturally, as you can see here, with the General Assembly's
repeal of the fare recovery requirement, it helped us align discussions around metrics identified in our
recently adopted Board strategic plan, as those suggested by the Accountability, as well as we look at
meaningful performance measurements as relates to how we are doing, as opposed to that fare box
recovery ratio that really didn't line up with the costs that were being expended, more or less, in reference
to revenue hours and things of the like.
So where we are now, quite naturally, is that we are currently working toward the full implementation of the
strategic plan, including the tactics and the metrics. And we're engaged in creating an internal culture
focused on the agency's mission, vision, and values, as you all are aware.
So what I want to close with is to let you know about the timeline in and of itself. So this has been modified
somewhat. We anticipate the Office of the State Auditor to request a draft status report. Hence, that's why
I wanted to ensure that we were bringing this forward to you all prior to that time. There is a specific template
that they will provide to us in reference to us providing information, which is limited in some fashion. We're
required to not include more than eight lines. In the latter part of November, we've yet to know a specific
date, but they will share with us when the status report is due and what type of documentation they need
to be provided.
In mid-December, as you can see here, they're to review the report. And if there is any questions relative
to any of the submittals, we will provide clarity as it relates to that. And in early January, we will have a
revised status report due based upon the feedback that we do receive from the Office of the State Auditor.
And then rounding out in February, we will have a hearing with the Office of the State Auditor, very similar
to what we did just earlier this year in January. Prior to any of these submittals we will provide information

to you for your situational awareness. And quite naturally, you will be kept up to speed relative to what we're
doing collectively as it relates to the internal audit function.
So with that, Madam Chair, I will yield the floor back to you. Thank you very much.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Before I take comments or questions, I want to correct myself.
I said that we were adjourned on September 13. It's actually the 14th. So pardon me for being a day behind.
Are there any questions of Ms. Johnson? I was pleased to see all of those green line items. So, well done.
Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. I just wanted to say thank you to Ms. Johnson. I appreciate-- this is a big deal to
the Board. You know, obviously we have a number of things in flight related to audit. And just wanted to
take a moment to acknowledge the leadership coming in from CEO and from your staff office, given that
this is so critical to the Board. So thank you for the leadership. Thanks for driving it hard. Appreciate it.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Cook, please.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thank you. And I've had a chance to talk to Director Davidson too. But based on
the presentation, I just wanted to verify, it seems awfully staff led. And I want to make sure that we're
complying with the recommendation about functional reporting in terms of how we structure and set the
scope of work and oversee this contract with Reuben Brown. So I just want to verify, because that was
such a big part of the OCA recommendations. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Would you like to address that, Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Sure. So recognizing that staff has the ability to put forward a contract, that's our role
in reference to our involvement. Quite naturally, I've been working in tandem with the Chair of the Finance,
Administration, and Audit Committee, as well as the Vice Chair. We have a collective work group. They
have been apprised every step of the way. Quite naturally, the meeting that took place today was specific
as relates to the scope of work and what was put forward in the request for quotes. With that being said,
there will be a meeting that's forthcoming with both the Chair and the Vice Chair of this committee,
recognizing that a lot of the work that takes place, I believe it's incumbent upon us to know about billable
hours so we don't have any elements of scope creep. So that would be our role relative to staff.
So I just wanted to qualify that and, quite naturally, recognizing that as it states in the standards, quite
naturally there is a dotted line to the CEO from an administrative standpoint. And that's, in fact, what this is
collectively and it as relates to the other finite points relative to the role of the CAE, which is the common
terminology used for the Chief Audit Executive. That's all within the confines of the Board's oversight. So I

just wanted to ensure that there was a full fledged understanding. And when you all have the opportunity
to engage with the consultant, I'm sure they will outline those elements for you, so there's no confusion
about who's on first. So thank you very kindly for the opportunity to address that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Director Cook, does that answer your question?
I might want to add-- and I don't-- that we have been, along with Ms. McManus has helped facilitate setting
up a standing meeting with our Manager of Internal Audit to really try and meet the obligations that were
set forth in both the state audit recommendation and the peer review for APTA. So we conducted our first
one yesterday. And we will be continuing on with regular meetings and report accordingly to the Board.
Director Davidson, would you like to add anything to that before I call on Director Broom?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. I appreciate it. Director Cook, thank you very much for
the question. And I think probably for-- and Ms. Johnson for the answer. And just for the record, it's probably
prudent to highlight, Director Cook, you referenced that we had a chance to talk and dialogue about this.
So for the record, for the benefit of the Board, what I had shared with Director Cook was that, just as Ms.
Johnson had said, we were involved in some of the, I would call it, rough scope of work of what was going
to be required from a contract, or we had some early discussion in terms of what we're seeking-- I shouldn't
say scope of work, I should say intent. And then at that point, we've been in contact with Ms. Johnson and
her team, and then went through the scope and contracting process that staff is equipped to lead. So just
wanted to highlight for the Board that that was the discussion that we've had, been very comfortable with
that.
And the other thing that we had the opportunity to discuss, going back to our prior discussion about
committee restructure, I think this speaks to the very heart of why we need to get the Audit Committee
done. And I'm glad that we're getting this all done together here. With that being a smaller group, that would
be basically taking the place, I think we're getting to the point where our working group that we've had on
audit is probably more appropriate to shift over to the type of work that a committee would take on,
especially when it comes to that functional reporting structure for both retained services of an external
consultant as well as our Manager of the Audit function.
So really just wanted to share that for the record, given that there have been some separate conversations
between Directors at this point. Thank you, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Davidson. And I would add that if any of you all have questions about
activities, given that we're really just starting on this process, feel free to reach out to either Director
Davidson or myself, and we'd be happy to have a conversation. But again, we are pretty much just getting
started with this process.
Director Broom, I did see your hand up. Are you still wishing to speak, or-BOB BROOM: Yes, please.

PEGGY CATLIN: Go ahead.
BOB BROOM: Will this have major budget implications for next year?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Point of clarification, Director Broom, when you say will this have major implications
for next year, can you be more specific as to what you're referring to?
BOB BROOM: I'm sorry. Will it result in the hiring of a lot of additional staff? Because that was always my
feeling was that this particular area was vastly understaffed for the amount of work they were expected to
do.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Broom. That's what I was trying to qualify. Were you
talking overarchingly about what I presented on a more specifically about the internal audit function, so I've
deduced you're talking about the internal audit function.
So basically, as put forward so far by the American Public Transportation Association's peer review
panelists, they indicated the level of staffing that may be needed in relationship to how we should gradually
move forward, recognizing that we wanted to call in subject matter experts that could offer their acumen in
relationship to what might be the best way to proceed forward. We are making an assumption that we would
need additional staff to stand up to this unit. And in doing so, at this juncture, have keeping that in the back
of our minds relative to the budget preparation process, that there could be additional staffing up to two
people, at the outset. But with that being said, we will wait fully for the full fledged recommendation. Because
as we look at a reallocation of resources, that may be the most prudent course of action as it relates to
basically funding positions going forward.
BOB BROOM: OK. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome, sir.
PEGGY CATLIN: Anything else, Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: No. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. Johnson for your answer. And we might remind you all that the Audit
Committee, based on our internal audit charter, will have the responsibility of proving that internal audit
budget. So we'll keep that in mind as we move forward as well.

Are there any other comments or questions, given the lateness of the hour? Seeing none, we'll move on to
the next discussion item, which is the 2022 to 2027 mid-term financial plan. Doug MacLeod, please.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Catlin. And I will be very brief. Just a quick presentation to share here.
This is just another update of the numbers for the mid-term financial plan, which is our six-year forecast,
including the budget of 2022.
So last month we came to the Board and gave an update. Not much has changed in that time period. We're
still waiting on some additional information, which I'll discuss in a moment. But just a reminder what the
timeline is going forward. September, we're having this discussion right now, just to give an update to the
Board. I have a few additional information items in this presentation that weren't presented before.
In October, we will come back to the Board with a final mid-term financial plan. It's just in draft status right
now. We'll have additional information, such as our sales and use tax forecast, a little more solid idea of
where our budget is shaping up for 2022, and that may change some of the numbers. We'll also present
the draft budget during that October Finance and Administration and Audit Committee meeting. That's just
a precursor to look at how that's aligning with our strategic plan. We're still developing some of those
numbers and having discussions internally among senior leadership, with General Manager Johnson. And
then finally in November, we would come to this committee to ask for the approval of the 2022 budget.
So just, you've seen this slide before, really the only thing that's changed since August-- and this is on a
consolidated basis, I'll get to a little bit of a breakdown between base and FasTracks, since the Board
requested that. And when we come back with the MTFP approval request in October, we will have a
breakdown of this cash flow between base system, FasTracks, and this consolidated format you're seeing
here.
But to keep things simple, we just wanted to present it on a consolidated basis one more time. The only
thing that has changed since the last time we presented this to the Board in August is we refined the fare
revenue forecast. What we had done there is previously we had assumed that about 50% of the ridership
would return in 2022. So at a-- 60, excuse me, a 60% level, reduced level, we assumed 30% would come
back. Excuse me, we're going to get back up to-- let me rephrase this-- we're going to get back up to
approximately 60% to 70% of our ridership pre-pandemic. That was the assumption we used earlier.
We did actually find some authoritative guidance on what the thinking is nationwide. So it may be more
broad based in terms of transit. But Standard and Poor's came out with a report saying that their
expectations are that ridership will have a permanent decline from pre-pandemic levels of 20%. What we've
assumed here is that we will gradually grow back up to 80% to 85%, along with the service levels going
forward of 85% of pre-pandemic levels. So what that did was it added back about $60 million of fare revenue
and decreased our deficit down there on line 12 in the bottom right corner from a negative $127 million to
negative $60 million.
We consider that something that we can work with to get us to a point of being balanced on the MTFP in
order to show that our revenues equal our expenditures. Again, in row 11, we have the full state of good

repair needs of $478 million covered, except for $60 million. We believe as we continue to look at and align
our budget and our forecast with our strategic plan, we'll find some opportunities within that state of good
repair line item, as well as some other line items that we probably can get this balanced quite easily.
The other thing I would point out on the slide is that we're still at a 2.5%-- or 2.5 months of reserves at the
end of 2027 based on this forecast. The goal is to be at three months reserve. So we're within the margin
of error there as well. So I think we can get there by the October approval time frame.
Moving on. So the way we want to present this this month was instead of showing an entire cash flow, just
show the Board what happens to our reserves for both base system and FasTracks, based on the cash
flow that we have coming in. So if we have net positive reserves at net positive cash flow in a year, that
adds to our reserves, and vice versa.
So just as a comparison of where we were in November of 2020, the middle column shows the mid-term
financial plan reserves for base system. So what it shows is we started out with $208 million. The cash
flows through 2026, plus an estimate for 2027, since we hadn't done 2027 at that point in time, gets us to
ending reserves of $403 million. So on the base system side, this is consistent with what the expectations
were at the time, that we would have enough positive cash flow on the base system that the reserves would
continue to grow. Big contributor to that is the fact that the base system pays off its bonds in 2024.
Moving forward to the most recent mid-term financial plan, our beginning reserves are actually a little bit
larger as we enter 2021, just because we had some of the CARES funding that was not spent during that
time period. So if we roll the cash flow forward, our ending reserves are $357 million, a little bit lower than
the $403 at last MTFP, compared to a three-month reserve requirement in 2027 of $166 million. So we
have excess reserves, essentially, on the base system of $190 million. That's down from the $270 million
at the last MTFP. Because you'll recall that we only included 70% of the state of good repair items in the
2020 MTFP, where we're including 100%. So when I said earlier that we can afford probably to pay for all
those state of good repair items and get caught up, we're still in good shape on the base system side.
FasTracks is still somewhat the same story, although much improved. So going back to 2020, the forecast
was that ending reserves would end up at negative $444 million, before we used up the reserves that were
in place. So if you'll recall, what happened is we ended up burning through all of the reserves just to keep
FasTracks operations going and meet its asset needs. That's improved with the latest forecasts to where
our ending reserves have improved from $444 million deficit to $182 million deficit, largely due to the
increased sales taxes that we've been experiencing. And at that point in time, we did not know about the
CARES and CRRSAA Act, so the thought was that we would be losing on the order of $150 million to $250
million per year in revenue from sales and use tax declines as well as fare revenue declines. So the picture
on FasTracks has improved significantly. However, we still have a deficit there.
So getting back to the consolidated, all of RTD, basically. Just moving down to the bottom line, you can see
that we had a shortfall in our reserves to have three months of reserves in November of 2020 of negative
$218 million. So we were really short on funding then. That has since improved to a shortfall of $35 million.
Essentially, when you combine base and FasTracks, the base system excess reserves covers the deficit,
part of the deficit on FasTracks. So we end up with just short, $175 million in ending reserves versus a
three-month requirement of $210 million. So that gets us to the 2.5 months of reserves.

So not a bad picture at this current point in time.
One slide I wanted to add in to here was we've discussed a lot the state of good repair asset management
needs. And what we haven't told you is what those needs consist of. So back on the cash flow slide, we
showed $478 million of state of good repair and asset replacement needs through 2027.
And it breaks down as follows, with the largest portion being attributable to a rolling stock replacement for
bus, Access-a-Ride and FlexRide, have some significant needs in rail for infrastructure, basically, and in
public facilities, as well as some of our equipment make up the bulk of that $478 million.
And as I mentioned, as we go through the strategic planning process, we will align some of these. And
we're really going to take a close look at some of these needs. Maybe some of them don't need to be done.
Maybe some of those funds will get reallocated to new initiatives. So that's the current thinking right now is
there's $478 million of needs over the next six years.
Just a reminder. When we look at our balance sheet-- so we talked a lot about our cash flow and our
reserves going forward, but we also have some liabilities on our balance sheet, in addition to the significant
amount of debt which we've talked a lot about. But there's a few items that we show as liabilities. These
are obligations that RTD at some point will have to pay. The first two can be more longer term. We would
try to catch up on those over time in the absence of any additional funding that was available to solve these
problems.
But we've given several presentations over the years to the Board about the represented employee pension
being only 50% funded at this point. So that has a shortfall. In order to get it to 100% funded, it would take
$246 million contribution, significant sum of money. And then on the non-represented employee pension,
which is closed to new employees, that closed in 2008, there is a funding shortfall there of $38 million. So
that fund is approximately 78% funded. So it's in much better shape than the represented plan. But $38
million would be what it takes to get it to 100% funding.
And then finally, the Denver Aviation IGA, we haven't spoken about this in much detail. It's relatively
insignificant when you're talking about our state of good repair and pension needs, but just thought we'd
throw this on the list for now. When the A Line was built, there was an obligation through an IGA with Denver
that if there was contingency left over at the end of the project, the Eagle project, that some of that would
be paid back to Denver because Denver gave RTD an advance of $46 million to make certain
enhancements to the A Line. So in that agreement, we did agree to pay some of that back if there was
money left over.
And then of course, there's a couple unknowns, the DTP litigation, if there's any impact from that. And then
what we haven't included in our 2022 through 2027 mid-term financial plan is any potential impacts of the
taper ratchet down effect to the base system revenues.

So wrapping up, just a few takeaways from this is that these current projections are a snapshot. We'll get
a little bit more information this month leading into October, when we bring the full cash flow back to the
Board and ask for approval. We will be aligning, as we go along, with our strategic plan what those
expenditures are. And then, as the prior slide shows, there's a few uncertainties that are still out there that
could be fairly significant cost to RTD.
So Madam Chair, with that, I will yield the floor back to you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. MacLeod. And I, for one, appreciate the way you've broken out and
summarized the different revenues and expenses, and whereas when you combine the FasTracks program
with the base, it doesn't look that bad, but it's very clear that the base system is heavily subsidizing
FasTracks to get a balanced budget. Sorry for my editorial comment.
Are there any comments or questions of Mr. MacLeod? I think given the late hour, people have expired
their curiosity. OK, if there are no other questions, are there any other matters to come before the Board
today?
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And I apologize for not raising my hand. I just wanted to say that
if ever there were a justification or motivation for our earlier discussion regarding changing the committee
structure, this perhaps has been the best. Thank you, ma'am.
PEGGY CATLIN: Good point.
I just wanted to make mention that Kiewit headquarters is having their grand opening tomorrow down in
Lone Tree. And I only wanted to say that I saw a notice about it, and they encouraged attendees to take
the light rail to attend their grand opening. So I thought that was great.
Anyway, I see that Mr. Rosenthal has his hand up.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes. And another announcement-- thank you, Madam Chair-- is the International Zero
Emission Bus Conference is here in Denver over the next three days, starting tomorrow at the Hilton Denver
City Center. So we can learn more about zero emission buses, which would be nice if we had more of them,
and look forward to learning more.
PEGGY CATLIN: And Director Williams will be in attendance. So thank you for that announcement.
If there are no other matters, our next meeting date is October 19. And with that, we are adjourned at 10:02
PM. Thank you, all.

