2021-08-10
Communications & Government Relations
Committee
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger, you are unmuted.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I know. I'm about to talk.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, though. [CHUCKLES] You never want to be doing that by accident. We'll
give it one more minute and start up again. OK, is everyone ready? I assume we're still being recorded.
All right, the Communications and Government Relations Committee will now come to order. We're
convened as of 6:20 on August 10. I respectfully ask everyone attending to please mute yourself. I will not
go through the safety briefing and the roll call since we're just coming out of a special board meeting.
Thanks for joining us this evening. We are still meeting remotely. And all the meetings are being recorded.
The recordings will be available, and the unofficial minutes of the meeting with both leaders on the website
at rtd-denver.com. You scroll down to the Board of Directors page.
Directors and staff, as always, if you wish to speak, please raise your virtual hand, or just wave to me, and
we will call on you. Directors and staff participating by phone can raise your virtual hand to speak by
pressing *9. To toggle your mute setting on the phone, press *6.
Tonight, we have one recommended action. But before we get to that, I'm going like to exercise what I'm
told is the Chair's prerogative to move forward the report from the Citizens Advisory Committee, so we don't
keep our Chair of that committee waiting too long. Matt Appelbaum, are you here?
MATT APPELBAUM: Yeah, thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Matt. We appreciate you attending and giving us the report. I attended,
not the last meeting of the CAC, but the one before, and I really appreciated the conversation. Please give
us your update.
MATT APPELBAUM: I will. So my apologies for the last time I was here a couple of months ago and stayed
around for quite a while but couldn't quite stay long enough for our presentation. So I'm a Co-Chair of your
Citizens Advisory Committee. And I'd like to do two separate things here. First is just update you on some

of the issues we've been engaged in and discussions we've had-- frankly, what I was going to talk to you
about last time.
And in the second half, is more specific, which would be our observations and conclusions about the
Accountability Committee. It might be of some interest to you. So first off, in April, we devoted our entire
meeting to some small group breakouts to get to know each other better and talk about some ideas we
have about how to be more impactful and engaged. I'll just give you a few things that came out of that
meeting. They all need some additional conversation. But I wanted to at least get them out there.
First of all, the CAC, while we, of course, need-- we always need more information and education, we really
think our role is to give back and to advise the RTD Board. And we just need to figure out a better way to
do that with your help. Secondly, a number of people raised the question of what's our relationship with the
RTD staff. I'll just say, personally, I think staff have been terrific in working with us. But there were some
questions about, does the staff really want to get input from the CAC? Are we just another group they kind
of need to meet with? What's the right relationship there? And that's another thing we'd like to discuss
further.
Thirdly, when CAC was created way back when, it was to work on FasTracks. And we think it's best if most
of our effort continues to deal with the big long-term projects and issues, like Reimagine, the fare study,
fare equity, access equity, maybe some IT and technology. We hope you agree with that. And we've
certainly enjoyed working on those and expect to continue working on those. That said, we'd certainly
consider working on other items that you on the Board would like us to look at. But we, of course, need
some appropriate lead time because, generally, we just meet once a month.
And finally, several of our members raise the question of, should we continue to report to the
Communications Department? Or is that maybe not the best place? Maybe we should report more directly
to the Board. Again, that's something we need to discuss more. We'd love your thoughts on. Nothing against
the Communications Department. In fact, they've been great as well. It's just a question of, how can we
best provide some advice and feedback to the Board?
So more specifically, our May and June meetings we met with your CFO was fabulous. Doug was great,
gave us a great presentation, answered all of our questions. The level of detail was fabulous. I'm sure we'll
meet with him again. But who knows?
We had another session on Reimagine, a work session on Reimagine. And we also had a couple of
meetings on the fare study and fare equity analysis and very much appreciate being engaged early even
before the RFP is out. And then in July and a special August meeting we just held last week, it was all about
the Accountability Committee. And that's what I'll focus on to end this with one final thing before I forget,
which is to think those of the Board members who have attended all or part of our meetings. We very much
appreciate being there and listening in. Hopefully, we're meeting your expectations as a group. And if we're
not, you should let us know.

So the Accountability Committee-- here are some quick conclusions, thoughts that we came up with. We
first had a meeting with staff presentation about it and questions. And then we held a special meeting last
week that was devoted entirely for two hours to a conversation about the Accountability Committee to see
if we could reach any conclusions because this is really important, obviously. You're going to spend quite
a bit of time on it too.
So here's where we're at. On the Subregional Service Councils, we are, perhaps, not very helpfully split
about that. Several members are cautiously supportive. But I think everybody has concerns about the cost
and time of staffing, getting qualified candidates, the boundaries, the potential for increased politicization
and balkanization, particularly over the issue of equity of expenditures.
We generally believe the Service Councils, if they're created, should focus on local transit, not regional
transit. And members should include elected and non-elected officials. And perhaps most importantly, we
think the Service Councils, if you are going to create them, that shouldn't happen until after Reimagine and
the fare study are essentially completed and adopted by the Board because we think they both will provide
critical framework that the councils will need to do their business. So that's where we're at on councils.
On simplifying the fare and pass programs, yeah, we believe that the fare should be simplified, and equity
needs to be a priority. But two points here-- one is, given the complexity and concerns about potential lost
revenue federal regulations, we think the fare study should be completed as soon as possible, and that
should really be how the fare and pass programs on informed, not by any other mechanism if the fare
study's critical.
And secondly, we believe that RTD, sooner rather than later, [CHUCKLES] which is to say, today or maybe
a year ago or five years ago, should really adopt and implement the modern electronic fare card system,
which would allow you to finally accurately track usage, have data necessary to determine future fare
policies. That's pretty critical for our RTD. And the current system just does not give you the data you need.
Thirdly, exploring FasTrack options-- yeah, this is kind of controversial but, interestingly, on this one, the
CAC comes to the conclusion that Northwest Rail is just not feasible, unfortunately, either from a cost or
ridership perspective and that RTD should focus on alternative solutions to Northwest Rail, particularly bus
rapid transit and the corridor, the Northwest Rail corridor-- but other corridors as well that are appropriate.
But having said that, we do think that RTD should, of course, cooperate with the Front Range Passenger
Rail project and Amtrak on their ongoing efforts, Although RTD should not be expected to provide the
funding for that service. So that's where we're at on the Northwest Rail FasTracks issue.
And last couple of things-- we talked about service delivery a bit, mostly focused on the short-term approach
because there were some questions about what you should do to entice people back to transit. And here's
one where our group, I think, pretty unanimously felt that you should prioritize restoration of service over
providing free or reduced fares to entice riders back to the system. There's a lot in the literature out there
and it's pretty clear that free fares are nice, reduced fares a nice, but, in fact, what gets people to use the

system is service. And pulling from other parts of the country show that that's what people want is enhanced
service before they worry about the fares.
On partnerships, just one comment-- we do think RTD needs to beef up its efforts working with local
governments, in particular, but that local governments are going to need to take on more responsibility and
some of the associated costs of providing local transit and first and final mile connections. That's probably
a heavy lift, but that is the direction that we think you need to go.
Reporting metrics and transparency-- well, look, everybody's in favor of transparency. We didn't spend a
lot of time on this. We talked a little bit about a couple of metrics that are near and dear to my heart that I
hope you will take a look at, which is getting better data on riders subsidies per route, particularly with and
without capital costs and replacement. That data, if it exists, is absolutely impossible to find, and we think
it's important.
And we also think it would be good to take another look at access-- in other words, really looking at the
RTD district and getting a better handle on what transit access means for people but understanding that
access is not just how close the transit stop is. It's also the frequency of bad service and total travel time.
And with that, just two general comments, and I'll be done. First off, we applaud the Accountability
Committee, in particular, their support of the legislative solutions that were in the bill that the legislature did
pass that enhanced the flexibility and encouraged innovation, repealed some arbitrary limits for RTD. We
think that's great. And the Accountability Committee gets a huge round of applause for pulling that off.
We do think, however, the Accountability Committee missed an opportunity that they had, which is to
encourage, at the very least, the state of Colorado to provide funding for transit subsidies, particularly to
low-income populations. Colorado is one of the odd states that provides almost no transit support
whatsoever, particularly when you're looking at mobility for populations that have difficulty accessing that
mobility.
We really think the state should be stepping up and helping out. And we wish the Accountability Committee
had weighed in on that. But nothing stops you as the Board from weighing in on that at this point. And with
that, that's my quick catch-up over the last four months or so. We will not have a regular meeting this month- kind of one month off.
Next month, we're going to welcome our new members, whom you will be appointing. We look forward to
then joining our committee. And we very much thank all of you who have listened in on some of our
committee efforts. So thanks very much. If you have any questions, happy to answer them as I can.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Excellent, helpful report, Matt. I think that was great. Sounds like a great discussion.
I was able to attend, like I said, the first session, not the special one, unfortunately. But I think that was
great. And I would just add that we've talked to a number of times about how we communicate the best
way. And I think attending the meeting was great for me. I hope to do that again. And hopefully, we'll be

able to make some progress on that as well. Are there others that have questions or comments? Nope.
OK. Thank you-- oh, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I just wanted to thank you, Matt, for coming and giving us that presentation. And one of
the things that has come up-- and I think you've said it a few times-- is, how do you all engage with the
Board and [INAUDIBLE], and I think you've done so so beautifully in your presentation today. And so it
certainly has my wheels turning on how we might be able to establish some kind of structure or system
when we have these large discussions, like the Accountability Committee, Reimagine, RTD, where we're
being more intentional about asking you all, what concerns might you have?
What are we missing? What questions do you have? So we're thinking more thoroughly through our
decisions. And so Thank you for this. I really, really appreciate it. And it's quite helpful to me as I'm doing
my own thinking on how to meaningfully engage you all.
MATT APPELBAUM: Well, thank you. We're still working on it too. We need to get better at it-- providing
you some concise and clear recommendations and suggestions. That's a big deal for us. We'll talk about
that some more at our next meeting. By the way, we could send you some of the highlights from what I
essentially just reported on the Accountability Committee in written form. I'm sure Roger could send that to
you if you would like, so you'd have that available.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, I would like that very much so because I think you all articulated that very well,
and there are a lot of good points and, I think, feedback for my own deliberation. And so if you might get
that to the Board as a whole, we'd really appreciate it.
MATT APPELBAUM: OK. We will do.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I agree. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Cogent, clear, comprehensive, and very helpful-the CAC is a great resource to this Board. And I want to thank you personally, Co-Chair Appelbaum, for
your great leadership with the group. Thank you.
MATT APPELBAUM: Thank you. Much appreciated.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Those comments made me wonder-- I'm thinking along the lines of what
Director Lewis is thinking, you know, and I think many of us, how we move forward. Might even be worth
on one of our big topics-- Reimagine or something-- having a joint session at some point to engage the
conversation. So we'll keep it all in mind, and thank you so much for-- oh, I see Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: If I could get myself unmuted, which is not always a good idea. Did we not already get
that information?

LYNN GUISSINGER: I don't think so. I haven't seen it.
KATE WILLIAMS: I feel like I did. OK. Maybe I'm special.
LYNN GUISSINGER: [CHUCKLES] Yeah. OK, thanks so much.
MATT APPELBAUM: All right, thank you very much for your time and for your continued support of the
CAC. Look forward to chatting with you again.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You bet. All right, while we are on the CAC, we had one recommended action tonight.
It's for the RTD-- the Regional Transportation District, RTD Board of Directors to reappoint three current
members of the RTD Citizens Advisory Committee to an additional three-year term and appoint three new
members to the Committee to three-year terms. Do we have a motion.
BOB BROOM: Move approval, Broom.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second?
TROY WHITMORE: Second, Whitmore.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, we have a motion from Director Broom and a second from Director Whitmore. I
believe we have a staff presentation, and then we'll see what discussion we have. Do you have a
presentation, Miss Tonilas?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Madam Chair, I don't have a presentation-- just want to articulate the thanks that
you provided and also Director Bouquet as part of the evaluation team, also Assistant General Manager of
Planning, Bill Van Meter and myself, we comprise the evaluation team for the new members. And we got
22 applications of very good folks with amazing credentials and interest in trying to be a part of the fabric
of RTD and advising the Board and staff.
And so through that work, we, of course, came to the three new members that we are recommending to
the Board for passage tonight and appointing to the CAC and then, of course, as you said, re-appointments
of three members who are currently on the CAC. And as you just heard from Co-Chair Appelbaum, a very
capable group. They're always super thoughtful and bring up amazing topics and thought-provoking
questions and ideas. And I would like to see us utilize the CAC in a more robust fashion. And so we can
work together on how that can happen. But that is pretty much the highlights, Madam Chair. And I'll toss it
back to you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Do we have any questions, discussion? Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Pauletta, can you tell me, again, who were the
representatives of the Committee?

PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, so by way of the statue of what we set up with the Citizens Advisory
Committee that was passed by the Board, so when it comes to selecting new members, it's the Assistant
General Manager of Planning, the Assistant General Manager of Communications, the Chair or the Chair's
designee, which, in this case, was Director Bouquet, and then the Chair of the Communications and
Government Relations Committee. And that is then facilitated by Roger Sherman with CRL Associates,
who facilitates the process for the CAC.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. And in past-- what I'm really excited to see representation from my district
because we had a number of applicants from District B last time, and there wasn't a single one selected.
And so thank you all for having representation of the entire district and not just certain-- and not just some
districts within the Regional Transportation District.
The last time this conversation came up, one of the questions that I had for you and Roger was how our
demographics included in the deliberation, in your deliberative process-- and so race, gender, age,
education, socioeconomics, et cetera, et cetera. And it was my understanding that while that was not a part
of the process last time, that it would have been implemented in the process this time. And so I'm curious
how you might have changed that to ensure that our CAC is representative of our riderships and the folks
that we represent within the agency.
PAULETTA TONILAS: All that you mentioned, Director Lewis, is definitely-- those are factors that we take
into consideration when we submit and solicit for people to be applicants. We do ask them to provide certain
information. And so what we get on the applications is the information that we utilize and that we evaluate.
And as much as possible and as practicable, we will take a look at gender. We will take a look at the district
that they live in, that they reside in because we're trying to get good representation.
We do look at their experience and the different sectors that their expertise is in. And we try to do as best
we can, recognizing that we will always go to the candidates that we believe are strong in terms of how
they see the role of the CAC and the expectations that they will be able to bring to the CAC and what the
CAC's role is. Everybody can bring something unique and different, but as much as practicable, we do look
at all those various individual traits and the characteristics so that we can try to get as wide a representation
as possible.
SHONTEL LEWIS: How are those-- in practice, what does that look like to consider those things? So do
you have a scorecard, a matrix that you use? Is there an interview that folks are expected to go within?
How are you operationalizing those things?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, thank you for the question. And to clarify and hopefully give you a little bit
better context for that-- so all of the evaluation team goes through all of the applications, and we do have a
spreadsheet where we record the various areas of the criteria that we have established for selecting
candidates.

And then those are all compiled. And we have an evaluation meeting where we then discuss why we rated
people the way that we did. When we narrow the field down to who we think are a good ample number of
candidates to interview, then the interviews get set up, and we do an interview process where we will
interview each of the candidates that we think really have the most characteristics that would be, I think,
the best candidates for the CAC.
And in this case, we interviewed nine candidates for what then became three suggested appointees. And
so we just have discussion about the person's background, what they portrayed as their understanding of
RTD, of transportation, of what they think they can bring. And those are really the paramount and central
points. And I don't know if Chair Guissinger singer or Director Bouquet have any other comments they might
like to offer.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think you've said it very well. I think that we discussed the desire for diversity, and
that was part of our overall review. And otherwise, I think Pauletta has summed it up pretty well.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thanks. Do you know what these-- if the Board, which I don't see there being any
pushback, were to approve this recommended action, how does the CAC now look in terms of
demographics, so those cross sections, excuse me, that I just mentioned-- so race, gender, age, education- do you know how any of those demographics break down in our current representation? Or what would
be our current representation once approved?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Well, we could definitely get you the information. I don't have it off the top of my
head. What I will tell you out of openness and transparency is that we were hoping that we could add a
couple of more women to the CAC. Again, diversity in many different forms is something that we believe is
important.
But again, what we really kept coming back to is the people who we overall felt were going to bring diversity
of all things-- thought, their individual backgrounds. We really didn't so much look at age, although we did
have someone that we're recommending to the Board who is a younger member that we think could add
some age diversity. And so it's one of those difficult, kind of intangible matters that we look at everything
across the Board but always looking for who we would recommend to the Board as being the overall best
candidates.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'll push back on that just a little on the intangibles because I think diversity is actually
tangible. Like, that is something measurable that we can measure. We can benchmark and set metrics.
And in that right, we could look at who the demographic of folks we had in the last sequence of applicants,
and do something differently in our recruiting if we find that there are gaps or folks that are missing from
specific demographics.
And so I think there's opportunities for it to be tangible. I think we just have to do it now. The time to do this
work is now and not in the future. And so I would really love to see us integrate into a process these how
we are evaluating folks from an equitable lens, and that is inclusive of, like, do they write our services? Are

they students? Are they women? Are they from an underrepresented group? Because that's really
important, especially as we're talking about how are we including them in our decision-making matrix.
The more diversity we have-- and I'm not talking about race, although folks might believe so-- but the more
diversity we have in experience and thought, I think we get more innovative and meaningful answers to the
questions and the solutions that we're trying to arrive at. And so I hope you hear my inquiry as an opportunity
for us to improve our outcomes by looking at our process currently and figuring out where we might be able
to make some tweaks.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Director, thank you. And I do hear you loud and clear. And I appreciate your
comments very, very much. One thing that I was thinking when you were talking is, I think a good opportunity
for us the next time is how we promote that we're taking in applications for the CAC. I have to say, we could
do a better job at that.
So perhaps, we work with some different community organizations to make sure that the message is getting
out there, that we want you. We want you to be a part of the RTD team through the CAC. And I think that's
something that we can look at for the next time that isn't going to change what is before you tonight. But I
can make that commitment that we'll do a better job of that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. The final request I would have is just around language justice. Is the
application available to applicants in a different language? And is the advertisement available to those
applicants in a different language? And if folks were to submit that language in as an applicant, would they
have access to their language in the CAC meetings? And you don't have to answer that, but I just think it's
something that we should consider. Thank you so much.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you, Director.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I remember that, in my time in office, we went to lunch with
the CAC. As a matter of fact, I distinctly remember having lunch with multiple members. And they were a
very diverse group, not only in ethnicity but in age and viewpoint. And I really enjoyed that. So maybe we
want to look at doing that again.
And I wanted to point out that I know that the Denver Regional Mobility and Access Council put up the
notice that Denver Streets Partners put out the notice that Mile High Connects put out-- just about everybody
that I'm aware of posted that the CAC was looking for members. And so I actually think it was distributed
fairly widely already. But I think that the CAC is a good thing and that we are always happy to have the
interest of a group like that. So thank you, Pauletta and to all the members of the CAC.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you very much, Director.

LYNN GUISSINGER: And I believe we did add some diversity in this process with a couple of our new
candidates. Director Lewis, you have more?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I just would like to state for the sake of the record that my inquiry is not to say that
something isn't happened, but to determine if something is happening. And I think it doesn't serve us to
know that there are issues that exist within our agency and for us to say, well, we think that we did a great
job doing x, y, z, but to take the input as that, as an input an opportunity for improvement.
And so just a reminder that my inquiry is not to cause harm, or to call anyone out, or to hurt anyone's
feelings, but for us to be able to make long-term short-term strategic decisions that come from a wide and
broad set of the folks that we serve from a demographic lens, just as a gentle reminder because we can
feel as though we are doing well, but we could also utilize the data that we have access to to determine if
we absolutely are or if we are not. So thank you so much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. All right. Any other comments? I believe it's time to vote. Again, the
recommended action for the Regional Transportation RTD Board of Directors to reappoint three current
members of the RTD Citizens Advisory Committee to an additional three-year term and appoint three new
members to the committee to three-year terms-- we have a motion from Director Broom and a second from
Director Whitmore. Is there anybody who opposes this motion? Seeing none. We have 13 members
present, 13 votes in support of the recommended action, and no votes opposing the recommended action.
Thank you very much. OK, Miss Tonilas, you're back on with the Communications report.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I just have a couple of items, actually, that I
wanted to highlight because, in your packet, you have a Board report of some highlights but then also a
more robust PowerPoint presentation that articulates many of the highlights of the work of the
Communications Department over the last couple of months.
The recruitment campaign that is out there now is really going to be great for the organization to help people
see that they can play an active role in moving their city. Move Your City is the theme of the campaign. And
communications has worked very closely with Bus and Rail Operations and Human Resources as we try
to keep our workforce intact, given that there is so much competition out there, especially for drivers and
operators right now.
Also, the first phase of the system-wide fare study and equity analysis has been in full swing for about the
last month. Various members of our staff collectively have been holding the first phase of listening for the
fare study. And we have done that in many forms and have utilized a tool called the Mentimeter that has
allowed us to have interactive feedback during the meetings. And that's been a really nice technique. And
we also have had an online survey and then held a telephone town hall meeting with General Manager
Johnson. And that telephone town hall on the fare study actually drew over 5,200 people.
We also have a tracking of our customer contacts, the interactions that our customer care agents have had
with our customers, with the public over the months of May and June. And that's in your packet in the Board

report. I won't hit the highlights. But what I will say is that our Senior Manager of Customer Care, Will
Adams, is listening in. And I'm going to toss to him in the second to brief you on an item. So if you have any
questions about the customer contacts as it relates to what we get in from customers through email by
calling the Telephone Information Center through social media and what have you, Will can go through that
detail with you.
I also want to highlight our ridership campaign that we're calling Take a Trip. Everyone is asking us and
every transit agency in the country, what are you going to do to get ridership back? What are you doing to
trying to get people back on transit? Well, one thing that my team has been working on, actually, for about
a year is how we look at doing that by using the data and research that we have at our fingertips.
And our market research team has really done amazing work to take a look at this, that it's really more
about gaining more trips with people who already take RTD or who maybe seldomly take RTD but know
RTD and how to take the services of RTD. And we've also utilized our RTD customer panel to provide
feedback. And we did some message testing with them. And we actually-- this, I thought, was great. The
marketing team asked the customer panel to pretend that they're the marketing team. And how would you
design this campaign?
And they gave us some really awesome feedback. And the types of messages that are resonating with
people that we heard from our customers is, what is the foundation of the Take a Trip campaign? This is
going to be more of a lighthearted campaign because of the serious nature of what we've all been living
through the pandemic.
We want to lighten up a little bit and use some humor, some poignancy and whimsy, a little bit of edginess
in the different ads that you're going to see out there. This will be a very large social media campaign. And
we're going to be utilizing some paid social campaign paid ads as well. But you'll see this going out soon.
And then I also want to make sure that the Board is aware of the series of telephone town hall meetings
that we'll be doing for all the Board members. This is our annual series of telephone town hall meetings,
where you have an opportunity to connect directly with the constituents of your district, where we do random
calls in your district inviting people to be on the calls with us. We will do some prep with the Board members,
who, especially, this will be helpful for the new Board members who haven't done telephone town halls.
We're looking at doing these in the latter part of September, October. It might reach into early November,
depending on scheduling, availability and to dovetail nicely with the next round of public feedback we want
to get from the Reimagine RTD initiative. And with that, I am going to toss it to Will Adams, who is our
Senior Manager of Customer Care.
And Will is going to brief you on the transition that the agency is going to embark upon as part of the
account-based ticketing system, which is that newer, more interactive fare system that was even mentioned
by Co-Chair Matt Appelbaum. This is a big deal for the agency. And part of that will be the transition of the

MyRide card as we know it now. So I'm going to toss it to Will and see if we'll all be able to hear Will. And
he can just give you a couple of brief heads up about this.
WILL ADAMS: OK. Thanks, Pauletta. Again, I'm Will Adams, Senior Manager of the Customer Care
Division. And I'm heavily involved in the current SmartCard system also known as MyRide for a lot of our
customers. And I'm actively involved in the design of the new account-based ticketing enhancement that is
being added to our current mobile ticketing app. And one of the major events that we wanted to make you
all aware of is the transition from the current MyRide stored value card to the new account-based ticketing
system. We don't have an exact date on when this transition will start.
But essentially what has to happen is the current SmartCard/MyRide card is called a card-based system,
meaning that the value of the customer's account is stored on the card itself. It's not stored on a back end
system. Whereas the new system, the new account-based ticketing system is exactly that. It's an accountbased system that relies on back end servers and real-time communication. And the customer simply
accesses their tickets or their stored value through the mobile app or a transit card.
These two systems cannot communicate together, so we need to manually move every MyRide customer
card holder over to either the account-based ticketing system or temporarily to paper product if they choose
that route. This transition, we anticipate we will start eight weeks before all of the validators on our system
will be replaced. Every validator will be swapped on every vehicle and rail platform for a new Masabi-based
validator. And when that transition starts, which we anticipate will take about two months, we will have
turned off the MyRide card. So essentially, it will no longer work on the current validators or the new
validators until we go live 100% with those new validators.
So the process is going to be manual. And it will be handled through the Customer Care Division, my
division. And we will make these two options available to customers approximately eight weeks before the
validator swap begins. And the two options are option one, we will transition the customer's current MyRide
card balance or balances if they have multiple cards to the new stored value account that we released a
couple of months ago on the current mobile ticketing app.
And then the customer would then be able to use their stored value account to purchase our current mobile
ticketing fare products-- three-hour pass, day pass, monthly pass, and so forth. This would be the preferred
and quickest option for our customers and would just involve them installing the app if they haven't already
done so, creating an account, and communicating to customer care that they're ready for us to transition
their balance over.
The second option, if they're not ready to move to mobile, would be to exchange the value of their MyRide
card or cards for paper product, either ten ride ticket books, or a monthly pass, or monthly passes. That
would be the least desirable option just because it's more cumbersome for the customer, in that we would
have to, if they can't visit a sales outlet, we would be mailing their product to them. And there would be a
more of a time delay involved with the paper option.

And once we go live with the full account-based ticketing system and all the new validators, customers will
then have the additional way of accessing their account by way of a transit card that we would link to their
mobile ticketing account, essentially. So instead of using their mobile phone to tap and pay on our service,
they could use a transit card if they wanted to do that.
So just in closing, the customer communication process will have an extensive outbound marketing
campaign and PR campaign to make customers aware that this transition is coming and that they need to
take action. We have approximately 47,000 active MyRide cards in circulation. Of those, 70% have
balances of $25 or less, which is a good thing.
And also, 47% of those 47,000 cards are what we call registered cards, meaning that we have contact
information for those customers. We have email address. And we'll do a targeted PR and marketing
campaign towards those registered MyRide customers and just making them even more aware that they
need to take action. And they'll be able to contact us via a secure web form on the RTD website or via walkup at a RT sales outlet-- not consumers are Safeway, just the RTD-managed sales outlets, and then, of
course, the Telephone Information Center.
So that is just a quick rundown. I just wanted to, again, make you all aware that this is coming and that our
customers will need to take some action and that customer care will be helping them through that process.
So I see Director Williams has a question.
KATE WILLIAMS: Hey, Will.
WILL ADAMS: Hi, Kate.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. Thank you for the report. I hope-- and, I guess, I'll talk to you as well as
Pauletta-- that our partners in the nonprofit pass program, that our community partners, again, like Denver
Streets Partners and Mile High Connects and all of those people will get a fairly simple-- because that's a
lot of detail that you gave us-- a fairly simple explanation that they can share in advance.
WILL ADAMS: Absolutely
KATE WILLIAMS: Because I know that the population that I work with all the time, there's going to be
issues. I appreciate very much the work that you do and that customer care does. They're always great
when we send people over there. And I'm glad you're doing this and not me.
WILL ADAMS: [LAUGHS] Thank you, Director. I think next was Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Will. In terms of the timing, you say you really haven't got a specific
time you can give us now. But surely, there's some range of time as to whether, for example, these
validators will be switched out in 2021, or 2022, or after. So that's my first question.

WILL ADAMS: Sure. So we have a date that we are currently heading towards March 30 of next year to go
live with the account-based ticketing system. But that is not solid. And the reason why it is not solid yet is
because the contract for the new validators was just executed last week.
So we had a bit of a delay executing that contract. And we were not able to get from Masabi,
understandably, a commitment on the hardware that they'll need to make those new validators. But inside
the house, inside the group, we're targeting March 30, which would mean that we would start the validator
replacement project, say, in December, January time frame.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, thank you. And then further, relative to the fact that one of the great benefits that
directors have that they can share with their constituents is distribution of fare passes. We used to do paper.
And then when we switched over to the MyRide card, we started distributing MyRide cards to people.
And we have a limit on how many Directors can distribute during the course of the year. But is the notion
that, going forward, once this happens, A, directors will be provided with a paper medium to be able to
distribute amongst constituents, or B, they'll be given information on how to give people a sign-up for an
account, or C, is it staff's intention that we take away that opportunity?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Oh, Director Tisdale, if I may, I would like to just share that, in reference to this
conversation, I have yet to have the opportunity to garner a better understanding of where we are. So what
I would suggest is that we can collaborate a staff in the interest of full disclosure, so we all are marching to
the same beat of the drum. So I think that's quite advantageous because I'm hearing information the same
as you all. And I think it'd be a lot better, as we go forward, if we were sort of succinct in what we're delivering
to you, so there's no confusion about what our intentions are.
DOUG TISDALE: I appreciate that. Thank you very much.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I see Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. I actually had a question of Pauletta Tonilas. But I could ask Will in the
meantime. I recall, when we approved the funding for this, that one advantage was we could load-- the
account could be attached to something like a student ID. And so is that still true? And secondly, if it is true
that we can identify cards that people currently carry and sort of overlay the fare collection capability could
we allow them to keep the current SmartCard, and just have it transition more invisibly to the customer so
that hopefully we don't lose people because of the hurdle of going to the new system?
WILL ADAMS: Sure. So they cannot keep the current MyRide card. But the College Pass and Eco Pass
card will work. The current cards will work on both validators. And so they will be able to transition
seamlessly over. We did just move the area campus over to a mobile ticketing app college pass. That
already happened a couple of weeks ago. And University of Colorado Boulder, when we go live next year

with the entire project, they'll be using their Buff One student card as their college pass, or they can use
their mobile phone.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
PAULETTA TONILAS: So an answer to your-- I think that answers all three of your questions.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thank you. And if I may ask Pauletta-- so, Pauletta, back on the idea of getting
people back on board and your strategy there and thinking about Will or about Matt Appelbaum's comments
about having services in place being as important as a fare. Are you working in a cross-departmental
fashion? Are those efforts integrated so that it's not merely a communications effort but, in fact, can consider
service delivery issues?
And one thought was Broncos Ride-- I get consistent appeals to me for Broncos Ride. And I thought, well,
if the idea is to encourage people who rarely use to take one more trip, there is your ready group. They
probably are pretty occasional users. But that's guaranteed ridership 10 days a year. Is that something?
I'm not saying that specific query. But are you able to consider things that work across departments?
PAULETTA TONILAS: So thank you, Director. And we work with all departments, typically on the
everything. And so my team is really plugged in with what's going on, for instance, not only with the
recruitment but also with service and how those gradual adjustments are reflecting what we're seeing with
ridership and the needs out there. This particular ridership campaign, however, is really coming from the
people.
And we took the lead from our own customers on what is their behavior, what is it that they see as valuable
for how RTD helps them get around? And one thing that is a reality-- and the messages about commuting
to work on RTD we're not resonating because many of them told us, hey, a lot of us are still working from
home. And that is one of the big factors all around with everything we're doing right now, is in our last
customer satisfaction survey from fall of 2019, the customers that responded, 70% of them say they use
RTD to commute to and from work.
And so when our own customers now are saying, eh not so much, the commuting to and from work, that's
not going to really be meaningful to us. But what is meaningful is showing people how you can use RTD to
get to destinations, perhaps to certain special events, and the value that transit brings not only us being the
best in the state position to help the state meet its climate goals, but we actually do great things in terms of
value. Our strategic plan talks a lot about community value. We do that. That's the kind of stuff that was
resonating with our customers. And so that's the launching point for, really, the basis of the Take a Trip
campaign.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So just to put a point on it, if I may, Madam Chair. Are you able to suggest service
changes that feed into your campaign or vise versa? I just want to make sure we're not solely looking at
this as a communications effort.

PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, so I would say about any service change process is that we'll continue to stay
plugged in with our Service Planning team, with General Manager Johnson, with our planning staff, and
others, our financial staff to make sure that all things are being considered including how we communicate
about that and what the agency is able to actually pursue.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you.
PAULETTA TONILAS: You're welcome.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Pauletta, I'm not sure if I understood that last point. If you
could just clarify, you said 70% of our current riders are-- you said those that are not-- that are working from
home? I wasn't clear.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, thank you. And thank you for giving me the opportunity to clarify that. So we
do an annual customer satisfaction survey. The last one that we did was in fall of 2019 because last year
was not a strange year. We didn't do it. And so looking back to our previous last really good robust survey
of our actual customers, which we do get a lot of participation in the customer satisfaction survey, 70% of
the average weekday customers on our system commute to and from work by way of RTD.
And so that is a large part of the customer base that we had previously. 70% of the people who responded
say they use RTD to get to and from work. So with people teleworking, a lot of people are doing some
hybrid models. Some people are completely working from home. So that's why our customers told us those
are not messages that are going to be meaningful to us right now because we're working from home where
we're doing a hybrid work model.
So these other ways that RTD creates value are going to be better suited for you making people aware of,
wow, I didn't know, RTD went there. Or you're right, RTD-- every trip that someone takes-- and this is a
national statistic-- every trip that someone takes on transit is like a 62% reduction from that person creating
greenhouse gas emissions driving alone in their car. And so these are the types of things we want to help
people understand, is the value that transit brings but also the cool destinations and ways that you can get
around that maybe people did not realize that they can use RTD for.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So we re-surveyed that 70%, and those folks let us know that that message wouldn't
resonate. Or we're inferring that because those folks were utilizing transit to get to and from work, that we're
assuming that they are folks that are working from home. So we used the previous data as a backdrop as
a comparison to what we're seeing right now and even in some of the other online surveys we're doing.
But largely, going to our customers and asking them to weigh in, and what are the meaningful messages
that you think RTD could put out there. And as a customer, what resonates with you? And so we did not

survey all the people we did two years ago. We will look to do a customer satisfaction survey again. But the
pandemic changed all that. But we're using what we had as the last regular year of service to say 70% of
those people said that they used RTD to get to and from work. And that is, obviously, not the case now. So
what is it we can do to start helping people march back to transit by sharing what resonates with them?
So what does that mean for our customers that are utilizing our services because this would impact them
as well, right?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Absolutely. I mean, the people who are already using transit and have been through
the pandemic-- taking essential trips, people who are essential workers, people who have been being
brought back into their offices, maybe back to school already, and people who really depend on us and
don't have another means of transportation-- those are also such individual stories, right? And so that's why
I believe we have a lot to work with.
And this campaign will be able to evolve over time as the dynamics change of what we're seeing out there
with our ridership. So it's going to be nimble. It's going to be flexible. But we have a lot to share with the
people who currently are using our system and how it makes it meaningful for them to maybe realize that
they can use RTD to connect or to get somewhere that they didn't realize before.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I see, OK. I have a few questions for you, Mr. Adams, if I might. The two options that
you gave in terms of implementation, I'm curious, as to what would be the deciding factor on which approach
you all execute?
WILL ADAMS: We would leave it up to the customer to tell us which one they would like.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, so these are two options for customers, not necessarily for how the agency would
handle it.
WILL ADAMS: Exactly.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Director Lewis, if I may, I was briefed on this just shortly a while ago when I asked
staff, did we need to do a lot more work? And I know members of the Board have questions. I just want to
ensure that we're aligned, and we're seeing things in this public forum that will come to fruition because,
right now, I feel as if there's a disconnect in reference to what we're saying, just collectively, to manage
everybody's expectations.
And so if it would please the Chair, I would suggest that we calendar this item as such as a standalone
once we have a better understanding of the trajectory in which we're going to take because I want to ensure
that I can make good on the commitments that we're putting forward hearing that we just got a contract
signed with the vendor and things of the like. I want to ensure that we can rally around this and do something
for the benefit of our customers as we talk about customer excellence and providing community value
because at this juncture, I feel as if we're having the conversation talking and ambiguities.

SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, that's perfectly fine with me.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very much. I appreciate that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's fine with me too. I'll see-- so you're going to wait on your questions, Director
Lewis, and Chair Rivera-Malpiede, and everyone?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm happy to. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Do we need to calendar this to a next time? Or do we just ask you to bring this back
when you're ready, Miss Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If we could bring it back. I don't want to commit to a date. And I have yet to confer with
staff and have an understanding because that there's a myriad of other departments that are involved in
this effort, not just Communications. There's finance and a myriad of other folks. Thank you so much for
your patience with this.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I think-- did you have anything else, Pauletta? Or is that the end of the
PAULETTA TONILAS: No, that's plenty. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You know, I would just say one thing. I really appreciated the info, the current status
of the pass programs, the number of employees-- the employers that have renewed and people waiting to.
And I'd be interested, if we have similar information from pre-pandemic 2019, if you could get that to the
Board, I would be interested in that.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Absolutely. We can definitely pull that data and get that to you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. OK, next is our Government Relations report-- Michael
Davies? There you are. [CHUCKLES]
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Uh-huh?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I didn't have a question about that agenda item, but I did have a question about the
telephone town halls.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, I'm sorry.

MATT APPELBAUM: You think I might
LYNN GUISSINGER: Have at it.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, just a quick question for Pauletta. There was some discussion about potentially
tweaking the telephone town halls in the future to be inclusive of our diversity, equity, and inclusion
resolution that we put forward and also based on the feedback that had come about by Board members
about how the telephone town halls might be helpful for how they govern. And so I was curious as to if we
should expect, as Board members, to see those modifications in the implementation of the telephone town
halls to come.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes, and actually, each of the Board members, we want you to be thinking about
what things do you want to cover in your meetings while we-- we'll have some universal items that we'll, of
course, cover. And we do the electronic polling, and we like to keep that consistent because then we can
make sure that all 15 districts, that we can compare that.
But we can work with you, and we'll have conversations with each of you before your telephone town hall
as we plan those. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That all, Director Lewis? OK. Michael Davies, Government Relations report, please.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes. Thank you, Chair, Members of the Board, Michael Davis, Government Relations
Officer. I just have a brief Government Relations report for you. I'm starting on the Federal side-- certainly
some big news in the US Senate today. They approved their version of the Transportation Infrastructure
package. This is a large investment overall. The new bill is called the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs
Act. That bill passed today by a vote of 69 to 30-- so healthy number in the Senate voting for that and
certainly clearing the 10 votes they needed on top of all 50 Democratic votes-- so certainly a big investment.
I'll just note quickly. It's 63% larger than our current baseline funding. And so to put that in perspective, the
MAP21 bill that transitioned into the FAST Act, which is our current Authorization bill, that was about a 10%
increase. So you can see that this is truly a large investment on behalf of the federal government in transit.
So good news on that side.
I would say that the uncertainty certainly lies on the path through the House. There is no set schedule for
exactly how the House is going to pass this or bring this for consideration. So we'll certainly keep the Board
updated as that happens. But good news that they were able to clear the hurdle of the Senate today.
With regards to that bill, I know that there's a number of grant programs that I've highlighted for you all that
were in the House program. For example, the Capital Investment Grant program, which is an important
competitive grant program for transit, that saw about a double of funding up from up to about $8 billion over

the five years-- so good news there. With regards, I've referenced for you all a grant program, a competitive
grant program for Interstate Passenger Rail in the past. And in the House bill, this was the prime grant
program that would be geared toward projects like the Front Range Passenger Rail.
That program, in the Senate Bill, was kind of-- they basically took a already-existing competitive program
called the Federal State Partnership for State of Good Repair-- kind of a long name-- but that grant program,
they repurposed it a bit and put money into that. And it will serve as the vehicle that will mirror what the
House was trying to do with the prime grant. It's a little bit smaller funding. It's closer to $12 billion instead
of $20 billion over the five years. But again, for that same purpose of new and expanding interstate
passenger rail programs.
Next, I just want to touch on the Appropriations process. So the House has approved their Appropriations
bill. And as many of you know, there was a heroic effort from our Congressman, Congressman Perlmutter
and his legislative staff. A big Thank you to the Congressman and his staff for the work they've done. But it
was to implement or include the funding that will facilitate the return of our credit risk premium to RTD.
And so I know that's been a priority for the agency for many years. The House bill didn't include that funding
originally in their bill. And Congressman Perlmutter basically went to the mat for us and him and his staff
were able to get that funding included, which is absolutely critical. It still needs to go through the Senate.
But if it wasn't in the House bill, it's very, very hard to get it through the Senate bill. So we hope that we're
that much closer, and that this is the year that this happens.
Moving over to the State, not a lot to report there, as the State General Assembly is not in regular session.
Some of interim committees are meeting. And as many of you know, General Manager Johnson went and
presented before the Transportation and Legislative Review committee or Legislation Review committee
on August 4. I think that was just a good opportunity for members of the committee to hear RTD priorities
and ask questions.
And the last thing I want to note on the state side is that there was one action by the Legislative Review
Committee. And I just want to highlight the one bill. Representative Gray request a bill draft from the staff
on medical transportation. He left that very broad in his request.
And this is basically a request for staff to come back. And the TLRC meets again in October. So it's a
request to come back. But he left that very broad in terms of medical transportation-- did not specify if that's
emergency or non-emergency. And there wasn't a lot of detail. But I figure I'd flag that for you all, as we will
see more on that bill as the Committee considers it. And we'll definitely keep you up to date. So with that,
that concludes my very short report. Thank you all.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I'll say, I saw Patti Dorsch and Mike Dino both on the call. And thank you
for all your hard work on the CRP Riff. I know it's moving forward. It's hopeful at this point, as Michael said.
Director Tisdale?

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Representative Perlmutter, today, spoke with a
number of us at the Colorado School of Mines on the launch of the Mines Rover. And it was animated,
enthusiastic, and passionate about this language being in both the Senate bill in the House bill and confident
that we would finally get it through.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's right. He was. We had a chance to thank him. There were seven of us at the
Mine Rover launch. And he said we would recognize it tonight. He said, when we get done, we got to throw
a party. So he was appreciative. And I'll take a second just to say that the Mine Rover launch was-- the
Mines Rover launch was very interesting. That it had basically a shuttle that it may be very different
technologically, but it looks like the shuttle that we used in the 61AV project. And it comes from Easy Mile.
And we spoke with the representative at Easy Mile. He said they learned a lot in our RTD project that they
were able to use as they move forward. It's an automated driverless shuttle that'll be running around through
campus. And good work to School of Mines and the city of Golden for making that happen. It's an exciting
project.
And it was a nice opportunity for us to say hello to Congressman Perlmutter and Lieutenant Governor
Primavera today. And thanks to Marjorie for helping put that together for us. Any other comments? Okie
doke, I think that's it for our meeting. Do we have a motion to adjourn?
KATE WILLIAMS: So move, Director Williams.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Second, Rosenthal.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I believe our next meeting is October 5. And we are adjourned.
SHELLEY COOK: Can I get a five-minute break here right quick?
LYNN GUISSINGER: We're all going to break, and we'll come back for another meeting. Good night.

