Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 11, 2007, 3:00
p.m. Page 1 of 4
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

October 12, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 11,
2007 at 3:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room

Board Members Present:

Staff Present:
Call to Order:
I.

***
Chair Chris Martinez; Director Christopher, Vice-Chair;
Director Brohl, Secretary (via phone), Director Kemp,
Treasurer
Directors, Busck, Chacon, Kinton, and Yamrick (via
phone)
Cal Marsella, Scott Reed, Paula Perdue, Bill Holmes
Chair Chris Martinez called the meeting to order at 3:00
p.m.

October Board Meeting Agenda Review
Cal Marsella provided an overview of the items on the unanimous
consent and recommended action.


Unanimous Consent

A. Salaried Employee Insured Benefits
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the 2008 Plan Year Salaried Employee
Insured Benefits Budget and authorize the General Manager to enter
into an agreement with the Insurance Carriers.
The total estimated cost for the 2008 Salaried Employee Insured
Benefits is $6,147,641, of which the District will pay $5,138,097
(83.6%) and our salaried employees will contribute the remaining
$1,009,543 (16.4%). The District contribution to the salaried
insured benefits budget is included in the 2008 Requested Budget.

B. Exclusion of January 2007 Data from the 2007 Performance Indicator
Report
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the exclusion of January 2007
data from the 2007 Performance Indicator Report.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 11, 2007, 3:00
p.m. Page 2 of 4
C. Free Rides for Members of the Military
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that free rides on RTD for active duty members of the United States
Military should be extended from the presently approved date of
December 31, 2007 to December 31, 2008. Utilization has been
minimal to date and this extension will have minimal impact on RTD.
D. Approval of January 2008 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that the Board of Directors approve the January 13, 2008 Service
Change package as revised and summarized on Attachment A
resulting in a net annual savings of approximately $108,100, and,
further, to authorize the General Manager to execute contract
amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is
impacted by these changes.


Recommended Action

E. Northwest Rail Technology Recommendation
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors approve Diesel Multiple Units (DMU) as the
preferred technology for the Northwest Rail Corridor Environmental
Evaluation.
F.

North Metro DEIS Preferred Alternative
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors approve the preferred alternative for the North
Metro Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS). The preferred
Alternative for the North Metro includes evaluating four “Build”
alignments in the DEIS in the southern piece of the corridor around
Sand Creek Junction. The DEIS will also evaluate 18 station options
for 8 stations along the corridor. The technology is Diesel Multiple
Units.
Director Brohl indicated it would be good if we could get some
supporters to speak on behalf of the proposed recommendation for
DMU technology in these corridors.

G. Purchase Thirty 40 Foot and Thirteen 30 Foot Ultra-low Sulfur Diesel
Heavy Duty Transit Buses (Please see memo that is included behind
board report)
It is recommended by the Operations Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to exercise the option
included in Contract 13DK005 with Gillig Corporation for 30 heavy
duty ultra-low sulfur diesel low-floor 40 foot transit buses and 13
heavy duty ultra-low sulfur diesel 30 foot transit buses at a total cost

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 11, 2007, 3:00
p.m. Page 3 of 4
not to exceed $13,762,151. Funding for the purchase of these
buses is available in the 2007 amended capital and expense budget.
This item would be brought before the Operations Committee later
today and is expected to generate much discussion.

H. Award Contract to provide and install Fuel & Fluid Management and
Vehicle Data Acquisition Systems
It is recommended by the Operations Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to award a contract to
S&A Systems, Inc. (Fleetwatch) of Rockwall, Texas, a RTD certified
SBE, the low cost, most responsive, responsible and qualified
proposer for the purchase of the Fuel & Fluid Management and
Vehicle Data Acquisition Systems (“Systems”) to be installed in RTD
bus maintenance facilities and buses. The Systems are comprised of
sensors and controllers, which automatically collect the vehicle
number and mileage, control and report the flow of fuel and
consumable fluids (engine oil, antifreeze, etc) into the buses. The
Systems also collect bus operating and diagnostic data generated by
bus components such as engines and transmissions. The collected
data will be sent to the new Maximus maintenance reporting system
to generate preventive maintenance actions. The total cost for the
project is $669,500. The funding for this contract is approved and
available in the District’s 2007 Capital Budget.
Hearing no issues, the Executive Committee elected to move the
agenda forward to the Board.
II.

2008 Audit Schedule
Scott Reed indicated that the Board Members have an opportunity to
provide feedback into what items they may like to see included on the
2008 audit schedule. This information is due by October 23 rd.
Director Chacon inquired if customer service could be included on this
list. Lots of discussion pursued about what was meant by customer
service and the type of items that the Board was interested in seeing and
what type of procedural or policy issues may be appropriate to audit.
Director Christopher noted that customer service had been identified on
the list of Board priorities from an earlier retreat but no further action has
been taken. Director Chacon expressed an interest in understanding our
customer care policy especially as it pertains to our responsiveness to
customers.
Chair Martinez summarized by stating that we need to pursue the
Customer Service Board priority in a study session which will help the

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 11, 2007, 3:00
p.m. Page 4 of 4
Board to better define what it means by customer service. Director
Kinton requested a facilitator knowledgeable in customer service to help
the Board ferret out what is important and appropriate measurements or
audits.
Cal Marsella requested Scott Reed to put together some of the measures
that are currently collected by TIC.
Director Busck suggested a presentation by Staff on what they do in
customer service to help the Board better understand and develop a more
systematic approach to customer service.
III.

Other Matters
Chair Martinez shared that Director Tayer would be providing amendment
language for the Northwest Rail Technology and the North Metro DEIS
Preferred Alternative which hopefully would be available to include in the
Board Packets. Director Brohl asked that a cover letter would be
attached to this reminding the Directors to contact John if they had any
questions or concerns.
Cal Marsella shared that RTD is continuing to work with JeffCO on
possible solutions including pursuing Senate Bill 1 monies. He indicated
he is meeting with Russell George, CDOT, and Jennifer Schauble,
DRCOG, next week to see how receptive they may be to this option.
We would be seeking approximately $20 million over a 3 year period.
We would also explore this option for the grade crossing issue at Peoria.
Cal Marsella indicated at his Legislative Senate meeting, a representative
from Boulder who is a transit advocate, expressed her lack of
understanding for the double recommendation for BRT and rail along the
Boulder corridor. Cal Marsella feels it is critically important for RTD and
respective Board members to meet with the mayors and stakeholders
along the corridor so that everyone has an understanding of how the
process was arrived. This meeting will be established as a priority by
Scott Reed.
Cal Marsella expressed confusion over what he perceived to be different
requests by Board members for PPP panelists to address the Board.
Chair Martinez provided an explanation of what is happening.
Chair Martinez reviewed the IRS guidelines for travel, local expense,
telecommunications and per diem. This item will be further discussed
and decided upon at the November Executive Committee meeting. A
copy of the guidelines is attached to these minutes.

IV.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 4:22 p.m.

