Minutes of the DBE Committee Meeting held on May 10, 2011
Page 1 of 2

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

May 11, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the DBE Committee Meeting held May 10, 2011 in
Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Brohl; Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Deadwyler,
Cohen, Daly, Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, and
Tobiassen.
Director Bagley left early.

Board Members
Absent:

Directors Cohen and Riley.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tom Barlow, Jeff Becker, Larry Buter, Rick Clarke, Jessie
Carter, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Bob Downes, Sherry Ellebracht,
David Genova, Mike Gil, Lou Ha, Terry Howerter, Marla Lien, Barbara
McManus, Brian Matthews, Doug MacLeod, Tai-Shrae Parish, Kevin
Parker, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Trent Ratcliff, Susan Sandoval,
Jannette Scarpino, Teresa Sedmak, Dean Shaklee, Cal Shankster, Walt
Stringer, and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Eric Biga – Veolia, Bert Bondi – Bondi & Co., Jeff Leib – Denver Post,
Stanley Gronek, Treasurer – ATU Local 1001, Rich MacIntosh Transportation Software, and Cheryl Wallace – Bondi & Co.
****

Call to Order:
I.

Committee Chair Brohl called the meeting to order at 6:42 p.m.

DBE/SBE Participation Updates
Carla Perez reiterated that the purpose of this update was to work the Board through
the pillars, the activities, and what makes up the function of the DBE/SBE office.
There is a Base Contract Report, FasTracks Contract Report, and detailed information
regarding Eagle P3/West Corridor/DUS. Base Contracts are broken down into Primes,
Contract Description, Contract Amount, RTD Goal, Prime Commitment, and To Date

Minutes of the DBE Committee Meeting held on May 10, 2011
Page 2 of 2

Participation. These reports are monitored closely to ensure not only the goal and
commitment, but how well they are tracking with those items.
II.

Questions and Answers
Director Anderson noted that the reports list the actual contract amounts, and
inquired if that was the information that was requested, and if we were further going
to break down the information. Michael Washington noted that the breakdowns are
located in the last 8 pages of the packet; the reports provided show the top line
breakdown.
Director Deadwyler inquired if the breakdowns can show ethnicity. Committee Chair
Brohl added that people are looking at who within a certain community are getting
these contracts; however, certified firms are not required to self identity an ethnicity.
Carla Perez agreed with Directors Deadwyler and Brohl, noting that it would create
better opportunities if the public were to know which firms/ethnic groups were
receiving these contracts so that if individuals wished to sub-contract they know who
they are working for.
General Manager Washington added that there are a lot of LOI’s that have not been
executed, or are not considered to be executed. These numbers begin to populate
when the sub-contractor signs contracts with DTP and they present us with the subcontract. As a project progresses, those numbers will change.

III.

Other Matters
Committee Chair Brohl noted that at the last meeting she indicated that there was an
open seat available at the DTP Roundtable. However, DTP is the concessionary
responsible for the East Corridor which goes through Director Deadwyler’s district,
and she has expressed interest in taking that seat.
Chair Kemp added that at some point in time when Director Brohl and Deadwyler feel
comfortable with the process, they would consider rotating so that other Board
Members could attend so that we all stay engaged in what is going on in the
community.

IV.

Next Meeting Date – June 14, 2011

V.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 7:10 p.m. to the Operations and Customer Service Meeting

