Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, February 20, 2007
Page 1 of 2
Regional Transportation District

Memorandum
To:

RTD Board of Directors

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

February 23, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Meeting of the Legislative Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, February 20, 2007, at 4:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board
Conference Room
****

Committee
Members Present:

Wally Pulliam, Chair; Bill Elfenbein, Vice-Chair; Noel Busck, Bill
Christopher, Bruce Daly, Lee Kemp, Daryl Kinton, Chris Martinez,
John Tayer, Barbara Yamrick

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Marla Lien, Sherry Ellebracht, Scott Reed, Daria
Serna, Caitlin Magee

Others Present:

Tom Bastien (via phone), Jenifer Brandeberry, Julie McKenna,
Michael Dino, Kevin Flynn, L.W. Morrow
****

Call to Order:

Chair Pulliam called the meeting to order at 4:04 p.m.

I.

Federal Update – Michael Dino, federal lobbyist for RTD, gave this update.
Senate passed Joint Funding Resolution. Good news for RTD in terms of
getting money for T-REX and the West Corridor. Congress is presently on
recess for President’s Holiday. All the appropriations requests will be in as
scheduled. Cal Marsella mentioned that Senator Allard is trying to get the
funding shortfalls on T-REX incorporated into this year’s appropriations.
Cal Marsella mentioned that Patton Boggs is setting up a meeting (in
conjunction with the APTA Legislative Conference) with other transit
managers to discuss the issue of railroad indemnification. The meeting will
be March 12, 2007, at either 5 or 6 p.m.
Dinner with Patton Boggs and legislative staff – Monday, March 12, 2007 at
the Caucus Room, 7:00 p.m. The Caucus Room is within walking distance
of the hotel. Due to the implications of Amendment 41, General Counsel
Marla Lien, thinks that RTD should pick up the bill for the Board Members.

Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, February 20, 2007
Page 2 of 2
II.

State Update - Jenifer Brandeberry, state lobbyist for the District, gave this
update.
 SB 07-088 RTD Parking Management Bill – Was heard in Senate Business
Affairs and Labor last week and passed out of committee 6-1. It is now
in the Appropriations Committee where it has not yet been calendared.
 SJR 07-013 – Joint Resolution regarding nationwide shared risk pool –
was heard last week on the Senate Floor. It passed 33-2. This resolution
will now move over to the House.
 HB 07-1186 – Annexation of “incorporated” parcels bill – led by City of
Aurora – Heard last week in House Transportation. It came out of
Committee 12-1. It was heard on second reading and passed.
 HB 07-1295 – RTD boundary description bill – Is scheduled for hearing on
February 22, 2007 in the House Transportation Committee. The
summary sheet was distributed to the Committee. There will be an
amendment that clarifies that the District is not co-terminus with the
baseball district or the Scientific and Cultural Facilities District.
 Utility relocation bill – has been drafted. Staff and the lobbyists have it to
review.
 Railroad indemnification/liability bill is still in drafting.

III.

Other Matters – Chair Pulliam brought to the attention of the Committee HB
07-1184 “Concerning Divestment Action by Certain Governmental Entities
against Companies Financially Involved with the Government of Sudan.”
Marla Lien has prepared a fiscal note for this bill. The bill and the fiscal note
were distributed to the Committee and are available for viewing in the
Legislative Committee Meeting Minutes Book. The bill requires all publicly
held investment trusts/pension trusts to divest of any Sudanese holdings.
The cost to the RTD Salaried Pension Trust is estimated at $351,900. The
reason for the high cost to the District is that many of the Pension Trusts
investments are in indexed type investments that are not managed funds. To
ensure that there were no Sudanese investments, the Trust would have to
pull out of the indexed funds and go to active managed funds.

IV.

Adjournment - There being no objection, Chairman Pulliam adjourned the
meeting at 4:23 p.m.

