Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on September 11, 2008, 12:00
p.m. Page 1 of 6
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

September 11, 2008

Subject:

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on September 11,
2008 at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room

Board Members Present:

***
Chair Kemp, Secretary McMullen; Treasurer Tayer;
Directors Chacon, Daly and Ruchman

Board Members Absent:

Vice Chair Martinez, 2nd Vice Chair Busck

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Bruce Abel, Paula Perdue

Call to Order:

Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 12:04 p.m.

I.

Recommended Action
Resolution No________ Series of 2008 Designation of Elector for the
Downtown Development Authority Election
MOTION:
Director McMullen made the motion to
move this resolution forward to the
full Board meeting
Director Tayer seconded the motion.
DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

Director McMullen noted that in a
different conversation, he heard that
the spouse of the property owner
would also get a voice. Chair Kemp
shared that on the 7-member Board
that had been previously approved,
RTD would be able to appoint 2
people to that Board. Currently until
the beginning of 2009, Cal Marsella
has appointed two people to fill this
position but the Board would
reconsider in January, 2009.
The motion passed Unanimously.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on September 11, 2008, 12:00
p.m. Page 2 of 6

II.

September

Board Meeting Agenda Review

Cal Marsella, General Manager reviewed the items on the agenda. There
were no questions or concerns.
 Unanimous Consent
 Contract Amendment with Manion Construction for Street
Improvements & Shelter Installation – Exercise Third Year Option
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his
designee to execute all documents necessary to award a contract
amendment to initiate the third year of a three-year option contract
for the annual Street Improvements & Shelter Installation contract
with Manion Construction, Inc. for $359,158. Funding for this
contract amendment is included in the 2008 Adopted Capital Budget.


Regional Transportation District Resolution No.__, Series of 2008,
Acceptance of Annexation Petitions from Lend Lease Horizon LLC
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the annexation of the 503 acre
Horizon Uptown property to RTD. The property owners, Lend Lease
Horizon LLC, have petitioned RTD to approve the annexation. Upon
approval of this annexation, the area would become part of District F.
None of the requests or commitments contained in the development
plan has been agreed to and the approval of this annexation does not
commit RTD to any future service at this time. Any future service
request will require a separate agreement by the Board.



Proposed RTD/CDOT Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) for the
FasTracks
Southeast
and
Southwest
Corridor
Extensions
Environmental Study and Basic Engineering Phase
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to
negotiate and execute a proposed RTD/CDOT Intergovernmental
Agreement (IGA) for the FasTracks Southeast and Southwest
Corridor Extensions Environmental Study and Basic Engineering
Phase. There is no financial impact related to the approval of this
IGA.



Approval of Contract Amendment with H.C. Peck & Associates, Inc.
RTD Contract No. 17DH013 Property Acquisition and Relocation
Assistance – West Corridor
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his
designee to execute all documents necessary to award a contract
amendment to increase the total contract amount on RTD Contract

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on September 11, 2008, 12:00
p.m. Page 3 of 6
No. 17DH013 from $800,000 to $1,300,000.00, an increase of the
$500,000. Funding for this contract amendment is included in the
West Corridor Budget.


Approval of Contract Amendment with DMJM Harris for Final Design
for the Elati Light Rail Maintenance Facility Expansion and
Mariposa Upgrade.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
RTD’s contract with DMJM-Harris for the Light Rail Maintenance
Facility Environmental Assessment – Conceptual Engineering (EA-CE)
be amended to add $257,531.42 to the contract amount for the
consultant to complete final design. These funds are included in the
FasTracks budget. The current contract amount is $1,598,975.00.
This amendment will increase the contract value to $1,856,506.42.
Funding for this contract amendment was included in the 2008
Amended Budget approved by the Board.



Resolution No.___, Series of 2008, Revised Strategic Plan for Transit
Oriented Development



Resolution No.__, Reimbursement Resolution for CAD/AVL and Bus
Fare Boxes
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors adopt the Resolution No.__,
Reimbursement Resolution for CAD/AVL and Bus Fare Boxes,
expressing the intent of the Board to be reimbursed for certain
expenses relating to the procurement of bus fare boxes, radio
communications systems which support voice and data
communications featuring computer aided dispatching and automated
vehicle location (CAD/AVL) functionality and related equipment.



Resolution No.__, Series of 2008, Designation of Elector for the
Downtown Development Authority Election

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on September 11, 2008, 12:00
p.m. Page 4 of 6


Recommended Action



Approval of 2008 and 2009 Contract Amendment to Montoya
Masonry for 16th Street Mall Transitway Lanes – Granite Paver
Maintenance – Second Year Option
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager, or his
designee, to execute all documents necessary to accomplish the
following two amendments to the Mall Paver Contract for Montoya
Masonry.
Amendment #1: Increase the current contract funding for
maintenance of the Mall Transitway Lanes for the remainder of 2008
through December 31 by $300,000. Funding for this contract
amendment is included in the 2008 Amended budget.
Amendment #2: Exercise the second year option of this 3 rd year
contract and authorize $1,000,000 funding for 2009. This amount is
included in the 2009 Requested Budget and this amendment will not
be executed until the board adopts the 2009 Budget.



January 2009 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that the Board of Directors approve moving the proposed January 11,
2009 Service Changes (Attachment A) on to public review and
comment.

MOTION:

Director McMullen made the motion to
move the September Board agenda to
the full Board meeting on September
16, 2008.
Director Tayer seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director Tayer indicated he would be
making an amendment to the approval
of 2008 and 2009 contract
amendment to Montoya Masonry for
16th Street Mall Transitway LanesGranite Paver Maintenance-Second
year option, and passed out a copy of
his proposed amendment to the
committee. Director Tayer stated he
feels RTD needs to send a strong
message to our partners that RTD will

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on September 11, 2008, 12:00
p.m. Page 5 of 6
be moving ahead with our plans to
make changes to reduce our costs.
Director Chacon stated she feels some
of those with vested interest may not
know the cost elements involved.
Director Ruchman requested that the
date”…2010” be clarified to reflect by
January 1, 2010.
Director McMullen inquired where are
we with Downtown Denver
Partnership. Cal responded that he
has sent a letter to Tammy Door on
the Board’s behalf and is scheduled
for a face-to-face meeting with her
tomorrow at 10:00 a.m.
VOTE ON
THE MOTION:
III.

The motion passed Unanimously.

Update-Low Income Housing EcoPass Pilot Program
Bruce Abel passed out a letter which addresses the steps staff propose to
take related to a pilot program with the Housing Authority. Essentially this
proposal recommends conducting a benchmark survey to collect important
data for analyzing rider behavior. Step 2 would involve using this survey
data to extrapolate types of trips taken and to devise a costing model
based around the college and university methodology. Bruce Abel stressed
this is a pilot with a desired start timeframe of January 2009.
Extensive discussion occurred around how many sites should be included
in the pilot and if this pilot could be an extension of the non-profit model.
Director McMullen expressed concern on if this sends the wrong message
with the whole issue of EcoPass.
The committee made the determination to postpone any decision on this
matter and bring it before the October Customer Service Committee
meeting. Issues to reconsider include number of pilots, modifications to
the proposal or inclusion of pilot with non-profit organizations.

IV.

Confidentiality
Chair Kemp discussed the safeguards needed to ensure
confidentiality in the handling and disposition of confidential matters.
He shared that in one of the issues in question, the documents did
not indicate confidential so efforts need to be made to implement
better document controls. He also requested Paula Perdue to work

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on September 11, 2008, 12:00
p.m. Page 6 of 6
with Marla Lien in making sure the language in the code of ethics provided
more clarity on the process.
Directors Ruchman and Daly recommended that a section on confidentiality
is included in the training of new Board members.
V.

Other Matters
Cal Marsella and Phil Washington shared the latest information on diesel
fuel as going between $3.05-3.10 per gallon. Cal requested input from the
Committee on whether they should lock in for 2009. The Board members
felt in general that it is a good thing to lock in for 2009 and provided this
direction to staff.
Director Chacon recommended that the Board considers adding strong
language to the section in the TOD policy on affordable housing and felt the
current language was too weak. She asked Director Tayer to come up with
some language that could be offered as a friendly amendment at Tuesday’s
Board meeting. She indicated that she would miss this session but entrusts
Director Tayer to carry the message forward. Director Tayer will draft
language and send it out to the Directors for input.
Director Ruchman requested if the Board could receive a preliminary copy of
the PPP RFP and a copy of the public comments they have attained to this
date. Cal Marsella responded that since the RFP is not due to be issued until
late spring of 2009, it is too premature for this.
Directors Ruchman and Tayer complimented RTD on its FasTracks Public
Outreach approach but wanted to ensure that full opportunity is being given
for a dialogue and not a monolog with the public. Cal Marsella assured them
the current process is working as he, the staff and the Chair have had
several meetings with city councils and others seeking their input.
Director Tayer reminded Cal that he is still looking for pricing on single
tracks

VI.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 1:40 p.m.

