Memorandum
Corrected Minutes
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to Board of Directors

Date:

May 18, 2011

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday, May 17, 2011 at
5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL-DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Nine (9) Board Members were present at roll call. Directors Malpiede, O’Boyle, Tayer and
Tobiassen arrived after roll call and the beginning of the Board Meeting. Directors Brohl and
McMullen were absent from this meeting.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
Thomas Summers, Material Handling, Parts-Mariposa Rail Operations, 25 years.
General Manager Washington noted that Phil Eberl would address the Board and audience
regarding Mr. Summers. Mr. Eberl explained that Mr. Summers had been with RTD for the
past 25 years beginning as a store room parts clerk in the Platte Division. Mr. Summers is a
quintessential employee who will be dearly missed, and is known by everyone as Flash for
the lightning bolts he draws on his paperwork. We wish him well in his future endeavors and
will miss him.
Mr. Summers expressed his thanks to RTD and to his fellow workers for working with him
for these 25 years. General Manager Washington added that we would like to thank Mrs.
Mary Summers for supporting Tom for all of these years as well.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Mike Bestor – City Manager for the City of Golden noted that he was in favor of the staff
recommendation for item J regarding the station name of Jefferson County Government
Center•Golden Station for the West Line. Mr. Bestor further noted that the Golden City
Council supports and sincerely appreciates the work of RTD staff with regards to the station
naming process.
Chair Kemp indicated that Mr. Bestor was the only speaker listed, and would allow any other
member of the audience to speak if they wished to comment on anything from tonight’s
agenda. Seeing none, public participation was closed.

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS-(See Minutes)
Planning & Development Committee - Chaired by Director Bagley
Legislative Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Cohen
DBE Committee – Chaired by Director Brohl
Operations/Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen

Financial/Administration Committee – Chaired by Director James
GM Oversight and Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee – Chaired by Director Tayer
CDOT – Director Cohen
E-470 – Director O’Boyle
ACED – Director Hoy/Riley
Northwest Parkway-Director Anderson & Chair Kemp
Pension Committee – Directors Brohl & O’Boyle
Rocky Mountain Rail Authority-Director Daly
Chair’s Report- Chair Lee Kemp
Board members provided several changes to the committee reports. These reports have been
corrected as appropriate.
VI.

GENERAL MANAGER OVERSIGHT & PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT UPDATE
Director Bagley gave a very brief update noting that the General Manager Oversight &
Performance Management Committee will be meeting next Tuesday May 24th. There will be a
few items on the agenda for that night and possibly for the Board to review as well.

VII.

FISCAL SUSTAINABILITY TASK FORCE COMMITTEE UPDATE
Director Tayer indicated that the Task Force recommendations will be made to the Board on
June 28th and that the Task Force is very excited to present their findings within a
constructive dialogue between the Task Force and the Board.

VIII.

METRO MAYOR TASK FORCE UPDATE
Chair Kemp explained that there has not been a Metro Mayor Task Force for the past few
months, and none are presently scheduled at this time.

IX.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF April 19, 2011
MOTION:

Director James moved for the adoption of the April 19, 2011
Board Meeting Minutes.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 11 votes in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Kemp, Riley,
Tayer, and Tobiassen) and 0 against. Directors Brohl, Malpiede,
McMullen, and O’Boyle were absent for this vote.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

X.

APPROVAL OF SPECIAL BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF APRIL 26, 2011
MOTION:

Director Anderson moved for the adoption of the April 19,
2011 Board Meeting Minutes.
Director Daly seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director Daly noted that on page 2 of the Special Board
Meeting Minutes regarding the 225 Corridor Segment 1 the
middle of the paragraph should read “signing” instead of
“sighing”.
Chair Kemp asked counsel if he should abstain from the vote
since he participated via conference call for his meeting. Marla
Lien indicated that Chair should excuse himself since he was
not physically present.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 11 votes in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, O’Boyle, Riley,
Tayer, and Tobiassen) and 1 abstain (Chair Kemp). Directors
Brohl, Malpiede, and McMullen were absent for this vote.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

XI.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT






General Manager Washington indicated that an email originally sent from Director
Cohen highlighted the Brookings Institute Report Rankings. Denver was highlighted as
being 6th out of 100 cities, with 47% of jobs reached within 90 minutes. This figure is
well above the national average, and we are very proud of being a big factor in this
ranking.
General Manager Washington shared that the 4 car operation change is in progress.
We are currently working with the City and County of Denver regarding their technical
issues, resulting in the bunching and delaying of our trains yesterday. The city and
county is working on their signal timing glitches, and we will keep the Board apprised
of their progress.
General Manager Washington noted that Director Cohen facilitated the West Corridor
Elected Officials Briefing last Friday. General Manager Washington along with Rick
Clarke attended to give a general RTD briefing, and a FasTracks briefing as well, as
well as the entire West Corridor Team.
General Manager Washington acknowledged that Julio Rivera from ATU 1001 was in
attendance, and we should see him quite frequently in the next few months.
Also, General Manager Washington along with Director Tobiassen, Rick Clarke, and
Greg Straight attended the Aurora City Council Meeting last night where they
approved the IGA.

XII.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
Chair Kemp asked for a motion to approve items A thru I on the unanimous consent agenda.
MOTION:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve the
unanimous consent agenda, items A thru I.
Director Cohen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON

MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 12 votes in favor
(Anderson, Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy,
James, Kemp, O’Boyle, Riley, Tayer, and Tobiassen)
and 0 against. Directors Brohl, Malpiede, and McMullen
were absent for this vote.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

A. Request for approval of RTD 2010 Annual Report to DRCOG on FasTracks
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors approve submittal of the RTD 2010 Annual Report on FasTracks to DRCOG.
This report summarizes the changes to the FasTracks Plan, including financing and
alignment, that have been approved by the Board in 2010. These changes are included
and referenced in the Annual Report.
B. Amendment of Special Transit ADA Paratransit Services contract (17-DH-028) for the
Provision of “Federal Heights Call-n-Ride” Demand Response Services
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to amend the existing ADA
paratransit services contract with Special Transit (17-DH-028) for the provision of the
“Federal Heights Call-n-Ride” services. This contract amendment will be for the duration
of the existing contract. The cost shall not exceed $184,875. This cost includes an
estimate for fuel which will be treated as a pass through expense. The service is
scheduled to begin January 2, 2012 and run through the end of the current ADA
Paratransit Services contract, December 31, 2012.
C. Amendment of MV Transit ADA paratransit Services contract (17-DH-007) for the
provision of “Belleview Call-n-Ride” Demand Response Services
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to amend the existing ADA
paratransit services contract with MV Transit (17-DH-007) for the provision of the
“Belleview Call-n-Ride” services. This contract amendment will be for the duration of the
existing contract. The cost shall not exceed $261,375. This cost includes an estimate
for fuel which will be treated as a pass through expense. The service is scheduled to
begin January 2, 2012 and run through the end of the current ADA Paratransit Services
contract, December 31, 2012.
D. 2010 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors accept and enter into the record the District’s audited financial reports
relating to the year ended December 31, 2010 as prepared by Staff and audited by the
District's independent auditor, Bondi & Co. LLC.
E. Records Analyst and Document Control Services Contract-Cen-Tec
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to award Cen-Tec a contract to provide records analyst and document control
services, for the amount not to exceed of $300,000. The proposed action also requests
authorization to execute a budget transfer from capital project 10307 task 90 to
expense budget code 01.3305.53012.0000.0000 in the amount of $180,000 and

another into 01.3307.53012.0000.0000 in the amount of $101,951. RTD policy
requires Board authorization of this transfer.
F. Booz Allen Hamilton, Business Process Work Order Contract, Increase of Contract
Value not-to-exceed
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors authorizes the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to
increase the contract value not-to-exceed limit for an existing contract with Booz Allen
Hamilton for Business Process Services (Contract 10DJ001). This contract was
originally awarded in 2010 to Booz Allen Hamilton through the competitive bid process.
The contract allowed for an initial-year plus four (4) one-year options to be renewed
based on positive performance by the vendor. The proposed action increases the current
contract not-to-exceed limit of $450,000 by $1,000,000 to a new total contract not-toexceed limit of $1,450,000.
G. State Legislative Liaison Services
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the
General Manager to enter into an agreement (for state legislative liaison services) with
Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BMPA) to exercise a one-year option (July 1,
2011 through June 30, 2012) to extend Contract No. 17-DX-001, at a cost of
$104,000, pursuant to the Contract Award agreement.
H. RTD Station and Facility Naming Policy
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt this station and facility naming policy, which updates a policy adopted
by the Board in December 2003.
I. August 2011 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve moving the proposed August 2011 Service Change (Attachment A) on
to public review and comment.
XII.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
J. Station Names on West Corridor
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
accept and approve final station names for West Corridor (Knox Station, Perry Station,
Sheridan Station, Lamar Station, Garrison Station, Oak Station, Federal Center Station,
and Red Rocks College Station) including revisions to the names of three stations:
Federal•Decatur Station changing to Decatur•Federal Station; Wadsworth Station
changing to Lakewood•Wadsworth Station; and Jefferson County Government Center
Station changing to Jefferson County Government Center•Golden Station.

MOTION:

Director Anderson made the motion to approve the
Station Names on West Corridor.
Director Cohen seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director Cohen noted that the overwhelming sentiment
from residents of Golden has affirmed this decision and

the look forward to having the city of Golden recognized
in the station name. Director Anderson added that this
has been quite an experience and noted that RTD
purchased right of way into the city of Golden along the
Gold Line tracks.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken for item J with 13 in favor
(Anderson, Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy,
James, Kemp, Malpiede, O’Boyle, Riley, Tayer, and
Tobiassen) and 0 against. Director Malpiede arrived in
time to vote for this item. Directors Brohl and McMullen
were absent for this vote.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

XIII.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
An executive session was not held at this meeting.

XIV.

NEW BUSINESS
Chair Kemp somberly noted that Dick McLean, an esteemed and highly respected former
Board Member from the Boulder area passed away last week. He requested a moment of
silence.
Director Daly added that Doug Conner, a former bus driver who attended and spoke at many
previous Board Meetings had also passed away last week.
Director Bagley noted that he had attended a session at Mineral Station for the Visible
Intermodal Prevention and Response (VIPR) and added that other jurisdictions and Board
Members should participate and be involved in this program. Also, Frank Weddig, one of the
Arapahoe County Commissioners had contacted Mr. Bagley regarding new services for the
county. Mr. Weddig will be contacting Bruce Abel shortly pertaining to that request.

XV.

ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned at 6:10 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

___________________________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the RTD Board of Directors
The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD meeting
you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307

THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD MEETING
Tuesday, May 17, 2011

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
John Tayer, First Vice Chair
Matt Cohen, Second Vice Chair
Angie Malpiede, Secretary
Kent Bagley, Treasurer
Lorraine Anderson
Larry Hoy
Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Bill James
Jack O’Boyle
Kenneth Riley
Tom Tobiassen

District I
District O
District M
District C
District H
District L
District J
District N
District B
District A
District G
District K
District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS ABSENT
Barbara Brohl
Bill McMullen

District D
District E

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Jesse Carter
Rick Clarke
Carolyn Conover
Phil Eberl
Sherry Ellebracht
David Genova
Mike Gil
Terry Howerter
Shawn Jakan

Austin Jenkins
Marla Lien
Barbara McManus
Brian Matthews
Doug MacLeod
Tai-Shrae Parish
Paula Perdue
Carla Perez
Scott Reed
John Shonsey

Bill Sirois
Brian Starck
Greg Straight
John Tarbert
Brenda Tierney
Pauletta Tonilas
Christina Tubb
Phil Washington
Susan Wood

OTHERS PRESENT:
Mike Bestor, Jenifer Brandeberry, Julio Rivera, Terry Ruiter, Tom Summers, Chris Taylor

