Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Paul Rosenthal, District E
Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Erik Davidson, District I
Bobby Dishell, District D

Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Marjorie Sloan, District M
Doug Tisdale, District H
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

Tuesday, April 20, 2021
REMOTE MEETING
5:30 PM
To join the meeting: REGISTER HERE
(connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or to listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 890 3761 0839#
Webinar Passcode: 849068#
For Public Participation: raise your virtual hand in Zoom
or indicate you wish to speak via phone by pressing *9
MONTHLY BOARD BRIEFING DOCUMENTS LINK

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
None.

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
Communications & Government Relations Committee
Civil Rights Committee
Operations & Customer Services Committee
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
GM Oversight & Performance Management

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of the Board Meeting/Special Board Meeting Minutes of February 23,
2021 and the Special Board Meeting of March 9, and March 23, 2021

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Aurora CELO Annexation

For the Board of Directors to approve the revised boundary map of the Regional
Transportation District and authorize the Board Secretary to certify the boundary map and
description.
It is further recommended that the newly annexed area to RTD pursuant to the provisions
of CRS 32-9-106.6 (1)(b) be included in Director District F (Director Broom).
B.

Reimagine RTD Guiding Principles

For the Board of Directors to adopt guiding principles to create a framework for decision
making for the Mobility Plan for the Future element of the Reimagine RTD project.
C.

Approval of Contract to Purchase Validators for Account-Based Ticketing

For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager or her designee to enter into a
contract with Masabi to purchase new bus and rail platform fare validators for the
Account-Based Ticketing (ABT) system.
D.

Budget Transfer for Railroad Liability Insurance Premiums

For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager or her designee to authorize a
budget transfer of $400,000 to fund increased commuter rail liability insurance coverage
and premiums for the N-line.
E.

Request for Budget Transfer Paratransit Software Replacement

For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager or her designee to authorize a
budget transfer of up to $4,000,000 to fund activities for the upcoming Paratransit
Software Replacement contract.
F.

June 2021 Proposed Service Change

For the Board of Directors to approve the June 2021 Service Changes and to authorize the
General Manager or her designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private
operators whose services are impacted by these changes.

G.

COVID-19 Title VI Service Equity Analysis

For the Board of Directors to adopt the Title VI Service Equity Analysis report to comply
with federal laws, regulations and guidelines related to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of
1964.

XII.

Recommended Action
H.

Approval of Triunity Hill Joint Venture Contract Extension and Value Increase

For the RTD Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager to approve a contract
amendment to exercise all remaining option years of the Triunity-Hill Joint Venture
agreement for Construction Management Support Consultant Services for FasTracks and
Base Systems operations, extending the contract end date to July 13, 2024, and
increasing the contract value by $3,000,000 to a total not-to-exceed value of
$37,400,000.
I.

Funding Agreement - City of Boulder/HOP for 2021

For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her designee, to
execute all documents necessary to enter into a Funding Agreement with the City of
Boulder for financial support for HOP circulator operations within the commercial areas of
the City of Boulder, the University of Colorado at Boulder and adjacent business and
residential areas for calendar year 2021 for an amount not to exceed $978,092.

XIII.

Executive Session
None

XIV. Old Business
XV.

New Business

XVI. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

