2021-04-20 Board Meeting
BARBARA MCMANUS: We're recording, so go ahead, please.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Good evening. I will now call to order the Tuesday, April 20 RTD Board
meeting to order. We are convened, as of 5:30 PM, Mountain Daylight Time. I would respectfully ask
everyone to remain muted, unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. And please note that under the current circumstances, the
official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health,
safety, and welfare. For the immediate future, the official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held
via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes
of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Visit rtd-denver.com. And a
livestream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
Directors and members of the staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged
during tonight's proceedings, I would ask you to please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call you
before proceeding to speak. Speaking out of turn will only add confusion to the record and the
proceedings. For any Directors or staff participating by phone, remember that you can indicate that you
would like to speak by pressing star-9. To toggle your mute settings on the phone, press star-6.
I'd like to start with a civility statement. Colleagues, being elected as members of this body imposes an
ethical obligation for each of us to enhance and maintain the public confidence in this agency. As a Board
of Directors, it is our collective duty to our constituents, stakeholders, and staff to conduct our business in
an atmosphere of mutual respect, cooperation, civility, trust, and collegiality. These are the values that we
can all agree upon. As such, I encourage each of us to review the operating guidelines adopted by this
Board and to act in accordance with those principles which are available on the Board of Directors page
on the RTD website. Thank you.
This evening, we will dispense with the Pledge of Allegiance. But what I'd like to do is ask Ms. McManus
to do the roll call, please.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Just one second, Chair. I was responding to something in the chat.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloane.

MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I am here and so is Director Buzek.
SHELLEY COOK: And Shelley Cook.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And Lynn Guissinger.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'm doing the executive committee last.
KATE WILLIAMS: I apologize. Good evening. I'm here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm here, thanks.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 15 present and accounted for. We have a quorum. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Ms McManus. I'd like to do our safety briefing. At RTD, safety is
our core value. And I'd like to begin this meeting with a short safety briefing. We've shared this
information recently, but it bears repeating.
As more and more people become fully vaccinated, many are wondering when life will return to normal.
But before you throw away your face mask, experts warn us that we'll need to continue wearing them for
a while longer, especially in public settings. Face mask and physical distancing will need to continue into
the foreseeable future, explains Infectious disease specialist with the CDC. Unfortunately, getting
vaccinated does not instantaneously mean that we can go back to how life was before. Until we have
some level of herd immunity, the vaccine is now just another layer of protection against COVID-19.
For us to reach herd immunity, 50% to 80% of the entire population will need to be vaccinated. And since
it will take time to ramp up production and distribution of the vaccines, the CDC urges folks to manage
their expectations about a quick return to normal. The CDC says fully vaccinated people can now safely
gather indoors, in homes, in small gatherings with other people who are fully vaccinated. No mask will be
required. But it's important to note that fully vaccinated people should continue to wear face masks and
maintain physical distance while in public spaces.
The vaccines are certainly a step in the right direction and a reason to celebrate, but we are not out of the
woods yet. Here are five reasons to still wear a face mask and social distance after you've been
vaccinated. One-- it takes time for the vaccine to kick in and you don't reach the 90% plus effectiveness
rate until two weeks after your second dose of the Pfizer or Moderna vaccine. For the Johnson & Johnson
vaccine, you're considered fully vaccinated two weeks after your single dose.

Two-- the vaccines do not provide 100% protection. And although the vaccines are incredibly effective,
they only offer 94% to 95% protection. There's no way to tell who the 5% will be who don't respond to the
vaccine and will still be at risk for COVID-19. Three-- those who have been vaccinated might be
asymptomatic spreaders. Experts are concerned that the vaccinated people can still become infected
without symptoms and then spread it to others who have not been vaccinated yet.
Four-- we still need to protect those with compromised immune systems and those who can't be
vaccinated. So even if you're fully vaccinated, it's recommended to steer clear of those considered highrisk and those not vaccinated. And then finally, five-- there are still limited doses of vaccine. There are
more than 330 million people in the United States. Experts say that 50% to 80% of the population will
need to be vaccinated to reach the herd immunity, which could take us all until the end of 2021 or
beyond.
I'll mention this again-- if anyone would like to engage with the Board during the public participation
portion of tonight's agenda, please raise your virtual hand now if you're signed into the meeting or press
star-9 if you're dialed in. You will be called on in turn at the appropriate time. This evening, there are no
retirement awards and we hope to resume them soon.
So this is our public participation period, which is open to anyone who'd like to address the Board. As is
our custom, we will allow any of our elected officials present to speak first. And if you wish to speak and
have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star-9 on your phone. And the
staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak.
If you are dialed in, press star-6. And they will be able to unmute you so that you can speak to the Board.
Please bear in mind that participating in the process, you are being recorded. So if you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing and you will not have the opportunity to
speak this evening. If any speaker has documentation or reference materials for the Board, please email
those materials to the Board Office at the following email address-- boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. I'll say
that again-- boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
During this time, the Board will not offer any comments or responses. Directors or staff make contact
speakers following their comments, if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow-up. And speakers
should begin the remarks by stating their names. And each speaker will have three minutes to speak.
Speakers, please refrain from profane or obscene speech. And direct your comments to the Board as a
whole and refrain from personal attacks.
Our first speaker is-- Mr. McKay, you can help me with this. I am not seeing anyone in the queue. Are
you?
JOHN MCKAY: I don't see a single hand.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Anyone at all who would like to address the Board, please raise your
virtual hand or press star-9. I see none, Mr. McKay. Do you?
JOHN MCKAY: I concur.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. With no participants in the queue, we're going to close the public
participation at this time. OK, committee reports. The committee minutes were included in the Board
package. And are there any corrections from the directors? Hearing none, those committee reports will
stand as submitted and will become part of the permanent record.
At this point, I would like to turn it over to Secretary Buzek. If you would, please, sir-- give us an update
on the work from the General Manager's Oversight Committee.

VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. Our next meeting of the GMOC is May 6 at 3:00 PM. I invite all
directors to attend if you can. We are going to be talking, I think, in some detail about the strategic
planning process and how that's going to look moving forward. That's all I have. That is my report. Thank
you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Next is the approval of the special board meeting minutes of
February 23, 2021 and the special board meeting of March 9 and March 23, 2021.
BOB BROOM: Move approval.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry. Who was that? Mr Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Second.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second. Go ahead, Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Ms. Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, I have Director Broom. And then Mr. Treasurer Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Any objections? Seeing none, I see the approval of all the minutes for
February 23 special board meeting, March 9 special board meeting, and March 23 special board meeting.
OK, now we're into the Chair's report. And Directors, I want you to know that I've been working
individually with Directors regarding the land acknowledgment that, if approved, would be added as part
of the proceedings during our monthly Board meetings. For anyone in the meeting not familiar with this,
according to the Smithsonian's National Museum of the American Indian, land acknowledgment is a
traditional custom that dates back centuries in many Native nations and communities.
Today, land acknowledgments are used by Native peoples and non-natives to recognize indigenous
peoples who are the original stewards of the lands of which we now live. Regarding to the timing, the
recommended action will be considered during the June meeting cycle, in following a discussion of the
draft text of the acknowledgment during our May executive committee. So we'll be bringing that forward.
I would also like to take this moment to thank Jordan Sauers from the Mayor's office in providing us the
opportunity to be acknowledged during Women's History Month-- both myself and the General Manager.
And the Mayors-- who are all women, including Mayor Hancock-- were able to raise over 700,000 masks
for the community and donated 40,000 of them to RTD. So we're very excited about that. And I would like
to thank her publicly. With that, I'd like to turn it over to our General Manager, Debra Johnson. Would you
please share with us your report?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. It's my pleasure to do so. And good evening to
you and Board members and to all who are virtually assembled. I am Debra Johnson, the General
Manager and CEO of the Regional Transportation District. As part of my General Manager's report this
evening, I will brief you on the following topics-- the agency's vaccination efforts, internally and externally;
COVID-19 response and protocols; and the agency's implementing fair study and equity analysis.
In early January, as part of the agency's vaccination planning efforts, the Human Resources Division, in
partnership with Safety, worked collaboratively with internal functional work groups to determine how to
provide vaccinations to the agency's 2,800 employees, either on-site, mobile, or in partnership with
providers. Following in February, in collaboration with ATU leadership, staff worked to garner feedback on
logistical preferences and assist employees with vaccination registrations with Kaiser Permanente.
Simultaneously, on a parallel track, operation staff-- in conjunction with communications in my office--

worked with SCL Health on its mass vaccine distribution event at the National Western Stock Show
complex and provided complimentary shuttles to transport people on February 6 and March 6. In late
March, the agency partnered with Denver Public Health and Environment to provide access to 3,000
Pfizer vaccinations to RTD employees and contractors at Denver International Airport.
This month, RTD is partnered with several community vaccination equity events and sites, including
BIPOC and Latin equity; Sacred Grace Englewood; fixed community sites; and second-chance clinics, of
which all RTD employees are eligible to participate. Beginning next month, the week of March 3-- in
partnership with Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment-- mobile vaccinations will be
made available for our third shift employees at four RTD divisions, which are Elati, East Metro, Platte, and
Boulder. Please be advised, all employees were informed via memorandum from me in early March that
they will receive two hours of paid time off for each inoculation. As of April 1, over 50% of RTD's
workforce have reported completion of their first inoculation. This data is based on the incentives paid as
of April 15, 2021. It is anticipated that at least 75% of the workforce will be fully vaccinated by June 1,
based upon the vaccination events I just referenced.
Transitioning to the agency's COVID-19 response and protocols, I'm sure you are aware the Colorado
Department of Public Health terminated the use of the COVID dial on Friday, April 16. And local health
agencies are now issuing all public health orders. And all metro area public health agencies are
coordinating their respective orders. But that being said, all public health agencies are moving to previous
COVID dial level blue. It is important to note current seven-day case rates per 100,000 people are at 149
cases, well above the stated level blue range of 36 to 100 cases.
Public health agencies will monitor effects of the public health orders for one month and will be reevaluated on March 16 and then subsequently on June 16. We as an agency here at RTD are taking a
careful, thoughtful approach to easing back into normal as Platte, district shops, and Elati divisions are
qualified as outbreak sites. RTD will not evaluate moving to blue level guidance until the seven-day case
rate is below 100 cases.
Relating to face coverings and physical distancing, the public health order no longer requires masks
outdoors. However, there is an exception, which is face coverings must be worn while waiting for or using
public transportation. Masks are still required in all indoor spaces. RTD will continue to adhere to its RTD
face covering and mask policy on all property and maintain six feet physical distancing.
In regards to meetings, public health orders have removed limits that require face coverings and six feet
physical distancing. It is recommended that RTD continue virtual meetings as much as possible.
Moreover, limit the number of people and face-to-face meetings to five. This will be re-evaluated May 16.
And I must say, that is in conjunction with the public health order.
Here at RTD, we will allow exceptions for training classes and new hires, with physical distancing and a
maximum of 10 participants, recognizing that we do have that space readily available at our facilities-- at
the divisions, that is. Board meetings will remain virtual due to space limitations and requirements and will
be re-evaluated in June. As pertaining to office capacity, the public health order has said up to 75% of
normal building capacity can be leveraged.
Following current staffing practices here, until a seven-day case rate is below 100 and no sooner than
May 16, we will re-evaluate. When conditions are met for two consecutive weeks, we will begin bringing
back office capacity up to 25% of staff, then 50% of staff after June 16. However, this is with alternating

schedules. There is no change to the visitor policy. And we will continue to follow the return-to-work
employee symptom temperature check protocol.
As relating to vehicle capacity-- and I'm talking about our revenue vehicles, i.e. Rail cars and buses-- the
public health order has no stated limits. Currently, we have limited to our 30-foot buses, 15 customers. On
our 40-foot buses, it's 20 customers. And as related to our rail cars, it's 30 customers. We anticipate
moving to 50% of seating capacity for the June service change. And we'll reevaluate for September
service change.
The last item I will touch upon is the agency's fare study and equity analysis. As I shared with you at a
previously convened meeting, I basically requested a cross-departmental Working Group in late March,
representing departments and divisions, including Transit Equity within Civil Rights, Revenue within
Finance, Transit-oriented Communities and Technical Services within Planning, and Government
Relations. And the intent was for me to ensure that we were enabling the agency to have a common set
of facts and lay the groundwork for any decisions around fares and fare programs by conducting a robust
and an in-depth fare study and equity analysis. The Working Group and I met on Friday, April 16, and
discussed the recommendation for a path forward.
This fare study and equity analysis will be the first of its kind for RTD, as it will include extensive
multicultural outreach, leveraging culturally specific community organizations serving the BIPOC
communities. And for those that aren't familiar, BIPOC represents Black, Indigenous, and People of
Color-- youth, seniors, people with disabilities, the unhoused, veterans, and the LGBTQ Committee, as
well as a multitude of approaches that we will leverage. Before the end of April, you will receive a white
paper regarding RTD's fare. The current fare status, I must say, in the impending study and equity
analysis, as well as a timeline. So with that, Madam Chair, that concludes my report. Thank you very
kindly.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, General Manager. Are there any questions for the General
Manager at this time? OK, I see none.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, Director Rosenthal has raised his hand again.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry, Director Rosenthal. I don't see you. Go ahead, please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: It's all good. Perhaps I missed something. That was incredible. Great detail and I
really appreciate the efforts, GM Johnson and your team, particularly on the vaccinations of the RTD
employees. So if an RTD employee, let's just say, feels queasy after one of the vaccinations, is there
accommodation to allow the employee to say, take a day off or do they take sick time? How does that
work?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much. Madam Chair, if I may address Director Rosenthal.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly. Director Rosenthal, yes. That has happened. And it's on a
case-by-case basis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Does that answer your question, Director Rosenthal? All right, thank you.
Any other questions before I go on?
All right, seeing none. This evening, there are seven items on the unanimous consent agenda. Listed
under item 11, actions A through G. They are the Aurora CELO Annexation; the Reimagine RTD guiding
principles; the approval of contract to purchase validators for the account-based ticketing; the budget
transfer for railroad liability insurance premiums; the request for budget transfer paratransit software

replacement; the June 20, 2001 proposed service changes; and the COVID-19 Title VI service equity
analysis.
If anyone has a change to or questions on one of these items, please feel free to advise the Chair at this
time. And we will, of course, be happy to pull it from the unanimous consent agenda for consideration
under the recommended action. All right, seeing none. May I have a motion to approve this consent
agenda?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
All right. I'm sorry, I had Buzek for the motion. And I didn't hear the second.
KATE WILLIAMS: Whitmore.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: I was one of many. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I know, but thank you. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion. Is
there any opposition to moving this forward? Seeing none, the unanimous consent moves forward. Thank
you so very much.
There are also two recommended actions on the agenda this evening. And they're listed under item 12
actions, H and I. The first recommended action is the approval of Trinity Hill Joint Venture contract
extension and value increase. Do I have a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved, Catlin.
BOB BROOM: Director Broom.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, I have Catlin is the movement. And Broom is the second. Is there any
discussion on this item? Seeing none, I will now call on the vote. Are there any No votes on this action?
Director Dishell.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And Lewis. OK. So with that, anyone else with a No vote? Seeing none, I
have 13 in favor, two Nos, being Director Dishell and Director Lewis. That recommended action is moved
forward.
OK, the second one that I have is the funding agreement with the City of Boulder for the IHOP for 2021.
Do I have a motion? So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Is that Director Guissinger? And Director-KATE WILLIAMS: Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Williams. All right. Are there any No votes on this action?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Any others? Seeing none, I see 14 in favor and one No, being Director
Lewis. That moves forward as well. Thank you. OK, this evening, there's no executive session on the
agenda. Is there any old business to come before the Board?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Director Buzek. Please.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. The last time we met, we talked about Northwest Rail and the
potential alignment of the Front Range Passenger Rail. And I made some comments that have apparently
been taken the wrong way by some people in the Northwest. And I have been labeled as being opposed

to a Northwest alignment for the Front Range Passenger Rail. I just want to make it clear that I am not.
Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Any other old business to come before the Board? Any new
business to come before the Board?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, go ahead, Director.
SHONTEL LEWIS: This is for old business. I'm sorry I didn't chat. Not being quick enough.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry. Go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No, it's totally OK. I know at I don't remember which Board meeting, but one of our
Board meetings, you took the opportunity as the Chair to have a moment of silence for the Board on
behalf of George Floyd. And I'm not sure if the Board is aware of the verdict just recently here today. But I
wanted to make folks aware in the event that you were not aware that there was a conviction-- three
counts, all guilty.
And I know for many communities, this feels much like a step in the direction of accountability and maybe
not in the step of justice. But really hoping that we make it to seeing what justice looks like for
communities of color-- Black communities and indigenous communities. And so thanking you all for
holding space for the family of George Floyd and also for holding space in this moment as folks seek both
accountability and justice when they have family members that they lose in such tragic ways. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis, thank you for bringing that up. And what I'd like to do is to
ask for a moment of honor for Mr. Floyd. The Board did do that in May of 2020. And I would just like to
take a moment, probably a minute to say that we could just honor his life.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. OK. Is there any new business to come before this Board? First
Vice Chair Guissinger. I'm looking right at you. Go ahead, Lynn.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I don't know if this is old business or new business, but just a quick
update on the Accountability Committee. I believe their last set of subcommittee meetings, I believe they
said is May 18. And then they'll be working on putting together a final report, which is due July 1.
Their plan is to do public meetings. They're required to do at least one public meeting. And have it done
by July 1.
They are barreling towards the end here. They're looking at fares and passes. They're looking at metrics.
They're talking about the service area. Although, I think that they were interested in Bill Sirois and Bill Van
Meter were in the meeting the other day.
And we explained that the Reimagine RTD is looking at the service area. And I think they're inclined to
just leave that one largely to Reimagine, although I'm not sure of that. They're discussing Northwest Rail.
They are going to discuss the Board and the makeup of the Board. They started that early on. They're
coming back to it.
They asked me the other day-- I think Mayor Malloy had heard. We were discussing smaller committees
and they seemed interested in that. And asked me for an update on that. I gave them one. And we'll give
them a little more if they're looking for it.
So there's a lot of interesting conversation. If you're interested and have time, feel free to join the
conversation. I know several people do, generally. Thanks.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Secretary Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam. Thanks, Madam Chair. And earlier today, we got an email from General
Manager CEO Johnson. And it's about some work that Director Williams and Director Bouquet are doing
that's very interesting regarding hydrogen vehicles. And I'm all in favor of new technology, progressive
technology at RTD.
I just bought an electric car. So I think it's really a good thing. But it sounded like, from the memo, that
they've been meeting with a lot of people. We don't have an ad hoc committee on this, but I want to make
sure that we're not out there representing that this is a path RTD is taking right now.
I think the path we're taking right now is trying to get people into the seats of the buses we already have.
So that's all I have to say. And Directors Bouquet and Williams, thanks for your work on an interesting
concept.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: I just signed on. There are people who have their hands raised.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I don't know whether the Board Office knows this or not, but
have all the Board members received their second shot? I think it would be a show to all of the employees
in the district that this is really a high priority for the district. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director, that is a really good question. But I'm really concerned-- and I can
ask our General Counsel. But that's like a HIPAA question. Am I correct, General Counsel?
MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair, yes. This is Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. No, it's not a HIPAA
issue. But it is a privacy issue. It's for each individual employee to decide if they want to share that
information. And certainly if the Directors all decided you all wanted to do that, that would be an option.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. So Director Broom, I think that would be up to individual Directors to
determine whether they want to share that information or not. And I don't know how to go past that
without being intrusive into people's privacy.
BOB BROOM: OK. I guess to me it's a no-brainer. But on the other hand, if somebody is uncomfortable
sharing any of their medical history, then that's their prerogative. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just very briefly, today the Colorado House of
Representatives had a committee hearing on proposed House Bill 21-1252, which was a bill that would
authorize the town of Parker to proceed with its exclusion from the Regional Transportation District,
based upon an election that would be called pursuant to that proposed legislation. Following testimony
given by Director Bouquet and by myself, the sponsor of that bill moved to postpone the bill indefinitely
and agreed to continue working forward with Director Bouquet, myself, General Manager Johnson, and
the rest of the senior leadership team and the Board in addressing the concerns raised by the town of
Parker. Thank you, ma'am.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. I have Director Dishell next.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you to everyone for all the great work you all are
doing. I wanted to provide an update on the JEDI workshops-- Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion.
This body passed-- I know we had an original target date of having the first session by the end of Q1. We
are very much into Quarter 2. And John McKay, I believe, sent out an email today with those workshop
sessions.

And I will read them out-- May 13 at 5:30 PM, May 18 at 5:30 PM-- and then June 24 and June 29, both
at 5:30 PM. We'll be double-booked in Quarter 2, to make up for missing the first quarter. I also want to
provide transparency on the process, to the extent that anyone has questions. And we have great
applicants. I guess I'll do it this way. To the extent anyone has questions on the process, who was
chosen, [AUDIO OUT] consulting, in the spirit of transparency, I am more than happy to answer those
questions, to the extent that I am able.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you, Director Dishell. I did get the email. I know the Board
did, too. I have it down for the May workshops for sure. Thank you so very much. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I wanted to follow up on what Director Buzek said. And I had
my one-on-one with our consultants as we move forward on our strategic plan. And I really liked what I
heard, in terms of setting broad goals for the organization and not necessarily getting into the how so
much as getting into the what. What do we want to accomplish?
And in my view, the idea for these hydrogen buses would almost be a subset of what do we want to
accomplish. I don't want to speak too far in advance of our retreat. But maybe one of the four or five goals
that we establish is reducing overall emissions for the Department. And there might be several tools
involved in that. One of them may be hydrogen, one might be electric. But there are other strategies that
we could employ.
So I almost feel, with all due respect to Directors Williams and Bouquet, that we might be getting out in
front of ourselves before we step back and look at our overarching goals and the tools and tactics that we
want to use to implement them. That's all I have to say. Thanks. I do applaud the creative thinking, but I
just don't want to somehow create false expectations from the public about what we might be doing.
That's all. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I was going to speak to the effort that Director Bouquet and I have been making, but it
seems that some of the other Board members already know all about it. If there's people that are
interested in hearing what it is that we have been doing, I'm happy to speak to that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm interested. I'm sorry to interrupt you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Me too. Thank you, Director Lewis. And I'll let Director Bouquet speak. All that we have
been doing is educating ourselves. We've talked to a variety of people in the field because we want to
know. If the rest of you know all there is to know about hydrogen buses, then you could let me know and I
wouldn't have to talk to anybody else.
I don't have a lot of knowledge. I didn't even know all of the details on our electric fleet, which is what I
asked Fred Worthen, who is our AGM of Bus Ops. He and General Manager Johnson replied and
informed everybody else here the information that we had asked for about our electric vehicle fleet so that
we had someplace to start from in our work as we were personally interested in learning more about
hydrogen buses. We are not implying in any way that RTD is going to do anything. That's not my job here
at RTD.
My job here at RTD is to look at all of the things that the agency can be doing from a 30,000-foot level.
We have lots of really qualified people who make decisions on buying our electric buses, on staffing, on
how our finances go. That's not my job. So Director Bouquet and I were interested in this. And if anybody
else that is here is interested, we'd be happy to include you as we continue to learn more about the pros

and cons and opportunities involved with hydrogen fuel cell vehicles. Director Bouquet, would you like to
continue?
PEGGY CATLIN: Chair, can I respond to that? And I didn't mean to infer that you're going out and-- I just
want to make sure that we look at the comprehensive piece. And our staff has done a tremendous job in
bringing forth some of the electric vehicles. And they had a staff presentation that I attended a year ago.
And I agree with that. I wasn't meaning to infer that you were trying to get out ahead of us.
I just want to make sure that we, as we look at all this stuff, manage our expectations with our public.
Thank you for looking into it. I'm very interested in it as well. So I think we're on the same page that we
want to look at all the tools that we have available to us.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I do want to ease any confusion or any worries from
Director Buzek or Director Catlin or anyone from the public. I believe in full transparency. I would qualify
that me and Director Williams are simply-- this is an education session that we've spoken with several
individuals.
To my knowledge, RTD does not currently have a hydrogen bus or hydrogen vehicles. So I just want to
make that note, that this is us learning more about the process from outside resources. But at no point
were we saying that we were making any offers or making any drives towards hydrogen. It was more of
just educating ourselves. And we look forward to speaking with CEO and GM Johnson, just to get her
perspective, because she has a lot of knowledge behind cleaner energy resources. So we're looking
forward to a meeting with her.
So just want to be fully transparent about that. I do hope the Board, as we continue to learn more about
hydrogen-- we would more than welcome and want to bring this open to all the Board members. We just
viewed this as an education process for the two of us. But as we start establishing a working committee
and start working with GM CEO Debra Johnson, we would more than welcome anyone of the Board to be
involved. So that's what I'd have to say.
And the second part, going back to what Director Tisdale said. I do want to say a thank you to the
individuals who did give testimony today, earlier, for the House Bill that would be proposed for the town of
Parker to leave RTD. I really appreciated the stories and insights that they were given. And I'm looking
forward to servicing not only District G better, not only the entire region better, but the residents of Parker.
Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Bouquet. Before I go to Director Lewis, can you talk a
little bit more about your working committee?
JULIEN BOUQUET: The steps I viewed it as is Director Williams and I, as we spoke with people who are
experts in hydrogen, we were hoping that eventually we might be able to have a working committee of
Directors who are passionate about this-- and any other individuals later down in the process. But I think
that would be a conversation later on, down the line. That's more of the hopes and goals. There isn't
anything officially set up, though.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you, Directors Bouquet and Williams for the
work that you were doing. I consider it another tool in our tool belts. Since you are learning, you all can

past that information onto us. And I don't necessarily have the bandwidth. So I am grateful that you do
and look forward to learning more about your work as you all develop.
I just wanted to let folks know that there isn't a link for the livestream. I was just made aware of that. And I
would have put it in the chat. But we don't have a chat, so maybe that's an opportunity for us to open the
conversation about potentially having a chat, as opposed to me having to raise my hand and let you all
know.
But just wanted to make staff aware that the livestream is not available for folks to tune in, for the general
public. That is all I have for you. It looks like Pauletta might be chiming in, so I will allow that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Director Sloane.
MARJORIE SLOANE: Yes. I have a comment that relates back to the previous ideas about sustainability.
And I learned through some research that it's been almost 20 years since the RTD Board has enacted a
sustainability policy. And that the one in existence relates only to FasTracks. So it's my understanding
that [AUDIO OUT] is working.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director, you're breaking up. I'm sorry.
MARJORIE SLOANE: [AUDIO OUT] that we're going to make. Well, I'm not sure. My comment was that
we have an almost 20-year-old sustainability policy adopted by RTD Board. Did you hear that?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, that part I heard.
MARJORIE SLOANE: OK, I'm in a hotel room in Breckenridge. And when I learned that and the fact that
policy relates only to FasTracks. It's my understanding that staff, in conjunction with the strategic planning
process, is also going to work on an updated and broader sustainability policy for the Board to review.
And that seemed relevant to the specifics of electric buses and the broader comments that Director Catlin
made concerning the overview of the entire sustainability issues.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Assistant General Manager Tonilas.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I just wanted to address the issue brought
up by Director Lewis about there being no livestreaming through our YouTube channel. That is true,
unfortunately. That is a mishap that is on my team. So I'll take responsibility for that. We're going to be
meeting tomorrow to talk about resolving the issue and make sure it doesn't happen again. So I just
wanted to make sure you had a little bit of information about that. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Assistant General Manager.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Pauletta. Thank you for that accountability. And I wonder if we might be
able to send that out maybe via social media, so that folks are aware of changes. But I really appreciate
the accountability. And that you all would be working on this tomorrow. Take care.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Nicole.
NICOLE CAREY: Thank you. Chair, I just also wanted to support Pauletta with this issue-- that I will have
this video downloaded as soon as the meeting ends and upload it to our website this evening, without
closed captioning, to get it out there as soon as possible. And then also work with the Communications
team to have this streamed out to the YouTube first thing in the morning, too. So I just wanted to make
sure you were all aware that we were going to try to accommodate that as quickly as possible.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you so very much. Director Broom, I see your hand is still up.

BOB BROOM: Nothing more. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Is there any other new business to come before the Board?
BOBBY DISHELL: I apologize.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Dishell, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: This is not meant to, in any way, state anything for anyone else to do with their
personal information, but in response to Director Boom's request, as someone who is on the younger
end, I will be receiving my second shot on Thursday of the COVID vaccine with Moderna. And will likely
not be super active on Friday. But was happy to be able to share that I will get vaccinated as Director and
as a participant in our society.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Dishell. You might have started a domino effect. But I do have
both vaccines as an educator. And I am more than welcome to share that with the public. Vaccinated with
the Pfizer vaccine.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I will just add to that I am totally vaccinated as well. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, just saying me too.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Director Sloane. OK, am I seeing anyone else shaking their hand?
Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No, Director Lewis will confess that she is amongst the BIPOC folks who have been a
bit hesitant to get the vaccine. And so I am working on it. And I will encourage Black, indigenous, and
people of color to make sure that they get the vaccine, because it is incredibly important for you to do so.
And I will follow my own advice.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And I will say to you, for the over-65 Latino population, I got both of mine.
So just as full disclosure. Let's see, who else did I see raising their hand? Anyone else?
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I just wanted to point out, for the sake of the
record, that I received my second COVID shot on Ash Wednesday, because I had determined to give up
COVID for Lent.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Of course. Thank you. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: It's just ironic, I'm the same age as Director Dishell, because I did my second
inoculation on Thursday as well. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Great. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I will certainly share. Thank you, Madam Chair. I am not my two weeks out. But I have
had my second shot of Moderna and can confirm that it's a good experience.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Secretary Treasurer Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And I also have received both of my shots of
Moderna and am alive and kicking. And urge everyone else to get their shots as well. But I also want to
welcome our new CFO, Doug MacLeod. I think he's been doing a great job.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And I would like to commend our GM Johnson and her team for selecting him. And
all the best and good luck and we look forward to working with him in a continuous basis in the future.
Thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Madam Chair. I am two and a half weeks out of my second shot. So we'll be
traveling to Pittsburgh Thursday morning to see family.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Great. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I am vaccinated and have been vaccinated for a while. And have been riding RTD on
lengthy passages. And have seen that the majority of the riders are cooperative, wearing their masks,
and spacing themselves reasonably. This past Friday night, I had a lovely ride with a group of people who
all shared information with each other. So that's all I have to say on that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Secretary Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: One and done.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: One and done. I will just end it by saying, over the weekend, I rode the
governor's Bustang to Glenwood Springs wearing a mask. So thank you, Mr. Governor. And with that, I
see no one else in the queue. I'd like to call for adjournment. Will I get an entertainment of a motion?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'll move to adjourn.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, Lewis. Second?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second, Director Davidson.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Davidson. Anyone opposed? Seeing none, we are adjourned at 6:27 PM.
Ladies and gentlemen, have a wonderful evening. And thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: See you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.

