1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, February 4, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Claudia Folska

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Folska called the meeting to order at 7:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
7:33 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

7:31 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District B

Present
Present

7:31 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Committee Chair
Director, District J

Present
Present

7:27 PM
7:31 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

7:27 PM
7:29 PM
7:32 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

7:29 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Absent

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

7:31 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

7:30 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

7:31 PM
7:29 PM

Director Rivera-Malpiede left early.
Staff Present:

Joe Christie, Rick Clarke, Jeff Cluphf, Melissa Dubinsky, John Elias,
Sherry Ellebracht, Kevin Flynn, David Genova, Cory Granrud, Cheryl
Holmes, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien,
Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Deborah Menendez-Wilson, Brian
Middleton, Andy Mutz, Jerry Nery, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Steve
Reilly, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Greg Straight, Kirk Strand, Stan
Szabelak, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter,
Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Phil Washington, Susan Wood

Others Present:

Zach Alexander, Greg Amparano, Michelle Brier, Donna Burnett, B.
Cha Cha Cruz, Marion Combs, Marshall Crawford, Aaron Epstein,
Joni Goheen, Scott Gorsky, Doug Gragg, Beverly Grant, Sherman
Hamilton, Chanda Hinton, Nettie Moore, Nicholas Muller, Farah Peek,
Laura Rinker, Karina Sartiaguin, Roger Sherman, Joshua Solis, Maggie
Stephenson, Cyndi Stovall, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Monte
Whaley, Bob Wilson, Hugh Wilson, Christina Zazueta

B. Updates


Local Update – CRL Associates
Roger Sherman informed the Board that they are wrapping up the MPACT64
survey analysis. The coalition has been meeting to talk about how and what to
release from the polling. He noted that the coalition is still getting a lot of
questions from various mayors, council members, etc. so they are trying to
finish the analysis quickly.
Roger Sherman shared that he would be attending the Metro Mayors Caucus
meeting on February 5, 2014. The Metro Area Commissioners meeting that
was to be held on January 31, 2014 was cancelled.
Roger Sherman stated that his team is doing touch-base meetings with various
mayors and will loop the Director in as they meet with mayors in the Director’s
District.



Brandeberry~McKenna
Jenifer Brandeberry told the Board that the current legislative session is about a
month in. She noted that her team does not have any proactive bills that they
have been tasked to run on behalf of RTD but they are monitoring a handful of
bills. She said there are four Sales and Use Tax bills that could have an impact
on the District if they make it through. Jenifer Brandeberry stated that she is
doubtful all four will pass but the legislature will look at what is most helpful
from an economic development standpoint.

Jenifer Brandeberry shared that Senator Nancy Todd, Chair of the Senate
Transportation Committee, has reached out to RTD and Brandeberry~McKenna.
She would like to do a tour of Denver Union Station as well as DIA. Jenifer
Brandeberry said her team would be working with Senator Todd to coordinate
and they would inform the Board when there were more details.
Director Anderson expressed concern about the tax holidays the legislature was
discussing. She noted that while this may be okay for some organizations it is
really a burden for an organization like RTD. She wonders if there is any way
for RTD to get an exemption. Jenifer Brandeberry said that since RTD worked
to align our Sales and Use Tax base with the State it would not be prudent to
now ask for an exemption. She does not believe the tax holiday on school
items will pass as it has been introduced multiple years and continues to fail.
Director Menten asked for information on how House Bill 14-1164 might affect
RTD as a Special District. She has heard this Bill will remove some of the
Secretary of State’s oversight of Special Districts. Julie McKenna explained
that they have not been closely watching this Bill as it is
Brandeberry~McKenna’s understanding that it does not affect RTD but they
will get further information. Marla Lien, General Counsel, stated that this bill
only appeared on a list of bills to be monitored because the title includes Special
Districts. She said that because RTD’s elections are outlined in our Enabling
Act this bill does not apply to us.


Federal Update – Patton Boggs
Mike Dino reminded the Board that the Federal Government did reach an
agreement on a budget at the end of last year and that in early January they
reached an agreement on appropriations. He said that the New Starts program
was funded at $2.1 billion so Patton Boggs anticipates RTD should get the full
$150 million request for Eagle P3. He noted there is still $17 million
outstanding that Patton Boggs will continue to lobby to get that reimbursed.
Mike Dino said that they are also lobbying to make sure that, in addition to what
was allocated to New Starts, unallocated transit funds are put into New Starts
so the FTA can cover as much as possible. Mike Dino shared that the TIGER
program will have $600 million; that is $127 million more than last year.
Mike Dino stated that the reauthorization will be debated this year. He is not
optimistic that there will be a long term deal. The Highway Trust Fund is almost
bankrupt so Congress will need to help it with approximately $19 billion.
Mike Dino informed the Board that the commuter tax benefit was not renewed;
this means it went from $245 back to $130 per month. He said Patton Boggs
is working to get the benefit into the Tax Extenders Bill. This is a bill that
includes a lot of other credits that expired at the end of last year.
Mike Dino reiterated that Peter Rogoff, FTA Administrator, was nominated to be
the US Department of Transportation’s Acting Undersecretary for Policy. He
will remain in the FTA roll until he is officially confirmed.

Director Hoy confirmed that while RTD’s FFGA will be fully funded this year, it
was not fully funded in the past. He was speaking with Jeremy Rodriguez of Ed
Perlmutter’s office and this question came up. Director Hoy asked Mike Dino to
reach out to Mr. Rodriguez.

C. Other Matters
General Manager Washington reminded the Board that RTD and Patton Boggs was
working on a P3 roundtable to coincide with the opening of Denver Union Station
on May 9, 2014. The plan is to have three separate panels: (1) the Federal
perspective, (2) Denver success stories, and (3) the private sector perspective. He
said that this roundtable would take place in the underground bus terminal and
Patton Boggs is taking the lead on the event.
Director Lubow noted that she passed out two local newspaper articles indicating
that the public in the Northwest, as well as 14 state lawmakers, were very
concerned about the US 36 management contract. She said there are concerns
about the lack of transparency and negative impacts on the public. These articles
indicate that the public was not aware of certain provisions in the contract. She
believes it would be very useful for the public to get more information about P3s
since there will be more of them in the future. Director Lubow asked for a report
from staff discussing how to address state legislators concerned about RTD’s own
projects. She believes it is timely to discuss this issue now as there are going to be
more P3s. Director Lubow would like to know how RTD protects the public’s
interest.

D. Next Meeting Date - March 4, 2014
E. Adjourn
Committee Chair Folska adjourned the meeting at 7:51 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

