1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, November 11, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Claudia Folska

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Folska called the meeting to order at 6:57 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Absent

Arrived

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

6:55 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District B
Committee Chair

Present
Present
Present

6:56 PM
6:59 PM
6:50 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Absent

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

6:54 PM
6:53 PM
6:54 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

6:52 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Absent

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

6:50 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present

6:55 PM
6:57 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

6:53 PM

Directors Anderson, Hoy and Rivera-Malpiede were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Mike Barnes, Bob Brown, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen,
Chuck Culig, John Dawson, Kevin Diviness, John Elias, Sherry
Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, Anthony Forrester, David Genova, Terry
Howerter, Tina Jaquez, Austin Jenkins, Jim Kelley, Erin Klaas, Marla
Lien, Doug MacLeod, Barbara McManus, Vivian Morales, Paula
Perdue, Pranaya Shrestha, Bill Sirois, Walt Stringer, Stan Szabelak,
Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Brian Welch

Others Present:

Michelle Brier, C.J. Czupor, Mike Dino, Tina Francone, Joni Goheen,
Doug Gragg, Sherman Hamilton, Dale Honor, Kevin O’Neill, Joe
Racosky, Tim Ryan, Roger Sherman, Marta Sipeki, Tim Stokes, Joe
Triplett, Jin Tsuchiya, Monte Whaley, Hugh Wilson

B. Recommended Actions

• Local Government Liaison Services
It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into an
agreement for Local Government Liaison services with CRL Associates, Inc.
(CRL) to exercise the third option year (January 1, 2015 through December
31, 2015) to extend Contract No. 11-DX-001, at a cost of $122,496.
Funding for this contract is included in the annual FasTracks budget.
Committee Chair Folska noted that the cost for the Recommended Action
that was included in the packet was incorrect. The total cost should be
$122,496 as opposed to the $96,000 amount originally presented. Sherry
Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer, explained that since the original
contract was approved with CRL Associates, additional responsibilities were
added as an amendment. She said the $122,496 cost reflects these
additional responsibilities of providing the liaison services for the Citizens
Advisory Committee (CAC).
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the November 25, 2014
Board meeting.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Solano believes that CRL is a great company that has
done great work on behalf of RTD and the Board. He strongly
recommends a ‘yes’ vote.

Committee Chair Folska said she really enjoys working with
CRL. She thinks that Roger Sherman really does a fantastic
job in representing the Board and everyone in the District.
Director Lasater expressed concern about extending this
contract for a full year due to the possibility of Roger Sherman
leaving CRL pending the results of the upcoming Denver City
Council elections. He noted that Mr. Sherman is really the
only person from CRL that he has worked with since joining
the RTD Board. Director Lasater stated that he worries about
extending a contract for a year when the primary person that
works with RTD is potentially disappearing. He suggested
making this contract a month-to-month contract to be able to
evaluate the new dynamics at CRL should Mr. Sherman leave.
Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager of Communications,
stated that any substitution or change in personnel will be
approved by RTD. If RTD is not comfortable with whoever is
assigned to our account, that would be a contractual issue
that would be addressed. Director Lasater asked if a decision
would come back to the Board; he feels that Scott Reed is
indicating staff would have the final say. Scott Reed said that
staff would discuss CRL’s personnel with the Board but there
would not be a new contract approval.
Roger Sherman commented that Director Lasater has asked a
very valid question. He explained that if he was elected he
would not take office until July. Roger Sherman reiterated
that despite him being the person that interfaces with the
Board at the Tuesday meetings, Maria Garcia Berry is very
involved in RTD’s issues, meetings, etc. Roger Sherman
shared that Jin Tsuchiya, who previously worked in RTD’s
Communications Department, will begin working with Mr.
Sherman in preparation for the potential transition.
Director James said that he has nothing but positive
comments for all of CRL’s staff; he has always had great
experiences working with them. He has every confidence that
even without Roger Sherman, CRL will serve RTD very well.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [9 TO 3]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Bagley, Daly, Folska, James, Lubow, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Barbara Deadwyler, Gary Lasater, Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Lorraine Anderson, Larry Hoy, Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Committee Chair Folska declared the motion PASSED.

• Federal Liaison Services
It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter
into a new agreement for Federal Liaison Services with Squire Patton Boggs
LLP for a 23-month contract at a cost of $494,500 ($21,500 per month—
the same rate as currently being paid) with three one-year options (option
year one at $264,000; option year two at $270,000; option year three at
$276,000). The total amount of $1,304,500 was below staff’s internal
cost estimate, and funding for this contract is included in the annual
budgets.
Motion:

Chair Sisk made the motion to move this item
forward to the full Board at the November 25,
2014 Board meeting.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Menten noted that there were 10 proposals that were
reviewed by the evaluation committee. Several weeks ago
she requested to review the proposals but at the time they
were confidential. Director Menten wonders if those proposals
are now public so she can review the information. Scott Reed
indicated that the financial information in the proposals is
considered proprietary information until a contract is executed;
however, he did not did not see an issue in providing her with
a list of proposers. Bob Brown, Contract Negotiator, said he
would be happy to review that information with Director
Menten.
Director Lasater commented that Squire Patton Boggs LLP is
not the same organization that RTD has worked with
previously; this company is the result of a merger of two
companies. He said that while the people interfacing with,
and working on behalf of, RTD may be the same people, it is
still an unknown variable. Director Lasater shared that
whenever the Parker Town Council had a major contract
dealing with liaison services the top two or three candidates

were always brought in for an official presentation to the
Council. He stated that is not happening with this
recommendation, which he thinks needs to be done. He feels
that while Patton Boggs has done a good job in the past, there
might be another agency that might do a better job but the
Board has not been given the opportunity to hear from the top
contenders. Director Lasater thinks that RTD’s federal liaison
services is one of the primary areas that the Board should
focus on; getting a good organization that helps bring federal
funds to RTD so we can build as much as we can, as fast as
we can is extremely important. He asked that the Board not
approve this recommendation and wait until the top
contenders can make a presentation.
Sherry Ellebracht introduced Kevin O’Neill from Squire Patton
Boggs. She asked him to address the merger. Committee
Chair Folska asked that Mr. O’Neill also speak to the
difference between an acquisition and a merger. Kevin O’Neill
said he would like to begin by addressing Director Lasater’s
concern about the team that would represent and work with
RTD. He stated that the team that has served RTD for the
better part of 15 years will be the team that continues to
serve under the proposed contract: Mike Dino, Anne Miano,
Jared Fleischer and Kevin O’Neill. He shared that there would
also be an addition to the team, Patricia Doersch, who was the
Senior Legislative Representative for APTA. Prior to that she
served as Counsel for the House Transportation and
Infrastructure Committee and the Highways and Transit
Subcommittee and served as an attorney at the Federal
Highway Administration. Kevin O’Neill stated that she is
ideally situated and well qualified to be of assistance to RTD.
He informed the Board that Ms. Doersch would be at the
December Government Relations Committee meeting.
Kevin O’Neill shared that Patton Boggs’ strategic plan has had
the goal of merging with another firm to expand their presence
internationally for quite some time. He noted that without a
merger it would be difficult to build an internationally presence
from scratch. He said that while Patton Boggs initially began
conversations with a number of firms, Squire Sanders was the
most diligent. Patton Boggs began talking with Squire Sanders
almost exclusively at the beginning of 2014 with a merger
being finalized in Spring. Kevin O’Neill said that Squire Patton
Boggs now has over 1,500 lawyers in every major capitol of
the world. He reminded the Board that at the Denver Union
Station P3 Roundtable several team members from Squire

Sanders were in attendance. He stated that the public
infrastructure team and expertise gained by Patton Boggs was
really a driving factor in the decision to merge.
Kevin O’Neill said that in reference to this being a merger
versus an acquisition, the agreement reached between Patton
Boggs and Squire Sanders was really a merger of equals: the
CEOs from each company are now Co-CEOs, the partners
remain partners, each board now has seats on a combined
board, etc.
Kevin O’Neill explained that Squire Sanders wanted to merge
with Patton Boggs due to their lack of footprint in the
government relations world. He reiterated that prior to the
merger Patton Boggs had more top rated lobbyists in D.C. than
any other firm in the world; after the merger Squire Patton
Boggs now has more top rated lobbyists in D.C. than any
other firm in the world.
Director Lubow said she appreciates the additional information
but agrees with Director Lasater. She thinks that in the
interest of full transparency and full accountability the Board
should have a presentation by the major contenders. She
believes the Board owes it to themselves to see these
presentations as the lobbying contract is so important in
moving RTD forward as an agency.
Director Solano reiterated that he thinks Patton Boggs has
done an excellent job. He noted that they are able to translate
what is happening at the Federal Level to something that is
understandable for everyone. He stated that while there may
be other companies that can compete, Patton Boggs has a
track record that is proven. He reiterated his support for this
recommended action.
Director Daly commented that as a member of the evaluation
committee he can say that this is not a decision they came to
lightly. The evaluation committee received ten very complex
and large proposals without the financial information that had
to be reviewed. He said the committee members got together
and meticulously scored each proposal based on its technical
factors; after these scores were calculated the committee was
provided with the financial information for review. Director
Daly believes this is a very thorough process. He feels that
having teams come in from all over the country at a very high
expense is a sad waste of money.

Chair Sisk stated that he wholeheartedly supports approving
Squire Patton Boggs for RTD’s Federal Liaison Services. He
pointed out their ability to adapt and react by working with
Directors to establish a much bigger presence during the APTA
Legislative Conference in March as compared with previous
years. He believes that RTD has a proven track record with
the Patton Boggs team. Chair Sisk commented that having
such a strong local presence in Mike Dino is also vitally
important to him. He thinks this is a tremendous opportunity
for RTD to continue a long-term working relationship that can
be parlayed into continued success for RTD.
Director Deadwyler remembers that at the last Government
Relations Committee meeting Committee Chair Folska
announced that the evaluation committee was recommending
Squire Patton Boggs for our Federal Liaison Services; however,
Director Deadwyler wonders why the Board was not given an
option at that time to hear presentations from the top
contenders. She wonders if this is something that Committee
Chair Folska or Director Daly thought about during the
evaluation committee’s process. Committee Chair Folska
noted that it was a very intense process with a great deal of
material to review and evaluate. She said that she spoke with
Chair Sisk about how it would be appropriate to have the top
two contenders make a presentation in an Executive Session,
and he agreed. She stated that unfortunately she was
overruled by the other four evaluation committee members.
She encouraged anyone that wants to hear from the top
contenders to make a motion. Committee Chair Folska
commented that in response to Director Daly’s concern about
the cost, the Board could invite the top contenders and those
contenders can chose if they wish to come.
Director James stated that after watching the Patton Boggs
team work he continues to be impressed. He believes that
they will only be going from great to excellent with the
addition of Squire Sanders. He said that he trust in the
selection process, combined with his own experiences, so he
will be voting yes.
Director Lasater stated that in response to Director Daly’s
comments, asking the top contenders to present to the Board
is simply the cost of doing business. He said that he does not
question staff other than when they get into a comfort zone
and begin going with “business as usual” recommendations.

He believes that is it the fiduciary responsibility of the Board to
have an opportunity to meet with the top contenders.
Scott Reed reminded the Board that the procurement process
was established before the Request for Proposal (RFP) was
issued. The established process included the option for the
evaluation committee to bring the finalists in for an interview;
however, because of the strengths of the Squire Patton Boggs
proposal and the large point differential between them and the
next proposer, the committee thought it did not make sense to
have the interviews. He would caution the Board in doing
something that is outside of the previously established
procurement process as being a potentially dangerous
decision. Committee Chair Folska reiterated that she thought
it would be appropriate for the Board to hear from the top
contenders and Chair Sisk agreed. She wonders what is
dangerous in having this presentation.
After much discussion about the appropriateness of having the
top contenders make a presentation, Director Bagley called for
the question. Director Solano seconded. The vote to end
debate passed and the vote on the original motion by staff
was conducted.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [8 TO 4]
MOVER:
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Bagley, Daly, Folska, James, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Barbara Deadwyler, Gary Lasater, Judy Lubow, Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Lorraine Anderson, Larry Hoy, Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Committee Chair Folska declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs
Kevin O’Neill said that Squire Patton Boggs will be presenting in December
to preview the 114th Congress; tonight’s comments will be just to focus on
the high level impact of the election. He reminded the Board that they
should have received a copy of Squire Patton Boggs’ post-election analysis,
which included several pages about transportation.
Kevin O’Neill noted that this is the biggest set of Republican elected officials
to take office in January in 86 years; this election saw more members of the
President’s party thrown out of office from the Senate in any off-year
election since 1956. He said that in the House of Representatives the

Republicans have never had more than 249 seats; as of today they have
244. He noted that these Republicans are more moderate and pragmatic
than those elected in 2010. This will give the Speaker of the House
Boehner more cushion in making deals to get legislation passed.
Mike Dino stated that one of the very good things about Squire Patton
Boggs is that they are very bipartisan. Kevin O’Neill commented that
Congress is an extraordinarily inexperienced Congress. This can mean that
it will take longer to build relationships with them and bring them up-tospeed.
Kevin O’Neill said that his team is expecting a very tame lame duck session;
the only wildcard will be immigration. He pointed out that the Marketplace
Freedom Act, requiring online sellers to collect sales tax, may be considered
in the House or Senate this fall, which could have a positive impact for RTD.
He stated that the most important decision for RTD will be the
appropriations process. There is a continuing resolution that extends
through mid-December, at which point Congress will need to decide if they
pass a short term funding bill or something longer.
Director Bagley commented that with so many inexperienced members in the
House and Senate it is so important for RTD to have a Federal Liaison that
not only knows RTD but also knows so many of the old and new Congress
members. He congratulated Squire Patton Boggs on their contract passing
the Committee this evening.
Committee Chair Folska inquired how their new global presence might be
able to benefit RTD as it relates to P3s. Kevin O’Neill stated that the people
from the P3 team would be delighted to have meetings, phone calls, etc.
with the Board. He has been working closely with this team on a daily
basis.
Director Solano wonders if making the internet a utility is related to the
Marketplace Freedom Act. Kevin O’Neill explained that those are two
separate issues. He said that unfortunately he is not an expert on net
neutrality but it will be a very complex fight.

• State Legislative Update - Brandeberry~McKenna
Jenifer Brandeberry said that as everyone knows the elections were held last
week. She noted there were several races that are not yet final but would
be soon. She stated that for the first time in 10 years the Colorado
Republican Party will control the Senate; the House Democrats have a two
vote majority.
Jenifer Brandeberry shared that the Senate Republicans had held their
leadership elections. Bill Cadman (Colorado Springs) will serve as President,

Senator Ellen Roberts (Durango) will serve as President Pro Tem, Senator
Mark Scheffel (Parker) will serve as the Majority Leader, Senator Kevin
Lundberg (Berthoud) will serve as Assistant Majority Leader, Senator Randy
Baumgardner (Hot Sulpher Springs) will serve as Republican Whip and
Senator Vicki Marble (Fort Collins) will serve as Caucus Chair. She stated
that there were two members appointed to the Join Budget Committee,
Senator Kent Lambert (Colorado Springs) and Kevin Grantham (Canon City),
with Senator Grantham being a new appointment. Senator Lambert will
continue his role as the Chair of the Committee. Jenifer Brandeberry
informed the Board that the Senate Democrats had not yet held their
leadership elections.
Jenifer Brandeberry said that the House Democrats had also not held their
elections. The House Republicans elected Representative Brian DelGrosso
(Loveland) as Minority Leader, Representative Libby Szabo (Arvada) as
Assistant Minority Leader, Representative Polly Lawrence (Roxborough) as
Caucus Whip and Representative Lois Landgraf (Fountain) as Caucus
Chairwoman.
Jenifer Brandeberry stated that the biggest change for RTD would be the
make-up of the Joint Budget Committee. There are only two members that
remain the same which can lead to very different dynamics. She noted also
that there will be a lot of changeover in the Governor’s Staff.
Committee Chair Folska thanked Brandeberry-McKenna for all their hard
work. She believes 2015 will be an exciting year with all of the changes
that are taking place.

• Local Government Update - CRL Associates
Roger Sherman thanked the Board for their support in extending CRL’s
option. He congratulated the current Directors that were re-elected; he
looks forward to continuing to work with the entire Board. Roger Sherman
shared that he has reached out to the two newly elected Directors and had
the opportunity to speak with one.
Roger Sherman stated that in the elections there were two new mayors
elected, two new Adams County Commissioners, and several various city
council members. He said that there was also a new Clerk and Recorder
elected for Jefferson County.
Roger Sherman pointed out that the Aurora Transportation Tax Initiative
failed by fairly significant numbers. He shared that the Colorado
Transportation Coalition will meeting shortly to discuss a path forward to
more funding for transportation and transit within the State. He said he
would keep the Board updated on those conversations.

Committee Chair Folska thanked Roger Sherman for his report.

D. Other Matters
Director Menten asked for further clarification on the composition of the evaluation
committee for the Federal Lobbyist Liaison proposals. She wanted to confirm that
the committee was made up of Directors Folska and Daly in addition to three staff
members; however, she also heard that Chair Sisk had some input. She wondered
what staff members were part of the committee. Committee Chair Folska stated
that the three staff members were Scott Reed, Sherry Ellebracht and Doug
MacLeod.
Committee Chair Folska shared that the WIN Bowling Fundraiser was such a
fantastic event for those Directors that were not able to attend. She thanked
everyone who was involved.

E. Next Meeting Date - December 2, 2014
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Folska adjourned the meeting at 8:14 p.m. to the FasTracks
Monitoring Committee meeting.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

