Minutes of the Financial Administration Committee Meeting held on March 9, 2010
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

March 9, 2010

Subject:

Summary of the Financial Administration Committee Meeting held
March 9, 2010 in Rooms R, T & D

Board
Members Present:
Directors
Absent:
Staff Present:

Chair Pro-tem Martinez, Directors O’Boyle, Malpiede, Cohen, Daly,
Tobiassen, Bagley, Pulliam, Christopher
Directors Brohl, Busck, Tayer, Kemp, James, McMullen
Phil Washington, Terry Howerter, Trent Ratcliff, Robert Merriman, Dave
Genova, Marla Lien, Bill Holmes, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna, Bruce Abel,
Mike Gil, Cal Shankster, Paula Perdue, Caitlin Magee, Scott Reed, John
Tarbert

*******************************************************************
Call to Order: Chair Pro-tem Martinez called the Financial Administration Committee to order at
7:49 p.m.
I.

Recommended Actions
 Legacy UniVerse Developer Consulting
It is recommended by the Finance/Administration Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award a new contract,
for the amount not to exceed of $249,600, for UniVerse Developer services. The current
three year contract with 5280 Solutions expires on April 30, 2010. The contract is being
brought to the Board because it is a Personal Services contract per RTD Resolution No. 27,
Series of 1985.
 Modifications to Investment Policy
It is recommended by the Finance/Administration Committee that the Board of Directors
approve modifications to the District’s Investment Policy to effectuate the utilization of the 3month U.S. T-Bill Index as published by Bank of America Merrill lynch as the performance
benchmark for the liquidity tier of its unrestricted portfolio.
 Revised Fiscal Policy Statements
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of Directors
modify the Fiscal Policy Statements as attached.

Minutes of the Financial Administration Committee Meeting held on March 9, 2010
Page 2 of 5

Motion:

Director Cohen made a
motion to forward these
three items to the
March 23, 2010 Board
meeting agenda.

Second:

Director O’Boyle seconded
the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

II.

The motion passed
unanimously 5-0.
(Directors Christopher,
Pulliam and Bagley were
out of the room)

2011-2016 Transit Development Program, 2011 Budget and 2010 Amended Budget - Proposed
Calendar and Strategy – Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer and Robert Merriman, Manager
of Budget & Financial Analysis spoke to this item. Mr. Howerter said that the Finance
department has put together the calendar to let the Board know when they need Board input to
complete the TDP and progress the budget through its cycle. Mr. Merriman gave the
background on the calendar as it was designed to allow the Board greater input in the TDP and
budget cycle.
Chair Martinez reminded the Committee that the Board needs to follow the deadlines and to
please pay close attention to this calendar.

III. Fourth Quarter 2009 Performance Measures – Robert Merriman gave on overview of 2009
Performance Measures, out of the thirty-eight performance measures, only three were missed.
He then asked for questions from the Committee.
Director O’Boyle had several concerns:
1. Reducing the number of safety incidents – the goal seems pretty high and maybe we
should go upward faster or reduce the goal.
2. Operator/Passenger assault ratio – He found it amazing that there is an identical
percentage for three years running. Is this a valid statistic? Would like the category
clarified, is it operator assaulting passenger or passenger assaulting operator?
3. Preventative maintenance inspections missed – This should be at 100% and severe
action should be initiated if it is missed at all. A strong preventative maintenance
program should be the very heart of our operations.
4. Dirty bus complaints – again, the statistic is the same for the last three years, maybe
the goal should be changed to .2.
5. Overdue Bus Interior cleaning per month – he felt this went hand in hand with his
comment on scheduled maintenance, there needs to be someone that makes sure this
gets done.

Minutes of the Financial Administration Committee Meeting held on March 9, 2010
Page 3 of 5

6. Improving miles between road calls – Director O’Boyle suggested adding columns for
the number of vehicles in each category and their average age. The goal could be set
based on the average age of the fleet so that the older vehicle fleets are not judged the
same as the newer fleet and we could give incentive to the maintainers. Director
Pulliam shared that we had this at one time but it went by the wayside when we
received new buses.
7. Number of page hits on RTD website – Director O’Boyle would like to see the
breakdown on this, what are people doing on the website? Is it all complaints? Scott
Reed added that the District launched the new website in 2009 and that may have a
lot to do with the increased traffic.
Director O’Boyle also wanted to know about the Operating Cost Recovery Ratio, it increased in
2009 is it influenced by the economy? Mr. Merriman responded that it is influenced by fare
increase.
Director Daly wanted to know why the articulated buses are breaking down so much. Staff
responded that these are aging buses and the fleet is scheduled to be replaced in 2012.
He was also concerned about Customer complaints. The complaints for the private carriers
went up. The explanation was heightened enforcement of the fare and stroller policy. He can
see that on local routes but why is it still high on Express routes? It can’t all be just strollers
and fare enforcement. Mr. Abel said that when you are looking at the Express routes it has
actually gone down. What has gone up is the weighted average for all categories of service.
RTD had noted a doubling of customer complaints and each of the contractors has gone up by
50%. As staff has drilled down into these complaints, the majority of them are regarding
stroller policy and fare enforcement. Mr. Washington shared that in his conversations with
drivers that a lot of times the issue may be around a handicap person being in a seat and then a
Mom gets on with a stroller and expects to get that seat.
Mr. Merriman thanked the committee for their input. For the April 13, 2010 Financial
Administration Committee meeting the proposed 2011 performance measures will be coming
forward as a recommended action. Staff will take the Board’s input and apply it to the new
performance measures.
Director Bagley echoed Director O’Boyle’s call for a better understanding of road call data.
IV. January 2010 Financial Status Report (Merriman) – Robert Merriman gave this report. Ridership
is down 7.2%, fare revenue is up 2.5%. The District had a surge in ten ride ticket book
purchases in January. Sales and use tax is down .8 of a percent from January 2009. Mr.
Merriman said that there is a difference between the two years; the moratorium on vendor
allowance has really benefited us, otherwise we would be down 4.1% down. We do not have
detail in yet from the State; it will be in later this week which will tell us if there was a large
adjustment.
Director Bagley stated we are still seeing economic weakness. This is below our projections.
Mr. Howerter said that March 15, 2010 is when we will get our new projections from the CLC
and the Office of Planning.

Minutes of the Financial Administration Committee Meeting held on March 9, 2010
Page 4 of 5

Mr. Merriman pointed out that parking management was included in the packet and apologized
for typo that this report is in whole dollars and not thousands. He also stressed that the costs
of this program are incurred by Central Parking.
Director Daly had a question about ridership that he directed to General Manager Washington.
Why light rail ridership is so much lower than bus ridership? Mr. Washington responded that it
was hard to tell. Most light rail riders are pass holders rather than cash paying customers, it
could be attributed to unemployment. Director O’Boyle said that one reason for the decrease
could be the termination of the G line.
Director O’Boyle asked about fare revenue and wanted to know if there was a decrease in
monthly passes purchased corresponding with rise in ten ride ticket books? Mr. Merriman
responded that King Soopers and Safeway order large amounts at beginning of 2010 to
stockpile for the year.
Director Christopher thanked staff for parking management information. The State is removing
sales tax exemptions, how does this play out for RTD? Marla Lien, General Counsel, responded
that there are about six different bills and they will have different effects. RTD could not get
amendments to the bills to clarify RTD’s position. These were very heated bills. Bills that
change the definition of existing taxable items will probably benefit the District and we should
be able to capture that. There were some captures from the State that we were already taking.
There are really only one or two items where we need to sit down with Department of Revenue
to see how the District is affected.
Director Tobiassen wanted to know about the bill affecting Amazon and if that was going to
affect us. Ms. Lien responded that we hadn’t been collecting those taxes but have to sit down
with the State to see if they will collect for us. Director Pulliam stated that his has been an
issue for quite some time.
Mr. Washington said that in addition to the G line elimination, the mid day C line turn around at
Broadway could also be affecting light rail ridership.
V. Other Matters- Director Tobiassen wanted to know if the East Metro boiler was installed. Staff
answered that it is in design right now.
VI. Next Meeting Date – The next meeting of the Financial Administration Committee will be April
13, 2010.
VII. Motion to move to Executive Session
 CRS 24-6-402(4)(c): Matters required to be kept confidential by State law:
CRS 2-3-103(2) and 2-3-103.7(1)
Motion:

Director Bagley made a motion to move
into Executive Session to discuss CRS
24-6-402(4)(c) matters required to be
kept confidential by State law: CRS 2-3-

Minutes of the Financial Administration Committee Meeting held on March 9, 2010
Page 5 of 5

103(2) and 2-3-103.7(1).
Second:

Director
motion.

Christopher

seconded

Vote on Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

VIII. Adjourn to Executive Session – The committee adjourned to Executive Session at 8:21 p.m.
IX. Adjourn from Executive Session – The Committee adjourned from Executive Session at 8:45
p.m.

the

