Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
June 25, 2013 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
David P. Maestas – Bus Operator – 23 years

V.

Public Participation
Transit Forum: Youth in Arts-Sound Wave Signing Choir
A.

VI.

Public Participation Handouts

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Deadwyler/Director Rivera-Malpiede
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee – Chaired by Director James
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Director Sisk
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of May 28, 2013

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Public Hearing for 2013 Amended Budget
A.

Approval of 2013 Amended Budget

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt Resolution No. ___, Series of 2013 to amend and appropriate funds for the
proposed 2013 Amended Budget, to increase the appropriation by $13.302 million to
$1,584.563 million as detailed below in the overview of the 2013 Amended Budget, and
to decrease the appropriation of Capital Carryforward (previously approved capital funds)
by $247.879 million to $1,003.434 million due to primarily planned expenditures.
1) The 2013 Amended Budget appropriation includes the amounts in the Amended Budget
column below (in thousands), which is a summary of relevant data from Exhibit I.

2) The 2013 Amended Budget also includes operating revenue and non-operating revenue
which are estimated, not appropriated, below (in thousands), which is a summary of
relevant data from Exhibit I.

XII.

Unanimous Consent
B.

North Metro Segment 2, Phase 1 Commuter Rail Project Property Acquisition

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
pass the attached property acquisition resolution certifying properties as necessary for
construction of the North Metro Segment 2 (Stock Show to 72nd Avenue), Phase 1
Commuter Rail Project and authorize staff to proceed with all requisite legal process under
state eminent domain law and to provide the General Manager or designee with authority
to enter into all contracts necessary to consummate real property transactions.
C.

Easement for Brainard Drive Relocation Project

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to convey a non-exclusive drainage easement over 10,881 square feet (0.249
acres), more or less in Section 28, Township 1 South, Range 69 West, City and County of
Broomfield, State of Colorado.
D.

State Legislative Liaison Services Contract

It is recommended by the Regional Transportation District’s Executive Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into Contract No. 13DX001
with Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs, which is an agreement for state legislative

liaison services for one year (July 1, 2013 through June 30, 2014) at a cost of $107,000
and four (4) additional one-year options to renew at prices specified in the Contract, each
option period contingent upon approval by the Board of Directors.

XIII.

Recommended Action
E.

Approval of I-225 Alignment Changes

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
approve a change in alignment and station location on the I-225 corridor. This change
would move the alignment along Montview Avenue at the Anschutz/ Fitzsimons Medical
Campus to a new alignment in the general vicinity along Fitzsimons Parkway. The station
location will also change from Montview to along Fitzsimons Parkway. The exact location
will be defined as part of a collaborative effort with the City of Aurora, the University of
Colorado stakeholders as well as public input, and also to include a transportation plan
that will accommodate the needs of persons who are transit dependent to access the
Anschutz Campus. A general depiction of the changes is shown in Exhibit 1.
All changes will be made within the originally approved I-225 Project budget.
F.

August 2013 Service Changes

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the proposed August 2013 Service Change as revised and summarized
in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost increase of $1,108,900 and, further, to
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as
necessary for private operators whose services are impacted by these changes.
G.

Approval for Increase in Contract Not-to-Exceed Amount for Smart Card Program

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to increase the current contract
not-to-exceed amount by $1,719,512.81 with Xerox, Inc. (Formerly ACS Transportation
Solutions, Inc.). The total new contract not-to-exceed amount, for contract # 19FH005, is
$17,381,470.23.

XIV. Old Business
XV.

New Business

XVI. Executive Session
XVII. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters

 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

