Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
June 25, 2013 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
David P. Maestas – Bus Operator – 23 years

V.

Public Participation
Transit Forum: Youth in Arts-Sound Wave Signing Choir
A.

VI.

Public Participation Handouts

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Deadwyler/Director Rivera-Malpiede
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee – Chaired by Director James
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Director Sisk
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of May 28, 2013

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Public Hearing for 2013 Amended Budget
A.

Approval of 2013 Amended Budget

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt Resolution No. ___, Series of 2013 to amend and appropriate funds for the
proposed 2013 Amended Budget, to increase the appropriation by $13.302 million to
$1,584.563 million as detailed below in the overview of the 2013 Amended Budget, and
to decrease the appropriation of Capital Carryforward (previously approved capital funds)
by $247.879 million to $1,003.434 million due to primarily planned expenditures.
1) The 2013 Amended Budget appropriation includes the amounts in the Amended Budget
column below (in thousands), which is a summary of relevant data from Exhibit I.

2) The 2013 Amended Budget also includes operating revenue and non-operating revenue
which are estimated, not appropriated, below (in thousands), which is a summary of
relevant data from Exhibit I.

XII.

Unanimous Consent
B.

North Metro Segment 2, Phase 1 Commuter Rail Project Property Acquisition

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
pass the attached property acquisition resolution certifying properties as necessary for
construction of the North Metro Segment 2 (Stock Show to 72nd Avenue), Phase 1
Commuter Rail Project and authorize staff to proceed with all requisite legal process under
state eminent domain law and to provide the General Manager or designee with authority
to enter into all contracts necessary to consummate real property transactions.
C.

Easement for Brainard Drive Relocation Project

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to convey a non-exclusive drainage easement over 10,881 square feet (0.249
acres), more or less in Section 28, Township 1 South, Range 69 West, City and County of
Broomfield, State of Colorado.
D.

State Legislative Liaison Services Contract

It is recommended by the Regional Transportation District’s Executive Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into Contract No. 13DX001
with Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs, which is an agreement for state legislative

liaison services for one year (July 1, 2013 through June 30, 2014) at a cost of $107,000
and four (4) additional one-year options to renew at prices specified in the Contract, each
option period contingent upon approval by the Board of Directors.

XIII.

Recommended Action
E.

Approval of I-225 Alignment Changes

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
approve a change in alignment and station location on the I-225 corridor. This change
would move the alignment along Montview Avenue at the Anschutz/ Fitzsimons Medical
Campus to a new alignment in the general vicinity along Fitzsimons Parkway. The station
location will also change from Montview to along Fitzsimons Parkway. The exact location
will be defined as part of a collaborative effort with the City of Aurora, the University of
Colorado stakeholders as well as public input, and also to include a transportation plan
that will accommodate the needs of persons who are transit dependent to access the
Anschutz Campus. A general depiction of the changes is shown in Exhibit 1.
All changes will be made within the originally approved I-225 Project budget.
F.

August 2013 Service Changes

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the proposed August 2013 Service Change as revised and summarized
in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost increase of $1,108,900 and, further, to
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as
necessary for private operators whose services are impacted by these changes.
G.

Approval for Increase in Contract Not-to-Exceed Amount for Smart Card Program

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to increase the current contract
not-to-exceed amount by $1,719,512.81 with Xerox, Inc. (Formerly ACS Transportation
Solutions, Inc.). The total new contract not-to-exceed amount, for contract # 19FH005, is
$17,381,470.23.

XIV. Old Business
XV.

New Business

XVI. Executive Session
XVII. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters

 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

5.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date:

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Director

GM

Date:

June 26, 2013

Board Meeting Date: June 25, 2013

Subject:

Public Participation Handouts

Information

ATTACHMENTS:


2013-06-25 Public Participation Handouts (PDF)

Prepared by:
Erin Klaas, Senior Board Office Assistant
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: 2013-06-25 Public Participation Handouts (1629 : Public Participation Handouts)

5.A.a

Packet Pg. 9

Attachment: 2013-06-25 Public Participation Handouts (1629 : Public Participation Handouts)

5.A.a

Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: 2013-06-25 Public Participation Handouts (1629 : Public Participation Handouts)

5.A.a

Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: 2013-06-25 Public Participation Handouts (1629 : Public Participation Handouts)

5.A.a

Packet Pg. 12

6.A

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 11, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

MINUTES
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, June 11, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Larry Hoy

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
5:13 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

5:02 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

5:10 PM
5:18 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Chair

Present
Present

5:32 PM
5:27 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Vice Chair

Present
Present
Present

5:21 PM
5:25 PM
5:33 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Absent

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

5:28 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:29 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:05 PM

Packet Pg. 13

6.A

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:32 PM
5:21 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Rick Clarke, Mathew Cross, Lee Cryer,
Chuck Culig, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Terry
Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Doug MacLeod, Barbara
McManus, Anthony Menendez, Jerry Nery, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed,
John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Brian
Welch

Others Present:

Mac Callison, Sara Castellanos, Michael Del-Giudice, Leonard Dinegar,
Melissa Dubinsky, Joni Goheen, Stan Gronek, Bill Mosher, Skip
Spensley, Joe Triplette, Gary Van Dorn, Hugh K Wilson

B. Updates

• Denver Union Station Update
Bill Mosher told the Board that any members that had not yet toured Denver
Union Station (DUS) and wanted to were more than welcome. He reviewed
a Power Point presentation with the Board that is available in the June 11,
2013 FasTracks Monitoring Committee Agenda Packet.
Director James noted that Westword had an article that suggested the
model trains might be a candidate for the public art program. He
understands that may not be a good fit but he asked for an update. Bill
Mosher explained that the model train organizations are being handled by
Union Station Alliance (USA) so it is not something he has been overseeing.
He shared that there was an update given at the last DUSPA meeting. At
this time both organizations are moving out of DUS; when the basement is
complete they will go back to see if there is an area they can work with. Bill
Mosher shared that the model train groups have set up a committee that
USA is helping with to identify new locations for the groups; there is also a
fundraising effort underway.
Chair Anderson commented that her father spent close to 40 years of his life
working around DUS; she thinks he would be totally amazed to see its
transformation.
Director Walker stated that he does not believe the $662 million market
value include infrastructure like sewer, water, etc. He asked how much has
been spent on the infrastructure. Bill Mosher said that infrastructure cost is
in the project cost of the $400 million; it is essentially the building of
Wewatta, all the sewer and water lines, the sidewalks, the street lights and

Packet Pg. 14

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 11, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Menten was absent.

6.A

the traffic lights. He stated that he would have to get the exact number but
all of the public infrastructure is included in the DUS project budget.

Director Folska noted that she has been receiving many calls from her
constituents who are very concerned about where the model trains will go;
they are concerned that the agreement stated the organizations would not
be displaced. She asked for additional information on the relocation. Marla
Lien stated that there is some misconception about the agreement. The
lease agreement between USA and RTD did not require that USA keep the
model trains. She explained that when USA made their proposal to the
Board, they stated that they were going to try to keep the trains in the
Station; however, everyone knew that given National Park Service (NPS)
requirements, space requirements, security requirements, etc., that is was
going to be a difficult process. Marla Lien explained that as a result of
bringing the building up to code and some of the NPS requirements, USA
has to bring another elevator and stairway into the basement which cut the
square footage. They also had to put ductwork above which lowered the
celling limit and cut the available space.
Director Folska asked if we knew of an alternative location for the trains.
Marla Lien stated that is something that is being worked on. She explained
that some spaces were offered to one of the train clubs at just cost (no
lease rate, just utilities) and they were not able to accept that offer. These
groups are very small; one is not a legal entity and one only has 17
members.
Director Rivera-Malpiede stated that she also had to speak regarding the
train clubs. She stated that when the Board talked about USA being
awarded the lease agreement, one of the treasures of Denver Union Station
was the model trains. She said that she too has received many emails and
phone calls from her constituency stating that they are heartbroken that the
trains will no longer be in DUS. Director Rivera-Malpiede asked who was on
the committee to work with the train clubs for relocation and how RTD can
help to ensure they will be around for our community. Marla Lien stated
that Dana Crawford and Ferd Belz have taken a lot of effort to work with the
organizations. She reiterated that everyone is working very hard to get
Packet Pg. 15

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 11, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Bagley asked if the map that shows the projects underway,
planned, etc. defines the total tax increment district. Bill Mosher explained
that was just the Downtown Development Authority (DDA) District; there
are projects underway that are not included because they are outside the
DDA District. Bill Mosher clarified that this is not a taxing district but a tax
receipt collecting district; the City is taking all the incremental property,
lodger, sales and use tax, etc. and putting those funds into a trust account
to pay off the federal loans.

6.A

Director Sisk shared that he is really impressed with the work that has gone
on at Denver Union Station. He stated that he sees DUS as being much
more than a Denver amenity; he thinks this is the core of FasTracks.
Director Sisk is hoping there is a way to share this information with the
constituents. He asked for anything staff could provide the Directors with
to show constituents (slideshow/handout/etc.) that would deflect some of
the suggestions that the money is only for Denver. Bill Mosher explained
that his team works very closely with Pauletta Tonilas and the Public
Information team to meet with community groups. He said that his team is
very available to go out into the community to meet with groups to discuss
the project. Bill Mosher said that his presentation also fits into a “bigger
picture” slide show that talks about FasTracks and the role of DUS within
the system.
Director Bagley shared that in all the project presentations he makes in the
South Metro area, he always has slides that relate to Denver Union Station
that try to encapsulate for the people in his district what is going on at DUS.
He continually reiterates that DUS is the District’s project, not just Denver’s.
Committee Chair Hoy asked if Bill Mosher could provide the Board with an
update regarding the grocery store that was being proposed. Bill Mosher
stated that there is a King Soopers that is under construction.
Committee Chair Hoy reiterated what other Board members stated about the
model trains. He stated that if we can help them that would be great.
General Manager Washington pointed out that Denver Union Station is really
a regional treasure and a regional value. He noted the national significance
of DUS; the national visibility just from the funding piece alone is very huge.
He shared that last week at the APTA Rail Conference during his meeting
with the Federal Transportation Agency Administrator, the first thing he
asked was how DUS was progressing.

• Citizens Advisory Committee Update
Hugh Wilson, Co-chair of the FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee,
thanked the Board for their time. He shared that the committee was very
pleased to have RTD Service Planning staff come and explain the process for
the development of the initial service changes that were brought about with
the opening of the West line. He thanked Robert Rynerson, Bruce Abel, and
other RTD staff members for coming to explain in great detail the complexity

Packet Pg. 16

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 11, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

these groups moved but we knew starting this that results could not be
guaranteed.

6.A

of making such radical schedule changes and then quickly recognizing that
changes and modifications need to be made to meet the ridership needs.

Hugh Wilson invited the Board to the upcoming CAC meeting in Westminster
on June 26, 2013. He shared that at the meeting there will be an update on
the Northwest Area Mobility Study and Bus Rapid Transit options.
Director Folska asked how long Hugh Wilson had been a member of the
CAC. He said that he had been on the Committee for about two and a half
years but was just elected Co-chair in January.
Director Tobiassen asked for clarification if the opinions about the West line
and Circulator were the opinions of the CAC or Mr. Wilson’s personal
opinions. Hugh Wilson stated that they were his opinions.
Chair Anderson shared that she has heard much of the same types of
complaints and thanked Mr. Wilson for speaking on those issues.
Director Hoy said that he would be attending the CAC meeting in
Westminster and encouraged other Directors to attend at well.

C. Recommended Actions

• Approval of I-225 Alignment Changes
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors approve a change in alignment and station location on the I-225
corridor. This change would move the alignment along Montview Avenue at
the Anschutz/ Fitzsimons Medical Campus to a new alignment in the general
vicinity along Fitzsimons Parkway. The station location will also change
from Montview to along Fitzsimons Parkway. The exact location will be
defined as part of a collaborative effort with the City of Aurora, the
University of Colorado stakeholders as well as public input. A general
depiction of the changes is shown in Exhibit 1.
General Manager Washington began by explaining that staff has been
working for some time with the City of Aurora (the City) and University of
Colorado (CU) on this issue. He stated that Montview Avenue was the
alignment identified in the Environmental Evaluation (EE) and was the basis

Packet Pg. 17

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 11, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Hugh Wilson provided his perspective on the needed West Line changes.
He stated that he is very pleased that staff is recommending the
reinstatement of the 87X, 100X and 116X. He outlined some areas related
to the West line and associated route changes that he believes RTD can
improve upon. Hugh Wilson also shared that he thinks it is vital that the
Downtown Denver Circulator route goes beyond Colfax.

for the unsolicited proposal the Board approved last year. General Manager
shared that the right-of-way is owned by the University of Colorado and in
order for the alignment to travel down Montview the street has to be
restructured/rebuilt. The original plan was for CU to cede the land to the
City and then the City would cede the land to RTD. All parties involved
have been in discussions about electromagnetic interference (EMI) and
vibrations; there have been many discussions about mitigating the effects of
EMI and vibrations. General Manager Washington explained that as the
discussions progressed, all three entities came to the conclusion that
mitigation costs would be exorbitant and were not in anyone’s budget.
Additionally, even with mitigation, the EMI and vibrations are something that
cannot be completely eliminated.
General Manager Washington shared that as stated in the Board Report,
mitigation costs along with the delay costs would approximately $58-$60
million. He reiterated that we do not have this in the I-225 project budget.
The conclusion made between RTD, CU and the City is that the best course
of action would be a change in alignment that would eliminate the concerns
that we have along Montview.
General Manager Washington mentioned that there was some
communication the Board received asking if we could test the equipment
throughout various parts of the campus. He explained that staff has
reviewed the communication and discussed it internally; staff thinks that
doing this would still incur a significant delay which costs RTD $1.5-$2
million per month. General Manager Washington stated that based on this it
was staff’s recommendation to proceed with the realignment.
Chuck Culig explained that staff did identify some blanket mitigation as part
of the original EE; however, there was not a specific piece of equipment or
location that was being mitigated for. He stated that the train will be
running at very low speeds producing a very low frequency vibration that is
very difficult to mitigate. Chuck Culig explained that if you can get 200-300
ft. from the train tracks than there is no mitigation needed. He stated that
to mitigate vibrations the only option was really to build a very expensive
floating slab. Not only would the slab be very expensive but changes would
be necessary for the EMI mitigation that would add additional costs and the
design and construction timeline kept getting pushed further and further out.
Check Culig outlined the changes on a map that can be found in the June
11, 2013 FasTracks Monitoring Committee Agenda Packet. He stated that
staff will be working with the community and stakeholders for a final
decision on the location of the new station.

Packet Pg. 18

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 11, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.A

6.A

Rick Clarke stated that one of the questions staff had been receiving is why
did not they know about this issue earlier. He said that the issue was
brought up earlier but science is continually evolving; the equipment is
becoming more and more sensitive and that trend is not going to stop. Rick
Clarke stated that the whole science on the impact of light rail on sensitive
equipment is also evolving. Five years ago no one would have even
recognized this as an issue. He explained that as other light rail lines have
been built it has started to become an issue.
Rick Clarke also reiterated that the mitigation costs are estimated to be
around $60 million which we do not have in the I-225 budget. He stated
that staff is working on the engineering for the Fitzsimons alignment; Rick
Clarke said that the exact cost is unknown but that he can inform the board
it can be handled within the project budget.
Rick Clarke explained that the new alignment does have its benefits. The
alignment along Montview would have a speed limit of 15 mph with 6 atgrade crossings. The train would run through the middle of campus so there
would need to be fences, it would cut of part of the campus, etc. Rick
Clarke stated that if the train runs along Fitzsimons the speed limit would be
at least 35 mph. He said that while there is much development in the area,
CU sees this as an opportunity to drive their development to this location.
Rick Clarke finished by saying at this point we are early in the design-build
contract so we can engage in discussions about the changes. He stated
that we can continue discussions with CU but he feels in a year from now
we will still be at the same recommendation but then we would be paying
for the delay costs.
General Manager Washington stated that not only are we working in
partnership with CU and the City; we are also working with the Fitzsimons
Redevelopment Authority (FRA) who is a key player in this as well.
General Manager Washington explained that RTD would be responsible for
paying for the redesign but we feel we can do that within the existing
budget. He reiterated the potential benefits from the new alignment.
General Manager says that as Rick Clarke mentioned, there is a huge benefit
in the train being able to operate faster. He feels that the potential
drawback of moving the station away from current activities is lessened by
the potential for future development.
Packet Pg. 19

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 11, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Rick Clarke recognized that there were representatives from CU and the City
of Aurora in the audience. He said that several RTD staff attended a City
Council Meeting the previous night where the Councilmembers were briefed
by their staff on the situation.

6.A

General Manager Washington noted that the question had come up if other
entities needed to approve the alignment. He explained that we will need to
do some negotiating with our contractors but all parties that need to be
involved are at the table.

General Manager Washington stated that the last piece of information
needed to be considered is the shuttle service. He said there had been
questions about people getting of the train at the new station. General
Manager noted that there is a letter provided for reference in the June 11,
2011 FasTracks Monitoring Committee Agenda Packet that discusses CU’s
intent to provide a shuttle from the new station to campus.
Primary
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the
motion to move this item to the
full Board at the June 23, 2013
Board meeting.
Director Folska seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Director Deadwyler asked how far away the train needs to be
from the facilities and what facilities on the map are affected.
Chuck Culig stated that the train needs to be upwards of 200300 ft. He explained that currently the pharmacy building and
bioscience building would be affected by the trains; however,
he believes that the entire swath of land that would run along
the tracks would be affected in future development. Director
Deadwyler commented that her original understanding that
where we are planning to build now would not have an impact
with EMI and vibrations. She asked if it was because CU
wanted to have room to develop that this was now an issue.
Director Deadwyler wondered why we needed to move instead
of having CU’s future development be in a different location.
Chuck Culig stated there is some truth to the desire to develop
creating the need for the new alignment. Rick Clarke stated
that CU’s plans are to develop the Fitzsimons Campus as an
international medical research facility. He explained that they
Packet Pg. 20

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 11, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

General Manager Washington said that at this time we do not know if there
will be any wildlife conflicts being closer to the trail; the City of Aurora has
been doing quite a bit of environmental work in that area so we do not
expect any wildlife impact. Chuck Culig stated that staff would be looking
at that further as part of our new EE.

6.A

Director Deadwyler noted that the letter from CU discussed
plans for development and a shuttle; however, she feels those
are just plans and there was not a commitment. She wants to
ensure that they are committed to these shuttles so that when
the line opens we are able to get the transit dependent riders
to their final destination. She is concerned that the people
that need access to the hospitals will not be able to get to
them. Marla Lien stated that in addition to Rick Clarke’s
explanation of why CU is not moving, CU and FRA own the
land; it is not dedicated right-of-way. She explained that they
are not willing to risk their plans for future development to
give us the land as was the original intent. She said that it is
the goal for us to work with CU to get good results for
everyone and it is there land. Marla Lien explained that the
letter is a statement of intent until CU builds out the campus
and funds service; just like RTD is a governmental entity and
we are subject to appropriations so is CU. General Manager
Washington stated that even though CU owns the right-ofway they have been partners with RTD along with the City of
Aurora and FRA. He explained that this is a case of RTD
working with one of the leading institutions is the state to
make them more competitive internationally. General Manager
Washington recognized that Director Deadwyler’s concern is
legitimate but he feels that when he has a letter from the
President of CU and verbal assurances that he is committed to
a shuttle then he accepts that. General Manager Washington
believes there is a commitment from CU to have a shuttle
service and work with RTD to make sure that service is at the
right level
Director Rivera-Malpiede stated that she is privileged to work
with the City of Aurora and CU on a regular basis. She knows
that they are committed partners in the community. Director
Rivera-Malpiede recognized the need for the change but she is
concerned with the connectivity from the train station to
University Hospital. This hospital primarily serves our
financially disadvantaged community. She expressed that she
needs to be assured that we have the ability to make sure our
community members get from point a to point b.
Director Lasater stated that he does not understand why RTD
has to move and not CU. He feels that he has not heard
Packet Pg. 21

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 11, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

felt they would be at a disadvantage because there is a lot of
competition to bring in these companies.

6.A

anything that satisfies his concern. Director Lasater had
several questions he wanted answered:
1)
Why did we not look at this alignment originally
2)
If we make this change for CU does this open use up to
other complaints
3)
Will the communities west of Peoria now be disserved

Director Sisk expressed his agreement with Director
Deadwyler and Rivera-Malpiede’s comments. He also
requested that there be a statement included in the
Recommended Action that no funds will come from any other
line to complete the new alignment.
Director Lubow shared that she was very excited to realize
that we were getting a possible solution to a very difficult
problem but it was kind of jaw dropping that we could come
up with an alternative so quickly. She asked if she was
correct in assuming that because CU owns the right of way
we would have to do the mitigation or not build along
Montview. Rick Clarke explained that this this case we were
fortunate to have an obvious alternative; there are some
locations that if we had to move it would be very problematic.
He stated that sometimes it is better to be lucky than good;
the City of Aurora owns the new land that we would need and
they are cooperating so all the pieces are falling into place.
Rick Clarke also stated that it is a safe assumption that we will
not get the land from CU if we were to continue with the
Montview alignment and not do the necessary mitigation.
General Manager Washington said that CU, the City of Aurora,
and FRA are our partners in this effort. He views this as a
partnership in making one of our state institutions
internationally competitive. General Manager feels that if we
can partner with our stakeholders all over the region to work
on items that are technically and financially feasible then we
should do so. Director Lubow asked if we would need to
complete another Environmental Impact Survey (EIS). Bill Van
Meter explained that we do not perform an EIS but an
environmental evaluation (EE) since this is a non-federally
funded corridor. He stated that staff is working on the EE and
will bring the results back to the Board. He said that staff has
done some basic field evaluations and talked with the City of
Packet Pg. 22

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 11, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Lasater also noted that Sand Creek is an impediment
for the people to the north so we will not be benefiting them
either.

6.A

Aurora. Staff does not anticipate any major impacts or flaws
at this point.

Chair Anderson made the motion
to amend the primary motion to
read as follows:

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring
Committee that the Board of Directors approve a
change in alignment and station location on the
I-225 corridor. This change would move the
alignment along Montview Avenue at the
Anschutz Fitzsimons Medical Campus to a new
alignment in the general vicinity along Fitzsimons
Parkway. The station location will also change
from Montview to along Fitzsimons Parkway.
The exact location will be defined as part of a
collaborative effort with the City of Aurora, the
University of Colorado stakeholders as well as
public input, and also to include a transportation
plan that will accommodate the needs of
persons who are transit dependent to access the
Anschutz Campus. A general depiction of the
changes is shown in Exhibit 1.
All changes will be made within the originally
approved I-225 project budget.
Director Deadwyler seconded the
motion.
Discussion:

Director Deadwyler stated that even with the amendment that
Chair Anderson made she thinks there should be a plan,
outline, etc. for the shuttle service before the Committee
votes on this item. General Manager Washington explained
that the University of Colorado and Children’s Hospital are
working on a comprehensive transportation plan for the entire
campus. He stated that because of this he feels the language
of the amendment is appropriate.
Director Folska said that initially she found the new alignment
very troubling but as she thought about it and learned about it
Packet Pg. 23

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 11, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Motion to
Amend
Primary
Motion:

she feels the Montview station really wants to move. She had
a vision while listening to Bill Mosher that we have an anchor
with Denver Union Station and at the other end of Colfax we
will have the Montview Parkway into the Future of Science.
Director Folska noted that she does agree with Directors
Deadwyler and Rivera-Malpiede in that how we circulate
people around the medical campuses is very important. She
also noted Rick Clarke’s comments that the original alignment
would have the train running through the middle of campus
and impede mobility. Director Folska thinks that having the
station moved to the north area will be easier, cheaper, and
keep us on budget and schedule. She will support the original
motion.
Director Lubow stated that she is concerned with the
vagueness of the amendment language; there is no
commitment or date for when the transportation plan needs to
be done and in place. She feels that CU is asking something
major from us so she would like to see something where they
commit to having shuttles by the time the line is built.
Director James stated that he agrees with most of what has
been said this evening. He said that he leans toward
supporting this in the interest of benefitting the entire
community. Director James asked if he was correct that the
length of the new alignment would be shorter. He said if this
was correct then both the capital and operating costs could
benefit. Rick Clarke stated that the line would be slightly
shorter but the important thing is the increase in speed that
would help funning time. Rick Clarke stressed that the cost of
$60 million would only occur if we kept the alignment on
Montview; if we do the realignment the monies would come
entirely out of the I-225 project budget. Director James said
that he would be voting against the amendment. He believes
there is a window of time for CU and our partners to show us
a plan and staff will work with them to do that.
Director Walker stated that this type of issue comes up all the
time in the other industry he works in. The alignment will be
set for years and once they get out into the field a problem
will present itself. Director Walker asked if we would need a
Park-n-Ride at the Fitzsimmons station. Marla Lien said that at
least at one location, which is surrounded by City Park land, it
will be challenging. Director Walker commented that buying
public property for private use can be problematic. He asked if
Packet Pg. 24

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 11, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.A

6.A

Director Tobiassen agrees with the other Directors and their
comments. He said that the shuttle has always been in the
plans to some degree for the campus. Director Tobiassen
noted the struggles we are seeing right now at the VA
Hospital with some of the planning they did not do. He stated
that it is a lot easier to change lines on paper than in concrete
so we are fortunate that we can look at this now and take full
advantage of the properties to the north. Director Tobiassen
believes that the Stapleton development will add a great deal
of residential housing that will probably provide ridership
greater than what we are losing west of Peoria. Director
Tobiassen shared that he has a report from 2008-2009 that
highlights grants for equipment that may not have come to the
hospital at that time if the light rail was in place. He thinks it
is going to benefit all of the citizens of the State of Colorado
to have this super desirable facility at the Anschutz Campus.
Director Tobiassen stated that he believes the
circulator/shuttle will solve itself over time but tying our hands
right now does not make a lot of sense so he will not be
supporting the amendment.
Director Solano asked if the new alignment would be far
enough as the advancement in biomedical research continues.
He asked if there was a standard used in the medical field for
EMI levels. Rick Clarke stated that the science surrounding
EMIs is evolving and equipment is becoming more sensitive.
He explained that staff feels the distance is okay and CU
support the change.
Director Bagley stated that one of the things the Board can do
is ask CU to provide a better understanding of their plan. He
explained that we have two weeks for CU and staff to put

Packet Pg. 25

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 11, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

it was the same as if we were to buy public property for
another public use. Marla Lien stated that it is still
challenging. Rick Clarke said that a Park-n-Ride is not in our
plans but CU’s letter talked about providing parking. Director
Walker noted the operational and speed benefits of the line not
cutting through the middle of campus. He expressed that he
will be supporting the original motion. He stated that although
he respects the intent behind the amendment he will not be
supporting it. He is going to trust the staff recommendation
and our partners. He believes they will take the steps
necessary to do what is best for the campus.

6.A

Chair Anderson stated that in regards to her amendment she
intended for it to be vague. She thinks that for a 15 member
Board of Directors to sit in chambers for a few hours and craft
a transportation plan for a campus like CU is ludicrous. She
explained that she was trying to incorporate the issue she
heard from other Directors regarding the transit dependent
people and their access to the campus while also listening to
the Directors that feel we should not be telling others what to
do. Chair Anderson believes this amendment will direct CU to
do exactly what Director Bagley has asked for but it is also
broad enough for people to be innovative.

Vote on Motion to Amend the Primary Motion:
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [9 TO 5]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Chair of the Board
SECONDER: Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Lubow, Sisk,
Solano
NAYS: Folska, Lasater, Rivera-Malpiede, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Natalie Menten
Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.
Vote on Primary Motion as Amended:
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [10 TO 4]
MOVER:
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Folska, James, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk,
Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Bruce Daly, Barbara Deadwyler, Larry Hoy, Gary Lasater
ABSENT:
Natalie Menten
Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion as amended PASSED.

• North Metro Segment 2, Phase 1 Commuter Rail Project Property Acquisition
RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors pass the attached property acquisition resolution certifying
properties as necessary for construction of the North Metro Segment 2

Packet Pg. 26

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 11, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

something together to demonstrate to the Board that they hear
what is being said.

6.A

(Stock Show to 72nd Avenue), Phase 1 Commuter Rail Project and authorize
staff to proceed with all requisite legal process under state eminent domain
law and to provide the General Manager or designee with authority to enter
into all contracts necessary to consummate real property transactions.
Motion:

Director Rivera-Malpiede made the
motion to move this item to the
full Board at the June 25, 2013
Board meeting.

Discussion:

Director Folska noted that in the resolution there was some
language related to significantly inconveniencing someone.
She asked Marla Lien for the legal definition of significantly
inconveniencing. Marla Lien stated that there is not a legal
definition. Susan Altes said that she believes the language in
the resolution that Director Folska is referring to reads as
follows: “Whereas, the Board recognizes that each and every
property owner impacted by the North Metro Segment 2,
Phase 1 Commuter Rail Project, although financially
compensated according to the law, makes a significant
personal sacrifice for the public good, a sacrifice not made by
others who benefit from the Project.” Marla Lien explained
that was an acknowledgement, not a legal definition. Director
Folska asked if this statement entitled them to receive any
additional funding from other sources or relocation support.
Both Marla Lien and Susan Altes stated that it does not.
Director Bagley stated that he was encouraged when he
reviewed the list of properties to be acquired. He noticed that
there is only one property that he could see that was probably
a total taken out of about seven acres. He stated that staff
had done a good job and encouraged them to continue the
great work.

Packet Pg. 27

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 11, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Sisk seconded the
motion.

6.A

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
SECONDER: Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Natalie Menten

D. Other Matters
Director Daly stated that the CAC representative was questioning the West Line not
going downtown at the Civic Center and if RTD could send some of the West Line
cars into downtown. Director Daly asked for Austin to address these concerns and
also about the closing of the Sport Authority station mentioned by Mr. Wilson.
General Manager Washington stated that staff will address those items at the
Operations and Customer Service Committee meeting.

E. Next Meeting Date - July 2, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 7:50 p.m. to the Planning and
Development Committee Meeting.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 28

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 11, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED to the Unanimous
Consent Agenda.

6.B

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 11, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

MINUTES
Planning & Development Committee
Tuesday, June 11, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning and Development Committee
Chaired by Bill James

A. Call to Order
Attendee Name

Title

Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson

Chair of the Board

Present

7:58 PM

Kent Bagley
Bruce Daly

Director, District H
Director, District N

Present
Present

7:50 PM
7:59 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Present

7:59 PM
7:57 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James

Director, District J
Chair

Present
Present

7:56 PM
7:50 PM

Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present

7:56 PM
7:53 PM

Natalie Menten

Vice Chair

Absent

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

7:58 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present

7:56 PM
7:56 PM

Tom Tobiassen

Director, District F

Present

7:57 PM

Packet Pg. 29

6.B

Director, District D

Present

7:54 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Rick Clarke, Mathew Cross, Lee Cryer,
Chuck Culig, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Terry
Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Doug MacLeod, Barbara
McManus, Anthony Menendez, Jerry Nery, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed,
John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Brian
Welch

Others Present:

Mac Callison, Sara Castellanos, Michael Del-Giudice, Leonard Dinegar,
Melissa Dubinsky, Joni Goheen, Stan Gronek, Bill Mosher, Skip
Spensley, Joe Triplette, Gary Van Dorn, Hugh K Wilson

B. Recommended Actions

• Easement for Brainard Drive Relocation Project
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to
execute all documents necessary to convey a non-exclusive drainage
easement over 10,881 square feet (0.249 acres), more or less in Section
28, Township 1 South, Range 69 West, City and County of Broomfield,
State of Colorado.
Motion:

Director Sisk made the motion to
move this item to the full Board at
the June 25th, 2013 Board
meeting.
Director Bagley seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Susan Altes stated that this project is being done jointly by the
City/County of Broomfield, Colorado Department of
Transportation and the Burlington Northern Railroad in order to
alleviate two railroad crossings within the City of Broomfield
and that they have agreed to relocate a siding. This will be in
the area US36 and 96 and in the area of RTD’s Flatirons Parkn-Ride. Brainard Drive was built by the City/County as part of
the original deal with RTD. They had the option to acquire the
property where the parking lot was built, but at the time they
lacked sufficient funds. The easement is for drainage. It is a
ditch alongside the relocation of Brainard Drive. The roadway
will have to be relocated to accommodate the new siding and
it will allow better access, elevation wise, to the remainder of
the property. The offering was $2 per square foot, based on

Packet Pg. 30

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 11, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Jeff Walker

6.B

the evaluation done by Douglas P. Agne, MAI of Pinnacle and
also 90% of the fee value for the easement.
Director Walker asked who will maintain the drainage. Susan
Altes stated that the City of Broomfield will do the
maintenance.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Larry Hoy, Director, District J
SECONDER: Kent Bagley, Director, District H
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Natalie Menten
Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED to the Unanimous
Consent.

C. Updates

• Projected vs. Actual Rail Ridership
Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning stated that when they
open new rail lines there is a lot interest on how the actual ridership
compares to the projected ridership. He reviewed the factors affecting
opening day light rail ridership. He stated that it takes a minimum of six to
twelve months for travel patterns to establish themselves, which is why the
Federal Transit Administration asks for reports and results two years after
opening to see how we are doing compared to the projected ridership two
years out. They provide the monthly report on ridership for both bus and
rail. The West line opened at end of school year and there is low ridership in
vacation months such as summer and December. They anticipate rapid
growth in all rail lines as there are also increased transfer/access options as
the FasTracks system is build out.
He reviewed the LRT average Weekday ridership comparison of opening year
vs the actual ridership when the lines opened. This is a total system
ridership expectation. The reason they present it this way is, as the system
grows there are multiple lines going through Broadway-I25 and Downtown
and it’s hard to attribute the ridership to either corridor.
On the West Corridor, six weeks into service the projection was 18,300
riders per day and they are averaging 14,000 riders per day as we enter the

Packet Pg. 31

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 11, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director James asked for clarification of the percentage of the
fee. Susan Altes stated that it is 90% of the fee, which is
very high.

6.B

Director James requested staff to provide an additional column with the
current ridership. Bill Van Meter stated that they can provide additional
information on the ridership by line. Director James asked if the numbers
are progressively increasing because the rail is becoming more popular. Bill
Van Meter stated that it is a combination of factors, as we build out the
system there are more opportunities to go to destinations other than those
served by a single line. Additionally, growth in employment and population
has helped to feed that.
Director Bagley stated that he wants to see the current activity system
wide.
Director Anderson stated that she understands the chart and the reason for
the focus on the whole system. However having worked on lines with MIS
and EIS, it would be important to know how we measure up to the
projections that those studies established. Bill Van Meter stated that it is
possible. He stated that for Southwest corridor they had projected 8,400
average daily riders about two years later we were carrying 17,000. On the
Southeast Corridor, they projected 33,800 and the E-F and H lines combined
were carrying 41,400. Staff will provide the information requested.
Director Deadwyler agrees with having more real time information. She
asked if they are adding all the columns, because the West Line shows
84,000. Bill Van Meter stated that the 84,600 is the projected amount of
ridership in the whole system, including existing lines plus the West line.
Director Deadwyler asked for clarification on the amount showed for the
Central line in 1994. Bill Van Meter stated that the original projection was
13,000 and 3 years later they were carrying 16,000. There were some
constraints, there was not enough parking and not enough light rail vehicles
and they added bus service to help with the demand.
Director Hoy stated that it looks like we are on the way to fulfill our
expectations. Perhaps we made a mistake by completing the line 8 months
earlier, because if we would have opened on time they would have had all
those school kids. GM Washington stated that we didn’t make a mistake by
managing the program very well.

Packet Pg. 32

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 11, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

summer season and school break. Ridership continues to grow; this is a
preliminary observation and counts on the West Corridor. GM Washington
stated that it is not just one line, when we open the East line we can
assume the West line ridership will increase because people will be able to
get on in the West and go all the way to the Airport. That is why they show
it as system ridership as it is impacted by the connectivity that is associated
with all the lines.

6.B

Director Folska stated that she is not able to see the chart and asked if the
numbers accelerating exponentially. Bill Van Meter stated that each of the
openings has consistently exceeded our forecast and ridership continues to
grow system wide. Director Folska stated that it looks like a weighted
average acceleration because when more lines open there is greater
connectivity. Bill Van Meter stated that those synergies are starting to
happen and they have seen them, and we could anticipate that. Our models
do not project that sort of behavior but as more opportunities for connection
to more activities centers occur with reliable bus and transit services we see
that happening and it is reflected in these numbers.
Director Lubow stated that it seems like the projections have been
consistently low in terms of what the ultimate ridership would be. Bill Van
Meter stated that it is correct, although consistently less low each time, in
other words they are getting better. Director Lubow stated that it is good,
because she wonders if it may impact how much parking we provide and
that type of things. Bill Van Meter stated that it is a valid concern, because
particularly for the Central and Southwest Corridors where the numbers
were startling off the actuals, we did not provide enough parking and in the
case of the Central Corridor not enough rail vehicles. They have taken the
lessons learned to improve the ridership forecasting tools. The tools have
been refined based on actual experience. Director Lubow thinks the models
have a lot of impact in terms of getting grants and other things. Bill Van
Meter stated that they do, and that the FTA regularly goes into RTD’s and
DRCOG’s modeling process to make sure that we are incorporating the best
practices and that our models are calibrated and validated appropriately.
Our forecast has gotten better because they have provided technical
oversight assistance to make sure they fund projects that are going to
succeed. Director Lubow stated that it seems like it is good to be bias low
but not bias two low. Bill Van Meter stated that it’s darn if you are off too
high or too low, because one way or another you will have issues.
GM Washington stated that we have not talked about the Transit Oriented
Development (TOD) on the stations. All of the residential development will
impact the ridership. As the culture changes in the region, it will be huge in
the next couple of years.
Packet Pg. 33

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 11, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Walker stated that as impressive as this numbers are, he needs to
remind himself that this is a long term proposition and things change. He
discussed the ridership situation with Mr. Howerter and how even though
the city is growing, the system ridership is going down in some areas. It is
because people are changing, things are changing; they either work were
they live or are taking their bikes but they are doing other things than
anticipated when we started 20 years ago. This is encouraging and
hopefully the system will continue to grow.

6.B

Director Walker mentioned that an article in Atlantic City talking about Is
Transit even Necessary for TOD? They looked at several different
developments in cities and found that when they control transit absence or
absence parking successful neighborhoods such as Cherry Creek or South
Platte, as we build those TOD developments there is going to be so much
right there that people won’t have to travel and transit will just become a
play thing instead of the major means to work for a lot of neighborhoods and
people.
Director James stated that there are isolated locations where parking is a big
challenge and transit is too big too much for a location like that.
Director Bagley asked for an update about the Alameda Station TOD.

D. Other Matters
Director Lasater stated that in a discussion with one employee that lives in his
district, we have people that live outside of the district but work for RTD and they
are being charge for parking at RTD park-n-ride if they take bus or rail. There is not
a policy to give them a parking sticker so they can commute into work without
having to pay to come to work. He would like to provide them with parking
stickers because he thinks it is inequitable.
Director Folska asked how those employees are different from other employees that
live outside of the district and commute. Director Lasater stated that the difference
is that they work at RTD.
Director Deadwyler stated that we do need to look at that, because most
organizations give certain perks to their employees, whether it is Comcast or Kaiser
Permanente and other organizations, if you work for them you get something. She
thinks parking is very small compared to the perks other organizations give to their
employees. She agrees with Director Lasater on this issue.
Director Folska stated that this is an issue with another Board she is on as well. If
we give these employees who live outside of the district that benefit how is that
fair and equitable to the employees that live in the district and don’t get it or the
equivalent?
Director Bagley moved to adjourn the meeting and take the conversation offline.
Director James asked for the conversation to be taken offline and to maybe have
the staff request if that is a request to be made.

Packet Pg. 34

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 11, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director James mentioned that another term that goes with TOD is TOC
(Transit Oriented Culture) which is coming along.

6.B

GM Washington informed the Board that staff is pursuing two grants for the North
Metro. One is CDOT grant program. We have moved to the next stage and it’s for
$50 million. The other is the Tiger Grant. He met with the FTA administrator at
the Rail Conference about the Tiger Grant and we made a very good case and he as
very receptive. Bill Van Meter and John Elias are in the front line and we think we
stand a very good chance.

E. Next Meeting Date - July 2, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair James adjourned the meeting at 8:31p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 35

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 11, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director James stated that he just returned from Toronto. He attended the Urban
Exploration Trip with the Downtown Denver Partnership. This was a very
productive trip. Toronto has about 6 million people with a very strong transit
system and very different form of governmental organization. They acknowledge
RTD and he encourages the other Directors to participate in the trip, which is very
educational and transit systems are at the center of the conversations. Seattle has
been mentioned for next year and even Copenhagen. The number of people
attending has grown and it’s very focused on what we do.

6.C

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 18, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, June 18, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Tom Tobiassen

A. Call to Order
Attendee Name

Title

Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson

Chair of the Board

Present

5:36 PM

Kent Bagley
Bruce Daly

Director, District H
Director, District N

Present
Present

5:29 PM
5:33 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Present

5:31 PM
5:31 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James

Director, District J
Director, District A

Present
Present

5:33 PM
5:31 PM

Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present

5:33 PM
5:33 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

5:34 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Absent

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Vice Chair

Present
Present

5:28 PM
5:31 PM

Tom Tobiassen

Committee Chair

Present

5:33 PM

Packet Pg. 36

6.C

Director, District D

Present

5:15 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke,
Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Sherry Ellebracht, Eric Farrington,
Mike Gil, Kenn Hardin, Terry Howerter, Erin Klaas, Doug Macleod,
Brian Matthews, Robin McIntosh, Jr., Barbara McManus, Paula
Perdue, Trent Ratcliff, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Cal Shankster,
Zamy Silva, Greg Smith, John Tarbert, Mark Tieman

Others Present:

Ed Bush, William Carter, Martell Dyles, Jennifer Eckert, Doug Gragg,
Stan Gronek, Sherman Hamilton, Douglas Howey, Gregory Jenifer,
Brian Klatt, Stu Livensparger, Dan Pearsall, Maxine Pryor, Gary Van
Dorn

B. Recommended Actions

• Approval for Increase in Contract Not-to-Exceed Amount for Smart Card
Program
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
increase the current contract not-to-exceed amount by $1,719,512.81 with
Xerox, Inc. (Formerly ACS Transportation Solutions, Inc.). The total new
contract
not-to-exceed
amount,
for
contract
#
19FH005,
is
$17,381,470.23.
Motion:

Director Sisk made the motion to
move this to the full Board at the
June 25th, 2013 Board meeting.
Director Folska seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager, stated that the action
is to increase the total amount for the contract with
ACS/Xerox. The contract number is 19FH005 which they will
include in the final document to be presented for Board
approval next week. This is required to enable RTD to
increase the scope of the Smart Card project. Some of the
elements are to support and enhance the existing system and
some to grow the system. Staff shared that they have
received comments from customers requesting additional
platform validators to increase customer convenience at the
Light Rail platforms.
This action also includes additional platform validators for the
FasTracks expansion on the East Corridor, Gold Line, etc. It

Packet Pg. 37

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 18, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Jeff Walker

6.C

Director Menten asked if the vendor fees are set amounts or
depend on the grocery chain. Bruce Abel stated that we do
not pay commission to any of our sales outlets. The existing
sales outlets have agreed to work with RTD with regard to the
credit card fees which will be subject to negotiations. Director
Menten asked if that would come to the Board in the future if
it takes place. Bruce stated that it is not associated with this
request. That would be an operating expense of the Smart
Card program as opposed to an element of the contract with
Xerox.
Director Folska asked if we list all the venues where people
can buy the cards. Bruce stated that we do not currently
because the only cards available are the “business-tobusiness” cards (EcoPass and CollegePass). As we move to
the public phase, we will communicate to the public where
they can purchase the public fare media and the locations will
be posted on the website.
Director Deadwyler stated that the recommendation includes
the purchase of an additional Smart Media Encoder for the
redundancy needed. She asked why we need to purchase
extra equipment when technology changes so quickly. She
wonders why we need to purchase that when we might not
need it and the technology might change. Trent Ratcliff,
Senior Manager of IT stated that the Smart Media Coder is a
proprietary piece of technology from Xerox to encode and
encrypt the cards for our riders. We have been able to keep
up with demand for the EcoPass, Neighborhood and
CollegePass programs currently but staff expects that once
the program is rolled out to the general public the demand will
be high enough and we want to be able to get the cards in
people’s hands quickly. Also, if either of the two encoders we
currently own were down we would not able to keep up with
Packet Pg. 38

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 18, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

includes programing enhancements to improve the interface
between the CAD/AVL system and the Smart Card project to
enable single driver logon. This will include programming for
enhancement to the web portal, which is where current
customers (Colleges and businesses) that self-administer the
EcoPass programs come to issue cards, turn cards on/off, etc.
With the next phase, the general public will use the portal to
renew monthly passes, etc. Staff will also acquire new cards
for next year’s issuance and some smaller actions such as
purchasing some software so that we have redundancy.

the demand. Trent stated that the plan is that they would not
purchase the validators in the near future, but the contract not
to exceed amount would allow that when other corridors open
in future years we already have the ability to move forward
with validator purchases. What will most likely happen is that
depending on the year they would get the one with the most
current technology at the time. Director Deadwyler stated
that we are two to three years out on any finish build-out with
the East Line and I-225 and she is wondering why we would
need to purchase it so soon. Bruce stated that they are not
asking for the purchase at this time, they are asking to amend
the contract so that when the contractors come and say they
are ready to do the installation hat staff has the authority to
move forward an execute those purchases. General Manager
Washington stated that it would be at today’s prices. Bruce
stated that the contract includes a formula that talks about
how prices increase overtime with the Producer Price Index
(PPI).
Director Lubow asked if staff has been able to get additional
vendors other than King Soopers and Safeway. She knows
they were thinking of maybe asking Target, Wal-Mart and
some other mass retailers. Bruce stated that they have
reached out to Wal-Mart and Target. Those retailers declined
and they indicated that as national and international vendors
they do not wish to undertake programs that they can do only
in some communities. Bruce stated that we respect their
decision. Staff will continue to reach out to Walgreens
because they have precedence of working with transit
agencies in other communities and they will continue to reach
out to 7-11.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [13 TO 1]
MOVER:
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Barbara Deadwyler
ABSENT:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED to the
Recommended Action

Packet Pg. 39

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 18, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.C

6.C

• Board Report August 2013 Service Changes

Motion:

Director Folska made the motion
to move this to the full Board at
the June 25th, 2013 Board
meeting.
Director Daly seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager stated that this was
discussed with the Board previously. As result of the timing
of the committee meeting and the public meetings they were
not able to distribute the summaries of the public meetings
with the Board Packet that went out last week, but each
Director received today a summary of the comments received
at the public meetings. Jessie Carter will provide a summary
and overview of the changes that have occurred since they
last reviewed this a month ago. During the public comment
they received a number of comments about the 16-16L issue
along Colfax. They have not had adequate opportunity to fully
analyze some of the requests for reinstating the 16L. He
wanted to share that just as they did with the Southeast
Corridor, changes of this magnitude take time to adjust to as
they continue to evaluate the transition of people’s travel
patterns. They will continue to look at the 16L reintroduction
question. If they are able to have something done by next
week’s meeting, they will discuss it at that time. He cannot
promise that will be the case and they might have to come
back to the Board for the January service change with
comments and a recommendation.
Jessie Carter, Service Planning and Scheduling Manager stated
that they had higher than anticipated participation at the public
meetings. They had more people wanting to talk about the
proposed changes than in previous meetings. The City of
Boulder’s meeting was attended by Director Sisk and that was
Packet Pg. 40

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 18, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the proposed August 2013 Service Change
as revised and summarized in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost
increase of $1,108,900 and, further to authorize the General Manager or his
designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators
whose services are impacted by these changes.

6.C

Jessie explained that they are adding to Route 10 service
which is the East 12th Avenue cross town service. They
learned that there are quite a few overloads during the AM
peak so additional trips will be added. They are having some
on-time performance issue on the combination of the route 88
and 89; they are proposing a schedule analysis for that route
with no financial impact. They are proposing changes for the
W line that will allow for more reliable operation during the
early morning hours and there is no anticipated cost attached
to this.
Director Hoy asked about the way the estimated cost is
recorded for the changes. There are various terms and he is
not sure he understands what they mean. Some say $10,300
annualized, some say $6,900, some say week day cost
annualized. Jessie stated that all the cost is annualized. They
sometimes characterize something as a week day changes vs
a weekend day because when you look at weekday hours you
are talking about 255 days annually, when you are looking at
Saturday you are looking at 52 days and Sundays you are
looking at 58. Director Hoy clarified that every dollar is an
annual cost and anything else around that is peripheral to give
the Board an idea if it is a weekday route or a weekend.
Jessie confirmed that is correct.
Director Sisk stated he is concerned about Route 209 and
thanked Director Lubow who also attended the Boulder
meeting. It seems to him that we are being “penny wise and
pound foolish” in terms of not having that service go on to
Adams Circle. It serves a senior assisted living facility and it
does not cost us any extra to do that. He urged RTD to
consider keeping the route as it is and work with the residence
to use our services rather than VIA. That is a direct route to
Packet Pg. 41

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 18, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

the smallest meeting with only 3 participants. The largest
meeting was attended by Director Tobiassen and Director
Folska with 89 participants at Heather Gardens; the big call to
action there was Route 130. At Blake Street during the noon
meeting they had 25 participants wanting to talk about the
Route 16L and 100X and at the later meeting they had 5
participants wanting to speak about the 16L. Another large
meeting was at Clements Center with 69 people and at the
Golden meeting they had 44 participants. While these are not
huge numbers, for our public hearing process these are rather
large numbers.

the Kaiser medical facility. He thinks in terms of the costbenefit it is certainly something we can look at as senior
citizens are people that are less fortunate. He thinks it is a
real slap in their face and he is very disappointed that this has
not been readdressed by RTD. He will vote against this
because he feels this is something that does not put us in
good standing for something that does not cost us any more
money to go on that circle. Jessie stated that this is not a
change they are making for the sake of change. What is
happening is that the left hand turn coming onto 30th Avenue
is a tough turn with traffic in both directions. It was brought
to staff as an operational issue; when they looked at the level
of ridership coming from the senior center they had 5 boarding
per day. That would not meet the standard for the number of
boardings at the risk of turning back on to 30th Avenue.
Jessie stated that he understands Director Sisk’s concern and
can talk to him more about it and the impact to operations.
Director Folska stated that she attended the Heather Gardens
meeting as well. She thanked Jeff Dunning and everybody
that was there as they did an outstanding job. As staff
mentioned there were 89 people there. She appreciates the
adjustments that they made and it is nice that they call it
130H.
Director Daly attended the Golden and Lakewood public
meetings and there were several people protesting the cuts on
Route 17. He knows that we instituted two call-n-Ride buses
in that district. He wonders why the call-n-Ride has not been
able to pick up the slack. Bruce stated that he thinks that at
this time it is an education issue. The service changes have
only been out 6 weeks going on 7 so call-n-Ride is a new
service delivery model in the area. The performance on the
Golden call-n-Ride, especially on the Flex Route which is the
portion of the service area in the times when it operates in
sort of a fix route mode, is very positive. They will continue
to evaluate because Route 17 is one of the most talked about
routes. He also thinks that the recommendations to reinstitute
the 87X, 100X and changes already made to the 116X have
really addressed the majority of the commentary. Jessie also
stated that many of the people in the public hearing were
there representing the Montessori school which is outside the
call-n-Ride area. Their use of the Route 17 was once or twice
year. If they had used the route regularly we would not have
cancelled the route. Director Daly asked how far from the callPacket Pg. 42

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 18, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.C

6.C

n-Ride boundaries they are. Jessie stated that they are
halfway between Applewood Village and 10th and Washington;
it is quite a ways away from the call-n-Ride.

Director Solano asked if the changes to Routes 88 and 89
were due to school ending. Jessie stated that they needed 5
minutes of running time added because the 88 and 89 are
interlined, which means one bus in Route 88 becomes the 89
at Stapleton.
Chair Anderson said she was talking to some folks from
Golden and they think we will need another bus because their
bus was crowded. She asked if that was under consideration.
Jessie stated that if they are talking about route 16 that is
somewhat in consideration; however, the change they are
supporting for the Route 16 addresses the area east of
Wadsworth with the additional service. Chair Anderson also
asked for clarification that they were not cutting services on
the West line. Jessie stated that they are not cutting much of
anything this time around. Chair Anderson asked if her
understanding is correct that they were going to add some
trains at specific times. Jessie stated that they are switching
some times that the trains actually run and when the trains
pull out of the barn. Chair Anderson stated that they did not
have any changes in Arvada.
Director Bagley asked to see on a monthly basis what the
ridership is on the W line. He knows it is not stabilized yet but
he thinks is worthwhile for the Board to understand what the
ridership is on a monthly basis. Bruce stated that from his
point the W is very well ridden but realistic ridership numbers
will probably start in September-October. Director Bagley
stated that even with unrealistic data he would like to see
June, July and August and he knows it will change later.
Director Menten stated that with regard to Director Daly’s
comments on Route 17 to the charter school, she has also
heard from some of the parents. During the meeting they
stated that Jeffco R-1 School District would cover them if
Packet Pg. 43

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 18, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Daly asked Jessie for clarification on the W line
adjustments. He wanted to confirm that it will only be
adjustments, not service cuts. Jessie stated that they are
rearranging some trips a minute here and there; there will be
no service cuts.

6.C

Director Tobiassen thanked Director Folska for attending the
meeting at Heather Gardens. It was a very contentious
meeting, which is good because it got the residents talking
about bus service and what is important to them. It was a
great opportunity for RTD to educate the public. He also
thanked Jeff Dunning and the planning staff for coming up
with a creative solution; it is a very workable compromise and
it makes a lot of people happier even if it doesn’t make
everybody happy. The people really appreciated the info sheet
handed out at the meeting with all the services we provide.
He thinks this is a marketing tool so the people know what
services are available for them and how to use them.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [13 TO 1]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Bruce Daly, Director, District N
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Menten, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Chuck Sisk
ABSENT:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Committee Chair Tobiassen
Recommended Action

declared

the

motion

PASSED

to

the

C. Updates





Special Services 1st Qtr 2013 Report
Customer Complaints Analysis 1st Quarter 2013
Contracted Fixed-Route Quarterly Report – 1st Quarter 2013
Access-a-Ride 1st Quarter 2013 Report
Bruce Abel stated that as part of the agenda for both the Operations and
Customer Service and Financial Administration and Audit Committees there
are quarterly performance reports. In the future they hope to provide these
to the Board as part of the same committee whether that is FA&A or
Operations.
Carolyn Conover, Senior Manager of Contracted Services, stated that for the
first quarter fixed route contractor performance they saw improvements in
all providers’ on-time performance numbers. All of the contractors met goals

Packet Pg. 44

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 18, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

RTD would not cover them. Director Menten called the Jeffco
R-1 and the charter school does not fall under option school
category. She asked them to look at what it would take for R1 to take care of the students; they will take a couple of days
to draft a cost to transport the students. Jeffco currently
charges students to use the buses.

6.C

and she commended Viola for the efforts that they put forth to bring them
up to goals.

Chair Anderson stated that she would like to know the actual count of
people that are not picked up when they call for access-a-Ride. Bruce stated
that they can get the figure of the not answered calls because they do get
reports on a daily and weekly basis of numbers of calls that come in,
average wait time and any calls that are abandoned. They can provide the
abandonment number and rate. Chair Anderson asked what the remedy is
for the persons that have been abandoned. Carolyn asked if she is asking
about customers that call in to access-a-Ride and hang up before the call
gets answered. Chair Anderson stated she is talking about the customers
that call and think they have scheduled a ride but no ride comes. Bruce
stated that they will have to do some research.
Director Bagley asked about South Jeffco call-n-Ride. The boardings per
week day during 2012 were 65 and jumped to about 130 per day. He
wants to know what the explanation is. Brian Mathews stated that number
takes in the whole entire year and we are running at the 130-140 boardings
per day. Director Bagley asked if the number on the 2012 column is an
average. Brian said it could be but it looks a little low. Director Bagley
asked how they feel the call-n-Ride is working after being open for almost a
year now. Brian stated that they met a couple of weeks ago and do have
some changes that they are going to make. They think the flex routes are
not doing the job they should be doing. They are doing some behind the
scenes work to see if they can make them more efficient. Director Bagley
asked if that would be a potential realignment. Brian said that it is correct.
Director Bagley asked if saying that it is stabilized and somewhat better than
we thought it would be is a correct statement. Brian said that would be
correct but it is still a little bit of a challenge. They have 4 vehicles out
there and it is a very large area. The number of complaints has decreased
but he would like to see the number or trips higher; it is not meeting the
minimum standard of three per hour. Director Bagley asked if the issue of
complaints from customers is that we are not receiving them or if the people
might have just fallen away. Brian said that is correct; people find other
alternatives.
Director Bagley noted that with regard to the Highlands Ranch call-n-Ride the
boardings per hour during the weekday have dropped somewhat during the
period he would not have expected. Brian stated that Highlands Ranch calln-Ride is a tough one. They had that call-n-Ride on the to be discontinued
list several times but Douglas County has contributed money to help support
it. The analysis showed they carry a lot of disabled people and at the last
public hearing they had over 40 people show up and said if we cancel they
will get on the access-a-Ride. The cost analysis showed that it would be

Packet Pg. 45

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 18, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Carolyn stated that there are still challenges on the customer complaints
measure. They continue to work with the contractors to try to review what
is driving the increases and work with the operations to try to alleviate some
of the difficulties they are experiencing. For paratransit special services there
was nothing significant to report.

6.C

more cost efficient to just leave the call-n-Ride. Director Bagley asked if
they have one bus or two. Brian stated they have one.

Director Hoy asked about the Federal Heights call-n-Ride. He asked what
the time frame is for that funding. Brian stated that we are on the second
year right now and it is performing better than we thought; we originally
thought that it would be at 1.5 boardings per hour and it is at 2.5. They are
now serving a Wal-Mart out there that has increased boardings. Director
Hoy stated that he will go and talk to those people because he believes it
can meet our standards. He also noted that there are three contiguous calln-Rides and it requires a passenger going from south to north or the other
way around to coordinate three different transportation options to make that
trip. He asked if we can consider consolidating those call-n-Rides that so
that one vehicle can take the passenger the whole trip. Brian stated that it
makes sense and they are meeting with the supervisor of the call-n-Ride to
look at the possibility of combining South and North Thornton into a one
call-n-Ride with two vehicles. That is where the transfer activities are
happening. They cannot include Federal Heights at this point because it is
grant funded and it is not meeting minimum standards so it would not be a
wise decision. Director Hoy stated that we would probably not have a way
to monitor its performance if it got combined with the other ones. Director
Hoy also asked if there is a formula for a group to put in money to keep an
underperforming call-n-Ride or if it is negotiated. Brian it is usually
negotiated. Bruce stated the generally the formula is that if they kick in
100% of the cost we will consider continuing it.
Director Hoy stated that we had a snafu with the Broomfield call-n-Ride and
the 128 connection. Brian stated he has not heard anything about that.
Director Folska asked who the contractor is that does the paratransit or
access-a-Ride call center. Carolyn stated that it is First Transit. Director
Folska stated that she uses them sometimes and finds it unusual that they
don’t know where our light rail stations are. If she calls and tells them that
she wants to go to Southmore light rail station they ask for an exact
address. She would like to see them improve their ability to find a location
and be more flexible. Larry Butter, Manager of Paratransit Services stated
that there are a lot of landmarks that can be programed into the route map
system; unfortunately right now the reservationist must enter a physical
address into the system for it to schedule the trip. The problem they’ve had
in the past is that by making it a manual element it leads to errors so they
ask passengers to provide the addresses. They are attempting to come up
with addresses for park-n-rides and rail stations but they end up being
literally pieces of paper on a person’s desk that they refer to when a person
calls to schedule a trip. If it gets out of control they could end up with a
500 pages book that would lengthen the amount of processing time.
Director Folska stated that they should at least have our addresses. Larry

Packet Pg. 46

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 18, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Bruce stated that going back to the South Jeffco call-n-Ride the number for
2012 is an average. The math could be that it started off very low so
moving from 30 to 90 would just be an average of 45.

6.C

stated that they are working on that right now and should be available
within the next 10 days.

Director Tobiassen asked about the access-a-Ride monitoring review 2013
1st Quarter; the numbers are all over the place. Carolyn stated that it is the
internal audit report; staff goes out and audits the private contractors
periodically. Some of them don’t have any data yet which means that the
staff has not gone out in that area. Director Tobiassen asked what the 25%
okay means. Carolyn explained that staff did see some errors in the files. A
letter was issued to the contractor to fix the errors. Staff will go back to
check at a later date. Ideally we would see 100%. Director Tobiassen
asked how long VIA has been on board with RTD. Bruce stated that VIA is
the new name for Special Transit and have been with us since the advent of
the program.

• 1st Quarter 2013 Security Statistics & Fare Inspection Summary
Chief John Tarbert stated that the report can be found in the June 18th,
2013 Operations and Customer Service Agenda Packet.
Director Lubow stated that it looked to her like when they were plain clothes
fare enforcers the evasions statistics were consistently higher than if it was
just a regular sweep. Chief Tarbert stated that the police officers are the
only ones working in plain clothes; if a uniform gets on a car the fare
evaders get off or do not get on. They don’t know who the plain clothes
details are until the doors close and the badges come out. Director Lubow
stated that it seems to be more accurate.
Director Tobiassen commented that he has been riding the 15. He was on
the H line this past Saturday and the Aurora cops are in the buses and travel
in uniform. The response from the community has been very positive. They
might not be doing much in the fare checking business, but giving people a
sense of wellbeing and security in the buses and rail.
John Tarbert commented that a Lakewood officer in plain clothes was
standing on a platform and a suspect walked up and tagged the platform; he
was arrested and over the radio the police officer stated “I’m transporting
this gentleman to Jeffco County Jail on light rail”.
Director Menten asked for an update from the Lamar incident. Chief Tarbert
stated that it did not occur on the RTD property; it was on the city street,

Packet Pg. 47

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 18, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Lasater mentioned to the other Directors that when they are talking
to their municipalities, one of the things that Parker did was take it upon
themselves to advertise in their local community newspaper and newsletter
and during the summer months they took on the fare cost for their riders
which were the slower time of the year. It didn’t cost much but it
substantially increased ridership. You might want to talk to other mayors
and council members.

6.C

and the boyfriend ran to the light rail platform to the emergency phone.
Director Menten asked how far away was from the platform. Chief Tarbert
stated that it was several hundred feet.

Director Daly requested an update about the information he requested with regard
to extending the West Line to downtown. He stated that he is not recommending
it; these are questions he has heard from different sources. Bruce Abel stated that
he and Austin Jenkins talked about that and there are actually several questions
that were brought up. One is the access of the West Corridor to downtown (16th
and Stout/California) and the other one was the comment of express, skip stop
service. He stated that we do not have the physical infrastructure for a West
corridor train to come into downtown. It would require additional tracks to be
constructed to actually access downtown when that is defined as coming in to
Stout/California and circulating to downtown. Director Daly asked if that means
there is not enough room. Bruce stated that there is no track that provides the
pathway; there would have to be separate connections built between what’s
currently the West corridor track and the track that serves downtown. Nor from a
capacity prospective do we have the ability to add additional trains downtown.
The old analogy “you can’t put six quarts into a gallon jug” applies here. We have
certain capacity through the central corridor with the signal system set at every
two and half minutes in 60 minutes; that means that you can put 24 trains going
through. You can’t put the extra vehicles through there even if we had the track.
With regard to skipping stops to run express on the West corridor, our signal
system is not currently set up to allow trains to skip stations; therefore when we
stop at a station it has to go through the signal cycle with the gates closing and
opening on the at grade crossing. So in the current signal system we do not have
the capacity to run express services and it would not be an insignificant
expenditure to rework the signal system. Director Daly thanked Bruce and stated
that he hopes the involved parties will be able to hear that.
GM Washington mentioned that he has directed the staff to create a fare taskforce
to look at our fare structure, fare media and all aspects of our fare including the
zones. They will also look at best practices around the country. They see this to
be a taskforce made up of every component of the agency. They envision going
out with public hearings when the review is complete and will bring it to the Board.
They think the taskforce will last at least six months. They will put together the
charter and keep the Board informed.
Director Menten asked if the taskforce would be just staff. GM Washington stated
that they will start with staff from each internal department, then go out for public
input. They would bring the final report to the Board. Director Menten stated that
she would be interested in knowing what notification process we will use to inform
the public that we are having hearings. GM Washington stated that they will do
Twitter, Facebook and regular old people’s communications.
Director Walker stated that it is timely as he has received some questions about the
fare structure. Especially as we open a new line, there will be a lot more questions
about this. Bruce stated that this is particular timely as we look forward to

Packet Pg. 48

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 18, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

D. Other Matters

6.C

introduce the new lines, especially going out the airport with its own special fare
structure.

E. Next Meeting Date - July 9, 2013
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 49

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 18, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 6:38 p.m. to the Civil Rights
Committee meeting.

6.D

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 18, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

MINUTES
Civil Rights Committee
Tuesday, June 18, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Civil Rights Committee
Chaired by Barbara Deadwyler

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Deadwyler called the meeting to order at 6:41 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
6:39 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

6:42 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Committee Co-Chair

Present
Present

6:38 PM
6:40 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

6:41 PM
6:41 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

6:42 PM
6:42 PM
6:39 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

6:47 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Committee Co-Chair

Absent

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

6:42 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

6:42 PM

Packet Pg. 50

6.D

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

6:41 PM
6:40 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke,
Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Sherry Ellebracht, Eric Farrington,
Mike Gil, Kenn Hardin, Terry Howerter, Erin Klaas, Doug Macleod,
Brian Matthews, Robin McIntosh, Jr., Barbara McManus, Paula
Perdue, Trent Ratcliff, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Cal Shankster,
Zamy Silva, Greg Smith, John Tarbert, Mark Tieman

Others Present:

Ed Bush, William Carter, Martell Dyles, Jennifer Eckert, Doug Gragg,
Stan Gronek, Sherman Hamilton, Douglas Howey, Gregory Jenifer,
Brian Klatt, Stu Livensparger, Dan Pearsall, Maxine Pryor, Gary Van
Dorn

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

 Civil Rights Division Update
o

Introduction of Civil Rights Interns
Ken Hardin stated that they have been staffing up in the division. He
introduced Zamy Silva as the new Small Business Office Manager. She
comes from the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority out of
Boston; she was a Compliance Officer there and Specialist in
certification. Zamy stated that she is excited to be here; she has heard
that RTD has an exceptional program. She is committed to the Small
Business and DBE program. Zamy stated she will make it a priority to
learn everything that she can and continue the excellent work already in
place.
Ken introduced the two interns that will be working in his department.
Brian Klatt is from the Colorado School of Mines; he is studying Civil
Engineering with an emphasis on structural transportation and
infrastructure. He is working on a special project for RTD putting
together some DBE pieces to focus on what we can do to put DBE in the
right place and be very careful with regards to our goals. The other inter
is William Carter with the University of New Mexico. He runs track and
comes through the Conference of Minority Transportation Officials
organization. His special program this summer will be helping us with
our PRISM software. This is the DBE compliance software and they
expect to have good reports out of the software.

o

Small Business Office North Metro Rail DBE/SBE Update
Kenn stated that the update is in the packet. The North Metro is coming
on board and on May 7 they held an outreach meeting with the project

Packet Pg. 51

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 18, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

managers for the project. They had over 240 small businesses attend
the event. It included professional services, construction and other
consulting companies looking for an opportunity on that project. They
expect to release the RFP on July 1st; they are working very hard to put
the requirements together. The pre-bid meeting has been moved to July
8th. They will put on the calendar for the Board. It will be at the Denver
Post Building from 9:00AM-11:00AM. They are planning a DBEAC in
preparation for the North Metro. They are excited about the North Line
opening. They have invited the contractors bidding for the project to
come and listen to the community and hear their thoughts about what
has happened before with RTD projects and what they would like to see
in their proposal with regard to how they think might be a better
opportunity for them on the contract. They want to give suggestions.
Kenn explained that some SBEs think that some of the open houses
should be more concentrated and have an open house just for
professional services vs having an open house where everyone is there.
This way the SBE/DBEs can have their questions answered better. This
has never been done before and staff thinks that it might give an
opportunity for people to think outside of the box and be more creative.
They expect a very good proposal with a lot of opportunity for the
SBE/DBE community.
o

ADA Program Update
Kenn stated that they are working diligently towards putting together an
ADA program and the information is in the packet. This is very complex;
they have ADA programs throughout the District; fixed route, rail,
access-a-Ride and call-n-Ride all do pieces of ADA. It is amazing what
RTD does for the ADA community. There are so many parts and pieces
that happen on a regular basis. He is finalizing the assessment of what
is going on throughout the District and will have the report for the next
meeting in August. We go out to schools and show students with
disabilities how to utilize our services. People with wheel chairs can call
us and we go out to teach them how to use those chairs in our fixed
route systems. People can call and we visit organizations and teach
them how to use their service animals and help them feel comfortable on
the buses. Kenn stated that they are working with a number of
committees that are listed in his report. This is a very large organization
and the number of things we do is amazing but it is just a matter of
coordinating it. They are working diligently to figure out how best to
coordinate these efforts.
Director Folska stated that when she became an SBE there was no place
in the application form for a SBE or DBE. SBE is Small Business
Enterprise and DBE is Disadvantage Business Enterprise. She asked if
they can provide the number of the SBEs that are in system and that are
owned by people with disabilities. Kenn stated that at this point they
have not done a survey with regard to disabled business owners. Kenn
thinks the number would be fairly small. He is familiar with two
companies that attend the meetings regularly; one is a painting company
the other one is a construction company. Director Folska stated that it
would be good if there was a line that was optional for people to disclose

Packet Pg. 52

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 18, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.D

6.D

GM Washington stated that one of the things they will do is to check
with our legal department to see what kind of vulnerability we would
have if that disabled contract did not get a contract. GM Washington
also mentioned that on the DBE piece, he believes that there is a disable
veteran box that they can check. There is also a percentage rating on
disability that gives some advantages and that is VA determined. Zamy
stated that with the DBE application itself, they have to be very careful
because the federal government gives us the application the way it is
and it is based on social and economic disadvantages. If someone is not
a minority or a woman that fall into that category of social and economic
disadvantage, they have to prove how they are disadvantaged. Director
Folska stated that the Department of Labor and President Obama have
stated that anybody receiving federal funding, and especially any
government agency, needs to make hiring people with disabilities a
priority. They are not looking for a large number, about 2-3%. As she
has said before, in order for them to count they need to be counted.
Director Sisk applauds Kenn and the group for the think tank. He
suggests putting it on a DVD and distributing it for people that might not
be able to attend. Kenn said we can put it on Facebook. Director Sisk
also suggested having people that have been successful working with
RTD to come and share their ideas.
Director Deadwyler stated that she attended the North Metro outreach
event with Directors Hoy and Lubow. She thanked Kenn and the staff
because it was very well organized and attended. The message for both
the prime contractor and DBEs was very stern and clear on what the
expectations are.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - August 13, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Co-Chair Deadwyler adjourned the meeting at 7:03 p.m. to the Financial
Administration and Audit Committee.

Packet Pg. 53

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 18, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

that they are a SBE/DBE operated by a person with disability and the
type of disability too. She mentions this because RTD has a third party
in Minnesota that sends out the job opportunities, so now they have to
go through this place in Minnesota and pay $10.00 for the privilege of
printing it. It is not even accessible. She finds this is an opportunity to
improve the process and make it available for people with disabilities.
She also encourages actively recruiting business that are owned by
people with disabilities. Kenn stated that they are making some changes
in the SBE application. The DBE however, is a federal application and we
don’t control. He will bring this up with his DBE counterparts.

6.D

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 18, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 54

6.E

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 18, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit
Tuesday, June 18, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Jeff Walker

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Walker called the meeting to order at 7:10 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
7:03 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

7:10 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Away

7:05 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

7:04 PM
7:08 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Vice Chair
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

7:03 PM
7:03 PM
7:10 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

7:05 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Absent

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

7:04 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

7:04 PM

Packet Pg. 55

6.E

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Chair

Present
Present

7:10 PM
7:03 PM

B. Recommended Actions
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors adopt Resolution No. ___, Series of 2013 to amend
and appropriate funds for the proposed 2013 Amended Budget, to increase
the appropriation by $13.302 million to $1,584.563 million as detailed
below in the overview of the 2013 Amended Budget, and to decrease the
appropriation of Capital Carryforward (previously approved capital funds) by
$247.879 million to $1,003.434 million due to primarily planned
expenditures.
1) The 2013 Amended Budget appropriation includes the amounts in the
Amended Budget column below (in thousands), which is a summary of
relevant data from Exhibit I.

Packet Pg. 56

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 18, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

• Approval of 2013 Amended Budget

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 18, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.E

Packet Pg. 57

6.E

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 18, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

2) The 2013 Amended Budget also includes operating revenue and nonoperating revenue which are estimated, not appropriated, below (in
thousands), which is a summary of relevant data from Exhibit I.

Packet Pg. 58

Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion
to move this item to the full Board
at the June 25, 2013 Board
meeting.
Director Solano seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Terry Howerter began by apologizing for any confusion caused
by the updated Board Report that was sent out on Monday.
He explained that staff did find an error in their calculations
that they wanted to repair. Terry Howerter stated that it is a
fairly small amendment this year. He said that staff would be
happy to get together with any Board members that would like
to meet separately to discuss the Amended Budget. There are
a lot of numbers and Jannette Scarpino will just hit on the
highlights.
Jannette Scarpino explained that the 2013 Adopted Budget
was approved in November of 2012. She said that about midyear staff amends the budget to account for changes that they
are aware of. She stated that in August staff will start to
work on the 2014 Budget.
Jannette Scarpino stated that the gross change is an increase
in the appropriation of $13.302 million which is historically a
small amount. She also explained that the revenue is not
appropriated but estimated.
Jannette Scarpino noted that the true increase to operating
expenses is less than 1% net of previously approved transfers,
the FISA contribution, and one-time expenses. She stated
that in FasTracks Projects the operating expenses are up about
4% largely due to one-time expense projects; in FasTracks

Packet Pg. 59

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 18, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.E

6.E

Jannette Scarpino said that we expect a decrease of $15.7
million in new capital that is detailed in Attachment B. She
stated that we are seeing a decrease of $20.7 million in
FasTracks new capital that is mainly from the Commuter Rail
Maintenance Facility and project management and
administration. In Base we are seeing an increase of $5.0
million that is mainly from our funding of the SmartCards.
Jannette Scarpino explained that capital carryforward are
projects that were not completed in previous years and are
carried forward to the following year. The carryforward
balance has been updated to reflect December 31, 2012
actuals. The capital carryforward will decrease $247.9
million. She stated that this is detailed in Attachment C.
Jannette Scarpino shared that Sales and Use Tax revenues are
projected to decrease $8.8 million based on the CU-Leeds
School of Business June forecast of 3.7% versus 4.2% in the
Adopted Budget. She stated that this is up from the last
forecast of 2.5% but still down from the Adopted Budget.
She explained that this is offset by an increase in grant
revenue of $22.8 million. She said that fare revenue is
expected to be flat with no change over the Adopted Budget.
Jannette Scarpino stated that staff is forecasting an
Unrestricted Year-End Fund Balance to decrease $7.8 million
to $23 million largely due to year-end accruals. She said that
the amount of $23 million is actually flat to our actual amount
of 2012 which is not a bad position to be in. She also said
that staff will continue to build the Board Appropriated and
Capital Replacement funds.
Director Bagley noted that the FasTracks Construction Reserve
was considerably reduced from the original Board Packet that
was sent on Friday. Terry Howerter explained that the two
changes that were made on Monday were related to a
reduction of about $57 million in the FasTracks Capital and
FasTracks New Capital. He believes that is the reduction that
Director Bagley noted.

Packet Pg. 60

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 18, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Operations (West Line) costs are down $2.3 million due to our
cost allocation methodology. She referred the Board to the
summary in the Board Report and Attachment A for further
details.

6.E

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 2]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Paul Solano, Director, District K
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Sisk, Solano,
Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Claudia Folska, Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede
AWAY:
Barbara Deadwyler

C. Updates

• 2014-2019 Strategic Budget Plan Update
Terry Howerter stated that staff has brought the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP)
to the Board for review several times. He said there is good news in this
updated. Jannette Scarpino reiterated that this was just a review of the SBP
and not a request for adoption.
Jannette Scarpino reviewed a Power Point presentation with the Board that
can be found in the June 18, 2013 Operations and Customer Service
Agenda Packet. She said that since the presentation of the first draft we
have received an update from CU-Leeds for the Sales and Use Tax
projections. The SBP has been revised to reflect 3.7% growth versus 2.5%.
Janette Scarpino explained that CU is attributing the increase to a strong
growth in personal income and employment growth exceeding the national
average. She reviewed the reduced, eliminated and deferred projects with
the Board that helped balance the SBP. She explained that the initial project
requests totaled over $500 million but this has been reduced to around
$369 million. Janette Scarpino stated that the concern is that projects may
become more critical the longer they are postponed; the hope is that if sales
tax improves or we have an excess fund balance at year-end we can bring
some of the deferred projects back. She said that the SBP continues to
contribute to the Board Appropriated and Capital Replacement funds at the
rate of $3 million to each fund each year. She highlighted that the bottom
line is now positive over the six year period. Jannette Scarpino said that as
she said in the beginning this in just an update. The final SBP will be
brought to the Board for approval in July. She shared that between now
and then staff will continue to refine their assumptions.
Terry Howerter asked Jannette Scarpino to expand on the expense project
and capital projects that went into the $369 million in the SBP. She
explained that expense projects are projects that are expensed through the
income statement. These are usually repair and maintenance type projects.

Packet Pg. 61

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 18, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Chair Walker declared the motion PASSED.

6.E

Director Folska noted that Jannette Scarpino mentioned there was $3.8
million being paid in bonuses. She asked for clarification on this item.
Janette Scarpino said that in the amended budget there is $3.8 million in
bonuses recorded as part of the collective bargaining agreement. General
Manager Washington explained that this was part of the 5-year contract that
was negotiated with the ATU. These bonuses were approved by the Board
when the contract was approved. He said that the term bonus might throw
people off. It is really a one-time payment.
Director Folska asked if CU-Leeds was factoring in the increase in sales tax
revenue from the sales tax parity that passed. Jannette Scarpino stated that
they would be taking that into account starting January 1, 2014 when the
parity takes effect.
Director Bagley commented that what staff does in relation to RTD’s
amended budget, adopted budget and the SBP is one of the most important
things that the Board has to review. He said that it is very intricate as the
Board has seen. Director Bagley noted that the Board cannot necessarily
follow every little aspect of what staff is talking about so he suggested that
if anyone wants greater clarification they should meet with Terry Howerter
and his staff. He said the conversations he has had with staff have been
very purposeful conversations. Director Bagley thanked staff for what they
do for the agency.
Director Bagley also commented how the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force is
a component of what happens to the budget. He mentioned in the General
Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee that it would
be great if in the fall RTD could revisit with those partners to discuss the
positive things RTD has done, where RTD is today, and what steps RTD
needs to take in the future.
Director Daly asked for clarification on what the FT Service Increase was on
page 10 of the Power Point presentation. Jannette Scarpino explained that
was the rubber tire service.
Director James thanked Director Bagley for bringing up the Fiscal
Sustainability Task Force. He said that he met with Terry Howerter just this
week to talk about it. Terry Howerter stated that staff will give the Board
an update as to where we are with the Task Force’s recommendations
shortly.
Packet Pg. 62

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 18, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

She stated that capital projects are projects that are usually $5,000 or
greater in amount. An asset is created on the balance sheet for capital
projects. Terry Howerter stated that out of $500 million in requests staff
brought in $369 million to the SBP.

6.E

• First Quarter 2013 Performance Measures

Director Lubow asked for further information on Goal 6.2, District ridership
goal. She understands that we did not meet our goal due to Leap Year but
she noted some was due to local routes declining. She asked staff to
elaborate. Terry Howerter said that Doug MacLeod would touch on it more
in the Monthly Status Report but the decrease is fairly small.

• April 2013 Monthly Financial Status Report
Doug MacLeod noted that the dashboard shows red again for the month and
year-to-date ridership numbers. He said that the good news is that looking
at the month of April we were down 0.5% whereas for March we had been
down 4.5%; year-to-date we are down 2.7%. Doug MacLeod explained
that about 0.7% can be attributed to Leap Year but that still leaves a 2%
decrease. He said that light rail is the biggest driver of the decrease. He
shared that the APTA article related to a decrease in ridership nationally
mentioned that in the first quarter of 2012 there was a big spike in the cost
of gas. This year the cost has normalized so we have seen ridership
decrease as more people are driving again.
Doug MacLeod highlighted that we had a good month for fare revenue. We
are up 6.5% for the month and 2.2% year-to-date. He explained that the
biggest driver of this increase is our pass revenue as this is about 60% of
our fare revenue. He stated that there has been an increase in Eco and
College Passes. Doug MacLeod also explained that there has been a shift in
the passes many of our federal employees have been purchasing. These
employees have been switching to the Flex Passes and in doing so we have
seen an increase in fare revenue.
Doug MacLeod stated that we did not have a good month for Sales and Use
Tax. This is the first month that we have been negative versus last year but
overall we are up 1.2% for the year.
Director Folska asked for an explanation of the difference between the
EcoPass and FlexPass. Doug MacLeod explained that EcoPasses are
purchased by the employer and FlexPasses are paid for by employees
through payroll deductions. He said one of the reasons the federal agencies

Packet Pg. 63

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 18, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Terry Howerter stated that the report is available in the June 18, 3013
Financial Administration and Audit Committee Agenda Packet. Jannette
Scarpino highlighted that on-time performance has improved in all categories
for all carriers. She believes the focus on runboards and problem routes has
really been having a positive effect.

6.E

are moving toward FlexPasses is because they want to be able to offer an
entire benefits package to their employees. Doug MacLeod stated that we
also have monthly passes and annual passes. Bruce Abel explained that the
annual pass program is essentially buying 11 monthly passes and getting the
12th free. He stated that the Eco and Flex pass programs are business-tobusiness programs while the annual and monthly passes are business-toindividual.

Director Bagley noted a correction that needed to be made on ridership
section of the report that should read 2013 Actual versus Budget instead of
2012. Staff stated they would make the correction. Director Bagley
believes it is very important to understand what our actual is right now
versus what our budget is. It is nice to look back but it is also very
important to look at where we are right now. He pointed out that fare
revenue versus budget is up considerably and Sales and Use Tax is down.
He thinks there are some reasons that we may not fully understand like
sequestration, Social Security, gas prices, etc. Director Bagley believes it
may be worthwhile for CU-Leeds to come back to share with the Board more
about what goes into their predictions than just the numbers. General
Manager Washington said that staff would set that up.
Director James said that he is excited to see the study that General Manager
Washington discussed in the Operations and Customer Service Committee
Meeting (June 18, 2013). He said that in thinking about this study the word
simplification came to mind. Director James noted that a committee was
formed regarding RTD’s pass programs. He believes it is dormant now but
not gone. Director James thinks it would be worthwhile for the committee
to be revived to review the Smart Card program. General Manager
Washington stated that one of the main objectives and reasons to move to
Smart Cards is to track utilization so that we can right price our fares. This
data will be collected over 6 to 12 months so we can see what the right
prices, especially for the EcoPasses, should be. He believes that the Task
Force will provide a much more comprehensive look at Smart Cards than just
the data we are collecting so it will be more suited for the review than the
Pass Committee.
Director Sisk noted that there are some intrinsic factors that go into
ridership, one of which is gas prices. He stated that with gas prices
stabilizing we lose some riders but what we may lose in fare revenue we
also gain back in what we are saving on fuel.

Packet Pg. 64

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 18, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Menten asked which federal agencies had moved to the FlexPasses.
Doug stated that it is the IRS, TSA and Federal Center Employees.

6.E

Director Hoy said that if ridership decreases by 2-3% that does not mean
our fuel costs will decrease by 2-3%. An MCI bus traveling with 49 people
versus 50 uses the same amount of fuel.
Committee Chair Walker shared that he has been thinking about the many
Baby Boomers. Many of that generation are starting to retire, work part
time, etc. and that could be having an effect on ridership.

D. Other Matters
Director Bagley stated that in the last General Manager’s report there was a
discussion of the Southeast Corridor Station Improvements that were done by the
Southeast TMA involved with the Denver South Economic Development Council.
He highlighted that it was important to note that the money for this project was not
RTD money; this money was from a grant that TMA got from CDOT. He said that
everyone wants greater weather protection but if you want it, you have to step-up
to pay for it. This is a great example of a community contributing to the
betterment of RTD facilities in their District.
Director Bagley shared that he and a number of staff went to a Stationary Master
Plan Meeting in Highlands Ranch about the Southwest Extension final station. He
through the meeting went well; he made some comments that were well received.
Director Bagley said that there were five Directors (Bagley, Hoy, Lubow, Sisk and
Anderson) that attended the Northwest Area Mobility Study discussion. He said it
was very interesting to attend and listen to the comments that were made.
Director Bagley also stated that RTD has a heck of a lot going on and he thinks we
are doing a great job.
Director Lasater feels that being asked to vote on the I-225 Rail Alignment that was
presented at the June 11, 2013 FasTracks Committee Meeting is not the way the
Board should operate. He knows in municipal government they never operated that
way. He stated that research takes time on all people’s part, especially for Board
members, and not every Board member has the luxury of being retired and free time
all the time. Director Lasater also stated that the University of Colorado (CU) or the
Fitzsimons Redevelopment Authority (FRA) does not have time to address concerns
about having a concrete transportation plan in place prior to the Board Meeting of
June 25, 2013. He believes the builder should be talented enough to do what two

Packet Pg. 65

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 18, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Folska asked if staff conducts a means test of people who buy
passes. She noted that it seems some people are not getting the same
benefits of individuals who are employed. If you are an individual and want
to buy a pass you are going to pay more. Bruce Abel explained that we
work with social service agencies to do the testing. He stated that RTD
does not want to be involved in means testing. Bruce Abel said that the
discount fare pass programs offered through the social service agencies are
going to offer the deepest discount.

6.E

railroads did a century and a half ago and that was build across the country and
meet successfully in Wyoming. Director Lasater stated that failure to plan does not
necessitate haste on the part of the Board. He thinks the Board is being rushed
into a decision. Director Lasater encouraged the Board to vote no on the I-225 Rail
Alignment when the Board does not have all the facts. He believes there are too
many things left up in the air and does not think that is the way the Board should
be acting in the fiduciary capacity that the Board has been elected to do.
General Manager Washington announced that RTD has hired a new manager of
internal audit. She is due to start July 1st and staff will introduce her to the Board
sometime in early July.

F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Walker adjourned the meeting at 8:12 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 66

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 18, 2013 7:30 PM (Committee Reports)

E. Next Meeting Date - July 09,2013

Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

6.F

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
June 20, 2013 at 12:00 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Anderson called the meeting to order at 12:00 p.m. In attendance were: Chair
Anderson, First vice-chair Bagley, Second vice-chair Hoy, Secretary Daly and Treasurer
Walker.
Other Board members in attendance:
Director Menten (arrived late)
Others in Attendance: Assistant General Manager Abel filling in for General Manager
Washington, Assistant General Manager Reed, Paula Perdue

II.
III.

Recommended Action: State Legislative Liaison Services Contract
State Legislative Liaison Services Contract
It is recommended by the Regional Transportation District’s Executive Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into Contract No. 13DX001
with Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs, which is an agreement for state legislative
liaison services for one year (July 1, 2013 through June 30, 2014) at a cost of $107,000
and four (4) additional one-year options to renew at prices specified in the Contract, each
option period contingent upon approval by the Board of Directors.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve the state
legislative liaison services contract.
Director Daly seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Hoy inquired about how competitive is BrandeberryMcKenna. There was general agreement that their value
exceeds the cost. Scott Reed shared their cost is highly
competitive which is the reason that many competitors elect
not to bid.

Packet Pg. 67

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 20, 2013 2:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

6.F

Vote on Motion:

The motion passed five in favor and 0 against.
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.

June Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Anderson presented this agenda and asked AGM Bruce Abel to comment on it.

Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move the agenda
forward as amended to include the state legislative
liaison service contract and the revision to add route
16L to the August service changes to the full Board for
approval on June 25, 2013.
Director Hoy seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Chair Anderson shared that we had invited the Sound
Wave Signing Choir to our Board meeting to share their
artistic gift and as a way to relax the meeting.
Bruce Abel shared that we expect CU President Bruce
Benson and Honorable Mayor Hogan to the Board
meeting. They have asked to present first due to
another engagement.
Director Daly apologized for his no vote to the I-225
alignment amendment at the committee meeting. He
will be a yes vote for this action item.
Pertaining to the action item, approval of I-225
alignment changes, Director Hoy read off what was his
understanding of what CU president will say at the
meeting. This had some specific language from CU to
commit to a shuttle and at no cost to RTD. Director
Hoy raised the question if we should make an
amendment to the Board report to reflect the specificity
of the language that CU president will state.

Packet Pg. 68

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 20, 2013 2:00 PM (Committee Reports)

III.

Lots of conversation occurred around this question.
Director Hoy further clarified his concerns to say the
language in the Board report says, “All changes will be
made within the originally approved I-225 project
budget.” He would like to see budget changed to say
contract. The concern is if this alignment change
results in use of the contingency fund, this is not
acceptable. There needs to be a responsible use of the
taxpayers fund and RTD should not incur an additional
cost because of this alignment change. He believes
there are others who would be more comfortable if this
language was tightened up.
Director Bagley noted there are other costs and
language that are part of the contract that we may
know nothing about. The original contract did not have
a parking structure or shuttle. He asked Director Hoy if
he was concerned about some of the other changes.
Hoy stated his concerns were with the shuttle and any
increase in cost associated with this alignment change.
Director Walker stated that in any construction
projects, you really do not know what you are in for
until you start digging. Contingency funds are there to
cover the unexpected and there is no way we can
control for that. Any obstacle along the way including
a fallen star or anything could throw a monkey wrench
in our estimated costs.
Chair Anderson concurred with this statement that all
construction projects have contingencies to take care
of the unexpected. When you dig into dirt, you have
no idea what you can find. An example is on the West
Corridor when we made that archaeological skeleton
find. This was a good find but could have easily
caused us more delay and costs.
Scott Reed stated staff believes CU is giving us a clear
commitment that this alignment change will not affect
budget. He is unaware if staff can say it will not

Packet Pg. 69

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 20, 2013 2:00 PM (Committee Reports)

6.F

6.F

impact the Kiewit contract. However, it will remain
within the budget for the I-225 corridor.

Director Walker stated that at the Board meeting
Director Hoy could make that motion to amend it to
include this specific language.
Director Bagley stated that for the record, he could not
vote for such an amendment to add contract to this for
reasons stated.
Chair Anderson expressed a concern also. She
recommended that Director Hoy visit with the legal
department about making a motion to add contact to
this. The reason is contract has so many other
elements to it that she is not sure what the ratifications
could be. She stated to Director Hoy that perhaps if he
is having heartburn with the use of the contingencies,
he might need to take some antacid. Contingencies are
part of any construction contract.
Pertaining to the August 2013 Service changes, Bruce
Abel shared that staff has been actively engaged with
the West corridor community on the 16L. They had
received a large number of petitions from riders on this
route. He provided a brief background of the route
change; Route 16 used to run from downtown to the
Federal Center; Route 16L ran from downtown to
Golden with select stops along the way; with the
changes implemented in April, route 16L went away
and route 16 was extended into Golden. They have
met with the 9-5 advocacy group representative Zoe,
Directors Menten and Rivera-Malpiede. They believe
they have struck a compromise that is doable and these
groups can agree. They will reinstate the 16L; they will
terminate the 16 at the Federal Center; on weekends

Packet Pg. 70

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 20, 2013 2:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Bagley asked Director Hoy if he was concerned
about the parking structure. Director Hoy stated no.
Director Bagley suggested just have CU to put their
commitment into a letter that they will fund the shuttle.

6.F

Director Menten commented both the 9 to 5 group and
the physically disabled had been affected by the
proposed changes; she believes the new change will
address both of their concerns. She also stated they
will plan to cancel their press conference they had
scheduled prior to the Board meeting.
Director Bagley asked Bruce Abel for assurances this
will not have a budgetary impact. Bruce Abel indicated
they are working the numbers but do not anticipate any
significant change. It should be a wash.
Chair Anderson thanked Director Menten for all her
hard work on this and in factoring a solution.
Vote on
Motion:

The committee voted on the motion to move the June
Board meeting agenda to the full Board as amended.
There were five in favor and 0 against.
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.

A.

Approval of 2013 Amended Budget

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt Resolution No. ___, Series of 2013 to amend and appropriate funds for the
proposed 2013 Amended Budget, to increase the appropriation by $13.302 million to
$1,584.563 million as detailed below in the overview of the 2013 Amended Budget, and
to decrease the appropriation of Capital Carryforward (previously approved capital funds)
by $247.879 million to $1,003.434 million due to primarily planned expenditures.
1) The 2013 Amended Budget appropriation includes the amounts in the Amended Budget
column below (in thousands), which is a summary of relevant data from Exhibit I.

Packet Pg. 71

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 20, 2013 2:00 PM (Committee Reports)

and at night, the 16 will extend into Golden. They
believe they can affect these changes with minimal or
no additional costs in terms of budget impacts. Bruce
Abel stated that Zoe felt this could be a win and
instead of having busloads of people on Tuesday to
testify against the changes, she will be here to
represent the group with a thank you for this
consideration.

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 20, 2013 2:00 PM (Committee Reports)

6.F

Packet Pg. 72

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 20, 2013 2:00 PM (Committee Reports)

6.F

2) The 2013 Amended Budget also includes operating revenue and non-operating
revenue which are estimated, not appropriated, below (in thousands), which is a
summary of relevant data from Exhibit I.

Packet Pg. 73

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 20, 2013 2:00 PM (Committee Reports)

6.F

Packet Pg. 74



Unanimous Consent
B. North Metro Segment 2, Phase 1 Commuter Rail Project Property Acquisition
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
pass the attached property acquisition resolution certifying properties as necessary for
construction of the North Metro Segment 2 (Stock Show to 72nd Avenue), Phase 1
Commuter Rail Project and authorize staff to proceed with all requisite legal process
under state eminent domain law and to provide the General Manager or designee with
authority to enter into all contracts necessary to consummate real property
transactions.
C. Easement for Brainard Drive Relocation Project
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to convey a non-exclusive drainage easement over 10,881 square feet
(0.249 acres), more or less in Section 28, Township 1 South, Range 69 West, City and
County of Broomfield, State of Colorado.
D. State Legislative Liaison Services Contract
It is recommended by the Regional Transportation District’s Executive Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into Contract No.
13DX001 with Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs, which is an agreement for state
legislative liaison services for one year (July 1, 2013 through June 30, 2014) at a cost
of $107,000 and four (4) additional one-year options to renew at prices specified in
the Contract, each option period contingent upon approval by the Board of Directors.



VI. Recommended Actions
E. Approval of I-225 Alignment Changes
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
approve a change in alignment and station location on the I-225 corridor. This change

Packet Pg. 75

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 20, 2013 2:00 PM (Committee Reports)

6.F

6.F

would move the alignment along Montview Avenue at the Anschutz/ Fitzsimons
Medical Campus to a new alignment in the general vicinity along Fitzsimons Parkway.
The station location will also change from Montview to along Fitzsimons Parkway. The
exact location will be defined as part of a collaborative effort with the City of Aurora,
the University of Colorado stakeholders as well as public input, and also to include a
transportation plan that will accommodate the needs of persons who are transit
dependent to access the Anschutz Campus. A general depiction of the changes is
shown in Exhibit 1.

F. Board Report August 2013 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors approve the proposed August 2013 Service Change as revised and
summarized in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost increase of $1,108,900
and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute contract
amendments as necessary for private operators whose services are impacted by these
changes.
G. Approval for Increase in Contract Not-to-Exceed Amount for Smart Card Program
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to increase the current
contract not-to-exceed amount by $1,719,512.81 with Xerox, Inc. (Formerly ACS
Transportation Solutions, Inc.). The total new contract not-to-exceed amount, for
contract # 19FH005, is $17,381,470.23.

VII.

Other Matters
Director Walker shared that he had participated in the DUS tour with CDOT and asked at
what point in the Board meeting he could share feedback. Paula Perdue stated the
appropriate place will be new business.
Director Bagley stated that he had several items for other matter:
 Director Bagley passed out two drawings. He stated that these were part of a
presentation made by Tom Clark in a meeting to the Southeast group a couple of
weeks ago. These maps show the projected population growth by quadrants and
projected annual employment. He noted the highest projected population growth to
be in the northeast and the highest employment growth to be in the northeast and
the southeast. He would like to invite Tom Clark to one of our meetings to share
parts of his presentation. Chair Anderson felt this was good information but she
was trying to figure out how it ties into the overall scheme of things. They will try
to figure out when it might be appropriate to invite Tom Clark to one of our
meetings.

Packet Pg. 76

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 20, 2013 2:00 PM (Committee Reports)

All changes will be made within the originally approved I-225 Project budget.



Director Bagley recommended that the Board adopt a policy that requires travel trip
reports when Board members travel. Director Walker asked what would be the
consequences if they did not provide one. Director Bagley expressed that the Board
members should be accountable for the expenditure of funds for their travel and
these trip reports will show the benefits from the travel. For example, Board
members traveling to Washington D.C. visit with their Congressional leadership as
well as other federal officials to petition for money. Because of these efforts and
others, RTD was awarded the 1.03B FFGA, the $308M grant and other funding.
This will provide a public record in the event someone wants to know the value
from these trips.
Director Daly added that these reports should speak to what was learned on the
trips and how it benefited the district.
Paula Perdue shared that we have received about five reports this far. These
reports have been placed in the respective Board member’s travel file. However, as
she has read these reports, she thinks there is information included in these reports
that should be shared with all Board members.
The committee agreed that sharing of these reports may be a good idea. They also
concluded that while it is a good idea if everyone provided a travel report, they
could only encourage Board members to do so.
Director Hoy suggested that as we update our current policy, we could add the
language to encourage Board members to provide travel reports.



Director Bagley would like to have Board members express the reasons for a novote. Director Hoy concurred it would make flow of information easier and help
Board members to understand the reasons why a fellow Board member voted no on
an issue. Chair Anderson stated this is part of the Board dynamics. Hopefully,
Board members will want to share their concerns but this is something that cannot
be forced.



Director Bagley expressed concern of Board members making statements outside of
RTD approved activities. When speaking, it is important for Board members to state
this is their personal opinion and does not reflect the opinion of the Board. When a
Board position has been finalized, Board members need to speak to that position.
Director Walker shared that in some previous conversation around this subject, he
understands from Marla Lien that the official Board position is what is voted on.

Packet Pg. 77

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 20, 2013 2:00 PM (Committee Reports)

6.F

6.F



June 19 Town Hall Meeting—Chair Anderson indicated it was a good town hall
meeting but with one snafu—the publishing of the wrong call in number. She
asked AGM Scott Reed to provide an update on this issue. Scott Reed indicated
this was a successful town hall meeting where contacts were made to over 48,000
household and 5,300 participated. This is a good ratio. Unfortunately, the
telephone number got transposed. When they discovered the error, they
immediately tweeted, used social media, etc. to get the corrected number out
there. Staff is very sorry for this error. Director Hoy responded that he had gotten
over 50 calls related to this issue.
Scott Reed commented they have scheduled another town hall meeting for next
Thursday, June 27 so hopefully the people who were not able to call in will be able
to do so next Thursday. He explained there is some misperception that everyone
calling in will be able to speak. This is not necessarily true. The call in number is
intended to be a supplement. They do plan to make some adjustments for the next
Thursday meeting. They will make sure people know of follow-up numbers they
can contact; RTD will be posting this on their website and doing continuous
improvement with this tool.
Director Bagley inquired who were the Directors and elected officials involved in
this town hall. Directors Hoy, Sisk, Lubow, Anderson participated along with Pat
Quinn, Phil Greenwood, Chris Quinn and Natalie Irving. Unfortunately, some of the
stakeholders such as Honorable Mayor Nancy McNally had the wrong number and
were unable to call in. Director Hoy stated that Chair Anderson said it best “it
appears we may have offended the very people that we were trying to reach.”
Chair Anderson commented that from the polling she noted two things. Pertaining
to the question, how do you want to receive information, the overwhelming number
prefers e-mail. Also, to the question what do you want from public transit, the
most popular response was frequent service and speed.
Director Bagley said this could be part of a lesson learned as we utilize more town
hall meetings.

VIII.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 1:30 p.m.

Packet Pg. 78

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 20, 2013 2:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Chair Anderson pointed to a meeting at the state legislature where she feels
Director Menten handled this situation well in stating this is my opinion and does
not reflect the opinion of the Board.

6.F

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 20, 2013 2:00 PM (Committee Reports)

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 79

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

8.A

Board of Directors

Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
May 28, 2013 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Anderson called the meeting to order at 5:32 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance
Chair Anderson asked Director Solano to lead the meeting with the pledge of allegiance.

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Paula Perdue gave roll call. There were 14 Board members present at roll call and 1
absent (Director Lasater).
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Arrived
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present
5:29 PM
Kent Bagley
Director, District H
Present
5:30 PM
Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

5:29 PM
5:35 PM

Claudia Folska

Director, District E

Present

5:31 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

5:24 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Absent

5:27 PM

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District I
Director, District M

Present
Present

5:33 PM
5:32 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Chuck Sisk

Director, District C
Director, District O

Present
Present

4:04 PM
5:29 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present

5:32 PM
5:29 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:25 PM

Packet Pg. 80

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 28, 2013 7:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of May 28, 2013)

Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel, Lacy Bell, Shirley Bennett, Rick Clarke, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Mike Gil,
Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Edin Memic,
Tara Miller, Paula, Perdue, Scott Reed, Henry Stopplecamp, Walt Stringer, Pauletta
Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington, Brian Welch, Julia Yugel
OTHERS PRESENT
Louis Apolinar, Atlys Banet, Kristy Bassuener, Joe Berdaus, Jeannine Berdaus, Robert
Boehm, Mac Callison, Tammy Crynes, Chuck Culig, Gretchen Dewey, Becky Edwards,
John Fernandez, Cole Finegan, Suzie Fleming, Charles Foster, Dianna Gallegos, Adam
Goldstein, Tom Grushka, Sherman Hamilton, Walt Hime, Theresa Horne, Douglas Howey,
Shari Janata, Diane Marsh, Aylene McCallum, Maureen Nicolais, Joel Noble, Noel Norman,
Kathy Olsen, Eric Perry, Paula Perry, Hameed Pousti, Martin Ramirez, Rhonda Rodriguez,
Gail Ryan, Peggy Schenkelberg, Brittany Saunders, Kenny Shepard, Lynn Sundseth, Chris
Taylor, Jim Toweill, Gary Van Dorn, Jeanne Weis, Monte Whaley

IV.

Retiree Awards
There were four retirees eligible to receive a retiree award but only Joe Berdaus, Senior
Manager for Customer Service was present. Scott Reed, AGM for Communications,
presented this award to Joe Berdaus. He stated that he has worked collaboratively with
Joe for a long time. Joe is a true friend and committed to RTD. Joe has many years of
experience and will be difficult to replace.
Joe commented that he has enjoyed working for RTD but is now looking forward to his
retirement.
The list of retirees included:
Joe Berdaus – Senior Manager, Customer Information – 23 years
Rebecca M. Carter – Telephone Information Specialist – 21 years
Hal Fabricius – Lead Controller, Rail Operations – 31 years
Pat Thiry – Electronic Technician – 33 years
Special Recognition
Additionally, Directors Tobiassen and Folska along with Department of Vocational
Rehabilitation Services, Cathy Kohl, made a special presentation to Joe Berdaus. Director
Folska reflected on her first interaction with RTD in 2004 and how helpful Joe had been.
She had the opportunity to tour the TIC Center where he was in the process of hiring
some new people. She had referred him to Cathy Kohl where he eventually hired a person
with disabilities. She introduced Cathy who spoke about Joe as a great friend with the

Packet Pg. 81

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 28, 2013 7:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of May 28, 2013)

8.A

8.A

Director Tobiassen also spoke on Joe’s willingness to work with them on advancing
opportunities for people with disabilities.

V.

Public Participation
















Walt Hime spoke about the recent changes in the West Corridor, particularly the
route 100X and requested that it be returned back to its original route.
Hameed Pousti indicated he was a Ken Caryl rider who now must endure an
additional 40 minutes to his travel time. This is not working.
Gretchen Dewey provided specific details on her workday that now with the new
system change, has added at least 1-1/2 additional commute time. She spoke
about the multiple stops on the W line that averages 17 miles per hour. She also
requested a re-instatement of the 100X and to add more buses and call-n-ride
services.
Eric Perry spoke about the changes to route 16. He requested that route 16 and
17 be brought back as well as route AF Skyride and 100.
Joe Noble representing the Curtis Park Neighborhoods spoke in support of the
downtown Denver circular fare-free service. He understands the proposed change
to peak hour services but encourages the full Triangle service as soon as possible.
Charles Foster expressed concerns on the overloading on the 16 bus from Golden
and feels safety is really an issue. THz bus is too packed and too dangerous. He
would like RTD to address the safety impact from this change.
Tom Grushka, RTD Watch, referenced October, 2011 when the Board made the
critical decision to right size service as part of the fiscal sustainability efforts. This
resulted in a cut on routes affecting the Colorado Center for the Blind. He stated
that Director Bagley made the motion for this service cut and that in the joint
board-staff strategic planning session in March, 2013, both Director Bagley and
General Manager Washington rejected a recommendation by Director Lubow to
make affordability a top strategic goal. He then shared a biased edited cut from
some of the discussion from the strategic planning session.
Tammy Crynes spoke on behalf of people who lived further east and have been
impacted by the changes to the routes 100X or 87X. She stated that light rail has
doubled her commute time, connections from the feeder line buses to the light rail
are not synchronized and there is no shelter. She requested RTD to review these
issues.
Jim Toweill read a letter from RMR contractors stating some of their issues.
Louis Apolinar shared his firsthand experience from working as a member of the
RMR contractor-i.e. no breaks, water, wage cuts and safety issues.

Packet Pg. 82

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 28, 2013 7:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of May 28, 2013)

disability community and that they had established a wonderful collaborative partnership.
She will miss him.


















Jeanne Weis from the Arc in Jefferson/Clear Creek, spoke on behalf of the
developmentally challenged who have felt some unintended consequences from the
loss of the 16 L. They no longer have access to their workplace, they have no
shelter and they have been severely disadvantaged from having reliable
transportation.
Cole Finegan, Downtown Denver Partnership, stated his support for the downtown
Denver circulator fare-free service plan. He stated approximately 1/2 of the riders
on this circulator will be transferring from bus or rail and would not be charged for
this ride anyway.
Theresa Horn spoke about the inconveniences to riders on weekends and holidays
especially the access-r-ride and people of disabilities. She relayed her personal
experience of contacting access-a-cab with no success. She is advocating for more
safer and reliable transportation services.
Kathy Olsen spoke about the 16 L bus. She stated there has been a whole
community cut off since the elimination of route 16 that is forcing people to the
16L. The 16L is overcrowded and they need more frequent and dependable
service.
Bail Ryan addressed some concerns around the 13th and Garrison Station, namely
safety, noise and sound levels and congestion. She indicated they had been told
initially that this would be a vehicle free zone but now there are shuttle buses and
call-n-ride that are dropping off there with no room for pullout. She would like to
see these services moved further down the street where space is available.
Kristy Bassrener representing the Denver AA Museum spoke in favor of the
downtown circulator. She feels this will greatly benefit the Golden Triangle area.
Shari Janata expressed concern over the 100X route. She indicated this has added
15-20 minutes to her travel each way. She feels this route needs to be direct to
the Civic Center downtown. She also feels the public hearing and meetings about
service change should be better communicated, perhaps having the bus drivers to
announce on the bus when a meeting is scheduled.
Paula Perry indicated she had to make an unscheduled pickup of her neighbors due
to lack of service. She turned it over to her neighbor Noel Norman who shared
their experience in trying to get a bus from the Federal center to the airport. He
talked about the fact that they are elderly travelers but had to take three transfers
lugging their luggage to get to the airport and was told they had to take three back
to get to the Federal Center. In expiration, they had contacted their neighbor to
pick them up. This service is not working and definitely for the disabled or senior
citizens.
Rhonda Rodriguez stated that she works at Jefferson County and uses the RTD
buses. The new bus route for the 100 and have run on Parker Street and because
the school is out, RTD is canceling the route. The bus stop is too far from the

Packet Pg. 83

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 28, 2013 7:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of May 28, 2013)

8.A





health department. She is concerned for mothers with strollers and wheel chair
riders. They are asking to keep the same route 100 and keep 100W open.
Maureen Nicolais from Lakewood Colorado stated that when the routes were
revised due to the West Line, the route that goes by the public health building was
eliminated on their side of the street. Many people did not know about the changes
and they are having to cross the busy intersection. She sees elderly, mothers with
strollers and all type of pedestrians trying to navigate that crossing and she worries
about their safety. They want the routes revised for security purposes.
Kenny Shepard spoke on behalf of two of his co-workers who live in Parker and
want to know the plans to extend the district to their area. They appear to live just
right outside the RTD line. Kenny also expressed frustrations with riders who
disobey the foot on the seat sign and feels the seats are dirty as a result. He
suggested moving the signs a little higher to curtail riders putting their feet on the
seat.

Chair Anderson thanked all of the speakers for their comments and public participation.
She shared that public hearings would be held from June 3-June 17 and encouraged them
to participate in these hearings. Director Menten indicated the specific information for
location, etc had not been posted.

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Malpiede/Director Deadwyler
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee – Chaired by Director James
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Director Sisk
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

Corrections were made to the Government Relations, FasTracks and Operations and
Customer Service Committee meetings as recorded.

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee Chair Bagley shared
that the committee had just met prior to the Board meeting. The committee met to discuss
the results from the 1Q’2013 Survey Monkey. He thanked the Board members who
participated in this survey and reiterated the importance of this process and that the

Packet Pg. 84

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 28, 2013 7:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of May 28, 2013)

8.A

8.A

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 16, 2013
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion to approve the Board
meeting minutes from April 16, 2013.
Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion:

The motion passed thirteen yes and two no-votes. Director
Menten had left the area and Director Lasater was absent.

RESULT:
ACCEPTED [13 TO 0]
MOVER:
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
SECONDER: Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Gary Lasater
AWAY:
Natalie Menten
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.

IX.

Chair's Report


Chair Anderson stated that they had the West Line opening last month and staff is
working to address the different issues that have arisen since then. She also
encouraged the public to attend the upcoming public hearings that will be held.



Chair Anderson, Directors Daly and Bagley attended the accident free day celebration.
RTD has 700,000 Access-a-Ride boardings each year and close to 100 million
boardings for buses and trains and safety is the most important issue. In 2012 they
had 24% less accidents than in 2011. She thanked the staff.



She also thanked the Board members for the outreach to their residents during the
month. She stated that she attended two meetings; one was Jeff West which is an
effort on the part of a couple of legislators to engage the public in the Westminster
part of Jefferson County. She was able to thank Senator Hudak and Representative
Kraft-Tharp for their help in passing legislature that was recommended by the
Sustainability Taskforce. She also mentioned that many of the Board members

Packet Pg. 85

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 28, 2013 7:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of May 28, 2013)

responses are anonymous. He shared this was a very productive meeting and attended by
Directors Rivera-Malpiede, Tobiassen, Solano, Daly, Bagley, Anderson and Folska. The
next meeting will be June 18 from 3-5 p.m. where they will discuss the major issues for
the GM to focus on for the next period and began looking at the tactical plans for 2014.

8.A



X.

She attended the Colorado Black Chamber of Commerce luncheon. Their speaker was
Marcus Davis, owner of the Houston based Breakfast Klub and Reggae Hut Café and
his message was “Being successful in Business by Being Connected to your
Community.” It was a powerful message and it applies to the Board members as they
work with their communities to improve transit. She sat next to a young man that has
been bidding for RTD contracts. She thanked Directors Angie Rivera-Malpiede and
Barbara Deadwyler for their efforts with DBE/SBE.

General Manager's Report






General Manager Washington expressed thanks to the staff and the community for
a successful West Corridor installation. He stated that his team had already done
some things to be proactive in fixing some of the problems that had occurred and
he appreciated the feedback and concerns expressed by the constituents during
public participation. They have already reinstated the 116X and will be adding new
trips on the CX. They are looking at adding trips on the 16 and are recommending
reinstating the 100X and 87X with the August service change. He indicated that a
lesson learned is not to make or cut routes too quickly until things have had a
chance to settle. He would ask however that we allow time for the shift in travel
patterns to occur and to educate the riders on how to make the shift from the bus
to light rail. When we opened the Southeast line, initially we had several concerns
and had to do some initial tweaking. Since then, the riders have adjusted their
travel patterns and we receive few complaints. General Manager Washington also
added that it is by design that all buses forward will be going into the DUS station.
We have physical limitations at the Civic Center so as we roll out other corridors,
the buses will be terminating at DUS. This is one of the factors for the proposed
downtown Denver circulator that it will help to offload some of this traffic and
redistribute throughout downtown. When you look at the business plan for
downtown Denver, many of the activities will be shifting to LODO (DUS) as new
developments occur. There are significant financial impacts and implications to this
shift.
APTA rail conference-next week General Manager Washington and members of his
Senior Leadership team will be participating in the rail conference in Philadelphia
where they will be showcasing RTD. There is a planned technical tour to the
factory that will be producing the cars for Eagle P3. Some members of the staff
and Directors Anderson and Rivera-Malpiede will attend this tour.
I-225 Light rail project—General Manager Washington indicated he was in receipt of
a letter from UC President Bruce Benson asking RTD to partner with UC and the
City of Aurora to relocation the Montview Station. As the University focuses on its

Packet Pg. 86

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 28, 2013 7:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of May 28, 2013)

attended the Governor Hickenlooper’s bill signing on HB 1272, sales tax parity. It was
great to see that.

goal to be a preeminent national and international biomedical facility, there is
concern about electromagnetic interferences (EFI) and vibrations that the light rail
would create as it traverses past these buildings. There is also concern that
proposed mitigation may be insufficient and would cost millions of dollars. The
proposed realignment would provide mobility throughout the Anschutz medical
campus. Staff will bring this as a Board action item for the June 11 FasTracks
meeting.
Questions/comments from the Board members:
o Director Lubow expressed a concern over the problems experienced on the
West line. She requested a formal lessons learned document that would
help us to address how to reach the people ahead of time. We need to put
more quality time in being proactive and reaching the people before these
problems occur.
o Director Folska stated she appreciates the immediate response to the West
Corridor problems. She shared her experience when the Southeast Corridor
cutover and she had to learn a new route. She stated that perhaps the
riders will find new opportunities for travel as they rework and relearn new
routes. Director Folska also expressed the public hearings will be posted on
the RTD website. She asked General Manager for an estimate of cost to
mitigate. General Manager Washington responded approximately $50-60M
with no certainty of success (i.e. the floating slabs and other things being
considered for mitigation may or may not work). There are also potential
delays to the schedule that could result in monthly penalties of $1-1.5M.
o Director Deadwyler expressed her empathy for the riders in the West
Corridor. She stated there have also been unintended consequences to
members in her district who ride the 43. She is hopeful they can get this
figured out soon. She stated that she agreed with General Manager
Washington on the lesson learned not to make such drastic cuts
immediately. We need to better understand the impact of these multiple
changes and respond quickly to the issues created.

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.
Presentation of 2012 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to
Governance
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors accept and enter into the record the District’s audited financial reports relating to
the year ended December 31, 2012 as prepared by Staff and audited by the District's
independent auditor, RubinBrown, LLP.

Packet Pg. 87

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 28, 2013 7:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of May 28, 2013)

8.A

8.A

Motion:

Director Sisk made the motion to approve the 2012
RTD Comprehensive annual financial report and report
to governance.

Vote on Motion:

The motion passed fourteen in favor and zero against.
Director Lasater was absent.

RESULT:
PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
SECONDER: Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Menten, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Gary Lasater
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED UNANIMOUSLY.

XII.

Recommended Action
B.

Approval of the Downtown Denver Circulator Fare-Free Service Plan

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the Downtown Denver Circulator bus service plan including fare-free operations
beginning in 2014.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to approve item B,
approval of the downtown Denver circulator Fare-Free
Service Plan.
Director James seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Lubow asked for clarity on her understanding
that it would cost more to collect the fares than the
money collected. General Manager Washington
indicated this is so due to the fact that 70-80% of the
people using the circulator will be transfers and that we
have no vehicle to collect fares as passengers hop on
and off the vehicle.
Director Folska stated she thinks it is a good idea to get
to the art museum and service that Triangle. She
asked if there could be a financial partnership with the
Downtown Denver Partnership to pay for the cost. She

Packet Pg. 88

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 28, 2013 7:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of May 28, 2013)

Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded the motion.

8.A

Director Deadwyler stated that she has mixed feelings
about the circulator. She certainly thinks it is
appropriate to ask the partners to contribute. She
stated that she had received a call from Councilman
Brooks who stated he had some ideas for possible
sources for revenue. General Manager Washington will
follow-up.
Director James indicated that he and Councilman
Brooks have exchanged emails about this. He is
encouraged about the possibility of partnership. One of
the issues to think about is the efficiency of the mall
shuttle is that we do not charge rates. This would
slow the bus down if we had to collect. Both the mall
shuttle and the circulator will need to work in
congruence. If we tried to collect on the circulator, this
would slow this process down and the two lines may
not work well together.
Director Walker expressed his support of the downtown
Denver circulator. He stated this may give some of the
small businesses and establishments along the way a
chance to benefit from the added access.
Director Menten expressed that she was opposed to
this downtown circulator. She stated there are lots of
assumptions but little facts on which to base an
opinion. She had just protested the signing of the sales
tax bill where we will be adding a 3% sales tax
increase on food, etc. This will undoubtedly hurt the
small businesses. In the same breathe, we are talking
about adding a fare-free circulator while we implement
service cuts and increase sales tax. She is opposed to
any fare-free expansion.
Vote on the
Motion:

The action passed thirteen in favor (Anderson, Bagley,
Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede,

Packet Pg. 89

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 28, 2013 7:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of May 28, 2013)

also indicated she had some concerns for safety about
the proposed bus bulbs where cyclists could ride across
them.

8.A

RESULT:
PASSED [13 TO 1]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Bill James, Director, District A
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Gary Lasater
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.
C.

RTD Drug and Alcohol Policy

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the revised RTD Drug and Alcohol Policy mandated by the Federal
Transit Administration of the United States Department of Transportation.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve item C,
Drug and Alcohol Policy.
Director Daly seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion:

The motion passed fourteen in favor and zero opposed.
Director Lasater was absent.

RESULT:
PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Bruce Daly, Director, District N
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Menten, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Gary Lasater
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED UNANIMOUSLY.
D.

August 2013 Service Plan

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve moving the proposed August 2013 Service Change as summarized
below and described in Attachment A on to public review and comment.

Packet Pg. 90

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 28, 2013 7:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of May 28, 2013)

Folska, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen and Walker) and one
opposed (Menten). Director Lasater was absent.

8.A

Director Rivera-Malpiede made the motion to
approve item D, moving the proposed August
2013 Service Plan to public hearing.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Vote on the Motion:

The motion passed fourteen in favor and zero
opposed. Director Lasater was absent.

RESULT:
PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Menten, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Gary Lasater
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED UNANIMOUSLY.

XIII.

Old Business





Director Rivera-Malpiede referenced an email that was sent by Mr. Grushka earlier
that day to all of the Board members. She expressed concern about this e-mail and
thought it was alarming. She felt very harassed.
Director Folska concurred on this e-mail. She too was alarmed and felt fearful. She
requested Chair Anderson to take action.
Chair Anderson reprimanded Mr. Grushka in the meeting about this email. Mr.
Grushka responded aggressively to this reprimand and was asked by RTD security
to leave the room.

XIV. New Business


XV.

Director Walker shared that in the architect magazine, there is an article on Denver
being more transit oriented. The article is called “Mile-Hi on Rail.”

Executive Session

XVI. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 7:30 p.m.

Packet Pg. 91

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 28, 2013 7:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of May 28, 2013)

Motion:

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 92

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 28, 2013 7:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of May 28, 2013)

8.A

11.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: June 13, 2013

From:

Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

GM

Date:

June 12, 2013

Board Meeting Date: June 25, 2013

Subject:

Approval of 2013 Amended Budget

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
adopt Resolution No. ___, Series of 2013 to amend and appropriate funds for the proposed 2013
Amended Budget, to increase the appropriation by $13.302 million to $1,584.563 million as detailed
below in the overview of the 2013 Amended Budget, and to decrease the appropriation of Capital
Carryforward (previously approved capital funds) by $247.879 million to $1,003.434 million due to
primarily planned expenditures.
1) The 2013 Amended Budget appropriation includes the amounts in the Amended Budget column
below (in thousands), which is a summary of relevant data from Exhibit I.

Packet Pg. 93

11.A

Packet Pg. 94

11.A

2) The 2013 Amended Budget also includes operating revenue and non-operating revenue which are
estimated, not appropriated, below (in thousands), which is a summary of relevant data from Exhibit
I.

Packet Pg. 95

11.A

BACKGROUND
The purpose of this memorandum is to request an amendment to the 2013 Adopted Budget. This
amendment will account for capital carryforward adjustments from 2012 to 2013. The amendment also
will detail other adjustments to the capital budget and adjustments to the operating and administrative
budget.
DISCUSSION
Overview of the 2013 Budget Amendment
The total proposed appropriation for the 2013 Amended Budget and the changes from the 2013
Adopted Budget are summarized in the first set of tables above.
2013 Operating Expense Adjustments
The operating and administrative expense portion of the proposed budget amendment reflects an
increase of $18.2 million from the 2013 Adopted Budget. This increase consists of $17.2 million on the
Base System and $3.3 million in FasTracks Project/Construction, offset by a decrease of $2.3 million on
FasTracks Operations (West Line). Of the total increase, $5.5 million is attributed to previously
approved transfers. On the Base System, the true increase to operating expenses is less than 1% net of
previously approved transfers, the FISA contribution, and one-time expenses.
Shown in detail on the attached Amendment A, net changes are summarized below.
Base System
Bus Operations
 Net decrease of $0.321 million from diesel lock savings offset by August runboard increase
Rail Operations
 Net increase of $1.0 million for increases in system traction power, traction power and repair parts
transferred from West Line net of cost allocation, and staff additions for signal/traction power
maintainers and supervisors in conjunction with rail line expansion
Private Carrier Operations
 Net increase of $1.4 million from shortfall in the original fuel budget, additional BroncosRide service,
and incentive payments to private carriers

Packet Pg. 96

11.A

Access-A-Ride
 Net increase of $0.347 million mainly for increased usage of access-a-Cab
Planning-Base
 Net increase of $2.6 million from previously approved transfers including the Northwest Area
Mobility Study
Capital Programs-Base
 Net increase of $0.370 million for adjustment to Civic Center lease cost and DUS Bus Barn TOD
study
Safety, Security & Facilities-Base
 Net decrease of $0.655 million from favorable adjustment to security contracts cost offset by
security costs transferred from West Line net of cost allocation
Finance and Administration-Base
 Net increase of $2.3 million from increased IT costs due to additional mobile ticketing devices and
the SMT project, additional software and licenses in IT, purchase of additional SMT fare media,
Department of Revenue audit services, and TVM screen replacements for the Southeast Corridor
Communications-Base
 Net increase of $0.695 million for West Line opening costs and local share funding of a CMAQ grant
for the FlexPass program
Executive Office
 Net increase of $0.526 million mainly from reconciliation of WIN operating budget to project budget
Non-Departmental-Base
 Net increase of $3.7 million for compensation adjustments in Collective Bargaining Agreement
FasTracks Project/Construction
Capital Programs-FasTracks Construction
 Net increase of $2.8 million for McCaslin Bridge repairs, adjustment to Civic Center lease cost, and
one-time expense project not carried forward in the 2013 Adopted Budget
Planning/Finance and Administration/Communications-FasTracks Construction
 Net increase of $0.166 million for miscellaneous costs of public involvement and program controls
FasTracks Operations
Rail Operations-FasTracks Operations
 Net decrease of $1.9 million for traction power and repair parts transferred to Base net of cost
allocation, and adjustment of West Line budget to actuals for Jan-Apr
Capital Programs-FasTracks Operations
 Net increase of $0.246 million for increase to parking lease at Federal/Decatur station
Communications-FasTracks Operations

Packet Pg. 97

11.A



Net increase of $0.268 million for West Line opening costs offset by adjustment of West Line budget
to actuals for Jan-Apr

Safety, Security & Facilities-FasTracks Operations
 Net decrease of $0.875 million from favorable adjustment to security contracts cost, security costs
transferred to Base net of cost allocation, and adjustment of West Line budget to actuals for Jan-Apr
Interest Expense
Interest expense is projected to increase $19.9 million on a combined basis. Of the increase, Base
system interest is projected to increase $5.3 million due to issuance of COP debt in 2013 to finance
replacement and expansion of the bus fleet. FasTracks interest expense is projected to increase $14.6
million due to restructuring of interest payments from sales tax revenue bond refinancing in 2013, which
includes non-cash amortization of expenditures on prior debt carried forward. Capitalized interest is
projected to remain stable.
2013 New Capital
The new capital portion of the proposed budget amendment reflects a decrease of $15.7 million to the
2013 Adopted Budget. These changes result from program changes that have occurred since the 2013
Budget was adopted, and include the following significant changes:
FasTracks
FasTracks new capital had a decrease of $20.7 million due to alignment of corridor funding with updated
timing, adjustments for grant funding, changes in cost estimates, and completion of projects. Please see
Attachment B for detail.
Base System
New capital expenditures increased $5.0 million on the Base System. Please see Attachment B for
detail.
Previously Approved Capital Carryforward Adjustments
For the 2013 Adopted Budget, year-to-date actual expenditures as of 9/30/12 were used to compute the
estimate of the carryforward. This methodology is used to accommodate the timing of the adoption of
the annual budget.
Previously approved capital carryforward has been decreased by $247.9 million from the 2013 Adopted
Budget to reflect fourth quarter 2012 actual expenditures, transfers to reclassify certain capital projects
as expense projects, previously approved transfers, completion of projects, and project scope changes.
The FasTracks portion was a decrease of $229.3 million and the Base System decrease was $18.5
million. Please see Attachment C for detail.

Revenue Changes
Revenues are projected to increase $19.0 million on a combined basis.
 Sales and Use Tax revenues are projected to decrease $8.8 million based on the CU-Leeds School
June forecast of 3.7% vs. 4.2% in the Adopted Budget from CU-Leeds earlier forecast.

Packet Pg. 98

11.A






Federal grant revenues, including operating grants, capital grants, capital maintenance, FASTER
grants, CMAQ grants, and other grants are projected to increase $22.8 million over amounts
projected in the 2013 Adopted Budget. This reflects increasing allocations in formula grant
appropriations over the 2013 Adopted Budget and some new programs in 2013 as well as
increases in CMAQ capital grants for FasTracks.
Fare revenue is projected to remain flat in the Amended Budget over the Adopted Budget based
on current year actuals.
Other income is projected to increase $4.3 million due primarily to sale of the Civic Center air
rights.

Unrestricted Year-End Fund Balance

The Unrestricted Year-End Fund Balance is projected to decrease $7.8 million from the Adopted Budget
to $23.0 million reflecting amended budget increases, year-end accruals and the net pension obligation.

FasTracks Contingency Reserve
The proposed 2013 Amended Budget reflects continued maintenance of the FasTracks Contingency
Reserve at a balance of $30 million. This reserve is appropriated annually, and is used to fund any
changes in the FasTracks schedule that could not be forecast at the time of adoption of the annual
budget. The purpose of this reserve is to allow the District to accommodate minor changes to the
FasTracks schedule without requiring frequent budget amendments to draw funds from the FasTracks
Future Construction Reserve. The Reserve has been carried at $30 million since 2010 and remains at
that level in both this Amended Budget and the 2013 Adopted Budget.
Budget Transfers
The proposed 2013 Amended Budget reflects year-to-date budget transfers executed within the General
Manager’s authority or by prior authorization of the Board of Directors. The District’s budget transfer
policy was adopted by the Board of Directors on 2/26/85 and further amended on 1/1/93, 5/15/08 and
4/1/10. The policy states that cumulative transfers between projects in amounts exceeding $250,000
require prior approval of the Board of Directors.
Cost Recovery Ratio
The proposed 2013 Amended Budget meets the cost recovery ratio mandated by the Colorado General
Assembly. The estimated SB154 recovery ratio (all nontax revenue except ADA farebox revenues
divided by all expenditures, including depreciation, except ADA expenditures and expenditures incurred
for long-term planning and development of rapid transit infrastructure) exceeds the annual target of 30%
mandated by the General Assembly. The RTD operating revenue recovery ratio (operating revenues
except ADA farebox revenues divided by the same cost basis as the Colorado General Assembly) is
estimated to exceed the 20% target established by the Board of Directors.

Fund Balance Policy

Packet Pg. 99

11.A

The proposed 2013 Amended Budget includes a reserve of 3% of annual spending as defined in Article
X, Section 20 of the Colorado Constitution (the TABOR reserve). The proposed 2013 Amended Budget
maintains a Board-Appropriated Fund, Capital Replacement Fund, and Unrestricted Year-End Fund
balance in the District's working capital.
Basis of Accounting and Budgeting
The accounts of the District are reported using the accrual basis of accounting. Revenues are
recognized when earned and expenses are recognized when incurred. The District’s basis of budgeting
follows the accrual basis of accounting except (1) capital outlays and payments of principal are treated
as expenditures, and (2) depreciation and gains and losses on disposal of property and equipment are
excluded.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Amend the 2013 Budget to reflect the capital project changes and the adjustments to the operating
budget. This is the recommended action.
2. Request staff to revise the proposed amendments to the 2013 Budget and amend the budget with
revisions.
3. Do not amend the 2013 Budget. This is not recommended, because the 2013 Adopted Budget does
not reflect the capital carryforward adjustments, capital budget adjustments, and material changes to
the operating and administrative budget.
ATTACHMENTS:


2013 Amended Budget (PDF)



2013 amended resolution 061813



2013 Resolution - 007 Approval of 2013 Amended Budget

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSTAIN:

(DOCX)
(PDF)

PASSED [14 TO 0]
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Barbara Deadwyler

Prepared by:
Jannette Scarpino, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 100

11.A.a

Exhibit I
Regional Transportation District
Fiscal Year 2013 Amended Budget
Base System (In Thousands)

Operating Revenue
Farebox Revenues’
Advertising Revenues
Joint Venture Revenue1
Other Operating Revenues
Total Operating Revenue

2012 Actual

2013 Adopted
Budget

2013 Amended
Budget

$

$

S

S

Operating Expenses (excluding Depreciation)
Bus Operations
LRT Operations
Private Carder Operations
Access-a-Ride
Planning
Capital Programs
Safety, Security and Facilities
General Counsel
Finance and Administration
Communications
Executive Office
Board Office
Otlter Non-Departmental Expenditttres
Denver Union Station Contribittion
Less: FasTracks Service Increases
FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA) Contribution
Expense Projects Cany-fonvard
Tntal Operating Expenses (excluding Depreciation)

134,636
35,552
94,319
40,215
2,106
5,440
38,428
7,381
28,530
8,265
4,427
753
14,382

Income Before Debt Service and Cap Ex
Debt mad Reserves
Debt Payments
Interest Expense
Financing Proceeds
Contributed Capital
Increase / (Decrease) ill Debt and Reserves
Capital Expenditures
Prior Year Approved Capital Canyfonvard
Capitalized Interest
Facilities Constntction & Maintenance
Bus Transfer Stations
Denver Union Station
Rapid Transit Development
Park-n-Rides
Capital Support Projects
LRT Constrttction
LRT Transit
Fleet Modernization & Expansion
Capital Support Equipment
Unallocated Capital
Net Capital Expenditures

75

650

575

766.7%

120,816

121,515

699

0.6%

126,788
39,340
101,554
42,258
3,255
5,289
50,327
8,563
32,047
10,167
4,202
961
6,603
11,000
(16,143)

322
(2,501)
(1,413)
(347)
(2,916)
(4,879)
(330)

0.3%
.6.4%
-1.4%
-0.8%
.89.6%
-92.2%
-0.7%
0.0%
-12.3%
-1.9%
-12.5%
0.0%
-56.8%
0.0%
-11.5%
100.0%
100.0%
-4.0/u

.

400,109

451,870

(281,847)

(313,811)

(330,355)

(16,544)

-5.3%

244,745
25,127
64,226

258,327
26,833
65,341

253,799
26,059
100,072

(4,528)
(774)
34,731

-1.8%
-2.9%
53.2%

7,976
830

65,366
602

41,354
902

(24,012)
300

-

-

-36.7%
49.8%
0.0%

2.214
345,118

2.159
418,628

10,029
432,215

7,870
13,587

364.5%
3.2%

63,271

104,817

101,860

(2,957)

-2.84,

(47,395)
(19,244)
.

(47,749)
(22,087)
90,820

(38,705)
(27,427)
211,791

9,044
(5,340)
120,971

341
(66,298)

-

-

-

-18.9%
24.2%
133.2%
0.0%

20,984

145,659

124,675

594.1%

120.923
1,898
412

102,376
5,884
1,006

18,547
(3,986)
(594)

-

-

-

549

-

549
-

9,535

15.3%
-210.0%
-144,2%
0,0%
100.0%
0,0%
0,0%
0,0%
0.0%
5,2%
0.0%
-83.9%
0.0%
3S%

131,253

113S’/n

-

Other tncome
Total Non-Operating Revenues

-

0.0%
3.3%
0.0%

-

638
174
-

-

-

1,014
3,662

2,989
11,035

2,989
11,035

285
2,018
28,458

2,989
94,822
6,119
154
241,890

-

36,249
(39,276)

S

(116,089)

-

(3,929)
(195)
(527)
-

(3,752)
.

-

-

s

-

124

8,416
434,627

-

Grant Revenue -Capital’
Investment Income
Land Sale Proceeds - DUS Block A

116,092
3,924
849

1,857
(7,049)
8,416
(17,243)

.

Non-Operating Revenues
Sales Tax
Use Tax
Grant Revenue - Operating

116,092
3,800
849

126,466
41,841
102,967
42,605
6,171
10,168
50,657
8,563
35,976
10,362
4,729
961
10,355
11,000
(18,000)
7,049

(14,325)

Operating Ineomef(Loss)

Current Activity

112,929
3,524
607
1,202
118,262

% Favf(Unfav)
2013 Amended
Budget vs. 2013
Adopted
Budget

S

.
-

-

-

2,835
94,822
11,254
154
232,355

154

15,164

-

(5,135)
-

$

Attachment: 2013 Amended Budget (1613 : Approval of 2013 Amended Budget)

BASE SYSTE1%’I

$ Fav/(Vnfav)
2013 Amended
Budget vs.
2013 Adopted
Budget

Notes:
Fnrebov revenues inetudo passenger rare, roe regular route service,, apecial seniec fares, and fnrebo.v recennet eollcetrd sad retained by private canien under eontraet to RTD,
Joint venture revennea include contribution, fry,, seat entitiet to provide rest mattel, rar CMAQ grsnts or apeeifme aenieea. Jointventurerevennee also include contributions rronl the City smoulder to ,n,tinlsin the
level 0r nenics on Its JUMP. BOUND, sad STAMPEOR shave lbs level reqaired by RTOs Route service Snnndardn.
Federal grunt revenues include grunts awarded in is, cnsaenn ‘tsr in addition to curny-rsnvurd grunt suvsrde,

Packet Pg. 101

Exhibit I

11.A.a

Regional Transportation District
Fiscal Year 2013 Amended Budget
FasTracks Project (In Thousands)

Operating Revenue
Farebox Revenues
Oilier Operating Revenues
Total Operating Revenue

2012 Actual

S

-

2013 Adopted
Budget

2013 Amended
Budget

$

$

S

.

-

0,0%
0.0%

Operating Expenses (excluding Depreciation)
LRT Operations
Planning
Capital Programs
Finance and Administration
Communicalions
Service Increases
FasTracks Intemal Savings Accouni (FISA) Contribution
Expense Projects Carey-forward
Total Operating Expenses (excluding Depreciation)

3
605
71,133
613
432
14,325
-

Operating Income/(Loss)

-

-

3
447
37,577
713
1,453
16,143

3
534
69,625
769
1,475
18,000

-

(1,486)

100.0%

88,920

100.0%
-3,9W.

(85,616)

(88,920)

(3,304)

3.9%

172,218
17,889
1,493
188,610

169,199
17,372

(3,019)
(517)

-1.8%
-2.9%
544.1%
2.1%
-8.5%

87,111

(87,111)
163,164

Total Non-Operating Revenues

2,473
8.821
391,504

307,354

Income Before Debt Service and Cap Ex

294,822

305,888

Debt and Reserves
Debt Payments
Interest Expense
Financing Proceeds
Drawdownl(Inerease) in FasTracks Construction Reserve
Contributed Capital’

(7,398)
(32,127)
545,644
(25,728)
117.344

(7,755)
(37,439)

Increase / (Decrease) in Debt ajad Reserves

597,742

8,123

3,997
(210)
(3,604)

4,770

-40.9%
8.2%

1,466

0.5’?,.

(7,755)

‘

25,431
267,346

(52,046)
49,585
50,000
102.289

(14,607)
49,585
24,569
(165,057)

0.0%
39.0%
800.0%
96.6%
‘61.7%

247,583

142,073

(105,510)

-42.6’.h.

45,896
664,773
7t0,669

1,130,390
36.789
663.856
1,831,035

901,058
35,849
643.158
1,579,365

229,332
1,640
20,698
251,670

20.3%
4,5%
3.1%
13.7%

181,195

S (1,277,564)

147,626

-11.6%

-

S

0.0%
-19.5%
.85,3%
-7.9%
-1.5%
-11.5%

1,486

9,616
192,607
2,263
5,217
396,274

Capital Expenditures
Prior Year Approved Capital
Capitalized Interest
Fsstracks Program
Net Capital Expenditures

(87)
(32,048)
(56)
(22)
(1,857)

-

-

16,751
4,700
186,014
1,783
8.821
381,233

Grant Revenue -Capital1
Investment Income
Other Income

0.0%

29,280
(3,304)

29,280
85,616

-

Non-Operating Revenues
SalesTax
Use Tax
Grant Revent,e - Operating

Current Activity

V Fav/(Unfav)
2013 Amended
Budget vs. 2013
Adopted
Budget

Notes:
Iaetndcs Denver Usien Staties f’sascisa preecoda sad ether prejeet tl,ird party capissi
Federal grass ravesses iaelade gra,ts awarded is tI’s current car a addisias so can~-renrard grass awards.

-

S

(1,829,938)

$

Attachment: 2013 Amended Budget (1613 : Approval of 2013 Amended Budget)

FASTRACKS PROJECT

$ Fav/(Unfav)
2013 Amended
Budget vs.
2013 Adopted
Budget

Packet Pg. 102

11.A.a

Exhibit I
Regional Transportation District
Fiscal Year 2013 Amended Budget
FasTracks Operations (In Thousands)

Operating Revenue
Farebox Revenues
Oilier Operating Revenues
Total Operating Revenue

2012 Actual
$

Operating Expenses (excluding Depreciation)
LRT Operations
Planning
Capital Programs
Safely, Security and Facilities
Finance and Administration
Comntttnications
Service Increases
Expense Projects Cany-forward
Total Operating Expenses (excluding Depreciation)

-

2013 Adopted
Budget

2013 Amended
Budget

$

5

$

3254

-

-

-

-

-

3254

3,254

-

3,987

10.758

9,323

1,435

-

-

0.0%
0.0%
0.0%

-

-

4,790

552
16,262

13,914

552
2,348

13.3%
0.0%
-73.0%
21.1%
0.0%
-56.8%
0.0%
100.0%
14.4%

(4,790)

(13,008)

(10,660)

2,348

18.1%

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

0.0%
0.0%

-

-

-

—

0.0%

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

0.0%

(4,790)

(13,008)

(10,660)

2,348

-18.1%

-

337

772

4,145

-

583
3,271

(246)
874

-

-

-

-

31

470

737

(267)

-

Operating lneome/(L.oss)

3254

-

“In Fav/(Unfiav)
2013 Amended
Budget vs. 2013
Adopeed
Budget

-

Non-Operating Revenues
Sales Tax
Use Tax
Grant Revenue - Operating
Grant Revenue - Capital
Investment Income
Other Iticome

Total Non-Operating Revenues
Income Before Debt Service and Cap Ex
Debt and Reserves
Debt Payments
Interest Expense
Financing Proceeds
Drawdowmftlncrease) in FasTracks Constniction Reserve
Cotttributed Capital
Increase / (Decrease) in Debt and Reserves

Notes:
2012 conainls orprc-opcrstion coats ror tire Went Lincnnith revenneneniccexpected to begin in Aprit 20t3

0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
-100.0%
0.0%
-t00,0’~5,

-

-

24,851

-

(24,851)

-

24,851

-

(24,851)

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%

(22,503)

-190,0%

-

$

0.0%
0.0%

-

Capital Expenditures
Prior Year Approved Capital
Capitalized Interest
Faatracks Progratu
Net Capital Expenditures
Current Activity

0.0%

(4,790)

$

tl,a43

S

(10,660)

5

Attachment: 2013 Amended Budget (1613 : Approval of 2013 Amended Budget)

FASTRACKS OPERATIONS

S Fav/(UnI’av)
2013 Amended
Budget vs.
2013 Adopted
Budget

Packet Pg. 103

Exhibit I

11.A.a

Regional Transportation District
Fiscal Year 2613 Amended Budget
Combined (In Thousands)

COMBINED
Operating Revenue
Farebox Revenues
Advertising Revenues
Joint Venture Revenue
OIlier Operating Revenues
Total Operating Revenue

2012 Actual

2013 Adopted
Budget

2013 Amended
Budget

Budget vs.
2013 Adopted
Budget

$

$

8

$

Operating Expenses (excluding Depreciation)
Bus Operations
LRT Operations
Private Carrier Operations
Access-a-Ride
Planning
Capital Programs
Safety, Security and Facilities
General Counsel
Finance and Administration
Communications
Executive Office
Board 001cc
OIlier Non-Departmental Expenditures
Denver Union Station Contribution
Less: FasTracks Service Increases
FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA) Cotstribution

112,929
3,524
607
1,202
118,262

Expense Projects Carry-forward
Total Operating Expenses (excluding Depreciation)
Operating Income/(Loss)
Non-Operating Revenues
Sales Tax
Use Tax
Grant Revenue - Operating
Grant Revenue - Capital
Investment Incotne
Land Sate Proceeds - DUS Block A
Other Income
Total Non—Operating Reventies

124,070

-

126,788
50,101
101,554
42,258
3,702
43,203
54,472
8,563
32,760
12,090
4,202
961
6,603
11,000

126,466
51,167
102.967
42,605
6,705
80,376
53,928
8,563
36,745
12,574
4,729
961
10,355
11,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

5,563

0.3%
-2.1%
-1.4%
-0.8%
-81.1%
-86.0%
1.0%
0.0%
-12.2%
-4.0%
-12.5%
0.0%
-56.8%
0.0%
0.0%
100.0%
100.0%

75

-

124
-

575
699
322
(1,066)
(1,413)
(347)
(3,003)
(37,173)
544
-

(3,985)
(484)
(527)
-

(3,752)
-

litcorne Before Debt Service and Cap Ex

Financitig Proceeds
DrawdowtV(Increase) in FasTracks Constntction Reserve
Contribttted Capital
Increase / (Decrease) in Debt and Reserves

3.3%
0.0%
766.7%
0.6%

-

38,248

-

(5,563)
38,248

492,010

536,505

554,704

(18,199)

-3.4%

(373,748)

(412,435)

(429,935)

(17,500)

-4.2’?.,

407,909
41,878
68,926

430,545
44,722
66,834

422,998
43,431
109,688

(7,547)
(1,291)
42,854

-1.8%
-2,9%
64,1%

193,990
2,613

253,976
3,075

233,961
3,165

(20,015)
90

11,035
726,351

10,980
810,132

15,246
828,489

4,266
18,357

-7.9%
2.9%
0.0%
38.9%
2.3%

352,603

397,697

398,554

857

0.2%

(54,786)
(51,371)

(55,504)
(59,526)

(46,460)
(79,473)

9,044
(19,947)

-16.3%
33.5%

545,644
(25,728)
117,685

90,820
50,282
267,346

261,376
50,000
102,289

170.556
(282)
(165.057)

187,8%
-0.6%
-61.7%

531,444

293,4t8

287,732

(5,686)

-19”h

1,251,313
38,687
412

1,003,434
41,033
1,006

247,879
(2,346)
(594)

-

-

20,698
26t,205

19.8%
-6,1%
- 44,2%
0.0%
100,0%
0,0%
0,0%
0.0%
0.0%
5,2%
0.0%
-83,9%
0,0%
3.1%
12.6/,

256,376

-214.2%

-

Debt and Reserves
Debt Payments
Interest Expense

0.0%

119,346
3,924
849
650
124,769

134,636
39,542
94,319
40,215
2,711
76,573
39,200
7,381
29,143
8,728
4,427
753
14,382

119,346
3,800
849

‘A, Fav/(Unfav)
2013 Amended
Budget vs. 2013
Adopted
Budget

Capital Expenditures
Prior Year Approved Capital
Capitalized Interest
Facilities Conslntction & Maiittenance
Btts Transfer Stations
Denver Union Station
Rapid Transit Development
Park-n-Rides
Capital Sttppore Projects
LRT Constntction
LRT Transit
Fleet Modernization & Expansion
Capital Support Eqttipment
Unallocated Capital
Fastracks Progratss
Net Capital Expenditures

Current Activity

-

45,896
638
174

-

549

549
-

1,014
3,662

2,989
11,035

2,989
11,035

285
2,018
2&458
664.773
746,988

2,989
94,822
6,119
154
663,856
2.072,925

2,835
94,822
11,254
154
643,158
1,811,720

137,129

$ (1,381,810)

-

s

$

(1,125,434)

154
-

(5,135)
-

$

Attachment: 2013 Amended Budget (1613 : Approval of 2013 Amended Budget)

S Fav/(Unfav)

2013 Amended

Packet Pg. 104

11.A.a

Exhibit I
Regional Transportation District
Fiscal Year 2013 Amended Budget Fund Balance
Base System and FasTracks (In Thousands)
-

NET ASSETS

2012 Actual

2013 Adopted
Budget

2013 Amended
Budget

$ Favt(Unfav)
2013 Amended
Budget vs.
2013 Adopted
Budget

S

$

$

$

‘In FavI(Unfav)

2013 Amended
Budget vs. 2013
Adopted
Budget

BEGINNING NET ASSETS

3,909

0.4%

Income Before Debt Service and Cap Ex
Debt and Reserves
Nd Capital Expenditures
Current Activity
Depreciation and Amortization

63.271
(66,298)
(36.249)
(39,276)
(97,738)

104,817
20,984
(241,890)
(116,089)
(80,275)

101,860
145,659
(232,355)
15,164
(83,217)

(2,957)
124,675
9,535
131,253
(2,942)

-2,8%
-594.1%
3.9%
-113.1%
-3.7%

Other
Total Change in Net Assets

88,796
(48,218)

28,801
(167,563)

18,827
(49,226)

(9,974)
118,337

-346%
.706%

122,246

13.8%

ENDING NET ASSETS

$

NET ASSETS
Invested in Capital Assets, Net of Related Debt
Notaspetadobte Net Assets

1,102,564

1,054,346

S

1,050,437

882,874

$

1,054,346

1,005,120

$

931.913
931,913

772.462
772.462

924,634
921,634

152,172
152,172

19,7%
19.7%

Debt Service Reserves’

32,898

38,341

16,100

(22,241)

-58.0%

Other Designated Reserves’
Unexpended Project Reserves
Tabor Reserve
Restricted Net Assets

7,223
27,279
11.735
79,135

9,707

6,896

(2,811)

.

-

-

12.262
60,310

12.369
35,365

107
(24,945,1

-29.0%
0.0%
0.9%
-41.4%

5,563

FasTracks Inlemal Savings Account (FISA)
Board Appropriated Fttnd
Capital Replacement Fund
Operating Reserve
Unrestricted Fund
Unrestricted Net Assets
TOTAL NET ASSETS

.

-

13,200
6,000

16,200
9,000

5,563
16,200
9,000

-

-

-

.

24.098
43,298

24,902
50,102

14.358
45,121

(10.544)
(4,981,)

100.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
-42.3%
-9.9%

.

S

1,054,346

S

882,874

$

1,005,120

$

t22,246

13.8%

$

1,412,602

S

1,605,162

S

1,766,961

S

FASTRACKS PROJECT
BEGINNING NET ASSETS

t61,799

10.1”!,

Income Before Debt Service and Cap Ex
Debt and Reserves
Net Capital Expenditures
Current Activity
Depreciation and Amonization

294,122
597.742
(710.669)
181,195
(21,261)

305,888
247,583
(1,831.035)
(1,277,564)
(33,950)

307,354
142,073
(1.579.365)
(1,129,938)
(39,681)

1,466
(105,510)
251,670
147,626
(5,731)

0.5%
-42.6%
13.7%
It .6%
16,9%

Oliter
Total Change in Net Assets

194,425
354,359

1.809,805
498,291

1,590,298
420,679

(219,507)
(77,612)

‘12.1%
-15.6%

84,187

4.0%

ENDING NET ASSETS

S

NET ASSETS
Invested in Capital Assets, Net of Related Debt
I’Irsnxpenclobte Net Assets

1,766,961

S

2,103,453

$

2,187,640

S

700,674
700.674

1.087,747
1,087,747

1,408,571
1,408,571

320,824
320,824

29.5%
29.5%

-

0.0%

Debt Service Reserves’

82,238

90,892

90,892

Other Designated Reserves’
Unexpended Project Reserves
Tabor Reserve

87,098
689,100
5,716

81,257
566,150
6,042

81,257
389,100
5,822

(177,050)
(220)

0.0%
-31,3%
-3.6%

FasTracks Contingency Reserve1
FasTracks Conatnietion Reserve4
Restricted Net Assets

30,000
166.521
1,060,673

30,000
227,280
1,001,621

30,000
159.396
756,467

(67,884)
945,154,)

0.0%
-29.9%
.24.5%

FasTmcks Internal Savings Accotint (FISA)
Board Appropriated Fund
Capital Replacement Fttnd
Operating Reserve
Unrestricted Fund
U,arestrictcd Net Assets
TOTAL NET ASSETS
Notes:

.

5,614

1,766,961
-

S

84,187

4.07.

.

-

7,534
7,534

2,839
2,839

-

5,614
5

2,839
8,517

0.0%
60.5%
60.5%
0.0%
60.5%
60.5%

-

4,695
4,695

-

4,695
14,085

-

-

2,103,453
-

-

7,534
22,602
S

2,187,640
-

S

Attachment: 2013 Amended Budget (1613 : Approval of 2013 Amended Budget)

BASE SYSTEM

-

Rcconcitingitcniare tect cast, activity in capital projects, invcntoay. sceonans receivable sod prepsids, necrosis and capitalized interest.
Resents sre joeluded is designated snorting capital and include fated, nhat are lesslly restricted by bond covenants, other coniracts. Board designatian sod policy geidelinza.
Reserves sre as appropriated reacne nshjch jnavaiiabts to fund future year cspenditurea ror the l’saTracba progrum.
Reserves rrapreaent rercancu that are designated lobe spent jn future years for fine consteuelioa onto Fas’fraeks capitol progrant.

Packet Pg. 105

11.A.a

Exhibit I
Regional Transportation District
Fiscal Year 2013 Amended Budget Fund Balance
Combined (In Thousands)
-

NET ASSETS

2012 Actual

2013 Adopted
Budget

2013 Amended
Budget

$ FavI(Unfav)
2013 Amended
Budget vs.
2013 Adopted
Budget

$

$

$

$

% Fav/(Unfav)
2013 Amended
Budget vs. 2013
Adopted
Budget

Income Before Debt Service and Cap Ex
Debt and Reserves
Net Capital Expenditures
Cttrrent Activity
Depreciation and Amortization

-

(13,008)
24,851

-

(4,790)
(10,660)
.

(4,790)

100.0%

2348
(24,851)

-181%
-100.0%
0.0%
-190.0%
0.0%

________________

-

.

-

(4,790)

11,843

(10,660)

(22,503)

18,930
8,270

26,846
4,343

-339.1%
110.6%

(447)

.1 lAX,

.

Other
Total Change in Net Assets
ENDING NET ASSETS

-

(4,790)

(7.916)
3,927

-

(4,790)
$

(4,790)

$

3,927

$

3,480

S

NET ASSETS
Invested in Capital Assets, Net of Related Debt
Nraaaspendethle Net Assets

0.0%
0.0%

Debt Service Reserves’
Other Designated Reserves’
Unexpended Project Reserves
Tabor Reserve
FasTracks Constntction Reserve4
1?est ricted Net Assets
FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA)
Board Appropriated Fund
Capital Replacement Fttnd
Operating Reserve
Unrestricted Fttnd
Unrestricted Net Assets
TOTALNETASSETS

.

-

.

-

‘

-

.

-

-

.

-

-

-

-

-

-

.

-

-

-

-

1,309
1,309

-

-

-

.

.

1,160
1,160

(149)
(149)

1.160
3,480

0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%

(149)
(147)

0.0%
-11.4%
-11.4%
0.0%
-t 1.4%
-11.4%

-

1,309
3.927

-

0.0%

-

S

-

S

3,927

$

3,480

S

(447)

-114%

$

2,515,166

$

2,655,599

S

2,816,516

S

160,917

6.1%

857
(5,686)
261.205
256,376
(8,673)
(202,635)
45,068

0.2%
1.9%
.12.6%
-18.6%
7.6%
-11.1%
13.5%

205,985

6.9’!.,

COMBINED
BEGINNING NET ASSETS
Income Before Debt Service and Cap Ex
Debt and Reserves
Net Capital Expenditures
Current Activity
Depreciation and Amortization
Other
Total Citange in Net Assels
ENDING NET ASSETS

352,603
531,444
(746.918)
t 37,129
(118,999)
283,220
301,350
S

NET ASSETS
Invested in Capital Assets, Net ofRelated Debt
Notaspetadable Net Assel,o

2,816,516

397,697
293,418
(2,072.925)
(1,381,810)
(114,225)
1.830.690
334,655
S

2,990,254

398,554
287,732
(1.811.720)
(1,125,434)
(122,898)
1.628.056
379,724
$

3,196,240

$

-

1,632,587
1,632,587

1,860,209
1,860,209

2,333,205
2,333,205

472,996
472,996

25.4%
25.1%

Debt Service Reserves’
Other Designated Reserves’
Unexpended Project Reserves
Tabor Reserve

115,136
94,321
716,379
17,451

129,233
90,964
566,150
18,304

106,992
88,153
389,100
18,191

(22,241)
(2,811)
(177,050)
(t 13)

-17.2%
-3,1%
-31.3%
-0,6%

FasTracks Contingency Reserve5
FasTracks Construction Reserve4
ItestrirtedNetAssets

30,000
161.730
1,135,017

30,000
227,280
1,061,931

30,000
159,396
791,832

(67,884)
(270,099)

0,0%
-29.9%
-25.4%

5,563
24,894
17,694

5,563
2,690
2,690

FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA)
Board Appropriated Fund
Capital Replacemetst Futsd
Operating Reserve
Unrestricted Fund
Unrestricted Net Assets
TOTAL NET ASSETS
Notes;

$

‘

-

-

30,906
68,111

23,052
71,203

(7,854)
3,089

100.0%
t2.t%
17,9%
0,0%
.25.4%
4.5%

205,986

6.9’A,

-

.

13,200
6,000
5,614
24.098
48,912

22,204
15,004

2,816,516
-

$

2,990,254
—

$

3,196,240

S

Attachment: 2013 Amended Budget (1613 : Approval of 2013 Amended Budget)

FASTRACKS OPERATIONS
BEGINNING NET ASSETS

—

Rcconcitin~ itema reflect cash activicyia capital projects, iavcatar)~ sceaaa ts rcccivabls sad prcpaids, accruals said capitalized intcrcat,
Rcarn’cs arc jaetsded ia deaignatcd “oridag capital and iactuda fonda that arc tcgsly rcatricncd by bond cavcaaials, slier contracts, Rsard dssigastio, sad poticy guidoliacs.
Rcarn’ca sac an appropciatcd rcnc,vc which ia svsilshtc as stud future year cspcaditarca for the raaTrscls program.
Rcsrn’cnrcaprearat rrv,aac, that or, d,si5auted as he spent is future )csra (or tI’s conatniction ot’tt,r FusTracks capital program.

Packet Pg. 106

11.A.a

Attachment A
Revenue and Operating Expenditure Adjustments

SubTotal Base System Revenue Adjustments

Amount
14286,000
(5.302,000)

10, 719,000
-

8,869,000
14,286,000

Operating Expenditures Base
Boa Operations
Previously Approved Transfers
Difference between fuel budget end lock price
August ,vnboard service adjustments
Salary & Fringe forRail Service Planner/Schedule,

(066,659)
500,000
45,103

Rait Operations
Previously Approved Transfers
Additional Traclion Powet
Transfer of traction power and repair pads from West line
Staff additions (8.7SFTE)

(345,650)
500,000
556,427
290,691

Private Carrier Operetons
PreviouslyApproved Transfers
Revised Fuel Budget
Additional BroncosRide Service
Incentive Payments to private carriers

(51,602)
866,659
272,000
325,912

occoss-a-Ride
Previously Approved Transfers
Increased usage of access-a-Cab

51,602
295,000

Planning Beae Systems
Previously Approved Transfers
Transfer of expanses for Title VI Managerfrom Executive Office to Plenninc

14,286,000

(321,556)

1,001,468

1,412960

346,602

2,573,700
2,566,700
7,000

Capitol Programs Base Systems
Previously Approved Transfers
Civic Center lease cost under estimateo
Bus Barn TOO Study

210,000
130,000
30,000

370,000

SsleW. Security and Facilltes Base Systems
Previously Approved Transfers
Security contracts less than budgeted
Security costs transferred from West Line
Treasury Mechanical upgrade

113,029
(957,111)
112,909
75,000

(655,574)

General Counsel
Previously Approved Transfers
FInance and Administration Base Systems
Previously Approved Transfers
Replenish IT budget due 10 unexpected costs for R12 project
Additional costs In ITdue to SMT project delays
Increased costs in tTdue to additional mobile ticketing devices
Additional fare media in Accountinç
Temporary suppori in Accounting
Software and Ucenses in IT
Overtime in Traasury
Temporary personnel in Treasury
Oepadment of Revenue audit services
Salary S Fringe for Cyber Security Manager
Wages & Fringe forPT Treasury Clerics (2)
Increase in SMTspem pens in Treasury
TVM screen replacements in Treasury
Communications Base Systems
Previously Approved Transfers
Fund CMAQ grant for Flex Pass program
Flex Pass websito hosting
Temporary personnel to supporl SMT project
Executive Office
Previously Approved Transfers
Reconcile WIN operating budget to project budgel
Transfer Title VI Manager from Civil Rights to Plenninn
Eliminate temporary position in Civil Rights
Salary & Fringe for Administrative Assistant in Civil Rights
Board Office
Previously Approved Transfers

2,349,753
857,524
40,000
70,000
280,000
124,500
64,500
261,700
9,000
5,000
300,000
31,588
24,221
81,720
200,000
695,000

500,ooo
120,000
42,000
33,000
526,094

Attachment: 2013 Amended Budget (1613 : Approval of 2013 Amended Budget)

Description
Revenue Base
Se/es end Use Tax
Federal Grants
Fare Revenue
Other Revenue

23,386
506,101
(7,000)
(22,591)
26,210

-

Non-Departmental Base Systems
Previously Approved Transfers
Compensation adjustmentsin co,l
Additional pass-lhrough grant expenses

(40,OSSj
3,789,069

3,752,163

Subtotat Base System Operating Espenditures Adjustments

12,060.619

3,150
12,060.619

Packet Pg. 107

11.A.a

Attachment A
Revenue and Operatng Expenditure Adjustments
Description
Revenue FasTracks
Sales and Use Tax
Federal Grants
Other Income

(3,536,000)
12,120,000
(3,814,000)

SubTotal FasTracks Revenue Adjustments

4.770,000

Capital Programs PasTrsclcs.Conatmcflon
Previously Approved Transfers
DUS adjustments
Salary & Fringe forSenlor Manager of Rail Operations Plannlnj
Indiana FlyoverOridge Study
McCasslin Bridge & Stair Repeln
Civic Centerlesse costs under estimaled
Expense project not carded fo,wardin 2013
Satety, Security & Facilities FasTracks.Conotruction
Previously Approved Transfers

87,500
87,500
2,767.405
1,615,848
16,916
66,500
95,000
195,374
170,000
607,767

-

Finance and Adminisfration Fas’rracks.Conslructlon
Previously Approved Transfers
Salary & Fringe for Program Controls Estimator

56,525

Communicatons FaaTracks.Ccnstwction
Previously Approved Transfers
Public Involvement Increased Outside Se,vicea
Public Involvement Increased Video Seivices

9,000
13,000

Non-Depsrlmental FasTracks.Construcflon
Previously Approved Transfers

56,525

22,000

-

Subtotal FasTracka Operating Expanditures-Constnactton Adjustments

2,933,430

OperatIng ExpendItures FasTracks.Operatlons
Rail Operations FasTracks-Qperatiors
Previously Approved Transfers
Transfer of traction power and repaIr parts to Base
Reduce West line budget to act uals for Janus ry-Apdl

(500,000)
(556,427)
(930,221)

Capital Programs FasTrscks-Operations
Previously Approved Transfers
Increase to parking lease at FederaliDecsturstation

246,000

Communications FaeTradts.Operations
Previously Approved Transfers
Reduce West line budget to actuals for Janue,y.Aprii

500,000
(232,441)

Sstety, Security and Facilities FosTraclcs.000rations
Previously Approved Transfers
Security costs transferred to Base
Security contrects lower than budgeted
Reduce West line budget to actuels for January-April

4,770,000

2,933,430

(1,986,648)

246,000

267,559

(874,7181
(112,908)
(237,039)
(524,771)

Subtotal FasTracka Operating Expendltures-Operattons Adjustments

(2.347,808)

(2,347,805)

Total Base System and FasTracka Revenue Adjustment
Total Base System and FssTrscks OperatIng Expenditures Adjustment

19,058,000
12,638,241

19.056,000
12,536,241

Attachment: 2013 Amended Budget (1613 : Approval of 2013 Amended Budget)

Opersttng Expendttures FasTracks.Constructlon
Planning Fsstracks’Construction
Previously Approved Transfers
NATE IIP5C Costs

Amount
4770.000

Packet Pg. 108

11.A.a

Attachment B
2013 Amended Budget
New Capital Projects
Project

West Corridor
WEST CNPA STIMULUS FUNDING
WEST THIRD PARTY FUNDED PROJECTS
COMMUTER RAIL MAINTENANCE FACILITY
CRMF TO PECOS
DENVER UNION STATION-OVERSIGHT
DOWNTOWN DISTRIBUTOR BUS
DUS ELECTRIFICATION
DUS SYSTEMS-EAGLE
EAST CORRIDOR
GOLD LINE
1-225 CORRIDOR
1-225 CORRIDOR SEGMENT 1
NORTH METRO
NORTHWEST RAIL
SOUTHEAST CORRIDOR EXTENSION
SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS
EQUIPMENT FOR FM
PIDS ELECTRONIC SIGNS
Total Fastracks

607,767
1,568357
22,064,466
13,319,062
6,128,119
14,856,926
2917,064
2,135,992
262,365,227
98,267,730
192,225,226
(49,916,860)
32,226,453
20,946,843
20,000
22,505,533
858,186
61,740
$

643,157,831

Base System
Facilities Construction and Maintenance
SUPPORT VEHICLES CAR WASH REPLACEMENT
BLAKE COOLING SYSTEM

205,800
800,000

Park-n-rides
HWY 287 & NIWOT RD
104th AVE. & COLORADO BLVD.
TABLE MESA
TANTRA DRIVE

370,440
1,440,600
823,200
355,000

Capital Su~oort Proiects
BUS SHELTER-2013
STREET IMPROVEMENTS-2013
IGA STREET IMPROV. CITY OF BO
LOCAL GOVERNMENT REQUESTS
16TH STREET MALL PAVER REPAIR

51,450
361,600
50,000
308,700
10,262,986

LRT Transit
EVENT RECORDERS ON SD-100S
LRVTRAINING SIMULATOR

159,495
1,543,500

LRT Construction
MAINLINE EMERGENCY CROSS-OVER SWITCH HEAT
YARD ELECTRIC SWITCH HEATERS MARIPOSA

823,200
308,700

Fleet Modernization & Expansion
ADA. VEHICLES - CUTAWAY
ARTICULATED BUSES
CUTAWAY CALL-N-RIDE BUSES (11) FOR WEST LINE
MALL SHUTTLES EXPANSION 2011 PURCHASE
TRANSIT BUSES

576,240
26,198,340
751,170
17,647,350
49,649,250

Capital Support & Equipment: Operations
ADMINIPOOL/SUPERVISOR VEHICLES (NE~
ADMINIPOOL VEHICLES
SUPPORT/SERVICE VEHICLES NEW
TRANSMITTER UPGRADES
FIXED ROUTE BUS ANNUNCIATORS
IN PLANT VEHICLES & EQUIP (BUS)
MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT @ WEST LINE
UREA (DIESEL EXHAUST FLUID) STORAGE & DISPENSING
SMART CARD SYSTEM ARRA
AUTOMATED PASSENGER COUNTERS
CALL-N-RIDE VEHICLE DATA TERMINAL REPLACEMENT
CIVIL RIGHTS COMPLAINT MANAGEMENT SOFTWARE
DUS JUMBOTRON PIDS, CLOCKS, SIGNS, AND WIFI

153,733
71,000
646,962
19,600
1,577,609
263,753
159,495
154,350
2,409,778
843,780
160,524
25,725
334,000

Attachment: 2013 Amended Budget (1613 : Approval of 2013 Amended Budget)

FasTracks

Packet Pg. 109

Project
ENTERPRISE CRM STUDY/REPLACEMENT
FORMAT PLOTTERS (2) REPLACEMENT @ CC
LASERFICI-JE UPGRADE TO 8.3
MARKETING/PI WEB CONTENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
NETWORKING LRT PLATFORM SERVICES
ORACLE ERP PROCUREMENT AND CONTRACT MODULES
ORACLE EXADATA DATABASE SERVER
PARATRANSIT DATA SYSTEM UPGRADE
RTPI DELIVERY
RTPI FOUNDATION SOFTWARE
SCADA FIELD HARDWARE UPGRADE/REPLACEMENT
UNION TIMECLOCK SYSTEM @ DS
BUS BOX ENTRY TRAFFIC CONTROL SYSTEM @ DUS
ELECTRONIC CLOCK SYSTEM @ DUS

205,800
25,725
174,000
288,120
294,294
802,620
699,720
205,800
164,640
308,700
308,700
406,455
488,775
60,711

Unallocated Caeital
UNALLOCATED CAPITAL

154,350

Base System New Capital

$

124,095740

Fastracks New Capital

S

643,157,831

Total NEW CAPITAL FOR THE 2013 AMENDED BUDGET

5

767,253,570

S

124,095,740
119,069,903
5,025,837

Reconciliation of Changes
2013 Amended Budget System Base New Capital
2013 Adopted Budget Base System New Capital (SBP)
Net Change in New Capital for Base System

5

Reconciliation of Change in Base New Capital:
TRANSIT ASSET MGMT SYSTEM
BLAKE COOLING SYSTEM
FIXED ROUTE BUS ANNUNCIATORS
SMART CARD SYSTEM ARRA
DUS JUMBOTRON PIDS, CLOCKS, SIGNS, AND WIFI
LASERFICHE UPGRADE TO 8.3

$
$
$
$
$
S

(205,800)
800,000
187,071
2,288,560
334,000
174,000

Net Change in New Capital for Base System
Plus Transfers to New Capital
Total Changes to New Capial
2013 Amended Budget FasTracks New Capital
2013 Adopted Budget FasTracks New Capital
Net Change in New Capital for FasTracks

S
S
5

3,577,831
1,448,006
5,025,837

5
$
$
$
5
5
5
S
5
5
5
5

607,767
(23,954,653)
6,128,119
(2,536,523)
1,261,476
49,915,563
(49,916,860)
10,000,000
(10,889,766)
(1,352,600)
38,900
(20.698,575)

$
$

643,157,831
663,856,406
(20,698,575)

Reconciliation of Change in FasTracks New Capital:
WEST CNPA STIMULUS FUNDING
COMMUTER RAIL MAINTENANCE FACILITY
DENVER UNION STATION-OVERSIGHT
EAST CORRIDOR
GOLD LINE
1-225 CORRIDOR
1-225 CORRIDOR SEGMENT 1
NORTHWEST RAIL
PROJECT MANAGEMENT/ADMINISTRATION
SOUTHWEST CORRIDOR EXTENSION
WEST CNPA STIMULUS
Net Change in New Capital for FasTracks

2013 Total Amended Budget New Capital
2013 Total Adopted Budget New Capital
Net Change in NEW CAPITAL

$
$

Attachment: 2013 Amended Budget (1613 : Approval of 2013 Amended Budget)

11.A.a

Attachment B
2013 Amended Budget
New Capital Projects

767,253,570
782,926,309
(15,672,739)

Packet Pg. 110

11.A.a

Attachment C
2013 Amended Budget
Capital Carly-Foiward Expenditures
Description

FACILITIES CONSTRUCTION & MAINTENANCE
FAG MAINT SPREADER
TRANSMISSION DYNAMOMETER UPGRADE
CNG MONITORING SYSTEM
DRIVERS END REMODEL
SEWAGE UFTSTATION DRAIN UNE RELOCATION
HVAC UNIT REPLACEMENT
REDUNDANT COOLING TOWER-POST BLDG.
TOTAL FACILITIES CONSTRUCTION & MAINTENANCE

9.890
30,525
2.574,949
99,851
4,143
343,855
11,030
3,074,243

TRANSFER STATIONS
CITY OF BOULDEWRTD INTERMODAL FACILITY
SOUTHWEST PLAZA BUS TRANSFER STATION
TOTAL TRANSFER STATIONS

10,700,552
2,532,986
13,233,537

RAPID TRANSIT DEVELOPMENT
EAST CORRIDOR
TOTAL RAPID TRANSIT DEVELOPMENT

250,000
268,000

PARK ‘ N ‘ RIDES
BROADWAY & EUCLID
104th AVE. & COLORADO BLVD.
PINE JUNCTION
STAPLETON
TANTRA DRIVE
US-285 @ MOUNTAIN VIEW- STORM & DRAINAGE
SN 83 IPañwrRd.) & PINERY PARKWAY
TOTAL PARK-N. RIDES

4,588
1,106,651
1,346,280
3,747,179
355,000
12,012
204,200
6,775,910

CAPITAL SUPPORT PROJECTS
BUS SHELTERS-2006
BUS SHELTER-2010
BUS SHELTER’201 1
BUS SHELTER-2B12
STREET IMPROVEMENTS.2009
STREET IMPROVEMENTS-2010
STREET IMPROVEMENTS-2O11
STREET IMPROVEMENTS.2012
COLFAX AVE,IRTD ROUTE 15 L-TRANSIT PRIORITY
LOCAL GOVERNMENT REQUESTS
TOTAL CAPITAL SUPPORT PROJECTS

4.201
66,631
76,575
73,309
239.488
115,359
116,257
104,400
3,475,300
744,132
5,015,653

LRT CONSTRUCTION
MAINTENANCE OF WAY FACILITY-RIO COURT
TOTAL LRT CONSTRUCTION

5,042,352
5,042,352

LRT TRANSIT
INTRUSION DETECTION SYSTEM’SOUTHWEST-ARRA
LRT SAFETY SIGNALS SIGNAGE
TRACTION POWER SUBSTATION PLC UPGRADE
TOTAL TRANSIT

22,109
56,812
222,879
301.900

FLEET MODERNIZATION & EXPANSION
A.D.A. VEHICLES- CUT AWAY
CALL & RIDE CUT AWAY BUSES
CALL & RIDE CUT AWAY BUSES
INTERCITY BUSESI6/ARRA
INTERCITY BUSES2OI2 PROCUREMNET
TOTAL FLEET MODERNIZATION & EXPANSION

40,366
5,220,808
24,271
17,503
26.131,430
31.434,379

CAPITAL SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
ADA. SCHEDULING AND DISPATCH SYSTEM
ADMINIPOOL)SUPERVISOR VEHICLES (NE~
ADA CALL CENTER UPGRADES
CAPITAL TOOLS FOR LIGHT RAIL MAINTENANCE
SUPPORT/SERVICE VEHICLES
SUPPORT/SERVICE VEHICLES NEW
TRANSMITrER UPGRADES
FIXED ROUTE BUS ANNUNCIATORS
DISTRICT SHOP RADIO SITE UPGRADE
IN PLANT VEHICLES & EQUIP (BUS)
IN PLANT VEHICLES& EQUIP (RAIL)
IN-PLANT VEHICLES& EQUIP,
SMART CARD SYSTEM ARRA
FAREBOX REPLACEMENT COP
LRT NEWTVM UPGRADES, SEISW& CENTRAL
AUTOMATED STATION LOGGING
CENTRAL COMPUTER SOFTWARE
COMPUTER HARDWARE SAN’ARRA
DATA CENTER POWER EXPANSION
DRCOG FOCUS TRAVEL MODEL (Hardware/Software)
ENTERPRISE CONTENT MANAGEMENT
FULL AUTOMATION OF RUN ASSIGNMENT
0PS RE-RADIATOR
ORACLE UPGRADE TO REVISION 12
ORACLE BI HR AND PROCUREMENTANALYTICS
PASSENGER INFORMA11ON SYSTEM
REPLACE RADIO SYSTEMS/SOFTWARE - CAD/AVL

4,903
297,085
498,925
11,802
621,827
1,207,508
7,207
861,953
228,049
183,474
45,498
85,510
3,617,401
1,204,833
1950,000
102,100
80,430
6,692
514,071
13,384
1,333
106,783
814,400
1,027,146
669,430
11,251
354,267

Attachment: 2013 Amended Budget (1613 : Approval of 2013 Amended Budget)

BASE SYSTEM

Packet Pg. 111

11.A.a

REPLACE RADIO SYSTEMS/SOFTWARE - CAD/AVL
REAL TIME INFORMATION DELIVERY
SMT STORED VALUE CARD IMPLEMENTATION
STORAGE AREA NETWORK
TRAPEZE OPS MODULE
TRIP PLANNER ENHANCEMENTS
IVR DISASTER RECOVERY SERVERS
511 INTEGRATION MY STOP
CCS - SECURITY AND OPERATIONS
C.C.T.V. INSTALLATION-LIGHT RAIL STATIONS
SECURIIYCOMMAND CENTER EQUIPMENT
RIO COURT/STATE OF GOOD REPAIR
TOTAL CAPITAL SUPPORT EQUIPMENT

19.577,322
262.575
1,616,825
2,295
176,675
97,755
454.600
211,292
7,576
10.672
1,161
431.155
37246,376

TOTAL BASE SYSTEM

102,376,350

FASTRACKS
WEST FEDERAL PROJECT
WEST CNPA STIMULUS FUNDING
WEST THIRD PARTY FUNDED PROJECTS
ADA VEHICLES FASTRACKS
AURARIA WEST CROSSOVER
BURNHAM YARD LEAD & OTHER
BUS MAINTENANCE FACILITY
CCTV WEST CORRIDOR
CENTRAL CORRIDOR
CENTRAL CORRIDOR EXTENSION
CENTRAL PLATTE VALLEY
COLFAJ( CROSSOVER
COMMUTER RAIL MAINTENANCE FACILITY
CPV - 5MG STATION ENHANCEMENTS
CRMFTO PECOS
DENVER UNION STATION-OVERSIGHT
DOVMITOWE DISTRIBUTOR BUS
DUS ELECTRIFICATION
DUS SYSTEMS-EAGLE
EAST CORRIDOR
FAS TRACKS MISC. LIGHT RAIL VENICLES
FASTRACKS MISC.LIGHT RAIL VEHICLES 2008
GOLD LINE
1-225 CORRIDOR
1-225 CORRIDOR SEGMENT 1
LIGHT RAIL MAINTENANCE FACILITY
MISCELLANEOUS PROJECTS
NORTH METRO
NORTHWEST RAIL
NORTHWEST RAIL SEGMENT 2
P.P.P. PREPARATION
PROJECT MANAGEMENT/ADMINISTRATION
QUEUE JUMPS STIMULUS
SOUTHEAST CORRIDOR ENHANCEMENTS
SOUTHEAST CORRIDOR EXTENSION
SOUTHWEST CORRIDOR ENHANCEMENTS
SOUTHWEST CORRIDOR EXTENSION
SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS
SYSTEM WIDE COMMUNICATIONS
U.S. 36 B.R.T. PHASE 1
U.S. 36 B.R.T. PHASE 2
U.S. 3STVMs
WEST CNPA STIMULUS
WEST CORRIDOR 3RD PARTY BETTERMENTS
WEST PARKING GARAGE
LONGMONT STATION
SUPPORT/SERVICE VEHICLES
TOTAL FASTRACKS

36,176,102
109.991
1.606,125
573,292
752,574
4.985.785
271,484
1,676,789
1,880,813
1,342,244
1,619,459
373,643
64,D64,277
115,096
11,542,980
112,633,458
1,916,077
920,190
4.210,902
248,663,807
39,306,467
198,123
66,738,93D
59,DID,177
47.759,831
998,402
20,746,294
38,380,118
24,742,471
11,540,33S
27,475,973
17,514,207
4,872,275
3,653,748
6,318,658
3,930.157
1,357,731
16,028,919
385,551
346,721
4,128,949
791,E00
45,254
1,815,292
14,606,282
4,262,027
875,431
901,057,607

TOTAL BASE SYSTEM
TOTAL FASTRACKS
ORAND TOTAL

102,376,350
901,057,607
1,003,433,957

Attachment: 2013 Amended Budget (1613 : Approval of 2013 Amended Budget)

Attachment C
2013 Amended Budget
Capital Carry-Forward Expenditures

ReconciIi9IIon of Changes
2013 ADOPTED BUDGET BASE SYSTEM CAPITAL CARRYFORWARD
2D13AMENDED BUDGET BASE SYSTEM CAPITAL CARRYFDRWARD
Net Change

120,922,819
102,376,350
(18,546,469)

2013 ADOPTED BUDGET FASTRACKS CAPITAL CARRYFORWARO
2O13AMENDED BUDGET FASTRACKS CAPITALCARRYFORWARD
Net Change

1,130,390,229
901,057.607
(229,332,622)

2DI3TOTALADOPTED BUDGETCAPITALCARRYFORWARD
2D13TOTALAMENDED BUDGET CAPITALCARRYFORWARD
Net Change

1.251,313,048
1,003.433,957
(247.979.091)

Packet Pg. 112

11.A.b

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

RESOLUTION NO. ___, SERIES OF 2013

WHEREAS, a number of changes have occurred in the anticipated revenues and
expenditures as shown in the Resolutions adopting the 2013 Budget and Appropriation, an
amendment and supplement to the Appropriation Resolutions are necessary; and
WHEREAS, the projected revenues of the Regional Transportation District have increased
by $19.0 million due to adjustments in grant revenue and other income since the budget
was adopted; and
WHEREAS, operating expenditures (excluding interest expense) have increased $18.2
million primarily due to transfers of capital to expense and one-time operating expenses;
and
WHEREAS, interest expense has increased $19.9 million due to issuance of new debt,
restructuring of interest expense from debt refinancing and amortization of non-cash
interest expense; and capitalized interest has increased $2.3 million; and
WHEREAS, new capital expenditures have decreased $15.7 million due to alignment of
FasTracks corridor funding with updated timing, adjustments for grant funding, changes in
cost estimates, and completion of projects; and
WHEREAS, debt principal payments have decreased $9.0 million due to restructuring of
existing debt; and
WHEREAS, the unrestricted fund balance is projected to decrease $7.8 million due to
amended budget increases, increases in year-end accruals and the net pension obligation;
and
WHEREAS, the previously approved capital has decreased $247.9 million to reflect the
fourth quarter 2012 actual expenditures, transfers to reclassify certain capital projects as
expense projects, previously approved transfers, completion of projects, and project scope
changes; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Directors of the Regional
Transportation District that the following adjustments be made to the 2013 Budget;
a.
b.
c.

Attachment: 2013 amended resolution 061813 (1613 : Approval of 2013 Amended Budget)

(Amendment to 2013 Budget and Appropriations)

Revenues be increased by $19.0 million for a new total of $953.3 million.
Operating expenditures be increased by $18.2 million for a new total of
$554.7 million.
Interest expense be increased by $19.9 million for a new total of $79.5
million.

Packet Pg. 113

d.
e.
f.
g.
h.

Capitalized interest be increased by $2.3 million for a new total of $41.0
million.
New capital expenditures be decreased by $15.7 million for a new total of
$767.2 million.
Principal payments on debt be decreased by $9.0 million to $46.5 million.
The unrestricted fund balance be decreased $7.8 million for a new total of
$23.0 million.
Previously approved capital expenditures be decreased by $247.9 million for
a new total of $1,003.4 million.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the 2013 Appropriation of the District shall be
supplemented, modified, and amended as set forth herein to defray the expenses and
liabilities of the District and be appropriated for the corporate purpose of the Regional
Transportation District:

(In Thousands)
Operating Expense
Interest Expense
Capitalized Interest
New Capital
Debt Payments
FasTracks Contingency Reserve
Board Appropriated Fund
Capital Replacement Fund
Unrestricted Fund Balance
Current Year Appropriation

$

$

554,704
79,473
41,033
767,253
46,460
30,000
24,894
17,694
23,052
1,584,563

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the 2013 Previously Appropriated Capital of the
District shall be amended as set forth herein to defray the expenses and liabilities of the
District and be appropriated for the corporate purpose of the Regional Transportation
District:

(In Thousands)
Previously Appropriated Capital

$

1,003,434

Passed and adopted by the Board of Directors of the Regional Transportation
District on the _______ day of June, 2013.

Lorraine Anderson
Chair

Attachment: 2013 amended resolution 061813 (1613 : Approval of 2013 Amended Budget)

11.A.b

Bruce Daly
Secretary

Packet Pg. 114

Attachment: 2013 amended resolution 061813 (1613 : Approval of 2013 Amended Budget)

11.A.b

Packet Pg. 115

11.A.c

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION f71STRICT
RESOLUTION NO 90 SERIES OF 2073
Amendment to 2073 Budget and Appropriations

WHEREAS a number ofi changes Have occurred in the anticipated revenues and
expenditures as shown in the Resolutions adopting the 20
I3 Budget and Appropriation an
WHEREAS the projected revenues of the Regional Transportation District Have increased
0 million due to adjustments in grant revenue and other income since the budget
by S 7 9
was adopted and
WHEREAS operating expenditures excluding interest expense have increased S l 8
2
million primarily due to transfiers ofi capital to expense and one
time operating expenses
and
WHEREAS interest expense has increased S 1 9 million due to issuance of new debt

restructuring of interest expense firom debt refinancing and amortization ofi non
cash
interest expense and capitalized interest bas increased 52
3 million and

WHEREAS new capital expenditures have decreased S 7 5
7 million due to
of
FasTraclcs corridor funding with updated timing adjustments for grant fundingalignment
changes in
cost estimates and completion ofi projects and
WHEREAS debt principal payments have decreased 59
0 million due to restructuring of

existing debt and

WHEREAS the unrestricted fiund balance is projected to decrease S7 million due to
amended budget increases increases in year
end accruals and the net pension obligation
and

WHEREAS the previously approved capital bas decreased 524
9 million to reflect the
fiourth quarter 20l 2 actual expenditures transfers to reclassifiy certain capital projects as
expense projects previously approved transfers completion of projects and project scope
and

changes

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Board ofi irecto rs ofi the
Transportation Oist rict that the following adjustments be made to the 20l 3 BudgetRegional
a

b

c

Revenues be increased by l 9
0 million for a new total of 953
3 million
be
expenditures
increased
1
Operating
2 million fior a new total of
by S 8
7 million
554
Interest expense be increased by 519
9 million fior a new total of 579
million

Attachment: 2013 Resolution - 007 Approval of 2013 Amended Budget (1613 : Approval of 2013 Amended Budget)

amendment and supplement to the Appropriation Resolutions are necessary and

Packet Pg. 116

11.A.c

d

Capitalized

interest be increased

3 million for
by 2

a

new

total of 41
0

million
New

e

capital expenditures be decreased by 15
7 million for

a new

total of

2 million
767
f

Principal payments on debt be decreased by 9
0 million to 46
5 million

g

The unrestricted fund balance be decreased 7
8 million for
0 million
23

h

Previously approved capital expenditures be decreased by 247
9 million for

BE

IT

new

total of

total of 1
4
0
03 million

FURTHER RESOLVED that the 2013 Appropriation of the District shall be

supplemented modified

and

amended

as

set

forth

herein

to

defray

the expenses and

liabilities of the District and be appropriated for the
corporate purpose of the
Transportation District

Regional

In Thousands

Operating Expense

704
554

Interest Expense

473
79

Capitalized Interest
New
Capital
Debt Payments
FasTracks Contingency Reserve
Board Appropriated Fund
Capital Replacement Fund

460
46
000
30
894
24
694
17

Unrestricted Fund Balance

052
23

Current Year Appropriation

563
1
84

BE IT

FURTHER RESOLVED that the 2013

District shall be amended
District

033
41
253
767

and

be

as

appropriated

set forth

for

herein to

the corporate

Previously Appropriated Capital of the
defray the expenses and liabilities of the
purpose

of the

District

Regional Transportation

ln Thousands

Previously Appropriated Capital
Passed

and

District on the

adopted by the Board
day of June 2013

434
0
1
03

of

Directors

of the

1C
J h
Lorraine Anderson
Chair

Bruce

Daly
Secretary

Regional

Transportation

Attachment: 2013 Resolution - 007 Approval of 2013 Amended Budget (1613 : Approval of 2013 Amended Budget)

a new

a

Packet Pg. 117

12.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: June 5, 2013

From:

Richard Clarke Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

May 31, 2013

Board Meeting Date: June 25, 2013

Subject:

North Metro Segment 2, Phase 1
Commuter Rail Project Property Acquisition

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors pass the attached
property acquisition resolution certifying properties as necessary for construction of the North Metro
Segment 2 (Stock Show to 72nd Avenue), Phase 1 Commuter Rail Project and authorize staff to proceed
with all requisite legal process under state eminent domain law and to provide the General Manager or
designee with authority to enter into all contracts necessary to consummate real property transactions.
BACKGROUND
RTD must obtain possession of and make available to the successful proposer for the construction of the
North Metro Segment 2, Phase 1 Commuter Rail Project the right of way necessary for the construction
of the project. Properties identified to be acquired in the North Metro Segment 1, Phase 1 were certified
by passage of Resolution No. 11 Series of 2011 in September 2011. Property needs will be identified
and specific legal descriptions prepared beginning the formal acquisition process. This process begins
with good faith negotiations, but may ultimately result in court proceedings under eminent domain law.
Staff would like to proceed with the acquisition of all property identified, subject to any modifications or
additions required by the contractor and/or construction activities.
DISCUSSION
State and federal law mandate that specific procedures be followed in the acquisition of property for a
public project when the acquiring governmental entity has powers of eminent domain. RTD staff and its
outside counsel and property acquisition consultants are familiar with and adhere to these processes,
which commence with offers and good faith negotiations, but may result in court filing and eminent
domain proceeding to resolve property acquisitions. The attached resolution and right of way plan
tabulation sheets specify the additional property that has been delineated by design and authorize the
General Manager and/or Property Managers to certify specific legal descriptions of the needed properties.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
All right of way acquisition in this action is included in the North Metro budget.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee
that the Board of Directors pass the attached property acquisition resolution certifying properties
as necessary for construction of the North Metro Segment 2 (Stock Show to 72nd Avenue), Phase
1 Commuter Rail Project and authorize staff to proceed with all requisite legal process under state
eminent domain law and to provide the General Manager or designee with authority to enter into
all contracts necessary to consummate real property transactions.

Packet Pg. 118

12.B

2. Do not pass the attached resolution. Failure to pass the attached resolution may result in project
delay.
ATTACHMENTS:


North Metro Segment 2 Phase 1 attachment



2013 Resolution - 008 North Metro Segment 2, Phase 1 Commuter Rail Project Property Acquisition (PDF)

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:

(PDF)

ADOPTED BY CONSENT VOTE [14 TO 1]
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
Bruce Daly, Director, District N
Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Natalie Menten

Prepared by:
Susan Altes, Manager

Approved by:

Packet Pg. 119

12.B

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
RESOLUTION NO. ___ SERIES OF 2013
NORTH METRO SEGMENT 2, PHASE 1 COMMUTER RAIL PROJECT
PROPERTY ACQUISITION

Whereas, the Board has reviewed and approved maps of the North Metro Segment 1 Commuter
Rail Project; and
Whereas, the Board has reviewed that attached Right of Way plans tabulation sheets, which list
the property to be acquired;
Whereas, the RTD will conduct good faith negotiations and make an offer of just compensation
to acquire the Properties; and
Whereas, to ensure timely completion of the Project, it may be necessary to initiate
condemnation proceedings to acquire the Properties and to obtain immediate possession of the
properties; and
Whereas, consistent with the intent of the Project, the RTD or its designee shall have the
authority to amend (enlarge, decrease or change) the legal descriptions of the Properties as it
deems necessary in the best interests of the Project; and
Whereas, the RTD is empowered pursuant to the laws of the State of Colorado to exercise the
power of eminent domain in the manner provided by Article I of Title 38, C.R.S.
Whereas, the Board recognizes that each and every property owner impacted by the North
Metro Segment 2, Phase 1 Commuter Rail Project, although financially compensated according
to the law, makes a significant personal sacrifice for the public good, a sacrifice not made by
others who benefit from the Project.
Now, Therefore Be It Resolved That:
The Board hereby finds and determines that the Project constitutes a public purpose, that
there is a public need and necessity to acquire the properties within the corridor for and in
furtherance of a public purpose, and that the acquisitions are for the benefit of the public
health, welfare and safety.
The Board directs that the General Manager and/or the Project Managers, as the Board’s
delagatees, shall certify the specific legal descriptions of the needed properties.

Packet Pg. 120

12.B

The Board directs that the RTD delagatees should negotiate in good faith for the
acquisition of the property and if the delagatee is unable to acquire any property through good
faith negotiations, then the RTD may acquire such property through the exercise of the power
of eminent domain.
The Board further resolves to make every possible effort to communicate with property
owners, to recognize time constraints that may impact them, and to address concerns of
owners to the maximum extent feasible without negatively impacting the Project.
The Board finds and determines that the RTD should obtain possession of the Properties
as soon as permitted by law.
The Board directs that the General Manager or delegatee shall have the authority to enter
into all contracts necessary to consummate real property transactions.
Made and adopted this ___ day of _________________, 2013.
__________________________
Bruce Daly, Secretary

____________________________
Lorraine Anderson, Chair

Packet Pg. 121

BROADWAY,

Date
SheetDescription
Revisions
112 15 13 Revised Parcels PE-20E thru PE-20V

-

1111111

ROW
Sheet
Number

F~.~’Q
F~E11~1

32

P~~A
I~~j1

~

P€~C
F~~,j1

36

I’~
I~~4~1

I Address

Area

StateNumber
Parcel I.D.

SUNCOR ENERGY (U.S.A.) INC.

Connierce City CO

0182513202001

SUNCOR ENERGY (U.S.A.) INC.

Cormierce City CO

018251 3201 001

SUNCOR ENERGY (U.S.A.) INC.

Corr~nerce City CO

0182512102002
0182512102003

137.990—
(6,010.846)

SUNCOR ENERGY (U.S.A.) INC.

Cormierce City CO

0182512102002
0182512102003

Area of
Parcel

In Acres (Square Feet)

Existing

Net Area

.————..-

—.—-——.

ROW

0.627
(27,296)

——----.—

Remainder__Remainder
Left
Right

0.000
(9)

Property

Release
Date

Remarks

———-—-

N/A
N/A

N/A
N/A

PlO Lot I, Block 2, SUNCOR SUBDIVISION FILING NO. 1
Reception Nunt,er 2012000007022, 1-31-2012

N/A
N/A

N/A
N/A

P/O Lot 2, Block 1, SUNCOR SUBDIVISION FILING NO. I
Reception Nunt,er 2012000007022. 1-31-2012

N/A
N/A

0.382_-

22.526

(981,239)

Bk. & Pa.No.
And
Rec. ror
No.

I

(16,622)

————

0.050
(2,188)

—_____

--—-——

N/A
N/A

PlO Lot
1, BIk 1, & Tract
CONOCO
SUBDIVISION
FILINGA,NO. 1
Reception Nurrter C0316498, 9-11-1997

137.990
(6,010,846)

0.003
(137)

N/A
N/A

N/A
N/A

PlO Lot
1, 81k 1, & Tract
CONOCO
SUBDIVISION
FILINGA,NO. 1
Reception Nurrber C0316498, 9-11-1997

0.051
(2,231)

N/A
N/A

N/A
N/A

PlO Lot 2, Block 1, SUNCOR SUBDIVISION FILING NO. I
Reception Nurrber 2012000007022, 1-31-2012

--——--——-.

-

0.627

0.024

N/A

N/A

PlO Lot 1, Block 2, SUNCOR SUBDIVISION FILING NO. 1

SUN~OR ENERGY (U.S.A.) INC.

Corririerce City CO

0182513202001

(27,296)

(1,067)

N/A

N/A

Reception Nunter 2012000007022, 1-31-2012

REPUBLIC PAPERBOARD CO., INC.
3811 TURTLECREB(BLVD., SU1~E1100
DALLAS TX 75219
CITY AND COUNTY OF DENVER

5501 Brighton Blvd
Corm,erce City CO

0182512304002

-________

8.328
(362,749)

H0324285

.

AND SOLJ~H ADAMS COUNTY
WATERANDSANrfATION DISTRICT
CITY AND COUNTY OF DENVER
AND SOIJ~H ADAMS COUNTY
WATER AND SANITATION DISTRICT

‘~
(~)

-

~

.

-

.

AND SOUTHADAMS COUNTY
WATER
ANDCOUI%Wn’
SANITATION
DISTRICT
CITY AND
OF DENVER
CITY AND COUNTY OF DENVER
AND SOIJ~H ADAMS COUNTY
WATER AND SANITATION DISTRICT

..

PACKAGING CORP OF AMERICA
P0 Box 2366
Brighton MI 48116-6366
WE HOLDINGS INC
16361 East Hialeah Drive
Centennial CO 8001 5-41 03
HARPE OIL COMPANY
5480 Brighton Blvd
Corranerce City CO 80022-3607

~

Conmerce City CO

8.770
(382,027)

0182501400034

6800 Monroe St
Corrmerce City CO

0182501100007
0182501100019

6800MonroeSt
Corrirrerce City CO

0182501100007
0182501100019

11.319
(493,042)

6800 Monroe St
Corm,erce City CO

0182501100007
0182501100019

11.319

5501 Brighton Blvd
Cormrerce City CO

0182512304004

Cormierce City CO

0182512102040

11.319

(493,042)

.

(286,297)
1.141

~

6450 York
St
METRO WASTEWATER
RECLAM~.TION
DISTRICT
DenverCO8O229-7407

Corrnrerce City CO

0182512204004

--—.--.—-——

,—-,.

FARMERS RESERVOIR AND IRRIGATION CO

‘.~-.‘

80South27thAvenue
Brighton CO 80601

ConanerceCityCO

0182512101002

-

80 South 27th Avenue
Brighton CO 80601

Cormierce City CO

PlO 0182512101001

FARMERS RESERVOIR AND IRRIGATION CO
80 South 27th Avenue
Brighton CO80601

Cormierce City CO.

~

.

~
.

N

! (~
‘

-

.
—-—--——

(49.723)
—-

0182512204004

13.405
(583.910)

.—-.

(64.747)
0.053

—-———

——---.

10.394
(452,762)

N/A
N/A

Ff0323750

0.139
(6,052)

11.180
(486.990)

.--..----—-—

N/A
N/A

H0323750

11.240
(489.599)

..-------.----.--

N/A
N/A

H0323750

N/A
N/A

12.030
(524,011)

H0325042

—

-

..-

—

N/A

6.569
H0324281

(152)
0.106

N/A
1.035

(286,145)
N/A

-———-----

-—-———-----

--—--—-—-

(4,624)

(45,099)

N/A

(5,621)
0.129

(5,824,467)
133.711

N/A

—-.---.—

-

—-—----—--

0.069

0182501400022

0.164
——----(7.162)

Corrrnerce City CO

0182501400010
0182501400022

11.161

IHO~~UANUt.~INLtIzI<kUl~LANhY
P0 Box 1127
Ada~ City CO 80022-01 27

3421 East 64th Ave

-

Co~rce City CO

2.017

-

(87,853)
.

68.595
... —
(2 987 988)

—-------—----.

N/A
N/A

13.307
(579,672)
—

13.115
(571,300)

N/A

1.424

(2,737)
0.028

-——--..--.--.-.-.

-——-—----

-•--•---—-------

-——--------

(1,216)

N/A

N/A
N/A

(62.010)
0.025

H0324775

H0323772
H0323772

(1.108)

N/A

0.026
—

H0323772

0.050
(2,189)

0.114
N/A
—-----. -.--— —.—-._(4,973)
N/A

Ff0323755

0.193

10.968

0.077
.—.-—.—

..——- --———

(1,868)

Comerce City CO

N/A
N/A

0.063

0.043

JUSTINDcI-IRISTENSON
3775
cDhirrreyo
Road
Ltttteton
CO 80123
JUSTIN D
3775 Coinreyo Road
Littleton CO 80123

H0324775

- —.——.—.— ——

-..—..----...-—-----

(3,004)

H0325053

H0324775

----------.
0.289
(12,610)

(2,324)

P/O 0182512101001

0182501100018

--_______

0.097
(4,238)

1.486

6720 Monroe Street
Cormrerce City CO

-_______

---— —--.—-.— —. .—-..—.—-.

13.405
(583,910)

FARMERS RESERVOIR AND IRRIGATION CO

1600 West 12th Avenue
CCD & BOARD
OF WATER
COMMISSIONERS
Denver
CO 80204

H0323750

——-—.

(5.830,088)
133.840

0182501400033

N/A

._—._.__

Connierce City CO

V

(705,008)

0.003

6450 York St
METRO WASTEWATER RECLAM°.TION DISTRICT
Denver CO 80229-7407

~

(5,113)

6.572

(~)

~-

N/A

0.001
(30)

0182512201013

..

16.185

12.030
.__
(524,041)

Corrnrerce City CO

-(‘~a)

0.117

0.079
(3,443)

-

—

.

(40,280)

--—---—--—

N/A
N/A

-

0.925

--_____

6450 York St
Denver CO 80229-7407
ME~ROWASTEWATERRECLAMATIONDISTRICT

7

0.443
(19.278)

——_____

(710,121)

0182513200011

F

-.————

16.302
—______

5480 Brighton Blvd
Cormierce City CO 800223607

T~

~

ProjectNumber: 072120 PHASE I SEGMENT II
Project Location: NWSS to 72nd Avenue Station
Project Code: I Last Mod. Date I Subset Sheets I Sheet No. I Total No. of Sheets
~
05-30-13
2
160

32

~

~

Project Location: RTD Fastracks North Metro Corridor

I

Parcel
Address

Owner

Denver, Colorado 80202
Phone:
303-820-5240
707l7thSfreet,Suite2300
Fax: 303-820-5298

~

,

.-

-.

22.526
(981,239)

(~)

c’~.r

RevisedParcelPE-20

Right of Way
Plans
Tabulation
of Properties

0182513201001

~

0.

~O-13

COBS

Initials

Conrnerce City CO

..

..

SheetDescrpton
Revisions

~5~W

SUNCOR ENERGY (U.S.A.) INC.

.

~

ii~iUais

32

(~

~1

SheetDescription
Revisions

pyv
F~~j1

.

Date

SUITE 700

DENVER, COLORADO 80202
(303) 299-6990

Parcel
Number

i~iiais
MAH

.--...--—---....-

N/A

~—--

- .—--—..--—--- -------.

.--—

-

-...~:-~d~-(3,350)

(1.136)

N/A
N/A

Ff0323755

N/A

1.940

H0324280

N/A

(84,503)

0.271
68.324
..~
...
(11 801)
(2 976 187)

—.---—

—

N/A
..
N/A

Packet Pg. 122

12.B.a

1560

Attachment: North Metro Segment 2 Phase 1 attachment (1594 : NM Segment 2, Phase 1 Property Acquisition)

7r•~~

[~J D

H0323752

12.B.a

Sheet Revisions

-

•

~

1560 BROADWAY, SUITE 700
COLORADO 80202

DENVER,

Date

Description

~
Inihals

SheetDescripton
Revisions

fretials

SheetDescription
Revisions

Date

krWals

707 17th Street, Suite 2300
Denver, Colorado 80202
Phone: 303-820-5240
Fax: 303-820-5298

I

Right

(303) 299-6990

Project Number: 072120 PHASE I SEGMENT II
Project Location: RTD Fastracks North Metro Corridor

Project Location: NWSS to 72nd Avenue Station
Project Code:
Last Mod. Date I Subset Sheets I Sheet No. I Total No. of Sheets
~

Parcel
Number

ROW
Sheet
Number

~

CCD & BOARD OF WATER COMMISSIONERS
1600 West 12th Avenue
Denver CO 80204
ALBERT R FREt LLLP
P0 Box 700
Henderson CO80640
ALBERT R FREI LLLP
P0 Box 700
Henderson CO 80640

~

~)
: ~

StateNumber
Parcel I.D.

6720 lvbnroe Street
Cormierce City CO

0182501100018

3701 Colorado Blvd
Colorado

0182501102001

7175 Colorado Blvd
Colorado

0182501104001

Area in Acres (Square Feet)
Area of
Parcel

.

(~~i

(~j~)
(~~)

Net Area

Existing
ROW

Remainder
Left

Remainder

0.050

68.544

—-———

(2.985,791)

N/A
N/A

39.326

N/A

68.595

(2.987.988)

-

(2.197)
0.098

(1,717,311)

(4,261)

(1,713,050)

N/A

7.783
(339,038)

N/A
N/A

0.000
(0)

0.000
(0)

0.016
(699)

N/A
N/A

N/A
N/A

0.000
(0)

0.043
(1,869)

N/A
N/A

N/A
N/A

Frico Ditch Company

0.000
(0)

0.378
(16.456)

N/A
N/A

N/A
N/A

Frico Ditch Company

0.000
(0)

0.721
(31.428)

N/A
N/A

N/A
N/A

Frico Ditch Company

0.000
(0)

0.104
(4,533)

N/A
N/A

N/A
N/A

7.783
(339,038)

—

.

.

(;~.~)

-

————.-—--

0.000

0.131

N/A

N/A

Frico Ditch Company

(0)

(5,715)

N/A

N/A

Frico Ditch Company

— (0)

0.000
~

Right

39.424
—_______

Frico Ditch Company

(;~j~)

.

Parcel
Address

Frico Ditch Company

(~.

~

Owner! Address

Frico Ditch Company

0.096

N/A

N/A

(4,198)

N/A

N/A

0.000
(0)

0.305
(13.277)

N/A
N/A

N/A
N/A

0.000

0.000

N/A

N/A

(0)

(0)

N/A

N/A

0.000

0.000

N/A

N/A

(0)

(0)

N/A

N/A

0.000

0.000

N/A

N/A

(0)

(0)

N/A

N/A

0.000

0.000

N/A

N/A

(0)

(0)

N/A

N/A

0.000

0.000

N/A

N/A

(0)

(0)

N/A

N/A

0.000

0.000

N/A

N/A
N/A

7-

C

a

0.
a
C

<Lii
c,1

c~
oO

.-z

a

I~
~
C~

~9

e,~

(0)

(0)

N/A

0.000

0.000

N/A

N/A

(0)

(0)

N/A

N/A

0.000

0.000

N/A

N/A

(0)

(0)

N/A

N/A

0.000

0.000

N/A

N/A

(0)

(0)

N/A

N/A

0.000

0.000

N/A

N/A

(0)

(0)

N/A

N/A

0.000

0.000

N/A

N/A

(0)

(0)

N/A

N/A

0.000

0.000

N/A

N/A

(0) —
0.000

.

(0) —~
0.000

—~

N/A

N/A

-.

N/A
N/A

—___

(0)

(0)

N/A

N/A

Bk.&P9. No.
And INo.
Or
Rec.

Way Plans

Tabulation
of of Properties

JAC • BS~

I

05-30-13

Property

Release
Date

Packet Pg. 123

Attachment: North Metro Segment 2 Phase 1 attachment (1594 : NM Segment 2, Phase 1 Property Acquisition)
r

[~j D

Remarks
HD323752

H0323231

H0323231

2A

I

160

/

/

U)
CD
C,

m

Cl,

513112013
10:23:36 AM
K:~072120 Fastracks~NORTH METRO~d • ns~ROMAPIan Sheets-2\NM-VR-PLOO4OWN.d • n

/~i~

Packet Pg. 124

12.B.a

Attachment: North Metro Segment 2 Phase 1 attachment (1594 : NM Segment 2, Phase 1 Property Acquisition)

Sheet Revisions

Sheet Revisions

Description

I

I

JACOBS
707 17th Street, Suite 2300
Denver, Colorado 80202
Phone: 303-820-5240
Fax: 303-820-5298

1560 BROADWAY, SUITE 700
DENVER, COLORADO 80202
(303) 299-6990

Right of Way Plans

II Project Number: 072120
Ownership Sheet
PHASE I SEGMENT II

Project Location: RTD Fastracks North Metro Corridor

I Project Location: NWSS to 72nd Avenue Station
Project Code:

Last Mod. Date

Subset Sheets

Sheet No.

Sections 12 ~ 13, Township 3 South, Range 68 West, 6th P.M
.7”

~
~

_______________________________________
Se°~~°~’

0

~ ~2,~4k ~ ~ Energy (U.S.A.) Inc.

150

300’

Scale: 1” = 300’
~1

Republic Paperboard Company, Inc.
Se0~0~’ “~

“S

\
\\

Sw Y~, Sec. 12

Packaging Corporation of America
Harpe[ Oil Company

//
Fricó Ditch Company
a

/

C

z

0

U,
0

Sec. 12

Sa
&

z
C’1

a,

a,
C
Co
C

SCYNeOR
~INER1Y

a
a
0

5,
C

0

—z
‘a

/

0

A

1~~

Packet Pg. 125

12.B.a

Attachment: North Metro Segment 2 Phase 1 attachment (1594 : NM Segment 2, Phase 1 Property Acquisition)

Sheet Revisions

D-ThMS7f~CKS
[~D
001u111111

Total No. of Sheets

Sheet Revisions

Sheet Revisions

Sheet Revisions

Descuiption
Revised Parcel RE-20D

II

j JACOBS

Descdption

707 17th Street, Suite 2300
Denver, Colorado 80202
Phone: 303-820-5240
Fax: 303-820-5298

1560 BROADWAY, SUITE 700
DENVER, COLORADO 80202
(303) 299-6990

Right of Way Plans
Ownership Sheet

Packet Pg. 126

12.B.a

Attachment: North Metro Segment 2 Phase 1 attachment (1594 : NM Segment 2, Phase 1 Property Acquisition)

DThFMTT~CKS
[~i D
ff111111111

I Project
Number: 072120 PHASE I SEGMENT II
Project Location: RTD Fastracks North Metro Corridor

I Project Location: NWSS to 72nd Avenue Station
Project Code:
Last Mod. Date I Subset Sheets I Sheet No. I Total No. of Sheets
I 05-30-13
I 154 I
160

Sections 1 & 12, To nship 3 South, Range 68 West, 6th P.
‘4’

o

(g

150

300

—

C

Scale: 1”

.-~

300’

SW 14 Sec. I

NW i’4 Sec. 12
eis,;I Ix

-

—
,-.
—~

NNcNN

—~

— ..—

-.~---

0:

14 Sec.

~-

-

— ..~

c__ \

—~

~

\

\\ ~

‘I s::’

~

Suncor Energy (U.S.A.) Inc.

SWNCO
SW 14 ~C. 1~’
•~EFINER5Y

N C€ID, South Adams County Water
227
& Sanitary dist.
WE Holdings, Inc.

\“

N
N
N
Metro Wastewater
27
7
7
Reclamation District
~
Farmers Reser’~oir
28 ‘~J2~A~( arid Irrigation Co.

14 Sec. 1’2 ,~

~

\SE/4Sec.1__~

\\.

Justin D Christenson
\\ ~

Thomas C & Ginger K Delaney

\ ~
~(p\~ ~

IKTtPI~,

2 I ~V

\g%\\~.

F~r
31

—,

/

N,~

C€D,
- of Water
By andCommissioners
Through its Board
N~ ~ N3 Frico Ditch Company
-

\\

~\\

‘≥~

\\

~

_____:~—

~

___

12.B.a

Sheet Revisions

Sheet Revisions

Description

Description

JACOBS’

II

Right of Way Plans
Ownership Sheet

II

707 17th Street, Suite 2300 Project Number: 072120 PHASE I SEGMENT II
Denver, Colorado 80202
Project Location: RTD Fastracks North Metro Corridor
Phone: 303-820-5240
Fax: 303-820-5298
[ProJect Location: NWSS to 72nd Avenue Station

1560 BROADWAY, SUITE 700
DENVER, COLORADO 80202
(303) 299-6990

—.-~;;--

_~~\
~

•~-..~~‘--

~

‘~~- -

:~

~

~—

C

72nd

~\~\ ~

z

,Th

0
0
0
-J
0~

&

i:~~

>
z

SE Y4 Sec. I

a
a

I

ci,

~:

\—

~ ~ZJ ~

~
.—.

~

C

a.

0~\

Justin D €hristenson
àO
a

By and Through its
of Water €ornrnissioners

C,
6,

a

7//
‘~

//C

Albert R Frei LLLP

U

0~

I

~\

Frico Ditch Company

\‘c~~

:E

\

\

\~c~\

NW 14 Sec. 6

Ih

c~)
~~
\ ~
\\~

~

Packet Pg. 127

Attachment: North Metro Segment 2 Phase 1 attachment (1594 : NM Segment 2, Phase 1 Property Acquisition)

Sheet Revisions

—NFAS7/TRACKS
[~j~
D
M111111111

Sheet Revisions

Sheet Revisions
Description

I

JACOBS
707 1 7th Street, Suite 2300
Denver, Colorado 80202
Phone: 303-820-5240
Fax: 303-820-5298

1560 BROADWAY, SUITE 700
DENVER, COLORADO 80202
(303) 299-6990

Right of Way Plans
Ownership Sheet

II Project
Number: 072120 PHASE I SEGMENT II
Project Location: RTD Fastracks North Metro Corridor
Project Location: NWSS to 72nd Avenue Station

Packet Pg. 128

12.B.a

Attachment: North Metro Segment 2 Phase 1 attachment (1594 : NM Segment 2, Phase 1 Property Acquisition)

Sheet Revisions

D~FAST~CKS
[~j~i D
ff111111111

Total No. of Sheets

Section 36, Township 2 South, Range 68 West, 6th P.
Section 1, Township 3 South, Range 68 West, 6th P.M
I

I
.

I

~

NEY4Sec. I

Qu~
~‘Li~e

I

NW 14 Sec. 36

II

I

III

0
/11’

-

150’

300

Scale: 1” = 300

Co

‘—

~

C’)

.0

s:

II III

$

.---....

NE 1/4 Sec. 36
SE 1/4 Sec. 36

1

0/

r
S.

i/i ,~

F

\
\
\

~

/~

~

~•‘•

II
i—c

~J

-

~9

~--—--

~
0

~jI
t’I

SE 1/4 Sec. 36

:~TlI

0,
‘C

/

I.

76

-

0

Albert RFrei LLLP
,

.~i

I

NW 14 Sec. 6

~

Secti0

~

~0

IC.’,
0

SW 14 Sec. 31

V

_..__r_~_~~__
—

__—~~~~_-

—

cal

C’,

0

—

/
-JI

‘ft

—

/

/

Ci)

—

—

—

a
a

—

C.)
~

E~EE~~

>
z#

~0

- -

—

\

Proposed North
Northbound

It

-

——

.4

——

• I 72ndAi

~

—

I

~
~

I’

—

~

I

NE14Sec. 36

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION F
ISTRICT
RESOLUTION NO
SERIES
OF
207 3
O
NORTH METRO SEGMENT 2 PHASE 7 COMMUTER RAIL PROJECT
PROPERTY ACQUISITION

Whereas the Board has reviewed and approved maps of the North Metro Segment l Commuter
Rail Project and

Whereas the Board has reviewed that attached Right ofi Way plans tabulation sheets which list
the property to be acquired
Whereas the RTC wilt conduct good faith negotiations and make an offer of just compensation
to acquire the Properties and

Whereas to ensure timely completion of the Project it may be necessary to initiate
condemnation proceedings to acquire the Properties and to obtain immediate possession of the
properties and
Whereas consistent with the intent of the Project the RTC or its designee shall have the
authority to amend enlarge decrease or change the legal descriptions of the Properties as it
deems necessary in the best interests of the Project and
Whereas the RTC is empowered pursuant to the laws of the State of Colorado to exercise the
power of eminent domain in the manner provided by Article 1 of Title 38 C
S
R
Whereas the Board recognizes that each and every property owner impacted by the North
Metro Segment 2 Phase 1 Commuter Rail Project although financially compensated according
to the taw makes a significant personal sacrifice for the public good a sacrifice not made
by
others who benefit firom the Project
Now Therefore Be It Resolved That
The Board hereby finds and determines that the Project constitutes a public purpose that
there is a public need and necessity to acquire the properties within the corridor for and in
furtherance of a public purpose and that the acquisitions are for the benefit of the public
health welfare and safety
The Board directs that the General Manager and
or the Project Managers as the Board
s
shall
the
delagatees
certify specific legal descriptions of the needed properties

Attachment: 2013 Resolution - 008 North Metro Segment 2, Phase 1 Commuter Rail Project Property Acquisition (1594 : NM Segment 2, Phase 1 Property Acquisition)

12.B.b

Packet Pg. 129

12.B.b

Board directs that the RTD delagatees should
negotiate in good faith for the
of
the property and if the delagatee is unable to
acquisition
acquire any property through good
faith negotiations then the RTD may acquire such
property through the exercise of the power
of eminent domain

The Board further resolves to make
every possible effort to communicate with property
owners to recognize time constraints that
may impact them and to address concerns of
owners to the

maximum extent feasible without negatively

impacting the Project

The Board finds and determines that the RTD should obtain
possession of the
as soon as permitted by law
The Board directs that the General

Manager or delegatee shall have the
into all contracts necessary to consummate real
property transactions
Made and

adopted this a5 day of

N

2013

C
Bruce Daly Secretary

L rraine Anderson Chair

Properties

authority to enter

Attachment: 2013 Resolution - 008 North Metro Segment 2, Phase 1 Commuter Rail Project Property Acquisition (1594 : NM Segment 2, Phase 1 Property Acquisition)

The

Packet Pg. 130

12.C

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: June 6, 2013

From:

Richard Clarke, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

June 5, 2013

Board Meeting Date: June 25, 2013

Subject:

Easement for Brainard Drive Relocation Project

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of Directors authorize
the General Manager and/or his designee to execute all documents necessary to convey a non-exclusive
drainage easement over 10,881 square feet (0.249 acres), more or less in Section 28, Township 1
South, Range 69 West, City and County of Broomfield, State of Colorado.
BACKGROUND
In 1997, RTD acquired property for future transit facilities in the vicinity of the interchange of US 36 and
96th Street in the city limits of Broomfield. The City of Broomfield held an option on approximately 56
acres of vacant land and lacked sufficient available funding to exercise the option prior to its expiration
in late 1997. RTD desired to secure a portion of the property, at that time below the current market
value and pursuant to an IGA between RTD and the City of Broomfield, RTD exercised the option on the
56 acres. The City of Broomfield had the right to purchase up to 46 acres of the land from RTD at the
original option price prior to the end of 2002. RTD retained 10 acres for future development of a transit
center/park-n-Ride facility. On the property retained by RTD, the Flatiron park-n-Ride was developed.
DISCUSSION
The City and County of Broomfield will acquire a permanent easement from RTD for drainage. The
Colorado Department of Transportation, BNSF and Broomfield desire to relocate the BNSF siding tracks
in Broomfield so that the siding tracks will no longer cross two roadway intersections. In order to do
this, Broomfield must relocate the location where Brainard Drive connects to Midway Boulevard. This is
generally shown on the attached graphic.
The value of the proposed easement has been determined by CDOT and the City and County to be 90%
of the fee value of $2.00 per square foot or $19,586 for the 10,881 square foot easement.
Valuation was based on appraisal work done by Douglas P. Agne, MAI of Pinnacle Evaluation. His
appraisal of adjacent property to the north of the RTD parcel conclude land valuation at $0.55 per
square foot as but also valued the property at $1.33 per square foot if sold for transit oriented
development. The Broomfield City council approved a Purchase and Sale Agreement of the adjacent
north five acres at their April 23, 2013 meeting at $1.00 per square foot.
The grant of this easement will not preclude future development and will in fact enhance future access
to the RTD parcel.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
RTD will receive $19,586 in compensation for the easement.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to execute all

Packet Pg. 131

12.C

documents necessary to convey a non-exclusive drainage easement over 10,881 square feet (0.249
acres), more or less in Section 28, Township 1 South, Range 69 West, City and County of
Broomfield, State of Colorado.
2. Do not authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to execute all documents necessary to
convey a non-exclusive drainage easement over 10,881 square feet (0.249 acres), more or less in
Section 28, Township 1 South, Range 69 West, City and County of Broomfield, State of Colorado.
ATTACHMENTS:


US 36 Brainard Drive Relocation final



FasTracks US 36 Brainard Drive Detail final (PDF)



Brainard Drive PE -1 Signed 3-4-2013

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:

(PDF)
(PDF)

PASSED BY CONSENT VOTE [14 TO 1]
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
Bruce Daly, Director, District N
Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Natalie Menten

Prepared by:
Susan Altes, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 132

12.C.a

Packet Pg. 133

Attachment: US 36 Brainard Drive Relocation final (1596 : Board Report-Easement Brainard Drive Relocation Project)

12.C.b

Packet Pg. 134

Attachment: FasTracks US 36 Brainard Drive Detail final (1596 : Board Report-Easement Brainard Drive Relocation Project)

Packet Pg. 135

12.C.c

Attachment: Brainard Drive PE -1 Signed 3-4-2013 (1596 : Board Report-Easement Brainard Drive

Packet Pg. 136

12.C.c

Attachment: Brainard Drive PE -1 Signed 3-4-2013 (1596 : Board Report-Easement Brainard Drive

12.C.c
PP

BR
AI
NA
RD
DR
I
VE

C 1/4 SECTION 28
FOUND 3" ALUMINUM CAP
0.4’ BELOW GRADE IN RANGE BOX
STAMPING ILLEGIBLE
W

PP

RP
PP

0’

50’

100’

793
.
61’
S07
5
01 ’
50"W

L3 FIBER

200’

SCALE 1" = 100’

SW 1/4
SECTION 28

BASIS OF BEARINGS
SOUTH 000 5’16" EAST 2673.48’
WEST LINE SE 1/4 SECTION 28 ,
T1S, R69W, 6TH P.M.

18" CMP

T 1 S, R 69 W
CITY AND COUNTY
PP

OF BROOMFIELD

BOULDER COUNTY
OPEN SPACE

RIGHT OF WAY LINE BASED ON
RECEPTION NO. 1740556
MMFN
PP FIBER

RP
PP

N21017’23"E
139.84’

P.O.B. PE-1

L3 FIBER

SA

PE-1
10,881 SQ. FT
(0.249 ACRES)

S10031’55"W
125.40’

RP

SE 1/4
SECTION 28

PP

A POLITICAL SUBDIVISION OF THE
STATE OF COLORADO

60’

24’
E 346.
05"
05 ’
1
S01

05’
314.

(C
O R
LO A
L
R I
A RO
D A R
O D I
& V GH B
S A T NS
O L O F
U UA F R
TH T
W AI
E I
R ON AY LR
N S ( O
R E 20 AD
A C 0
I
LW TI ’R
O
A N OW
Y C )
C O
O L
M O
P R
A A
N D
Y O
M 3
A
P
S
-8
)

T 1 S, R 69 W

VE
NARD DRI
BRAI

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT,

W
05"
05 ’
1
N01

PROPERTY OWNER:

T

MMFN
FIBER

L3 FIBER
PP

60’
B-2

N48036’33"W

38.06’
PP

Attachment: Brainard Drive PE -1 Signed 3-4-2013 (1596 : Board Report-Easement Brainard Drive Relocation Project)

SA

6
0
’

B-2 alternate

S 1/4 SECTION 28
FOUND 2.5" ALUMINUM CAP
1.9’ BELOW GRADE IN RANGE BOX
STAMPING ILLEGIBLE
ROW

L3 FIBER

ISSUE DATE:02-27-2013

SHEET NO. CHK’D BY:

1

JOB NUM:
121004

777 S. WADSWORTH BLVD. 4-100
LAKEWOOD, COLORADO 80226

YOFB
NT
RO
OU
C

ELD
FI

CJG

CONSULTING ENGINEERS

M
O

DRAWN BY:

MULLER ENGINEERING CO., INC.
TY A
CI
ND

CJG

PE-1
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

(303) 988-4939
CO
O
L
ORAD

Permanent Drainage Easement Exhibit

DATE

REVISION COMMENTS

1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 1000
Denver, Colorado 80203
P: 303-623-6300 F: 303-623-6311

Packet Pg. 137
HarrisKocherSmith.com

12.D

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: June 12, 2013

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

June 12, 2013

Board Meeting Date: June 25, 2013

Subject:

State Legislative Liaison Services Contract

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Regional Transportation District’s Executive Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into Contract No. 13DX001 with
Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs, which is an agreement for state legislative liaison services for one
year (July 1, 2013 through June 30, 2014) at a cost of $107,000 and four (4) additional one-year
options to renew at prices specified in the Contract, each option period contingent upon approval by the
Board of Directors.
BACKGROUND
In April 2013, RTD issued a competitive Request for Proposals (RFP) for State Legislative Liaison
Services. The RFP was broadly advertised in The Denver Post and the lobbying trade publication—The
Colorado Statesman—plus being sent to many current lobbying firms. One team—the incumbent
Brandeberry~McKenna group—responded to this request. After reviewing the proposal, the Executive
Committee is recommending the award of this contract to Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs as our
legislative liaison with the legislative and executive branches of the state of Colorado. This team has
broad knowledge of RTD’s needs and concerns, as well as having extensive experience in handling RTD
issues at the state capitol. The proposal was submitted for the period of July 1, 2013 through June 30,
2014, with the potential for four (4) one-year option periods. The proposed costs reflect a negligible
increase, less than five percent per year, which is within an acceptable range for increased labor and
overhead expenses. The Government Relations Committee will make annual recommendations to the
Board of Directors near the end of each contract period regarding the exercise of future option periods.
DISCUSSION
The state lobbying team provides guidance and direction for the RTD Board of Directors and staff in
their relationships with the General Assembly members. Constant monitoring of the activities within
the General Assembly and the Executive Office of the state of Colorado is required, and RTD’s
interests must be conveyed to appropriate legislators, including testifying before certain committees.
Advice and assistance in drafting legislation are also provided by the lobbying team. When RTD has
had legislation before the General Assembly, Brandeberry~McKenna has done an excellent job of
making certain that these bills pass and become part of the Colorado statutes.
As part of the services, frequent contact is made with RTD staff and board members regarding various
bills in the legislature; written summary reports are issued on a weekly basis during the legislative
session; and status reports are given at the Government Relations Committee meetings while the
General Assembly is in session and as deemed necessary thereafter.

Packet Pg. 138

12.D

ALTERNATIVES
1. Approve the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into a contract for state legislative liaison
services with Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs, for the initial year July 1, 2013 through June
30, 2014 on Contract No. 13DX001, at a first-year cost of $107,000.
2. Do not approve the Recommended Action. Do not accept the recommendation by the Executive
Committee that authorizes the General Manager to enter into a contract to execute the state
legislative liaison services one-year contract. A new Request for Proposals could be sent to
interested parties, interviews conducted, and a different state lobbying firm could possibly be
selected by the Government Relations Committee and retained. This action is not recommended
because it is the consensus of the Executive Committee to recommend to the Board the selection
of the Brandeberry~McKenna team.
3. Do not approve the Recommended Action. Do not retain the services of a state legislative liaison
firm. This action is not recommended because it would put RTD in the position of facing
contentious and potentially harmful legislative issues with no direct legislative liaison services. It
was determined by the Executive Committee that the Brandeberry~McKenna team has been very
effective in pursuing the RTD state legislative agenda and will continue to represent RTD’s
interests very well in the future. This team is very familiar with RTD’s issues and policies.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:

PASSED BY CONSENT VOTE [14 TO 1]
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
Bruce Daly, Director, District N
Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Natalie Menten

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 139

13.E

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: June 6, 2013

From:

Richard Clarke, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

June 5, 2013

Board Meeting Date: June 25, 2013

Subject:

Approval of I-225 Alignment Changes

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors approve a change
in alignment and station location on the I-225 corridor. This change would move the alignment along
Montview Avenue at the Anschutz/ Fitzsimons Medical Campus to a new alignment in the general
vicinity along Fitzsimons Parkway. The station location will also change from Montview to along
Fitzsimons Parkway. The exact location will be defined as part of a collaborative effort with the City of
Aurora, the University of Colorado stakeholders as well as public input, and also to include a
transportation plan that will accommodate the needs of persons who are transit dependent to access the
Anschutz Campus. A general depiction of the changes is shown in Exhibit 1.
All changes will be made within the originally approved I-225 Project budget.
BACKGROUND
The I-225 corridor is a major component of the FasTracks plan. On October 20, 2009, the Board of
Directors approved the I-225 Environmental Evaluation (EE), which defined the project scope, alignment,
station locations and characteristics, impacts and mitigations. The I-225 EE was a collaborative effort
among all the corridor stakeholders including the City of Aurora and the stakeholders on the
Anschutz/Fitzsimons Medical Campus. The preferred alignment identified in the EE was the basis for an
unsolicited proposal and subsequent RFP. On July 24, 2012, the Board approved a design-build contract
for the construction of this corridor.
DISCUSSION
As shown on Exhibit 1, part of the alignment through the Anschutz/Fitzsimons Campus travels along
Montview Avenue. Agreements with the City of Aurora and the Fitzsimons Redevelopment Authority
(FRA) required that a Metro District reconstruct the Montview roadway to accommodate a corridor for
the I-225 light rail line and future traffic and development needs. However, funding by the third party
for this construction is not in place and the imminent construction of light rail places new urgency on
reconstructing the Montview roadway. LRT speeds along Montview will be slow (approximately 15
mph), governed by traffic signals and with up to six at-grade crossings.
The University of Colorado and FRA have major plans to make Fitzsimons a preeminent, international
medical research facility. This development has the potential to be a major economic driver for the
region.
The University of Colorado staff has raised concerns about the impacts of electromagnetic interference
(EMI) and vibration and the ability to develop the site to potential. We have learned that medical
research and technology has become increasingly sophisticated and highly sensitive to environmental
influences. EMI generated from the LRT trains may interfere with the sensitive equipment forcing it to
be located far from Montview. Similarly vibration from the trains can interfere with the operation of this
sensitive equipment. Similar mitigation efforts by other transit agencies for EMI and vibration adjacent

Packet Pg. 140

13.E

to existing medical research facilities are extremely expensive, with no assurance that they will achieve
the desired mitigation.
The understanding of the impacts of electric trains on adjacent medical facilities has been rapidly
developing in the past few years. Seattle and Minneapolis transit systems recently had to agree to
elaborate mitigation. Some of the mitigations they are using have never been tried in actual service and
their agreements require extensive ongoing monitoring and additional mitigation or adjustments if the
measures do not achieve their desired results.
Potential mitigations for EMI include precisely located underground power feeder system. A floating slab
(which is a very large concrete slab located under the trackway and resting on rubberized pads or
springs) would be applied to reduce low frequency vibration from the trains. The cost of these
mitigations along with delay costs and asbestos removal in Montview is estimated at approximately $58$60 million. A schedule delay of one to two years for the project, if the alignment were to remain on
Montview would also be incurred due to the re-design, additional work and time to negotiate a final
agreement.
The University of Colorado does not wish to be in an uncompetitive situation regarding its ability to
attract national and international medical research to its campus.
Therefore, the University of Colorado sent a letter (Exhibit 2) requesting that RTD move the alignment
from Montview to an alternative site along Fitzsimons Parkway. This relocation will eliminate their
concerns. Although there may be some initial decrease of ridership due to the station move, the letter
states that CU is planning to take measures that enhance ridership including the use of shuttles from the
Fitzsimons Parkway station, a parking garage and development around the station.
An update to the Environmental Evaluation would be performed if the Board approves this change. The
update would include coordination with affected stakeholders and a public involvement process. The
updated EE would identify any environmental challenges and mitigations required for this new alignment.
To avoid additional costs, design and construction of certain elements can proceed during the
environmental process.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The final cost for the change in alignment to Fitzsimons Parkway will be developed as design progresses.
The cost will be within the corridor budget and will not require funds from other parts of FasTracks or
RTD’s budget. The cost of the recommended alignment could be less than that for the original
alignment along Montview.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the Board of Directors approve a change in alignment and station location on the I-225 corridor. This
change would move the alignment along Montview Avenue at the Anschutz/ Fitzsimons Medical
Campus to a new alignment in the general vicinity along Fitzsimons Parkway. The station location
will also change from Montview to along Fitzsimons Parkway. The exact location will be defined as
part of a collaborative effort with the City of Aurora, the University of Colorado stakeholders as well
as public input, and also to include a transportation plan that will accommodate the needs of persons
who are transit dependent to access the Anschutz Campus. A general depiction of the changes is
shown in Exhibit 1.

Packet Pg. 141

13.E

All changes will be made within the originally approved I-225 Project budget.
2. Do not accept the recommended action. Instead leave the alignment along Montview and build the
appropriate mitigations required by the University of Colorado. This is not recommended because the
additional cost($58-$60 million) is not in the project budget, a schedule delay of one to two years
will result and there is no assurance that the mitigations will be effective, putting the medical
campus in a potential non-competitive situation (nationally and internationally) and RTD at risk for
further mitigation efforts.
3. Do not accept the recommend action. Instead continue to negotiate with the University of Colorado
to reduce the mitigations required. This is not recommended as there is no certainty as to the
timeframe or success of these negotiations. The project would need to be stopped through this area,
causing a significant cost and schedule delay while negotiations continue for an undetermined
amount of time.
ATTACHMENTS:


June 2013 Letter to RTD re Montview 5 28 13 (2)

(PDF)



I-225 Fitzsimons Previous and Re-route final

(PDF)

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:

PASSED [14 TO 1]
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Natalie Menten

Prepared by:
Richard Clarke, Assistant General Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 142

Packet Pg. 143

13.E.a

Attachment: June 2013 Letter to RTD re Montview 5 28 13 (2) (1595 : Approval of I-225 Alignment

Packet Pg. 144

13.E.a

Attachment: June 2013 Letter to RTD re Montview 5 28 13 (2) (1595 : Approval of I-225 Alignment

Attachment: I-225 Fitzsimons Previous and Re-route final (1595 : Approval of I-225 Alignment Changes)

Packet Pg. 145

13.E.b

13.F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: June 13, 2013

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

June 13, 2013

Board Meeting Date: June 25, 2013

Subject:

Board Report August 2013 Service Changes

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors approve
the proposed August 2013 Service Change as revised and summarized in Attachment A resulting in an
annualized cost increase of $1,108,900 and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee
to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose services are impacted by
these changes.
DISCUSSION
To meet the diverse travel needs of the citizens of the District and maintain a high-performance,
sustainable transit system, RTD has developed a networked family of services for which the different
classes of service have different expectations of performance. For this year we will continue adjusting
services in response to changes in ridership and operational performance of the transit system as a
whole while also focusing attention on the recent implementation of the West Corridor Light Rail Service
and the associated bus service changes. Routine service changes not associated with or included in the
West Corridor Service Plan are necessary to maintain system on-time performance and provide the
appropriate level of service according to customer demand while we will also need to monitor customer
response to the implementation of West Corridor bus and rail service and propose adjustments as
appropriate.
The proposed August 2013 Service Changes reflect the continued budgetary challenges faced by RTD.
The guiding principles for service changes continue to be:
 Service performance evaluation based on the RTD Service Standards;
 The effects on the overall integrity of the transit network and on transit dependent markets;
 The availability of alternative services to affected riders;
 Cost-effective distribution throughout the District and Family of Services and the ability to
enhance service when possible;
 Title VI of the Civil Rights Act: benefits and services are provided without regard to race, color or
national origin; also disparate effects on low income and minority populations; and
 Response to changes in the communities where services are provided
SUMMARY OF PUBLIC HEARINGS
Six public meetings were scheduled for early June 2013 in Aurora, Boulder, Golden, Downtown Denver
(2) and Lakewood. Comments from these hearings will be made available in summary and in detail at
the June 18, 2013 Operations Committee prior to being entered into the final Board Report for the June
25, 2013 Board Meeting.
CHANGES TO INITIAL RECOMMENDATIONS

Packet Pg. 146

13.F

Staff receives input during the public comment process and continues to conduct additional analysis after the
initial service recommendations are proposed to the Board of Directors. Depending on the outcome of the
public comment process and continued analysis, staff may or may not propose modifications to these initial
recommendations. The following represent changes proposed to the service changes initially proposed to the
Board of Directors for implementation as part of August 2013 service changes:
Route 10 – East 12th Avenue: add one Weekday AM trip eastbound
Route 16/16L – West Colfax Avenue: reinstate Route 16L downtown Denver to Golden and truncate
weekday Route 16 at Federal Center (exception for night service and weekends)
Route 88 – Thornton/Commerce City/Stapleton: schedule adjustments
Route 89 – Stapleton/Anschutz Campus: schedule adjustments
Route 100 – Wadsworth Crosstown: reroute along Kipling
Route 130 – Yale/Buckley: adjusted route and schedule
Route 209 – CU/Table Mesa pnR: maintain Adam Circle Loop and service to Golden West
W-Line – Light Rail: schedule adjustments
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED SERVICE CHANGES
Service Reductions
Route KC – KenCaryl/Federal Center: discontinued as of May 28, 2013 and replaced by reinstatement of
Route 116X
Mixed Service Reductions/Service Increases
Route 9 – West Tenth Avenue: school tripper discontinued (offset against Route 100W trippers)
Route 16 – West Colfax: truncate weekday Route 16 at Federal Center
Route 16L – West Colfax: reinstate Route 16L downtown Denver to Golden
Route 76 – Wadsworth Crosstown: cut routing back to Broomfield Park-n-Ride
Route 225 – Boulder/Broomfield via Baseline: extend routing to Broomfield Park-n-Ride
Route 87X – South Wadsworth Express: reinstate service discontinued April 2013
Route 100X – Kipling Express: reinstate service discontinued April 2013
Route 116X – South Simms Express: reinstated as of May 28, 2013
Route 121 – Peoria Street: reduce peak frequency in DTC and add NB trips from Nine Mile
Route 130 – Yale/Buckley: modify service through Heather Gardens
Route 228 –Louisville/Broomfield: discontinue trip on Sunday add trip on Saturday
Service Increases
Route 6 – East 6th Ave/North Pecos: extend westbound am trip
Route 12 – Downing/North Washington : add 3:20pm northbound trip
Route 14 – West Florida: extend a weekday trip
Route 17 – Red Rocks College: add a morning roundtrip
Route 21 – Evans Avenue: add 7:21am westbound trip from Centrepoint & Sable
Route 100 – Kipling Crosstown: reroute to serve 8th Parfet
Route 120X – Thornton/Wagon Road Express: add a southbound morning trip
Route 133 – Hampden/Tower: add 4:41am southbound trip from Centrepoint/Sable
Route 153 – Chambers Road: extend northbound evening service one hour later
Route 323 – Skyline Crosstown: reroute north-end layover/recovery location
Route SKIP – Broadway: add one school tripper
Routine Service Adjustments

Packet Pg. 147

13.F

Route 10 – East 12th Avenue: schedule adjustments add AM trip
Route 46 – Cherry Creek/Dahlia/DTC: schedule adjustments
Route 88 – Thornton/Commerce City/Stapleton: schedule adjustments
Route 89 – Stapleton/Anschutz Campus: schedule adjustments
Route 131 – Iliff: reroute off of Vaughn Way between Iliff and Yale
Route 204 – Table Mesa/Moorhead/North 19th : running time adj., remove Vassar Loop
Route 209 – CU/Table Mesa PnR: re-route back through CU campus
Route 225 – Boulder/Lafayette Via Baseline: schedule adjustments
Routes CV/CS/CX – Pine Junction/Conifer/Denver: new Pine Junction Park-n-Ride opened
Route DASH – Boulder/Lafayette via Louisville: relocate recovery area
Route JUMP – Boulder/Lafayette via Arapahoe: schedule adjustments
W-Line Call-n-Rides: Belmar, Golden and Green Mountain: service adjustments
W-Line Light Rail: schedule adjustments
Seasonal Service Adjustments
School trippers reinstated
Seasonal schedule adjustment to fall/spring schedule on Routes SKIP, JUMP, BOUND, DASH
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The financial impact contained in this proposal is estimated at an annualized $1,108,900.
ATTACHMENTS:


Board Report August 2013 Service Change Committee Final Atch A



Board Report August 2013 Service Change to final 2 Atch B

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:

(PDF)

(PDF)

PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten,
Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker

Prepared by:
Jessie Carter, Manager, Service Planning and Scheduling
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 148

13.F.a

Route 6 – East 6th Ave/North Pecos
Extend 8:00am weekday westbound trip from 8th/Colorado to instead originate at
Centrepoint & Sable Transfer Center at 7:21am. Relieves overloads on the following trip
at 7:36am from Centrepoint & Sable. The cost is estimated to be $10,300 annualized
Route 9 – West Tenth Avenue
School trippers would be discontinued due to parallel Light Rail service. (Offset against
part of cost of Route 100W trippers added.)
Route 10 – East 12th Avenue
Schedule adjustments and add an additional trip eastbound to address passenger
overloads.
The cost is estimated to be $6,900
Route 12 – Downing/N Washington
Add 3:20pm northbound trip from Downing/Colfax to 106th/Melody, relieving overloads
on the following trip. Cost impact estimated at $8,300 annualized.
Route 14 – West Florida
It is proposed to extend the weekday trip that (in April) starts at Wadsworth/West
Arkansas at 6:39 a.m. to instead begin service at Lakewood Commons at 6:24 a.m.
Estimated cost are projected to be $2,600 annualized
Route 16– West Colfax (This recommendation is rescinded and replace by the following
16/16L recommendation noted below)
Peak and midday overloads are occurring at a level which clearly exceeds RTD service
standards. These overloads occur on a regular basis on the link between Decatur-Federal
Station and the Civic Center. This segment carries a heavy burden of social services and
court traffic throughout the day, with space needed for disabled customers and strollers or
walkers. West between Decatur-Federal Station and Wadsworth, peak period overloads
are occurring, but more data is needed in order to place extra trips.
RTD will add shuttle trips as soon as possible (June 9, 2013) to lead every Route 16 trip
between Decatur-Federal and the 10th/Broadway route terminal on weekdays between the
hours of 6:15 a.m. and 6:30 p.m. This will not only add back capacity, but also improve
W-Line connections for Civic Center with matching headways, making the use of Light Rail
more practical for trips west of Federal.
Proposed for August runboard:
Revised 16/16L recommendation
It is proposed to reinstate the Route 16L – West Colfax service between Golden and
downtown Denver on weekdays. The service would be offered at the same level of
frequency as previously provided (15 minute peak, 30 minute base) with similar trip times
and service span.

Attachment: Board Report August 2013 Service Change Committee Final Atch A (1617 : Board Report August 2013 Service Changes)

Attachment A
June 18, 2013

Packet Pg. 149

13.F.a

The Route 16 – West Colfax is proposed to be truncated during peak and midday periods
to operate between the Federal Center Station and downtown Denver. Nights and
weekends the Route 16 would operate between Golden and downtown Denver, as
operated prior to the implementation of the West Corridor Service Plan.
Projected cost impacts for this proposal total $840,000 and 8 peak buses.
Route 17 – Red Rocks College
With the extension to Indiana Street, the span of service that was appropriate for college
hours begins too late for most commuting purposes. It is proposed to add a round-trip
from Federal Center Station to Indiana Street on weekdays at 5:37 a.m. Estimated
weekday cost $5,200 annualized weekday
Route 21 – Evans Avenue
Add 7:21am westbound trip from Centrepoint & Sable to Evans Station. Relieves
overloads on both the 7:06am and 7:36am westbound trips. Weekday cost impact
estimated at $15,500
Route 46 – Cherry Creek/Dahlia/DTC
Running time analysis and schedule adjustments.
No cost impacts anticipated
Route 76 – Wadsworth Crosstown
Route 225 – Boulder/Broomfield via Baseline
Cut weekday routing of the Route 76 back from Lafayette to US 36 & Broomfield PnR.
Replace current Route 76 service with Route 225 extension from Broomfield to Lafayette
PnR. Extend Route 225 to US 36 & Broomfield PnR from Lafayette PnR, hourly headway,
weekday only, to replace current Route 76 segment. No cost impacts are anticipated.
Route 87X –South Wadsworth Express
The former Route 87 Express had three trips into CCS in the morning peak and three trips
out from CCS in the afternoon peak. It averaged 128 boardings. The portion of the route
west of Wadsworth near Hampden was replaced by Route 30Ltd, which has twice as long
a span of service and a one-seat ride to the center of Downtown, as well as good transfer
connections to the Union Station and Civic Center. Although slower than Route 87X, that
portion of the change has received little criticism.
It is proposed to restore the route on its former alignment, with the exception of the
segment south of Yale Avenue, which was replaced by Route 30Ltd. That portion would
be replaced by running on Wadsworth to and from the Wadsworth & Hampden Park-nRide.
Requirements for restoring the route, based on the August 2012 Service Recap with
interlines, rounded up to 2 peak buses and $82,800 annualized.

Attachment: Board Report August 2013 Service Change Committee Final Atch A (1617 : Board Report August 2013 Service Changes)

Attachment A
June 18, 2013

Packet Pg. 150

13.F.a

Route 88 – Thornton/Commerce City/Stapleton
Schedule adjustments. No cost anticipated
Route 89 – Stapleton/Anschutz Campus
Schedule adjustments. No cost anticipated
Route 100 – Kipling Crosstown
Route 100 – Kipling Crosstown was relocated from Kipling to Quail Street between the
Oak and Federal Center Stations with the April 28th changes, with additional trips serving
Lakewood High School provided for bell times via Route 100W on the former alignment.
The Quail Street routing substituted for Route 16 service that was removed from parallel
Simms Street. An increasing number of social service and government agencies have
been locating in this economical light industrial/commercial area, and in the original August
2013 service change proposals, public support was expressed for a return to the old
stops. This was to be accommodated on weekdays by splitting Route 100 service, with
half of the daytime trips running via Quail and half via Kipling (the latter signed as Rte
100K). Subsequent changes in Route 16 restored the opportunity for it to serve Simms
Street, and therefore it is proposed to run all Route 100 trips between Oak and Federal
Center Stations via Kipling Street and Eighth Avenue (see map). This restores all of the
former stops between Colfax and US6, serves diverse needs including Lakewood High
School and social service entities, while simplifying public information.
No cost impact anticipated
Route 100X – South Kipling Express
The former Route 100X had four trips into Civic Center Station (CCS) in the morning peak
and five trips out from CCS in the afternoon peak. It averaged 191 boardings. Its service
pattern was replicated by the Route 100Ltd at all of the neighborhood walk-on stops made
by Route 100X, as well as at the Ken Caryl Park-n-Ride. Route 100Ltd is heavily interlined
and would require time changes for conversion to Route 100X.
In order to maintain connectivity for non-Civic Center Station bound riders, it is proposed
to re-create Route 100X via the Route 100Ltd alignment between Ken Caryl Park-n-Ride
and Federal Center Station, and via the Regional routes alignment between Federal Center
Station and Civic Center, with a short dwell at Federal Center Station (FCS). Minor
schedule adjustments would be made. The fifth (final) trip in the evening would operate
between FCS and Ken Caryl and the reverse peak trips would also operate only between
FCS and Ken Caryl and return.
Requirements for revising the route, incremental to the current costs for Route 100Ltd and
for special service that is replacing Route KC, are estimated at 1 peak bus and 6 weekday
hours. Gate assignments would be adjusted at Federal Center Station. The newly
implemented Route CS – Civic Center Station to Federal Center Station short turns trips
would be reduced where replaced by Route 100X. Annualized weekday cost estimated to
be $76,400

Attachment: Board Report August 2013 Service Change Committee Final Atch A (1617 : Board Report August 2013 Service Changes)

Attachment A
June 18, 2013

Packet Pg. 151

13.F.a

Route 116X – South Simms Express
The reinstated Route 116X would be maintained as restored; with further modification
anticipated in January 2014, when Route 116Ltd and the Green Mountain call-n-Ride
service can be analyzed. The cost of reinstating this service is estimated at $76,400
annualized.
Route 120X – Thornton/Wagon Road Express
It is proposed to add a SB AM trip from Thornton Park-n-Ride at about 8:40am, to alleviate
the consistent 20+ passenger overloads on the current 8:45am SB trip. Weekday cost
impact estimated to be $12,700.
Route 121 – Peoria Street
Reduce peak frequency between Nine Mile Station and Ulster/Tufts from every 15 to every
30 minutes. Ridership on peak direction trips averages between 2 and 3 passengers/trip.
Savings = 5.0 hours.
Add 1:37pm and 2:07pm northbound trips from Nine Mile, and 1:45pm southbound trip
from Montbello, to relieve standing loads on current 30 minute midday frequency. Cost:
3.7 hours weekday.
Anticipated weekday savings estimated to be $13,400 annualized
Route 130 – Yale/Buckley
Route 130 will be revised to operate every 60 minutes through Heather Gardens via
Marina Drive, designated as Route 130H. Service will operate from approximately 6:00am
to 7:00pm on weekdays, and 8:00am to 6:00m on Saturdays. No service will be provided
on Sundays or holidays. All other trips of the Route 130 will operate via Peoria Street and
Yale Avenue.
No cost impact anticipated
Route 131 – Iliff
Reroute off of Vaughn Way between Iliff and Yale, use Abilene instead.
neighborhood impact on Vaughn Way, will better serve future Iliff LRT Station.
No cost impact anticipated.

Eliminates

Route 133 – Hampden/Tower
Add 4:41am southbound trip from Centrepoint/Sable (feeds H-Line train at 5:23am), and
add 4:55am and 5:25am northbound trips from Nine Mile (this productive route – 35
boardings/hour - does not start northbound service until nearly 6:00am currently).
Weekday cost impacts estimated to be $23,800 annualized.
Route 153 – Chambers Road
Extend northbound evening service one hour later to 11:42pm from Arapahoe Crossing.
Cost impacts estimated to be $14,500 annualized.
Route 204 – Table Mesa/Moorhead/North 19th
Running time adjustment; remove Vassar loop. No additional cost impact anticipated

Attachment: Board Report August 2013 Service Change Committee Final Atch A (1617 : Board Report August 2013 Service Changes)

Attachment A
June 18, 2013

Packet Pg. 152

13.F.a

Route 209 – CU/Table Mesa PnR
Re-route back through CU campus, via clockwise routing along Regent and Colorado to
alleviate overloads occurring on Route Stampede; move south-end layover to Manhattan
Circle, due to City of Boulder installation of a traffic signal at South Boulder Road.
No cost impact anticipated
Route 225 – Boulder/Lafayette Via Baseline
Schedule adjustment weekday, Saturday and Sunday. No cost anticipated.
Route 228 –Louisville/Broomfield
Discontinue first Sunday morning southbound morning trip and add a Saturday southbound
PM trip from Flatiron Mall to US 36 & Broomfield Park-n-Ride. No cost impact anticipated.
Route 323 – Skyline Crosstown
Reroute north-end layover/recovery location to Pace/17th SB, FS and remove current
Deerwood loop, due to constituent complaints received; create deadhead for NB to SB
north-end turn-around via Pace, Olympia, Pace routing. In addition, due to a request by the
City of Longmont, it is proposed to add an AM school tripper on this route by using the
current BOLT block 27 pull-out. Weekday annualized cost estimated to be $5,300
Routes CV/CS/CX – Pine Junction/Conifer/Denver
It is expected that the new Pine Junction Park-n-Ride will be opened during this Fall.
Minor schedule adjustments will be made in preparation for this change. Weekday cost
impact estimated to be $5,900 annualized.
Route DASH – Boulder/Lafayette via Louisville
The city of Boulder is installing a traffic signal at South Boulder Road and Manhattan Circle
which will allow RTD to move the layover/recovery for Route Dash short-turn trips back to
the former location. It is therefore proposed to change the current layover from Table
Mesa PnR back to Manhattan Circle, for the DASH short-turn trips.
No cost impact anticipated
Route JUMP – Boulder/Lafayette via Arapahoe
It is proposed to remove the excess layover at Erie Community Center in the mid-day and
balance the current trips at Lafayette PnR, WB to ½ hour frequency; will result in some
mid-day schedule adjustments. No resource impact anticipated.
Route KC – Ken Caryl/FC/Denver
This service has been cancelled in favor of operating reinstated service on the Route 116X
– South Simms Express. The annualized savings of $70,300 would be used to operate the
6 weekday trips (3 in each peak period) on the Route 116X.
Route SKIP – Broadway
It is proposed to add one school tripper in the PM from Fairview High School to
Broadway/Walnut at 3:29pm (or as warranted by the BVSD bell-times) due to overloads on
the current 3:25pm trip. Additionally it is proposed that schedule adjustments be made to

Attachment: Board Report August 2013 Service Change Committee Final Atch A (1617 : Board Report August 2013 Service Changes)

Attachment A
June 18, 2013

Packet Pg. 153

13.F.a

the weekday afternoon/evening peak period. Cost impacts include an additional PM bus
and $50,000 annualized.
W-Line Call-n-Rides: Belmar, Golden and Green Mountain:
With the opening of the West Line Light Rail, three new Call-n-Rides began operations on
April 27, 2013. As with all new services, actual operations may require adjustments after
a few months in operation. Adjustments will be made based on customer travel patterns
and customer requests. There should be no additional costs associated with these
modifications except for the Golden Call-n-Ride. Annual weekday cost: $8,025.
W-Line Light Rail
Schedule adjustments. No cost anticipated
School trippers restored/adjusted:
Routes 1W, 11, 16, 24, 30, 30Ltd, 31, 43, 51, 52, 65, 73, 76, 100W 206, 208
Cost estimated to be $15,800 annualized over previous year.
Seasonal schedule adjustment to fall/spring schedule
Route SKIP, JUMP, BOUND, DASH

Attachment: Board Report August 2013 Service Change Committee Final Atch A (1617 : Board Report August 2013 Service Changes)

Attachment A
June 18, 2013

Packet Pg. 154

Attachment: Board Report August 2013 Service Change Committee Final Atch A (1617 : Board Report

13.F.a

Attachment A
May 15, 2013

Packet Pg. 155

Attachment: Board Report August 2013 Service Change Committee Final Atch A (1617 : Board Report August 2013 Service Changes)

13.F.a

Attachment A
May 15, 2013

Packet Pg. 156

Attachment: Board Report August 2013 Service Change Committee Final Atch A (1617 : Board Report August 2013 Service Changes)

13.F.a

Attachment A
June 18, 2013

Packet Pg. 157

Attachment: Board Report August 2013 Service Change Committee Final Atch A (1617 : Board Report August 2013 Service Changes)

13.F.a

Attachment A
June 18, 2013

Packet Pg. 158

Attachment: Board Report August 2013 Service Change Committee Final Atch A (1617 : Board Report August 2013 Service Changes)

13.F.a

Attachment A
June 18, 2013

Packet Pg. 159

Attachment: Board Report August 2013 Service Change Committee Final Atch A (1617 : Board Report

13.F.a

Attachment A
May 15, 2013

Packet Pg. 160

13.F.b

Attachment B
June 18, 2013
Page 15

CU Boulder, UMC Room 247
June 10, 2013 – 12:00 noon
The meeting was attended by 3 RTD staff (2 Service Planning/Scheduling; 1 Access-aRide) and 2 RTD Board members, Directors Sisk and Lubow. In addition, 4 staff from CU
Transportation/Parking Services, as well as 1 representative from Boulder County attended
the meeting. 3 members from the public were present, as well as one representative from
the private citizens RTD Watch.
Several requests for weekend service on Route 225, between Boulder and Lafayette Parkn-Ride, were voiced, due to a need for passengers to get to and from work, between the
two cities, on weekends, especially Saturdays, as well as allowing regional connections to
Denver, from the Lafayette area. There was no opposition to the proposed extension of
route 225 on weekdays, to US 36 & Broomfield Park-n-Ride, but a request to make sure
that the schedule will be adjusted, especially in the peak periods, to allow for better ontime performance and connections, at the Park-n-Ride and Boulder Transit Center.
A representative from Golden West Senior Housing requested that the Adams Circle loop
be kept on route 209, to provide a back-up option for seniors living at the facility to get
around, and specifically to the area at Baseline and Manhattan Circle, for shopping and
medical appointments. Mr. John Torres presented RTD staff with a petition, in this regard,
signed by about 100 Golden West Residents. Golden West does not have a shuttle they
can provide, so seniors are dependent on either route 209, VIA or Access-a-Ride services
to get around. The meeting closed at 12:32pm.
RTD Blake Administration Offices
June 12, 2013 12:00 noon
This meeting was attended by 25 public participants, 9 RTD staff members and RTD Board
of Directors members Chair Lorraine Anderson and Mr. Jeff Walker. The meeting began at
12:05 with a description of the meeting purpose. Three individuals chose to leave at that
time citing their intentions to discuss previous changes to the Route 116X. The meet then
continued with discussion of the proposed changes for August 2013. While most of the
discussion focused on the request to re-instate the Route 16L, several people also spoke in
favor of the Route 100X service being reinstated without serving the Federal Center
Station. One participant spoke in favor of the proposed changes to the Route 76/225 and
asked if the proposal could include Saturday service. Two individuals stood in support of
the reinstatement of the Route 87X. Individual comments were heard in favor the Bel Mar
call-n-Ride and requests were made for extending the Route 30 into the CBD. The meeting
was concluded at 1:15pm
RTD Blake Administration Offices
June 12, 2013 6:00pm
The meeting began at 6:05pm with 6 members of the public, 5 RTD staff member and
RTD Board Representative Jeff Walker in attendance. A description of the purpose of the
meeting was presented followed by public participation. One participant spoke on behalf of

Attachment: Board Report August 2013 Service Change to final 2 Atch B (1617 : Board Report August 2013 Service Changes)

ATTACHMENT B
SUMMARY OF PUBLIC MEETINGS – AUGUST 2013

Packet Pg. 161

Attachment B
June 18, 2013
Page 16
the reinstatement of the Route 100X, requesting that the service not be routed into
Federal Center Station. A petition was submitted requesting the reinstatement of the
Route 16L by the 9 to 5 Group. Two other customers also requested the reinstatement of
the 16L based on the travel time now required using the Route 16. The meeting was
concluded at 7:10pm.
Heather Gardens
June 13, 2013, 1:00pm
Approximately 89 members of the public attended the hearing in Heather Gardens, along
with RTD Board Members Tom Tobiassen and Claudia Folska, State Senator Nancy Todd,
and five RTD staff. Virtually all discussion centered around Route 130 service through
Heather Gardens, and how much service to either reduce or retain. Many attendees
spoke, with comments evenly divided between those who want and need transit service,
and those who do not like the bus traffic and noise. It was generally agreed that reduced
bus frequency and service hours would be an acceptable compromise between the groups.
Several comments were also received in support of the proposed rerouting of Route 131
off of Vaughn Way and onto Abilene Street. Other comments included Routes 169L and
AT, and I-225 LRT construction.
Recreation Center – Golden
Saturday, June 15, 2013
44 members of the public attended the Golden hearing. Discussion about three routes
dominated the session: Routes 16, the former 16Ltd, 17. In each case, support was
proposed for restoring service as it was prior to the West Corridor / call-n-Ride changes.
Participants favored fast Route 16Ltd, which did not wait for connections or stop as often
as Route 16. It was reported that Route 16Ltd had more reliable service than Route 16
and was not crowded. Route 17 support was composed of two separate communities of
interest, the Compass Montessori School students and parents on the north side of
Golden; on the south side of Golden, disabled and low-income persons concerned with the
loss of a one-seat ride to Jefferson County facilities. (Some additional statements did not
mention Route 17, but described ideas for new routes that would function like Route 17.)
Specific comments also were received regarding the idea of reducing train service and
using the savings to pay for improved bus service, and more broadly, that Fastracks
funding be used to replace bus service cut over the past four years. A speaker favored
keeping Local fares on Route 100X from Ken Caryl to the Federal Center; another
requested additional trips on Route 116X at more favorable times. Dissatisfaction with
the call-n-Ride service was expressed by four persons, in terms of geographic coverage
(2), in respect to the exact times of the flex route trips (1), and a desire for Sunday service
(1). Directors Natalie Menten and Bruce Daly heard the testimony along with seven RTD
staff members.

Attachment: Board Report August 2013 Service Change to final 2 Atch B (1617 : Board Report August 2013 Service Changes)

13.F.b

Packet Pg. 162

13.F.b

Clements Community Center – Lakewood
Monday, June 17, 2013
Restoration of previous services was the main interest of the 66 attendees at the
Lakewood public hearing. The most emphasis was on Routes 17, 87X, 100X and Route
AF, with supporters of each speaking in favor of restoring those routes as they were.
Reasons offered were different, however. Route 17 for West 44th Avenue between
Applewood and Golden was advocated by parents and students of the Compass
Montessori charter school, while others were concerned with the portion of the route
between Indiana Street and Jefferson County Human Services. Route 87X concerns were
that some former customers west of Wadsworth who now have to ride the unreliable
Route 30Ltd were being left out. Route 100X supporters were concerned that extra time
and passengers would detract from their restored service if it deviated from Kipling
through the Federal Center Station. Route AF should continue to operate indefinitely based
on the statements at the meeting in terms of the continuing need for assistance with
baggage handling for air travelers and the inconveniences associated with transferring at
Union Station.
Other concerns included requests to return Route 16 to Simms Street and the Federal
Center Station, and for the return of services cut in the budget curtailments over the past
four years. Restoration of the service in Green Mountain that was replaced by the Green
Mountain call-n-Ride was requested. Some speakers were concerned about safety on the
W-Line. In addition to the public attendees, RTD Directors Jeff Walker, Natalie Menten,
and Bruce Daly heard the testimony, as did State Representative Max Tyler. Eight RTD
staff members participated.

Attachment: Board Report August 2013 Service Change to final 2 Atch B (1617 : Board Report August 2013 Service Changes)

Attachment B
June 18, 2013
Page 17

Packet Pg. 163

13.F.b

Attachment B
June 18, 2013
Page 18

Route

Support

Opposed

0

1

16

1

17

1

17

1

21

1

21

1

28

1

31

1

103

1

103

1

130

1

130

1

130

1

130

1

130

1

130

1

130

1

130

1

130

1

Inquiry

Last Name

Morrison
Olson
AbdulGhafur
Reed

Additional Comments

Published detour confusing
Changes in service making
standing loads/late buses
Bring route back to Coors and
area. Many commuters without
mode of travel

Blind rider - changes to service
make it impossible to use
Need weekend service back
Hughes
Rumsey
Opposed to buses being cut back
- very hard to use service.
Rowland
Stopping at Wadsworth very
inconvenient - especially for the
elderly
Olson
Changes in service making
standing loads/late buses
Ferega
Needs more buses to CCS. Train
and mall shuttle take too long
Severance- Unhappy with changes in service
McReynolds since opening of W-Line
Davila
Support service through Heather
Gardens
Donaldson
Support service through Heather
Gardens
Giffin
Supporting routing through
Heather Gardens
McClure
Wants route to continue through
Heather Gardens
Mendelson Wants route to continue through
Heather Gardens
Mendelson Leave bus going thorugh Heather
Gardens - great service for many
Schleu
Wants route to continue through
Heather Gardens
Schneller
Supporting routing through
Heather Gardens
Skillman
Supporting routing through
Heather Gardens

Attachment: Board Report August 2013 Service Change to final 2 Atch B (1617 : Board Report August 2013 Service Changes)

ATTACHMENT B
ADDITIONAL COMMENTS – AUGUST 2013

Packet Pg. 164

13.F.b

130

Support

131

1

Last Name

Additional Comments

Vorkink

Wants route to continue through
Heather Gardens - please use
smaller, more efficient buses

White

Feels there's too many buses in
Heather Gardens
Wants route to continue as is.
Please, no changes to 131
schedule
Need more service and better
connection to Light Rail
Wants loops to stay in front of
Golden West
Doesn't want service
discontinued - Many elderly use
route - need it
Wants loops to stay in front of
Golden West
Wants loops to stay in front of
Golden West
Wants loops to stay in front of
Golden West
Wants loops to stay in front of
Golden West
Please don't take Adams Circle
loop ou - many senior use this
service
Wants loops to stay in front of
Golden West
Wants loops to stay in front of
Golden West
Wants loops to stay in front of
Golden West
Don't drop the Golden West loop
on service
Don't drop the Golden West loop
on service
Wants loops to stay in front of
Golden West
Please don't take Adams Circle
loop out - many senior use this
service

1
Czart

1

133
209

Inquiry

1

130
130

Opposed

1
1

209

1

209

1

209

1

209

1

209

1

209

1

209

1

209

1

209

1

209

1

209

1

209

1

209

1

Perry
Avens
Bell
Bish
Brynteson
Geissinger
Gifford
LoweWending
Mason
Morrisey
Richmond
Sisk
Weaver
Wheat
WilkinsCrowder

Attachment: Board Report August 2013 Service Change to final 2 Atch B (1617 : Board Report August 2013 Service Changes)

Route

Attachment B
June 18, 2013
Page 19

Packet Pg. 165

13.F.b

Support

Opposed

209

1

225

1

323

1

100L

1

100X

1

100X

1

100X

1

100X

1

100X

1

116X

1

116X

1

Inquiry

Last Name

WilkinsCrowder
Lucas

Auer
Schlauder
Flynn
Harris
Harris
Janata
Queen,
Sewing
Bester
Coyne

116X

Mason

1

Richey
116X

1

116X
116X
5X

1

87X

1

87X

1

AF

1

Wants loops to stay in front of
Golden West
Concerned about changes,
drivers keeping schedules
Changes take bus away from
needed stop
Bad changes to service and on
top of that buses running
routinely late
Would like this service restored
and departure destination
changed
Don't take route to FCS. Won't
ride the train.
Commute too long/inefficient
No need to go to FCS. Nobody
wants to ride train. Wastes time
Please bring back service
Great to have bus back - need
better times
Nice to have service back, but
need better times/something
between 3:35 and 5:10
Needs bus leaving at 5:26pm as
before
Nice to have service back, but
need better times/something
between 3:35 and 5:10

Santoro

Nice to have service back, but
need better times/something
between 3:35 and 5:10

Weigel

Supports route coming
back/needs more service
Would like bus back - nobody
riding the trian
Wants 87X restored
Wants this service restored replacements make for long, slow
trip
Upset about transfer downtown
with luggage.

1
1

Additional Comments

Barton
August
Glas
Sparr

Attachment: Board Report August 2013 Service Change to final 2 Atch B (1617 : Board Report August 2013 Service Changes)

Route

Attachment B
June 18, 2013
Page 20

Packet Pg. 166

13.F.b

Support

AF

Opposed

1

BX

1

E/EV/EX

1

Glendale
Green
Mountain

1

KC

1

Wilson
Kunin
Engel

1

Noll

Parker

1

RX

1

S

1
15

Wengert,
Art
Pearen

Schauder

1

ES

Last Name

McCoy

1

ES

Total

Inquiry

50

Snowdon
Browne
Baker

3

Additional Comments

Upset about transfer downtown
with luggage.
Schedules should be changed to
reflect new slip ramp at Table
Mesa
No Everygreen service on
weekends
Bad changes to service and on
top of that buses running
routinely late
Need better connections with GS
bus
Glendale needs Light Rail
Cut service to Green Mountain
area on Sat/Sun
Supports bringing back the KC
Route
Wants service to West
Parker/West of Jordan Road
Poor schedule times
Service changes have made route
take longer

Attachment: Board Report August 2013 Service Change to final 2 Atch B (1617 : Board Report August 2013 Service Changes)

Route

Attachment B
June 18, 2013
Page 21

Packet Pg. 167

13.F.b

Route

Support

CSR Complaints Received by TIC by route
Opposed
Inquiry
Summation of typical complaints

3

6

16

205

Complaints that bus frequently runs
late/overcrowded
Complaints buses overcrowded, passing up
passengers including handicapped, running late.
Customers want more 16L to return to service.
Parents and Supporters of Compass Montessori
School want service continued - they use bus
occasionally for field trips, trips to library, etc.

17

180

21

10

Customers complaining about cuts to
service/buses always running late

30

10

Customers against changes in service - running
late - not coming downtown

100

38

Customers upset about changes, particularly no
longer serving Lakewood HS

145

Customers complaining about taking too long,
going to wrong end of mall, costing more, and
being a poor investment .

103 - WLine

209

23

100L

14

Customers upset about changes to route, no
longer serving the `Golden West Retirement
Community
Customers want service to return without
changes

100X

25

Customers want service to return without
changes

116X

45

Customers were unhappy with the KC, wanted
route back with as few stops as possible.

AF

39

Customers upset with changes to route; having
to make a transfer at Denver Union Station.
Want nostop service as before.

CS

5

Would like extended service/weekends and
more runs during the week as well.

Total

0

745

0

Attachment: Board Report August 2013 Service Change to final 2 Atch B (1617 : Board Report August 2013 Service Changes)

Attachment B
June 18, 2013
Page 22

Packet Pg. 168

13.F.b

Attachment B
June 18, 2013
Page 23
16l

410

16l

280

209

17

100

Total

92

110

277

Petitions
requesting 16L
service be
restored

Signed Petition presented by Isatu Friedman
Signed Petition presented by Zoe Williams,
Transit Organizer, "9 to 5 Winning Justice for
Women"

Bus stop serves
senior citizens at
Golden Westonly means of
transportation

Signed petition presented at Public Hearing at
CU Boulder

Bus stop serves
students at
Compass
Montessori
School. Students
use the bus for
field trips, library
trips, and getting
to and from
school.

Signed petition presented at Public Hearing at
Clement Center in Lakewood, CO, by Tanya
Keith, Board of Directors Compass Montessori
School.

Bus Stop serves
Developmental
Disabilities
Resource Center
(DDRC) - cement
pad/important
for cinic at center

1199
Total Communications

Signed petetion presented at Public Hearing at
Clement Center in Lakewood by counselors at
center. Petitions were handed in "representing"
clients at the center. They were written on the
clients behalf since names are covered under
Federal confidentiality Laws.

2757

Attachment: Board Report August 2013 Service Change to final 2 Atch B (1617 : Board Report August 2013 Service Changes)

Petitions

Packet Pg. 169

13.G

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: June 12, 2013

From:

Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

GM

Date:

June 11, 2013

Board Meeting Date: June 25, 2013

Subject:

Approval for Increase in Contract Not-toExceed Amount for Smart Card Program

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to increase the current contract not-to-exceed amount
by $1,719,512.81 with Xerox, Inc. (Formerly ACS Transportation Solutions, Inc.). The total new
contract not-to-exceed amount, for contract # 19FH005, is $17,381,470.23.
BACKGROUND
The Smart Card Implementation transitioned EcoPass, CollegePass, and NeighborhoodPass programs
from cards with decals to electronic smart cards this past January, 2013. The next phase of the
Smart Card Program is to transition all other retail pass products to stored value on MyRide Smart
Cards. RTD Retail Sales locations will begin selling the MyRide products in fall of 2013, while the
retail network including King Soopers, Safeway and other retailers will begin selling the MyRide
Products in spring of 2014.
As the Smart Card Program progresses, additional equipment is required to provide for program and
FasTracks advances, enhancements and growth. Therefore additional funds are needed to acquire
and install a variety of equipment including:










Installation of platform validators at existing rail stations
Enhancements to the handheld smart media readers used by Fare Enforcement
Integration costs to allow the CAD/AVL driver display to provide Smart Card information
(eliminating the need for two driver displays)
Modification of the mounting device on buses ensuring the bus validator is properly positioned
for riders
Maintenance terminals for maintaining all Smart Media validators at light rail locations
Purchase of an additional Smart Media Encoder to provide redundancy needed at the
Customer Service Center for producing cards.
Purchase of additional smart media cards to meet the needs of current EcoPass and
CollegePass holders through the end of 2013
Purchase of additional Smart Media Validators over the course of several years to meet
FasTracks expansion needs.
Additional web portal enhancements to improve customer experience and management of
their own MyRide card.

DISCUSSION
This equipment will ensure customers are provided convenient access to station platform validators as
RTD’s use of the Smart Media increases. Additionally, the maintenance equipment and encoding
equipment will allow RTD to improve customer service by more expediently addressing issues and
producing cards.

Packet Pg. 170

13.G

This equipment must be purchased by Xerox, Inc. for multiple reasons:




The equipment is unique to the Xerox/RTD installed systems and it would be extremely
difficult if not impossible to acquire from other vendors.
The card purchase addresses demands for this year and future card purchases will be
procured in an open competition.
Xerox has developed the software for this specific equipment being used at transit agencies
around the globe and have proven the stability and effectiveness of their product.

FINANCIAL IMPACT
The recommended action is based upon the estimated purchase of eight (8) maintenance terminals,
one (1) Smart Media Encoder, 80,000 cards, 1500 hours of web portal development, 170 platform
validators, installation of 24 platform validators, development hours to enhance the Handheld Smart
Media Readers (HSMRs), development hours to create the CAD/AVL and Smart Card interface, and
50 stanchion modifications. The funding is included in the Proposed 2014 - 2019 SBP Capital
Program and the proposed 2013 Amended Budget Request.
ALTERNATIVES
1)
Award the contract to Xerox, Inc., as recommended
2)
Do not purchase equipment. Validators would need to be reduced and redistributed
from the existing locations, impairing convenience for customer to tap before boarding
light rail. Not purchasing maintenance equipment will result in delayed response to
validator issues. Not purchasing an encoder could result in lengthy delays of delivering
cards ordered via the web due to equipment malfunction. Not purchasing smart cards
in the near term could result in not having cards available for employers and colleges to
distribute to their riders.
3)
A partial award to Xerox, Inc., for the validators, maintenance terminals and encoder,
as recommended. Issue an RFP for bid on additional smart cards. An RFP is currently
planned for distribution in June, 2013; however, the lengthy process for establishing
the proper encoding of security keys will result in a shortage of cards prior to the end
of 2013.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:

PASSED [14 TO 1]
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
Gary Lasater, Director, District G
Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Barbara Deadwyler

Prepared by:
Beverly Scott, IT Program Manager
Judy McMurphy, IT Program Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 171

13.G

Packet Pg. 172

