Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to Board of Directors

Date:

September 21, 2010

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
September 21, 2010 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Ten Board members were present at roll call. Directors Brohl, Cohen and Tayer arrived after
roll call. Directors Busck and Christopher were absent.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
There were two retirees for the month of August. Neither was present to receive his/her
reward.
SPECIAL PRESENTATION-BUS ROADEO
Chair Kemp and the Board recognized the participants in the bus roadeo on September 11,
2010. Certificates were given to the following groups of participants: Maintenance, Private
contractors, Service cleaning, and Snow plowing. Chair Kemp also recognized the Board
participants, Directors Tobiassen, Cohen and James who won 1st, second and third place
respectively, in the Board member category.
Some of the participants were present to be recognized, Robin McIntosh, facilities, read a
statement on behalf of the facilities maintenance employees who placed in the 2010 bus and
snow plow categories. He shared their appreciation for being recognized for a job well done.
The top two teams were representing RTD at the National Snow Roadeo in Estes Park
competing with other agencies such as municipalities, airports, counties and other
transportation agencies. Other team participants in the RTD Roadeo included the landscape
group, team from Boulder and Elati facilities, and the Platte and public facilities which won first
place.
All of the participants were applauded by the Board for their contribution to RTD.
The bus operators will be recognized in the October Board meeting.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
William John Van Ostraod expressed a concern over the lack of connecting buses to the airport
bus which will get him to the airport for his 6:00 a.m. shift. Jesse Carter, Service Planning
Manager, will work with him on this issue.
Jack McCroskey, former Board member, expressed how if he had time he would discuss
several issues-fares, contract with Goldman Sachs, MGB annual contract, and other issues.
Given the time limitation he expressed concern for the impact that raising fares will have on the
transit dependent and those less financially able especially during our poor economy.

Robin Kneich, Fresc and Enterprise Community Partners , expressed appreciation to the Board
for their leadership in doing the right thing and acting on the TOD, even when they did not have
to act. She talked about how more of the core ridership should benefit from the affordable
housing policy as we transform communities and make transit more accessible to everyone.
She identified four benefits from the Board acting on this TOD policy when they did not have to
which showed their openness to change and working with the community.
Maggie King, Berkeley Association, spoke about the Gold Line station at Federal Blvd and the
placement of the station. The initial placement was on the west. There is a small property on
the east which she has listened to their position but feels the west side is the best for the TOD.
She has also visited with the Adams County Transportation department and they believe there
will be greater traffic impact if this station is placed on the east.
Gil McNeish representing the TOD group, wanted to assure the Board that the TOD group is
working collaboratively with all groups to resolve differences. He cited praise by the Adams
County and the Planning Commission on their review of the proposal which does include the
relocation statement. He is confident the Adams County process will provide a vehicle to
resolve the differences as it relates to TOD.
Todd Peterson stated he had re-located back to Colorado and supports the Federal station
relocated to the west side.
Diane Milne, spoke about the pending change on route 9 and the hardship it would present for a
number of residents in that area who cannot walk up the hill. She is also opposed to fare
increase as she is on a fixed income and cannot afford the increase thanks to a Bush action that
eliminated a cost of living increase for seven years.
Cole Judge stated her support for the Federal station to be located on the west side.
Tom Reynolds, Regis University, spoke on their support for the station to be located on the
west side. Regis believes this will better support TOD development and its proximity to the
Clear Creek bike paths will have benefits to the residents and students in the area. He provided
a copy of a letter from Regis University which is included with the Board minutes in the Board
office.
Mary Funk indicated there is easier access to the west side and the east side is more
contaminated. She provided pictures of the east side which is included in the minute’s folder in
the Board office.
Karin Carpenter spoke about bad connections for route 31. She indicated the buses were
packed which created a long wait time if you had to wait for another bus.
Lorraine Andani provided her support for the west station at Federal as a way to increase the
number of people who may live there. This helps the budget for fire department, schools, etc.
She provided photos of the east side which are included in the minute’s folder in the Board
office.
Doug Connor indicated that he attended the DUS groundbreaking ceremony and complimented
the staff on a well done event.
V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS

GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee—Committee Vice Chair Bagley
provided an update from the GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee. The
committee approved the GM 2010 goal setting and the 2011 goal setting. This will come to

the full Board for approval in October. Additionally, the General Manager and his IT team
demonstrated a survey monkey electronic tool which is planned to be used on a quarterly basis
to obtain Board feedback on the General Manager’s performance. The first trial of this tool is
anticipated in early October.
Vice Chair Bagley also shared that Paula Perdue provided a draft update from the
benchmarking effort that compares transit properties on 14 metrics and looks at the cost of
living in these cities. This is a complex process and more work needs to be done.
VI.

METRO MAYOR TASK FORCE
Chair Kemp reported the scheduled Metro Mayor’s Taskforce meeting had been cancelled.

VII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF AUGUST 17, 2010
MOTION:

Director Pulliam moved for the adoption of the August 17, 2010
regular Board Minutes.
Director Cohen seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Director Brohl requested a correction to page 15 of the minutes
which listed Director James’ name twice instead of Director
McMullen.

An electronic vote was taken with 12 votes in favor and 0
against pending this correction.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

VIII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
Timeline for FasTracks Financial Plan Presentation to the Board
General Manager Washington indicated this timeline had been changed to November
9th. Staff has also been asked to provide an analysis of the tax increase option which
they will share at this time.
Denver Metro Chamber Leadership Exchange Program trip to Portland Oregon
General Manager Washington participated in this leadership exchange program along
with 150 business leaders, government and elected officials. The focus was on
education, health and transportation. Portland is well known for its TOD and its transit
system including the streetcars.
Director Bagley commented that 4 Board members would be attending Railvolution in
Portland, Oregon and will provide a report on their observations as well.
Introduction of Carla Perez, AGM, Administration and Christina Tubb, Manager of the
Civil Rights Division to COMTO Colorado
General Manager Washington introduced Carla Perez and Christina Tubb to the
DBE/SBE community at the COMTO Colorado meeting last week. It is important that
the small business community understands RTD’s commitment to the community and
know the people who will be working with them. He will also be doing more
introductions of his new assistant general managers to this community.
International Transit Studies Program
The TCRB sponsors this International Transit Studies program where selected
participants in this program travel to different locations looking at transit systems.

Only 12 people are selected into this program. This year, Bill Van Meter, AGM,
Planning, is one of the participants. This year’s theme focuses on economic
development and how transit plays a role.
Other Items
General Manager Washington shared that we are recruiting bus operators and a
handout was developed by Administration which explains the process and walks
potential applicants through this process.

IX.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT

MOTION:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve items B-E of
the unanimous consent,
Director James seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 12 votes in favor and
0 against.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

B.

FasTracks Desktop Support Contractor
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to
award AMS a 3 year contract with two 1 year options for IT Desktop Support Services
(Contract # 10DY001) in the amount of $340,000 not to exceed for all 5 years. AMS
was selected through the competitive bid process. The contract is being brought to the
Board because this is a Personal Services Contract per RTD Resolution No. 27, Series
of 1983.

C.

Resolution No.___ Authorizing the Chief Financial Officer to Arrange for the Issuance
and Sale of Certain Financial Obligations
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors approve the attached Resolution No. ___, Series of 2010 (the
“Resolution”), authorizing the Chief Financial Officer to arrange for the issuance and
sale of certain financial obligations (the “Obligations”).

D.

Purchase thirty-two (32) cutaway buses for call-N-Ride service
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to award a contract for the
purchase of thirty-two (32) new cutaway buses to Intermountain Coach of Colorado
Springs, for a price not to exceed $54,145 each and security cameras for all thirty-two
vehicles at a cost not to exceed $6,575 per vehicle. The total not to exceed cost for
all thirty-two buses and security cameras is $1,943,040.

E.

Invesco Station – Smart Card Conduit/Power
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to increase the contract
with the current 4-Car Platform Extensions-Phase II Contractor, Krische Construction, in
an amount not to exceed $150,000 for a total contract value of $2,526,876.04 to
complete conduit and power supply installation for the Smart Card Readers at the

X.

Invesco Station.
RECOMMENDED ACTION
A.

Resolution NO.____, Series of 2010 (Revised Strategic Plan for Transit Oriented
Development)
MOTION:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve Resolution
No_, Series of 2010 pertaining to Revised Strategic Plan
for Transit Oriented Development
Director Cohen seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Prior to the Board discussion, Chair Kemp read a letter of
endorsement from Rick Garcia, Regional Administrator for
US Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Director O’Boyle voiced his concerns from the past. He
solidly supports TOD; He solidly supports affordable
housing communities. His concern is RTD is moving
away from being the transit in TOD and intruding in other
jurisdictions. He will certainly support the policy but does
not feel the reference to the federal government should
be there. This should be a local policy.
Director Pulliam stated he has a similar concern related
to the federal government.
Director Tayer stated he feels this is an important policy
to support. FasTracks will be a significant instrument in
improving access to these TOD communities. He
believes it is important that all citizens across the
economic stratus have access to these transit
investments.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 11 votes in favor
(Bagley, Brohl, Cohen, James, Kemp, Malpiede, Martinez,
McMullen, Pulliam, Tayer and Tobiassen) and 1 against
(O’Boyle). Director Daly had left and Directors Busck and
Christopher were absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

F.

January 2011 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve moving the proposed January 2011 Service Changes (Attachment A)
on to public review and comment.

MOTION:

Director Pulliam made the motion to move the proposed
January 2011 service changes to public review and
comments.
Director McMullen seconded the motion.

AMENDMENT:

Director Pulliam offered the amendment to remove the

proposed elimination of Coal Creek from the route
changes. Staff would continue to negotiate with the
alternative service provider.
DISCUSSION:

Director Brohl reminded the Board that the action is just
to take all proposed changes out for public hearing. By
removing Coal Creek from this public hearing process the
Board will be removing its flexibility to act. Once
removed, it cannot be put back in.
Director Cohen sympathized also with Director Pulliam’s
position on cancelling service. However, we need to put
out for public comment right now and this issue needs to
be discussed. We need to look for more affordable
alternatives for Coal Creek but this should be a part of
the public hearing.
Director Pulliam indicated that eliminating this service
would leave a large geographical area without service.
Director Cohen concurred but used his personal example
to say that when people elect to live in the mountains this
limits their mass transit access and becomes a personal
choice.
Chair Kemp indicated this option needs to be kept in the
recommendation for the public hearing.
Director O’Boyle shared his heart was with Wally on the
issue but agrees with Director Brohl that removing this
from public hearing would limit the Board’s flexibility.
Director Tayer indicated that Director Pulliam is making a
compelling argument. However the process needs to go
forward to obtain input from the public hearings. This
could lead to some intense discussion later on options.

VOTE ON
AMENDMENT:

An electronic vote was taken with 3 votes in favor
(Pulliam, Mcmullen and Tobiassen) and 9 against (Bagley,
Brohl, Cohen, James, Kemp, Martinez, Malpiede, O’Boyle
and Tayer).
Chair Kemp declared the amendment FAILED.

VOTE ON THE
PRIMARY MOTION: An electronic vote was taken with 11 votes in favor
(Bagley, Brohl, Cohen, James, Kemp, Malpiede, Martinez,
McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer and Tobiassen) and 1 against
(Pulliam). Director Daly had left and Directors Busck and
Christopher were absent.

Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

XI.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
There was no unfinished business.

XII.

NEW BUSINESS
There was no new business

XIII.

ADJOURNMENT
The Board meeting adjourned at 7:08 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

___________________________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the RTD Board of Directors

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, September 21, 2010

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
Chris Martinez, First Vice Chair
Kent Bagley, Secretary
John Tayer, Treasurer
Barbara Brohl
Matt Cohen
Bruce Daly
Bill James
Angie Malpiede
William McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Wally Pulliam
Tom Tobiassen
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Rolf Asphaug
Jeff Becker
Shirley Bennett
Jesse Carter
Shannon Duty
Sherry Ellebracht
Mike Gil
Terry Howerter
Robin McIntosh Jr.

Austin Jenkins
Doug McLeod
Barbara McManus
Anthony Menendez
Paula Perdue
Carla Perez
Steve Pilon
Trent Radcliff
Scott Reed

OTHERS PRESENT:
Chris Taylor – Spectrum A/V
William John Van Ostraod
Jack McCroskey
Jeanne Shreve
Bob Wilan
Jim Menke
Maynard King
Mary Finnin
Diana Molne
Jeff Leib – Denver Post
Cole Judge
Doug Connor
Tom Reynolds
Karin Carpenter
Maggie King
Gloria Rudden
Gil McNeish
Todd Peterson
Larry Hoy
Lacey Young
Daryl Kinon
Mary J. Funk
Ben Conell
Debra Garcia

District I
District B
District H
District O
District D
District M
District N
District A
District C
District E
District G
District L
District F

Teresa Sedmak
Dean Shaklee
John Shonsey
Bill Sirois
John Tarbert
Lisa Trujillo
Christina Tubb
Del Walker
Phil Washington

Larry Perkins
Lorraine Anderson
Randy Wayen

