Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Thursday, October 8, 2009
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

October 8, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on October 8, 2009 at
5: 40 p.m. in Rooms R, T, & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Chair McMullen, Vice – Chair O’Boyle, Director Bagley, Director Brohl,
Director Christopher, Director Cohen, Director Daly, Director James,
Director Kemp, and Director Tobiassen.
Directors Busck, Chacon, Pulliam, Martinez and Tayer.

Staff Present:

Susan Altes, Rick Clarke, Kevin Diviness, Carol Duecker, Sherry
Ellebracht, David Genova, Marla Lien, Karen Morales, Paula Perdue,
Scott Reed, Daria Serna, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Stan Szabelak,
John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Larry
Warner and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Pete Hankovszky, Chuck Culig, Wendy Wallach, Mary Keith Floyd,
Mac Callison, Bob Wilson, Anne Hayes, Sharon Torranova, Kathleen
Osher, Jessica Klebus
****

Call to Order

Chair McMullen called the meeting to order at 5:40 p.m.

Chair McMullen moved Ann Hayes to the front of the agenda for the CAC Update. Her
report is as follows: The CAC met for their quarterly meeting two weeks ago. They
continue to have conversation on how they can best find ourselves be relevant to the
Board. They are hesitant to come up with a firm plan until they better know what decision
the board will be made in the next few months.
Lee Kemp asked that CAC take a look at how to define equity as related to FasTracks.
Director Daly was happy to see at least 3 CAC members on West Corridor construction

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Thursday, October 8, 2009
Page 2
I.

Recommended Action:
Bill Van Meter and Larry Warner presented the next (3) I-225 items to the board. Bill
introduced and thanked Mac Callison – City of Aurora.
Larry Warner introduced the project team: Chuck Culig, Wendy Wallach, Dwight
Shock (not present), Pete Hankovszky, Mary Keith Floyd, and indicated that they
have done a fantastic job.
Approval of the Addition and funding for the 13th Avenue Station on the I-225
Corridor Project
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the addition of the 13th Avenue Station on the I-225 Corridor
project. The addition of the 13th Avenue Station will not result in a cost increase to
the project and the station has been shown to have long term benefits to the RTD.
MOTION:

Director Tobiassen made a motion to
forward this item to the full board at the
October 20, 2009 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Daly seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.
Chacon, Pulliam and Martinez absent.

RTD is paying for access off of Sable and 13th which is the primary access. The property
was purchased in 1979.
Director Bagley asked if there had been any traffic studies done and requested the results.
Director Christopher requested maps, sight plans and diagrams on any land related item on
the agenda.
Larry indicated that modeling was done as part of (EE) process and it was determined that
this station did not provide a significant addition to travel time. The time is minimal and
does not impact costs.
Chair McMullen indicated that there are only 250 parking spaces at Dayton Station with
only one access and there has not been an issue with traffic.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Thursday, October 8, 2009
Page 3
Approval to Adopt the I-225 Corridor Final Environmental Evaluation (EE) Document
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the Adoption of the I-225 Corridor Final Environmental Evaluation
(EE) document.
MOTION:
Director Bagley made a motion to
forward this item to the full board at the
October 20, 2009 Board Meeting.
SECOND:

Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

Director Christopher would like to see an executive summary of concerns and comments
from the public with RTD’s response.

Contract Amendment for Final Design (Segment 1) with Michael Baker Jr., Inc. on
the I-225 Corridor, Contract No. 17-DH-006
Rick Clarke indicated that this is a proposed contract amendment for design
contractor for a 100 percent full final design. This is part of the shovel ready plan.
Director Christopher requested the key elements for shovel ready plans for each of
the corridors. It would be helpful to have that information and some key bullet
points.
Chair McMullen inquired about the bus service that would be out of Iliff. Interim
General Manager Phil Washington indicated that they will come back with that
information at the Operations Committee meeting next Tuesday.
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or designees to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract amendment not to exceed $3,500,000 with Michael
Baker Jr., Inc. (Baker) to provide final design services for Segment 1, Nine Mile to
Iliff. Funds for this contract amendment are available in the FasTracks Budget for
the I-225 Corridor Project.
MOTION:

Director Bagley made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the October
20, 2009 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Thursday, October 8, 2009
Page 4
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

Public Service Company of Colorado (PSCo) Quitclaim on West Corridor
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute all
documents necessary to execute a quitclaim deed in favor of Public Service
Company of Colorado (PSCo) on approximately 2,057 square feet of vacant land
located west of the Platte River on the West Howard Place alignment and to receive
a quitclaim deed from Public Service Company of Colorado (PSCo) on approximately
3,050 square feet of vacant land located near the RTD owned alignment for the
West Corridor and Simms Street.
Susan Altes presented this item and is exchange quitclaim deeds with Public Service
Company of Colorado. It is requiring the movement of a transmission tower to
accommodate the Light Rail construction. This is a house keeping so everybody has
clear title.
Director Brohl expressed concerns in quitclaiming properties and how they would
create clear title. Why would we not want to go through and obtain a warranty
deed? Susan answered that on the Public Service piece they can show they have
title – there is a cloud on title as a result of RTD’s quit claim deed from rail road. By
RTD quitclaiming their interest in that specific piece that clears any cloud on PS title.
Both Gambro and Public Service will quit claim to RTD.
If there was not an agreement between parties, RTD would have to go to court and
file a quiet title action for court to determine ownership of property. This could
delay construction and cost approximately at least $250,000.00. This could cause
delays up to a year.
Marla Lien indicated that if RTD can get insurable title, the legal risk is minimal.
MOTION:

Director Christopher made a motion to
forward this item to the full board at the
October 20, 2009 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Bagley seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed. Director Brohl voted
against.

This item will be placed under Recommended Action.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Thursday, October 8, 2009
Page 5

Recommendation for Execution of RTD-DUSPA Funding Agreement in consideration
of the major transit elements to be constructed at Denver Union Station
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the Chair and Secretary to execute: i) a subordinate sales tax
revenue bond (the “Bond”); and ii) the DUSPA/RTD Funding Agreement (the
“Funding Agreement”) to provide for payments from RTD to DUSPA in consideration
of DUSPA incurring obligations to finance major transit elements that are part of the
DUS project and are included in the FasTracks Plan. The Bond will be issued in the
face amount of $167,954,114 over thirty years at a current market interest rate of
5.85%.
Total repayment (principal and interest) on the Bond will equal
$360,194,666.
Marla Lien, General Counsel presented this item to the board. RTD will own its own
assets and is better for RTD because there is no interest, lien no interest in property
itself. RTD had to address how DUSPA would pay back RTD money. The bond
won’t be executed until there is funding. We are hoping to have funding in place by
the end of the year.
MOTION:

Director Bagley made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the October
20, 2009 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

Request for Approval of the Eagle Project Utility Relocation Agreement Work Orders
(Design Only)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the Interim General Manager or his designee to (1) execute Work
Orders under the RTD Eagle Project Utility Relocation Agreements (URAs) in order to
proceed with the design of relocation for certain long lead time utility relocations, as
further described below, (“Early Relocations”) necessitated by the Eagle Project
implementation in an amount not to exceed a total RTD financial responsibility of
$2,500,000; 2) to delegate signature authority to execute the URAs and any such
design Work Orders. $500,000 of the total of $2,500,000 is included in the 2009
amended Budget for the Eagle Project corridors (East Corridor, Gold Line, Commuter
Rail Maintenance Facility, and Northwest Rail portion from DUS to South
Westminster Station). The remaining $2,000,000 is included in the 2010 requested
budget for these corridors.
Rick Clarke presented this item to the board. Utilities are always an early action item

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Thursday, October 8, 2009
Page 6
and no construction can take place until utilities are relocated.
MOTION:
Director Christopher made a motion to
forward this item to the full board at the
October 20, 2009 Board Meeting.
SECOND:
VOTE ON
MOTION:

II.

Director Cohen seconded the motion.
The motion passed but will be placed
under recommended action at the request
of Director Brohl who abstained due to a
conflict of interest.

Updates


CAC Update
This update was given at the beginning of the meeting.



FasTracks at Work Campaign
Pauletta Tonilas, FT PI Manager introduced this item to the board. Pauletta
presented the public information and public awareness program. This year’s
campaign is called “FasTracks at Work”. A video was shown to the board.
The video is available on the FasTracks and RTD websites. Karen Morales
displayed some of the signs.
Planning for three milestone events are in process.
Director Kemp requested the video be shown at the Metro Mayor’s Taskforce
Meeting on Monday.
Chair McMullen asked if something can be put up showing that the West
Corridor was fully funded.



2010 Annual Program Evaluation (APE) Process and Timeline
Phil Washington presented this item to the board. Copies of the presentation
are available.

III.

Next Meeting – November 3, 2009

IV.

Other Matters
No Other matters were discussed

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Thursday, October 8, 2009
Page 7
V.

Motion to Move to Executive Session
a. C.R.S. 24-6-402(4) Conference with Attorney on Specific Legal Matter – Tax
Collection
Chair McMullen asked for a motion to move to Executive Session to discuss item a)
and also State Audit.
Chair Kemp made the motion and Director Brohl seconded the motion.

VI.

Adjourn
The FasTracks Monitoring Committee adjourned to Executive Session at 7:36 p.m.
Executive Session adjourned at approximately 8:15 p.m.

