Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, April 10, 2007
Page 1 of 6

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

April 16, 2007

Subject:

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee
Meeting held on Tuesday, April 10, 2007 at 5:00 p.m. in Rooms T & D
****

Committee
Members Present:

Co-Chairs McMullen and Kinton
Directors; Busck, Daly, Kemp, Martinez, Tayer (via phone), Ruchman,
and Yamrick

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Bruce Abel, Ron Dodsworth, Lloyd Mack, Rick Clarke,
Bill Porter, Jeff Becker, Don Young, Tony McCaulay, Manny Herrera,
John Pung, Susanne Henry, Daria Serna, Scott Reed, Pauletta Tonilas,
David Genova, John Tarbert

Others:

Kevin Flynn (Rocky Mountain News), Robin Lybarger, Stephanie
Jackson (Park Meadows), L.W. Morrow, Karen Morales

Call to Order:
I.

****
Co-Chair McMullen called the meeting to order at 5:10 p.m.

Website Advertising Graphics – Karen Morales, Contractor and Pauletta Tonilas,
FasTracks Public Information Manager, introduced this item. The FasTracks website
is up and running and staff has received some very good feedback about the
content and made a few changes. The FasTracks team is launching the public
promotion for the FasTracks website. The promotion will run May – August of
2007. The theme of the promotion is “Surf FasTracks.” Pauletta Tonilas
distributed the print advertising for the Committee’s review.
Pauletta Tonilas mentioned the first construction activity on FasTracks which will be
the pulling up of the old rail on the West Corridor. The date for the event is May
16, 2007.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, April 10, 2007
Page 2 of 6
II.

Staffing Update – Manny Herrera, Senior Manager, Human Resources gave the staffing
update. Following up on an action item from the last Committee meeting, Mr. Herrera
observed that the attrition rate for bus operators over the last six years has remained
constant. Bus mechanics are down 6.3% (12 mechanics), rail mechanics down 30%,
and bus operators 2.7% (28 operators). There are eight electro mechanics in training
currently.
Co-Chair McMullen asked a question about long term temporary employees. Mr.
Herrera remarked that there is only one long term temporary in the agency.

III.

Recommended Action –
 Adoption of volume discount program for purchase of day passes-Bruce Abel,
Assistant General Manager, Contracted and Customer Services, presented
this action item. The impetus for this has come from Convention and Event
planners. With the opening of the Southeast Light Rail corridor, many
Denver Technical Center (DTC) hotels are used as overflow for conventions
downtown. They are requesting volume discounts on day passes.
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the implementation of volume discounts on
the purchase of one-Day passes. It is recommended that for purchases of 100
to 999, RTD will offer a 10% discount. This results in recommended prices for
Local, Express, and Regional Day passes of $4.00, $7.00, and $9.00
respectively under the current fare structure. For purchases of 1,000 and over,
it is recommended that RTD offer a discount of 20%, resulting in prices of
$3.50, $6.25, and $8.00 for Local, Express and Regional passes respectively
under the current RTD fare structure.
Motion:

Director Busck made a
motion for full approval
before the Board at the
April 17, 2007 Board
Meeting.

Second:

Director Kemp
seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:



The motion passed
unanimously.

Adoption of five (5) day convention pass – Bruce Abel spoke to this action
item.
Director Kemp brought up the idea of letting the organization sponsoring the

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, April 10, 2007
Page 3 of 6
convention place their logo on the convention pass. Bruce Abel said that
marketing would look at the feasibility of doing this.
Director Yamrick expressed concern about skyRide and access-a-Ride being
excluded from this pass.
Director McMullen asked if there is a market for this product and what
participation has been like in other cities. Bruce Abel responded that
participation in other locations has been quite high.
Director Ruchman expressed concern and would like to see the product
priced lower and if the demand is high, raise the price.
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services/Marketing Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the implementation of five-Day Convention
Pass to be sold to Conventions, Meetings, Conferences, Seminars, Trade Shows
and Special Interest Groups. The unlimited access five-Day Pass, to be called
the “Convention Pass”, would be good on all regular fixed route bus and Light
Rail services excluding skyRide, RockiesRide, BroncosRide, and access-a-Ride.
For purchases of 100 to 999 passes, the recommended price for the Convention
Pass would be $35.00 each, and for purchases of 1,000 and over the price
would be $31.25 each.
Motion:

Director Busck made a
motion for full approval
before the Board at the
April 17, 2007 Board
Meeting.

Second:

Director Martinez
seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed
with one dissenting vote
(Director Ruchman)

IV.

Off-peak Light Rail Ridership Marketing Efforts - Bruce Abel referenced the written
report that was distributed to the Board in the weekly packets. Director Ruchman
asked about successful off-peak ridership in other systems. There were no questions
regarding the report. There was a discussion of special services and off-peak ridership
and how best to reach those transit riders.

V.

2005 Service Performance Review – Bruce Abel and Jeff Becker, Manager, Service

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, April 10, 2007
Page 4 of 6
Development, gave this report. Staff performs a yearly review to evaluate and
communicate the performance of each of the services. Service standards are
formulated in terms of the subsidy per passenger and the passengers per hour. These
are reflections of how well the services do in terms of customer utilization. It is a
policy of the Board to provide cost effective service throughout the District which is
why this review is performed. Jeff Becker stressed that there are many different
factors that go into determining how a route is performing. He used the example of the
Route 38L. While the route seems to be a low performing route per the District’s
standards, there are other factors that have to be considered. If the Route 38L were
cut it would necessitate adding two more runs on the 38 which is less cost effective
than running the 38L.
Jeff Becker also mentioned that many of the low performing routes were eliminated or
restructured with the opening of the Southeast light rail corridor.
There were concerns from several directors over the subsidy of access-a-Ride and the
growing costs.
VI.

Credit Cards at TVMs – Bruce Abel spoke about what the cost would be to retrofit
TVMs on the Southeast corridor so they could accept credit cards. The TVMs on the
Southeast Corridor are retrofitable at the cost of $2,000 per machine for the hardware.
There would also be a cost of approximately $200,000 for software modifications.
The TVMs along the Southeast Corridor are networked so the machines can talk to
each other. The TVMs along the Southwest Corridor are not networked so the cost for
retrofitting would be much higher. There are also bank costs associated with credit
card transactions that staff estimates to be around $200,000.
Cal Marsella said that there is a fund available from the Federal Transit Administration
(FTA) called “Fixed Guideway Modernization” that is available after a facility turns
seven years old. The Southwest Corridor will turn seven years old this year. Cal
Marsella asked Lloyd Mack to discuss with Liz Rao to see how much money could be
available under this fund for the District. The fund is for modernizing facilities so
retrofitting the TVMs could be one way to use this money.

VII.

Park Meadows Access – Co-chairs McMullen and Kinton expressed their concerns over
the planning for the Park Meadows access from the County Line Station. Co-chair
Kinton expressed concern that customers will seek the fastest access to the mall and
will end up dodging traffic to get into the mall, which he feels is unacceptable.
Cal Marsella said that Park Meadows has come a long way during the negotiation
process and allowing RTD to land the bridge on their land.
Co-chair Kinton said that the Board approved the bridge going to a grassy strip and that
would negate patrons having to use the parking lot. Director Yamrick expressed her

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, April 10, 2007
Page 5 of 6
concern with the proposed walkway and how difficult it will be for handicapped
patrons.
Rick Clarke, project manager for T-REX spoke about the grassy strip plan and that it
was decided that most patrons would like to access the mall through one of its main
entrances instead of accessing the mall through Nordstrom’s.
Stephanie Jackson, Marketing Manager for Park Meadows, addressed the Committee.
Ms. Jackson stated that Park Meadows is committed to working with RTD to make the
access the “best that it can be to the area.” Ms. Jackson maintains that the entrance
to the mall is not a far distance from Nordstrom’s. Ms. Jackson said that mall is
committed to making the access to the mall safe and handicapped accessible.
Robin Lybarger addressed the Committee and said that Park Meadows is working with
the District and the City of Lone Tree to address the concerns of the Board.
Co-chair McMullen asked if this plan was final or if there was room for negotiations.
Andy Mutz, Senior Landscape Architect said that RTD is proceeding with the bridge
design that goes from the County Line Station to the property at Park Meadows. Park
Meadows is tasked with picking up the walkway at the bridge to a main entrance to the
mall. RTD can only commit to designing and building the bridge. The City of Lone Tree
is funding the design and construction of the walkway.
Rick Clarke mentioned that this route is in the IGA between Lone Tree, Park Meadows,
and RTD. If the walkway was to be redesigned, the IGA would need to be changed.
Director Kinton asked what would it take to have the agreement changed. Andy Mutz
responded that negotiations would have to be reopened and the design and
construction of the bridge would be delayed.
Director Martinez expressed concern that the walkway might be designed so that it is
only for transit riders and that it should be designed for everyone to use.
Cal Marsella stressed that the walkway is an option to get to the mall but no one is
required to use it. There are many different ways to get from the bridge to the mall and
it is up to the patrons which route they choose.
Director Martinez said that this is really Park Meadows’ issue.
Rick Clarke spoke about how the designer is already on board and how staff is working
quickly to be able to get customers to the mall. If there are changes, design would
have to be stopped (and probably pay the designer extra), and negotiations would have
to start again.
Director Kinton made a motion that design be put on hold until Park Meadows decides

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, April 10, 2007
Page 6 of 6
what to do about the walkway.
The motion died as there was no second.
VIII.

Other Matters – There were no other matters discussed.

IX.

Next Meeting Date -The next meeting date will be Wednesday, May 2, 2007 at
5:00 p.m.

X.

Adjournment - Hearing no objections, Co-Chair McMullen adjourned the meeting at 6:54
p.m.

