Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede,
District C Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Shelley Cook, District L
Bob Broom, District F
Vince Buzek, District J
Claudia Folska, District E
Lynn Guissinger, District O
Shontel M. Lewis, District B

Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A
MINUTES

GM Executive Search/GM Oversight & Performance
Management Committee
September 18, 2020 at 2:00 PM
REMOTE MEETING
Chaired by Peggy Catlin

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Catlin called the meeting to order at 2:00 p.m.
Committee members in attendance:

Committee Chair Catlin, Vice
Chair
Guissinger, Chair Rivera-Malpiede,
and
Directors Cook, Lewis, Menten, and Walker

Other Directors present:

Directors Buzek,
Whitmore

Others present:

Paul J. Ballard, General Manager; Barbara
McManus, Board Office Executive Manager;
John McKay, Board Office Administrator;
Gregg Moser, Krauthamer & Associates,
Melanie Snyder, RTD General Counsel

Lubow

Tisdale,

and

B. Process for Completing Negotiations
Presented by Committee Chair Catlin.

C. Executive Session
Executive Session pursuant to § 24-6-402(4)(f)(I), C.R.S., for consideration of

personnel matters regarding recently selected General Manager/Chief Executive
Officer candidate Debra Johnson; § 24-6-402(4)(e)(I), C.R.S., for determining
positions relative to matters that may be subject to negotiations, developing strategy
for negotiations, and instructing negotiators regarding new General Manager/Chief
Executive Officer compensation and contract; and § 24-6-402(4)(b), C.R.S., to receive
legal advice regarding the same.
Motion:

Chair Rivera-Malpiede made the motion to proceed
into executive session.
Director Guissinger seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion:

The motion passed by 7 in favor and 0 against.

Committee Chair Catlin declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
The committee then moved into executive session. Upon conclusion of the executive
session at 3:31 p.m., the committee resumed the meeting in open session.

D. Other Matters
Barbara McManus, Board Office Executive Manager, presented a brief update on the
timeline for the remainder of the process of contract negotiations with General Manager
designee Debra Johnson.
Committee Chair Catlin informally polled the Directors on their preferences regarding
the release of contract terms in the public meeting agenda packet for the Executive
Committee meeting scheduled for September 25, 2020. The committee decided to
postpone the decision until the other members of the Board not in attendance could
weigh in during said Executive Committee meeting.

E. Next Meeting Date – September 22, 2020
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Catlin adjourned the meeting at 4:34 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

