2020-09-18 GMO-GME
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It was just Friday, wasn't it?
PEGGY CATLIN: It was. It was.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: [AUDIO OUT] going very, very fast.
PEGGY CATLIN: So with us today we have Directors Buzek, Cook, Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
Actually, Director Cook, we have you on here twice. Director Tisdale, Director Walker. And on
the phone we have John McKay, and we have Melanie Snyder, and we have Paul Ballard and
Gregg Moser.
So why don't we give it a few more minutes for some of our other Board members to join?
PAUL BALLARD: I wonder if they've gone over to the other meeting and are waiting there.
PEGGY CATLIN: John, would you mind checking?
JOHN MCKAY: Will do. One sec.
PEGGY CATLIN: Anyone have any big plans for the weekend?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --minder, Vince.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. Aren't you giving the opening statement, Angie?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I was thinking of passing that over to Mr. Secretary. I don't
know, I think that might be a good thing.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's Vince.
VINCE BUZEK: You can't handle the truth.
PAUL BALLARD: That's my favorite movie line of all times. You know, Jack Nicholson-VINCE BUZEK: I've always wanted to use that in court, but it just never came up.
MELANIE SNYDER: Never got the opportunity.
PAUL BALLARD: Might not go over too big with the judge.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, Director Menten has joined. I believe the only committee member that
isn't on is Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger said she might be late.

PEGGY CATLIN: No, she's on.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, she is?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I made it back.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, hey, Lynn.
PEGGY CATLIN: She had a bike ride. We had an earlier conference call. And I said after you
hung up, Lynn, that there's no way I could have done that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good headphones.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, that's good. She's impressive, to say the least.
Well, I think, absent Director Lewis, I think we'll go ahead and get started. So it is 2:04 PM on
Friday, September 18. And this is the General Manager Executive Search and the GMOC
Committee meeting, adjourning at 2:04.
With us today are Directors Buzek, Cook, Guissinger, Menten, Chair Rivera-Malpiede, Tisdale,
and Walker. And then on the phone, we have John McKay. Also joining us are GM Paul Ballard,
Gregg Moser, John McKay, and Barbara McManus, and Melanie Snider.
So Melanie, do we want to adjourn after executive session to talk about the procedures and
logistics? Because we may want to discuss that.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, we do. But I think we should go into executive session first.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's kind of what I thought. All right.
So I would like to entertain a motion to enter into executive session pursuant to 24-6-402(4)(f)(l)
Colorado Revised Statute for consideration of personnel matters regarding recently selected
General Manager/ Chief Executive Officer candidate Debra Johnson, 24-6-402(4)(e)(l) Colorado
Revised Statute for determining positions relative to matters that may be subject to negotiations,
developing strategy for negotiations, and instructing negotiators regarding new General
Manager/ Chief Executive Officer compensation and contract, and 24-6-402(4)(b) Colorado
Revised Statute to receive legal advice regarding the same.
Do I have a motion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved.
PEGGY CATLIN: Chair Rivera-Malpiede and Director Guissinger. Are there any objections?
Seeing none, we are now adjourned from the general meeting, to which we will rejoin after we
adjourn from executive session. It is now 2:06.

So if you would leave this meeting and join the executive session.
Lubow, Guissinger, Menten, Chair Rivera-Malpiede, Director Cook, Director Lewis, Director
Tisdale, Director Walker, Director Whitmore, and Director Guissinger on the phone-- no,
Director Guissinger. We also have John McKay on the phone and Director Menten on the phone.
We also have Gregg Moser, John McKay, Barbara McManus, and Melanie Snyder.
So we are reconvening the GMES/GMOC meeting at 3:33 PM on Friday, September 18 to talk
about negotiations and the process moving forward. So Melanie, would you like to talk about
that a little bit?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. I think it's for you all to discuss now what the next steps are. I think
you should talk through the next anticipated meetings that you anticipate having, timing of that,
and then also whether you are planning to disclose any information about the contract or the
terms and when you might want to be doing that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
All right. In our previous meeting, we had some discussion about how we had handled these
negotiated processes in the past and how they were publicly noticed. And in the past, we had
assumed that up until the contract was agreed upon and signed, that it was still an executive-what's the term, Melanie-- a work product of the Board, of the elected officials, and that until it
was inked, it was still subject to negotiation. That's the way it's been handled in the past.
And we agreed that there had not been consensus among this committee as to how we would
move forward this time. Melanie has advised us that we have some flexibility. And I wanted to
try and reach consensus among Directors about how you want to move forward.
But in the meantime, I wanted to ask Barbara to remind us when the next scheduled meeting of
the committee is and how we will go forward.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So this is Barbara McManus. We're scheduled to meet on
Tuesday afternoon. I would have to check on that time. I think it's 1:00 or 3:00, but I'll look it up
now.
PAUL BALLARD: It's 1:00 PM. 1:00 PM.
BARBARA MCMANUS: What time? 1:00 PM, OK. Yeah, there's a couple of other of these
meetings next week.
Yeah. And so the process moving forward is I know we've had quite a discussion in executive
session about how we want to move forward the elements of the contract. At this point, based on
that conversation, we will get that contract later today, with the changes that were agreed upon,
to Debra to review with her counsel.

Gregg, I don't know exactly what timing you have asked her to get that back to us in time to
review for the meeting scheduled for Tuesday. We'll go over these-GREGG MOSER: I asked for 12:00 on Tuesday Denver time.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK. So at that point, we would review that. And any comments,
changes, updates that come from Debra and her counsel, and then hopefully move forward to get
both sides in agreement and have moved forward to the next GMS meeting, which would be on
Thursday, so that we could get the committee to approve that item to move forward into the
Executive Committee, which is changed and now rescheduled to 3:00 on Friday afternoon.
So barring any obstacles right now, as Director Catlin said, we're in the 11th hour. So that's the
process moving forward. And if it passes through Executive Committee after GMES approves it,
then we move forward in taking it to the Board meeting on the 29th for final approval.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. That was a good capture of the work that we still have to do.
I see Director Walker has his hand raised. Director Walker, please.
JEFF WALKER: OK. Can you hear me?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JEFF WALKER: OK. I reduced my screen. I don't know what's going on. OK.
So the only way, the only way I would agree to releasing any information early, before it's
executed, would be if the other party were to agree also. And mine is conditioned only on it
being part of the Board packet after all elements have been agreed upon by our negotiator and
the other party's negotiator. And I wouldn't want to see any things that would be raised that I'd be
so set in my confidence in the contract, I probably wouldn't agree to any changes on there.
But that's the only way, if you're still looking for information, that's the only way that I would
agree to releasing anything about it earlier is if both parties agreed to it at that specific time.
That's it. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Walker. I did plan to ask if anyone had any questions
regarding the process that Ms. McManus outlined, and then we will talk about getting consensus
[WHISTLE] on what the timing of information release would be.
Are there any questions first? Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: So let me make sure, I understand that your question right now at this
very moment is simply about the outline that we are expected to hear back from Miss Johnson by
Monday noon, Denver Mountain Standard Time?
PEGGY CATLIN: Gregg, do you want to respond to that?

GREGG MOSER: Tuesday, Tuesday at noon. Tuesday at noon.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Tuesday at noon. And that it then, we reconvene the GMES
committee on Thursday. And then expecting that it comes out of there, it goes to the Executive
Committee on Friday? And that is your only question to us right now is about those statements
and timeline. Is that right?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, if you have any questions about those.
NATALIE MENTEN: No, I do not.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Then I'm going to go through the list of directors regarding our second
issue to see where we have consensus among these committee members.
Director Walker, you still have your hand up. And Director Menten, you still have your hand up.
Are you-- OK, thank you.
So let me start with the committee members first, and then I will also, since we have noncommittee members on the call, I will ask them their thoughts as well.
First I have Director Guissinger. And this is the order in which you're appearing on my Zoom
list. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm sorry. I'm answering something else real quick. Can you come back
to me? Let me just finish this.
PEGGY CATLIN: I sure can. Some of us are multi-tasking. So Director Menten, you're next on
my list.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. So maybe you should just pose the question so that we have this
as the record. What is your question?
PEGGY CATLIN: My question is, I want to poll the committee members to find out what the
consensus is about releasing terms of the contract and the contract during this negotiation
process.
NATALIE MENTEN: And this would be prior to the Board packet where we would be voting on
it. And assuming the timeline that we just discussed, we would have these terms available late
Friday. Would that be correct?
PEGGY CATLIN: Terms available to the Board.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: The issue is, the previous practice was to-- excuse me-- was to not make
public the terms of the contract until after it was approved and signed, since up until that point it

is still subject to negotiation. That has been the previous practice. I understand that you're
proposing something different this time around.
So that is the question.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, good. All right. So yes, in the past we have withheld this information
from the public. And the public should keep in mind that negotiations are going back and forth
well before the day that we vote. And this would be the same in perhaps other contracts that
come before the Board. And our typical practice with contracts is that we state the dollar amount,
the terms.
And so considering the timeline that we would have, we don't expect actually any major changes
to this contract at this point. That's what I firmly believe. And so we pretty much know the
details, the major components. And that I firmly and strongly believe in transparency, even if it
wasn't our number one core goal of transparency and communication, I strongly believe that the
public should be able to view this document in advance. And if a candidate is uneasy with that, I
think that gives me greatest concern of all in hiring a candidate that is afraid of transparency.
And so I strongly, strongly believe in putting this into our packet and adding it to the packet a
minimum of 24 hours before the meeting. But we should be following more along the lines
closer to our policy, that it should be published by end of day Friday so that people could be
noticed of that well before the meeting and speak to the Board Director, if they should wish to do
so.
I think if we are trying to hide anything, I think it's perhaps is discomfort on behalf of perhaps
some Board Directors who are opposed to this, that they're uncomfortable that the public may
know the terms before we have to press Yes or No. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Tisdale, do you have a response to that? Or did you want to wait
your turn while I go through the rest of the Directors?
DOUG TISDALE: Actually, Madam Chair, you can go through the rest of the Directors. I do
have a comment that is perhaps some additional information relative to the practice in the m
because I pulled up on my computer the agenda for the October 16, 2018 meeting of this Board,
wherein we approved the amended contract with Dave Genova.
And the fact is that those materials were distributed in advance to the public prior to that final
vote. But I'll hold to expand upon that, leaving you with just that teaser. Thank you, Madam
Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Director Lubow, I was going to circle back to you. Did you have
something to that point? You're on mute. You're still on mute. We're not able to hear you for
some reason.
JUDY LUBOW: All right. I'll chat.

PEGGY CATLIN: OK, now we-JUDY LUBOW: Can you hear me?
PEGGY CATLIN: Now we can, yes.
JUDY LUBOW: I don't know what's going on. I don't know what the difference is. But anyway,
I just have a question, factual question. And I'm sorry, I was letting my dog out when Barbara
was talking. So I might have missed her statement about this.
But what I'm wondering is when we're going to be voting in committee on this, I assume it's
going to be a confidential document, but that once we vote it out of committee but prior to the
final vote, would that be available to the public?
PEGGY CATLIN: That's what we're discussing. And according to Melanie, we do have some
flexibility as a committee as to how we proceed.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. I see. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: We are getting tight on time. And it is Rosh Hashanah. And I know Mr.
Mosher is on East coast time. So out of respect for his time, Gregg, if you need to drop off before
we're all done here, feel free. And we can fill you in later.
GREGG MOSER: Thanks, Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Melanie, did you want to address that?
MELANIE SNYDER: Maybe I misunderstood. What would you like me to address?
PEGGY CATLIN: Our flexibility. What I'm trying to get is a sense from this committee about
your preference for when we release the terms of this negotiation to the public. And I am
reminded that the negotiation isn't final until we've approved it. So that is why I'm trying to get a
sense from the committee as to what your preference would be. Whether we do what was done
with a couple of previous negotiations and what was done-- I'm hearing two different things, one
from Doug and one from Barbara, about how we have done this in the past.
So maybe you can address the-- I just mentioned that you had stated to this committee in
executive session that we do have some flexibility in terms of how we proceed with, as a
committee. But I wanted to get a sense from the other Directors how they wanted to, what their
preference is, at this point.
Director Guissinger, are you ready yet?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes. But I guess I'd like to hear more from Director Tisdale about what
our past was. I'm having a hard time sort of figuring out what we've done, what standard. I don't
want to keep this away from the public. On the other hand, I don't to mess up a deal we've got

before we know. I mean, till we go to the Board, we don't-- as Director Walker was saying, you
know, he wants both sides to know we've got the terms set. We don't really know the Board's
decision until we have a Board decision.
So that's where I'm having a hard time. But I guess if Director Tisdale doesn't mind explaining to
us.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Tisdale, and then Barbara McManus, since we've heard
a couple of different things.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Chair. First, may I say [SPEAKING HEBREW] for those
who care.
The point is that I went back through the course of these discussions and looked at the Board
packet that was released on or about October 12, 2018 for the Board meeting that was conducted
on October 16, 2018. And this is the public Board packet, not anything that would have been
confidentially distributed to the Board members. I just went to the RTD website, went to the
Board page, went down to the meetings and searched for the 2018 meeting where Dave Genova's
amended contract came up for discussion.
The actual contract was distributed to the public on or about October 12, 2018 with the
distribution of the Board packet. The contract itself was executed effective as of January 1, 2019.
I think we might have actually executed it a few days before, at the end of 2018, but certainly
after October 12, 2018, when we first disclosed it to the public. The minutes also reflect that.
And I've reviewed the verbal transcript for the October 16, 2018 Board meeting, commencing at
page 32 of the packet, and the numbers were discussed relative to Dave Genova's amended
salary. And in fact, we considered a motion by Director Menten to reduce that salary from
$295,000 to $172,000, which motion failed.
The agreement ultimately was approved. And it was following that approval that we then, some
time later, actually signed the agreement. The agreement was not disclosed in the minutes until
we had an agreement in principle from Mr. Genova as to those terms that Director Walker and I
principally negotiated and then brought back to the committee. And as I pointed out in the verbal
transcript of the meeting, we actually had had 10 separate meetings and discussions with the
Board prior to the October 16, 2018 meeting concerning that amended contract.
So I will say that at such point that this committee says, this is the deal we want, and Debra
Johnson says, yes, this is the deal I'm willing to accept, at that point, that contract was-- and it
was, by the way, submitted to the public as a red line from his original agreement, so that the
specific changes were articulated. We did feel comfortable in disclosing the terms of that
contract to the public.
And as I say, it was, at least according to the effective signature date of that contract,
approximately 2 and 1/2 months prior to that effective date. So I think just for the sake of the
record, that's what we did in October of 2018. Thank you, Madam Chair.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Tisdale. That's helpful. Barbara McManus, would you
like to comment on that?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I just want to say that John's looking back, but we looked this up
before. When it went out, it went out as a confidential item. After it was approved, then we take
it out of confidential status. So what you're seeing now that the public is seeing is not what was
sent out as the packet. Therein lies the difference. We always make everything public after the
fact in these particular scenarios.
But in fact, if you didn't sign in as a Board of Director, you wouldn't have seen that contract at
all.
DOUG TISDALE: I appreciate that clarification. I will note, simply as a further amplification on
that, that nonetheless, in the meeting, in the verbal transcript of the meeting, we disclosed those
terms on October 16, 2018. Hence, for example, Director Menten's motion to reduce the
compensation that was proposed in the draft agreement, which-- and my recollection now
concurs with yours, Ms. McManus, relative to the fact that in the first instance, I think the
agreement might have been sent out as a confidential document.
Nonetheless, I'm pretty sure that significantly prior to January 1, 2019, which was the actual
effective date of that contract, that contract form had been disclosed to the public. So I bring this
up because I agree with the sense that there needs to be a clear process for transparency. It is one
of the core goals for the agency this year that the Board adopted. And we have to be aware of
that. And whereas we might choose to say that the actual express terms of the contract would be
held as confidential for a period of time, nonetheless the heads of agreement or the principal
economic terms were disclosed and discussed in that meeting on October 16, 2018, prior to the
approval by the Board.
Thank you, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And thank you, Barbara, for that clarification.
Director Cook, did you want to speak to that, or should I proceed going down the list of-SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thank you. I had a quick question. Does our process provide for the
Board as a whole to meet in executive session to discuss the contract prior to it being put on the
agenda and acted upon?
PEGGY CATLIN: Melanie, would you like to respond?
MELANIE SNYDER: I just want to be sure I'm clear about the question, because we've got the
committee's process, then it goes to executive committee, and then it goes to the Board. So I just
wanted to clarify which part of that process are you asking about.

SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Does the board itself, in executive session, get to discuss the terms of
the contract, so that we'd have a sense that in fact there is support and so forth? I mean, from a
practical standpoint one question is, you know, not releasing before we know that's the case.
So I'm asking both about the propriety of that, and then is that what we've currently got in our
plans.
MELANIE SNYDER: You do have the authority to discuss in executive session the terms of the
contract before they are finalized, yes. And that is historically what you've done and done that in
executive session.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So the thought would be maybe if we feel like we are going to be a bit
more forthright this time than-- or forthright is not the word-- but if we're going to deviate from
our past practice, I wouldn't want to do it before we knew for sure that the contract from the
discussions in the executive session had a pretty good prospect for passing.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So this is Barbara McManus. So this committee moves it forward to
executive committee. In the meantime, after all of these meetings, everybody is meeting.
Everybody is going to be meeting with their buddy. And then Director Catlin and Director
Guissinger would be speaking to everybody in making sure that we have the numbers to move
forward.
We did not add an executive session for this coming Tuesday's meeting for the full Board to
discuss this. There would be discussion after all of this information is passed on to the buddies.
And Director Guissinger and Director Catlin would speak to everybody on the Board regarding
this, and there would be discussion, final discussion, in the Board meeting in an executive
session, where we would come out and do a final vote on this contract.
I hope that clarifies the current process.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Cook, does that answer your question, that we will be talking about
the terms of the contract in executive session at the regular Board meeting prior to coming out of
executive session and doing the formal vote?
SHELLEY COOK: OK. But not soon enough ahead of time to decide about releasing the terms.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
OK, thank you. Good information.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, I see Director Buzek has his hand up, as well as I see Barbara's hand is
up, Director Lubow's is up, and Director Cook's is up. So Director Buzek. Set
VINCE BUZEK: You know, I'll just wait till you cycle through. Maybe we can just cycle
through, get everybody's comments on everything [INTERPOSING VOICES].

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. We will do that.
Director Guissinger, are you ready yet?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. You know, I'm a big proponent of transparency of working with
our stakeholders and all of that. I if I misunderstood, Doug, I think you said-- if I understood
Doug-- I think he said that the previous contract was discussed a number of times with the
Board. And I'm hesitant to put terms out before we've gone to the Board and, I mean, going to
the Board, you know, to discuss it as a Board. And that would be in executive session.
I don't know if that puts the process off or something like that. But you know, again, I think
Director Walker said he would want both. And I don't mean to-- you were focusing, I think, on
the other party. But I think you said you want both parties to have agreed to those terms. We
don't have any agreement once the GMES moves it forward. All we have is those of us who've
come here moving it forward. And I just am sort of concerned.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. So you are not in favor of releasing it to the public prior to our
Board discussion in executive session.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm in favor of some sort of discussion that tells us that we have a deal.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you for that.
Actually, Director Buzek, you are next in line.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And I think that I agree with Ms. McManus and Mr.
Tisdale. Because I think they both have told us that even with Dave Genova's amended contract,
we have not deviated from our process.
So the process is that the draft contract goes out as a confidential document to the Board
members. But at some point in time, as with Ms. Menten's motion on Dave's, apparently on his
amended contract, there's a time and place that has to happen. And it has to happen at that Board
meeting.
So I mean, you have to have that kind of discussion in public. Can't have it in executive session.
So it was fully appropriate that the discussion of salary occurred. Because you know, there's
going to be a-- let's say there's a motion to approve her contract, a second. Is there any
discussion? Then all of it's going to come out, right? And then alternative motions and substitute
motions and all those things are going to happen. So that's when those details may come out.
And I don't see that as a deviation from our process. And to couch this in terms of we're hiding
information and withholding information I think is disingenuous and it just taints the entire
process. It's not what we're doing. We're in a negotiation phase. And our goal, as elected
officials, is to protect the interests of the Regional Transportation District. That's an ethical
obligation and a statutory obligation. And I think our process, as it stands now, does that.
Thanks.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Buzek.
Chair Rivera-Malpiede, please.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair. You know, I would have to concur with Director
Buzek. I think that we are in unusual times right now for sure. But I think that our process has
served us well as a community. And collectively, the 15 board members represents [AUDIO
OUT] voices. We were voted into these positions to make these decisions on behalf of the
region.
And so I would just say that, you know, the process as it stands has worked very, very well. But I
do not want anybody on this call to think that we are being disrespectful, hiding information. In
fact, I think this Board has been incredibly transparent in terms of releasing the resumes, doing
the interviews, getting information from the community to say what they think.
But really, at some point, the bottom line lies with us. And once we can really vet that
information and talk to each other and figure out how we want to move forward in terms of what
we need to get done for the good of the region, then we will completely give that information to
the public.
But I think I'm going to ask for the trust of this elected board to take precedence over any
innuendoes that we may not be trusted. So thank you, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
Director Cook, did you want to speak again, now that you had your question answered-- or, as to
your preference?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. So you know, I've been listening and had had a misunderstanding
about what the prior process was. But listening to all the arguments and knowing that the
negotiation really does continue up until the moment you vote, then I would say keep with the
past practice in that case.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think what Director Menten presents to each of
us is an opportunity to implement co-governance. And I support co-governance. I appreciate the
opportunity to hear from my constituents and having that information put before them before we
went to vote and not during the meeting, as some Directors have suggested.
And so I support what Director Menten is saying, and I agree with her, and that would be my
preference.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Lewis.

Director Walker, please.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. The amount for the position is budgeted, at least in this year. It's in the
budget. The contract terms are within the parameters of the job description, right? Benefits are
available. I don't have a problem with it being held close to the vest until we discuss it at the
meeting.
Like I said earlier, if both parties were to agree on parts or all of it being released at some time
prior to that, I guess I'm fine with that too, as long as both parties. Now I wouldn't necessarily do
that, but this is one vote out of 14.
Executive session protects both the agency and our constituents, our tax payers, as well as the
other party. It's not just to keep things secret. It's to prevent an unfair advantage to another party
on how we're going about our business or how we seek to close a contract. So it's not a smoky
back room. There's also protections here for our people.
So what I prefer is to go forward as we have in the past. My memory is faulty. So I thought that
the document was enclosed as an open document, as a public document. I guess I was wrong, I
forgot the, on the confidential part. So I'm fine with proceeding as we have in the past, unless
both parties, or the majority of one party, and the other party, were to agree to have part of it
released, or all of it released, after they've reached an agreement on the terms, before it's voted.
But like Mr. Buzek said, we're going to talk about it anyway after we get that second motion
forward. Parts of it are going to be discussed. So I hope that made sense, and that's all got.
Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Walker.
Now I think I've covered all the committee members. I would like to get the input from Director
Lubow first and then Director Tisdale.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. Can you-PEGGY CATLIN: And Director Whitmore had to get off the line.
JUDY LUBOW: Can you hear me?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, good. I never know with technology. It's impossible. OK.
It's not important to me to-- I don't think anybody, I don't I really don't think anybody here is
trying to hide information. So take that, to me, as a given.
On the other hand, I think it would be nice if our constituents could know ahead of time what the
criteria is going to be and comment to us, don't you dare vote for that, or I love it. And then we

could take that as additional information. But I am concerned that that might be explosive to the
whole negotiated contract, and that is not a good thing.
So I really like Jeff's idea of keep it quiet unless both sides are comfortable releasing it ahead of
time. So then we know it wouldn't violate anybody's sense of trust. Because that, to me, is the
most important thing.
So I really personally would prefer to open it up and to show what the terms were that have been
agreed upon, but not at the point of hurting the content. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Tisdale, please. You're muted.
DOUG TISDALE: I know. I was still reading through the verbal transcript from the October 16,
2018 meeting. So forgive me, I was more than multitasking, I guess.
I have to correct what I said before in agreeing with Ms. McManus. Because I think, actually
looking at my words to the Board on October 16, I said, we have already published for the whole
world to see some many days ago now the draft proposed amendments to the Executive
Manager's agreement. Obviously, I misspoke there. And then I said, so I will ask at this time if
there is any Director or, for that matter, the General Manager who would like for the Board to
move into executive session at this time. He paused. That's what I said. It's not an editorial. I
said, he paused. Hearing none, we will then move to agenda item number, and so on.
So the point is that we actually did. However, it's an important clarification that, yes, as has been
said, it was agreed by Dave Genova that we do that, that we disclose it in advance. And we
scheduled an executive session, if either a Director or the General Manager would want to
discuss it in an executive session before coming out into open session to discuss it.
So on balance, I think that once we have an actual agreement as to-- agreement in principle, I
should say-- between the parties, between Ms. Johnson as the General Manager candidate and
the Board, that we would then, at that time, make the document public prior to a formal vote on
that document.
So it would be, in that analogy, or in that analysis that I just gave, it would be Ms. Johnson's
voice as well that we would hear. And if she says, yes, go ahead and disclose it, that's one thing.
If she says, no, I'd like to have the Board first consider it in executive session, say that they're
going to do it and then we go into open session, then you can disclose it. That's another thing.
So to some extent, I guess I'm punting and saying it will depend upon what Ms. Johnson says
relative to the process. And I see Ms. McManus has her hand raised. So Madam Chair, since it's
undoubtedly to come at what I have said, and however I may have misspoken, perhaps it would
be appropriate to go to Ms. McManus.
PEGGY CATLIN: Barbara, go ahead please.

BARBARA MCMANUS: So, yes, what Director Tisdale has-- he sent me an email with that
verbiage. And yes, Dave Genova did give us permission to put that out in the public.
I also want to say that after his original after his original contract was approved and made public,
that, of course, had been out there for the world to see for a period of time. And in this particular
scenario, we were just amending that already public document, which is a different scenario than
we're looking at right now.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for the clarification, Ms. McManus.
Director Guissinger, you have your hand raised.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I do. My confusion is, I think you said you had discussed it a number of
times with the Board. We haven't. And there's no way to have the Board, both parties agree until
we have a vote of the Board, right?
I'm not sure, you know, if that's what I heard you saying, Doug, that you want both parties to
agree, I don't see how we do that until we have a vote by the Board.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Yeah. No, we have the buddy system. Of course, we've talked about it with the
Board. I mean, that's what this buddy system is meant to do. Not everybody has to agree. But it's
been discussed several times with the Board. God, I hope everybody's been talking to their
buddies. No, I'm sure they have.
So yeah, we have had that communication among the Board members, maybe not as a group. But
we can get a head nod and tacit approval, or straw polls, or whatever way we can show
consensus in a executive session. But yeah, we've talked about it with the Board. I'm comfortable
with the level of discourse. Thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: This is Barbara McManus. I'm sorry to jump in. But the full Board is
sent all of the GMES packets and is invited to come to any of these meetings as well. So if there
is something that you're discussing with your buddies that they feel strongly about, as Director
Tisdale and Director Lubow have been exercising, they are able to attend this meeting.
And there will be two more meetings next week. And I encourage everybody, if you're feeling
some angst about the full Board not hearing what's being said and perhaps you not being
comfortable remembering everything to bring forward to the buddies, that you encourage your
buddies to join these meetings, now that it's the 11th hour and we are getting down to the point
where we're being more fine tuned with what this committee wants to bring forward.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Buzek has his hand raised. And then I think, for those of
you who have recently spoken, if you could take your hands down, that would be great.

VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And a couple of reasons why I'm not a big fan of
releasing this ahead of time and going outside of our process. And while I agree there are almost
always appropriate times for public comment, public input. And I've said this before, I'm sure I
have on this Board. Maybe I haven't. But you know, we wear two hats while we serve. We are
representatives of our constituents. We're also governors, OK, we make decisions.
Sometimes we make decisions based on 1,000 hours of research and reading and interviews and
meetings like this. And then when you open something like this up to the public at the last
minute to give their comments, someone says, oh, $4,000 in housing expenses, oh, my god, that's
horrible. And then you may get a Director that says, oh, I've had six people call me and somehow
believe that's a mandate, that that should come out of the contract. And then things go crazy.
So I think there are times where I appreciate public input. I want the public to know what's going
on. But there are some times when we really need to take this on and say, you know, we've got
all of this information that the public doesn't have. And we need to make these critical decisions
based on this information.
So I'm off the soapbox now. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Buzek. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I've tried to un-- you know.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So it's clear we do not have consensus, I personally would like to-- I am
worried, as you said, Director Buzek, that this contract is with the Board of Directors. This
contract is not with the public. And that the responsibility for executing and negotiating this
contract rests with this Board. And it will not be complete in its negotiation until we approve the
contract.
So I am uncomfortable with releasing the contract in advance of our executive session and
subsequent vote on the contract at our Board meeting. So I just wanted to state that for the record
that that's where I am, which we still do not have consensus among this committee moving
forward. But I do believe that those who are hesitant probably outweigh those who are in favor
of making it public.
Chair Rivera-Malpiede, you had your hand raised.
LYNN GUISSINGER: She's muted.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Sorry. Madam Chair, I couldn't agree with you more. And I'm
wondering if we should just have a straw poll of this committee to decide whether to release this
or not.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I was trying to get a sense as we went through. And I guess that's
probably a good idea.

So Vince, Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, stick with our process. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Stick with our process.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: I would like to hear the Directors' own words, yes, I want to publish this
post prior to the meeting for the public versus stick with a process. When somebody is listening
back, I'd just like it really clear.
I support posting the terms of this contract for the public to see prior to us voting. Because I
believe that is serving our District. And this contract is for the Regional Transportation District,
the constituents, the taxpayers, with Ms. Johnson.
I don't even know, do we ask contractors whether we can publish their contracts? We don't leave
that. So I'm a big yes on publishing this for public review. And I'd like that to be very clear
where everybody is standing versus what we've done in the past, which was hide it. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: For the record, the question is, are you in favor of publishing this in advance
or are you in favor of following the previous process, which was to wait until the Board voted on
the contract before releasing the terms?
So I'm just stating for the record that if a Director says follow the previous process, that is what
is meant.
Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I am yes. I want to follow the previous contract. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes. I'd prefer to also. I always also hope we can schedule an executive
session for the Board as a whole to take it up prior to the night of the action. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, I support us publishing it for the public to be able to see it prior to the
Board voting.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: I do not support publishing before we need to vote on it.

PEGGY CATLIN: OK. And I'm the final committee member. And I am in agreement with
Directors Buzek, Walker, Rivera-Malpiede, and Cook and Walker. So we have a 6 to 2
preference for not publishing it, with consideration of scheduling an executive session prior to
our actual Board action. And I guess I would turn to Melanie Snyder and Barbara McManus to
see if that's possible.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, this is Barbara McManus. So I think we need to get consensus
on that. We're hearing that brought forward by a single director. And then the timing of that
would be that we would actually have to add an executive session to this coming Tuesday's
meeting, which would be prior to two additional General Manager's Executive Search committee
meetings, at which things could change.
I just wanted to throw that scheduling out there.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's a good point. I do think we need to let this GMES Committee do its
work. And we will not have heard-- well, we will have heard from the attorneys for Debra
Johnson, I guess, at that point, since we're supposed to have heard back by noon on Tuesday.
But I'm inclined to think that this committee needs to complete its two meetings before we have
an executive session with the full Board. That's my thought. Others have any thoughts about
that?
BARBARA MCMANUS: This is Barbara McManus. What we could offer is doing an executive
session during the Executive Committee meeting next Friday at 3:00 in which the full Board, as
they always are, is invited, to have that conversation prior to the decision making meeting on the
29th.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Cook, is that something that you could be comfortable with?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, that's a good suggestion. Thanks for that, Barbara.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think we may want to go ahead and pursue that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK. That's exactly why we haven't published that yet, because I
wasn't sure what would come out of this meeting.
PEGGY CATLIN: Indeed. OK, are there any final thoughts? Are there any other matters?
Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. I believe Mr. Ballard might have spoken to the industry standard on
publishing a contract's terms before a Board votes on them, in other words, public disclosure.
Mr. Ballard, could you speak to what you may have mentioned?
PAUL BALLARD: Actually, what I was referring to was in general, any contract would
normally have the terms. But I think that in this particular case, based on prior practice, we

should follow the prior practice that the Board members have outlined and legal has outlined
here.
NATALIE MENTEN: Well, actually, just speaking to that, I don't know that Ms. Snyder made a
recommendation, did she?
PAUL BALLARD: I'll let her speak for herself.
PEGGY CATLIN: Actually, I wanted to ask, as a--

