Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, January 15, 2008
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

January 15, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
January 15, 2008 at 5:30 pm in Rooms, R, T & D
***

Board Members
Present:

Chair Tayer, Barbara Brohl, Juanita Chacon, Bruce Daly, Bill Elfenbein, Lee
Kemp, Chris Martinez, Bill McMullen, Dave Ruchman, Barbara Yamrick

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Jerry Nery, Teresa Sedmak, Joe Smith, Robert Merriman,
Pamela Ferguson, Pat Seifert, Jim Sutton, Jenny Barket, Phil Washington,
Marla Lien, John Tarbert, Scott Reed, Daria Serna, Liz Telford, Susan
Wood, Bill Van Meter, Liz Rao, Reed Everett-Lee, Paula Perdue, Caitlin
Magee

Others Present:

Kevin Flynn, Jeff Leib, Scott Prickett, Roger Sherman, Chris Blackwood,
Steve Roescher, Robin Kniech

Call to Order:

Chair Tayer called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.

I. Recognition of Joe Smith
At the beginning of the meeting, Chair of the Board, Lee Kemp recognized Joe Smith
and congratulated him on his retirement and his new position with Valley Transit
Authority. Chair Kemp presented Joe Smith with his retirement plaque. Mr. Smith
gave a brief speech thanking the District for their support.
II. Recommended Actions
 Recommended Modifications to the RTD Investment Policy
Teresa Sedmak, Manager of Debt and Investments, introduced this item. She
introduced Scott Pritchett and Chris Blackwood as outside investment managers.
There are minor modifications to the investment policy that reflect changes to
Colorado Statutes. The second area of modifications was made to include the
outside investment managers. Ms. Sedmak reviewed the changes to the
investment policy.
The third change was to break the general unrestricted portfolio of the District into
separate portfolios. The portfolio is divided into different areas: Cash, Liquidity
Tier, and Short Term Tier.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, January 15, 2008
Page 2 of 4
The fourth modification was to change the section regarding investments of
Proceeds from the Issuance of District Securities.
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached District Investment Policy, marked to show
modifications.
Director Yamrick asked for a review of the checks and balances system. Teresa
Sedmak reviewed the process and Cal Marsella added some clarification.
Motion: Director McMullen made a motion for
full approval before the Board
At the January 22, 2008 Board
meeting.
Second: Director Elfenbein seconded the
motion.
Vote
On Motion: The motion passed unanimously



2008 Fiscal Policy Statement Revision – Robert Merriman, Manager of Budget and
Financial Analysis introduced this action and reviewed the requested revision.
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors update and modify the Fiscal Policy Statements, Debt Policies – Item 5,
regarding the District’s credit ratings.
Motion: Director Elfenbein made a motion for
Full approval before the Board
At the January 22, 2008 Board
meeting.
Second: Director McMullen seconded the
motion.
Vote
On Motion: The motion passed unanimously.

III.

November 2007 Financial Status Report – Robert Merriman gave this update. Some
of the highlights were:
 Total monthly boardings were 8.4% higher in November 2007 than in

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, January 15, 2008
Page 3 of 4











November 2006. The number of days of weekday service was the same in
2007 as in 2006. November 2007 average weekday ridership was 7.3 %
higher than November 2006 average weekday ridership.
Total November 2007 revenue bus service boardings were 8.2% higher than
November 2006.
Total revenue service boardings were 14.9% higher in November 2007 than in
November 2006. That is an increase of 896,903 boardings in November 2007
over November 2006, of which 55%is attributable to LRT Service growth, and
the remaining growth resulted mainly from increased utilization of Denver Local
Service.
Mall Shuttle boardings were 21.5% lower for November 2007 compared to
November 2006 primarily due to the utilization of a different methodology to
capture ridership, combined with the changes in commute patterns due to the
opening of the Southeast Light Rail Line.
System-wide boarding were 10.4$ higher for year-to-date November 2007
compared to year-to-date November 2006.
Sales and use tax – Not easy to compare 2006 to 2007 due to the blizzard
conditions in late December 2006 and early January 2007 that resulted in
reporting anomalies.
Farebox revenues were 15.3% higher in November 2007 than November 2006
and year-to-date farebox revenues were 16.7% higher.
Expenditures were within plan.

Director McMullen asked if we saved money with the opening of light rail since bus
routes were eliminated. Cal Marsella and Joe Smith explained that bus service was
reallocated and there were new call-n-Rides established, Route P, etc. that took the
saving from the light rail service implementation.
Cal Marsella spoke about parking crunch and how we can not add service right now.
The increase in fuel prices sparks an increase in ridership but also decreases the sales
tax revenue because people have less disposable income to spend.
Director Ruchman asked about 1% increase for bus service in the FasTracks budget.
Cal Marsella said that ADA service increase and lower sales tax has affected this. 1%
to service was added this year because of necessity due to overloads and schedule
problems.
Cal Marsella gave an update on the 120th park-n-Ride. The District has a tentative
lease for 200 parking spaces at the Avaya facility in Northglenn. Director Kemp
pointed out how public comment brought that idea forward.
Director Elfenbein suggested using the FasTracks newsletters to communicate the
expenditure vs. revenue.
Director Ruchman liked this idea and suggested pointing out that roads are subsidized
as well. Transportation is a subsidized government service.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, January 15, 2008
Page 4 of 4
Director Tayer asked if there is a comparison of road vs. transit subsidy. Cal Marsella
said that it is very far reaching and has been done in academic situations but it is hard
to quantify.

IV.

ERP Update – Phil Washington gave this update. ERP is being implemented in four
phases. The F/A Committee was briefed in December 2007 and because there was a
go live date in January 2008, the Committee requested another report this month.
Phase 1 was the budget, projects/grants that went live January 2007. Phase 1.5
maintenance, inventory/part that went live in August 2007. There were some
problems with the “work bench”. Phase 2 went live January 2, 2008. This is
salaried and represented payroll, benefits, and Human Resources. Payroll was run in
parallel. Cleanest payroll ever run, even with the old system. Phase 3.0 will be
refinements, making sure that all pieces of the system are being fully utilized.
Director Kemp commended the ERP program for being on budget. Director Kemp
asked about why Board Members can’t have payroll deductions for the benefits. Phil
Washington said he would research the reason why.
Phil Washington praised his staff for their hard work.

V.

Other Matters – There were no other matters discussed.

VI.

Next Meeting Date – The next meeting of the Financial Administration Committee will
be February 6, 2008.

VII.

Adjourn - Hearing no objections, Chair Tayer adjourned the meeting 6:43 pm.

