Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Paul Rosenthal, District E
Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Erik Davidson, District I
Bobby Dishell, District D

Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Marjorie Sloan, District M
Doug Tisdale, District H
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
Thursday, May 6, 2021
REMOTE MEETING
11:30 AM
To join the meeting: Register Here
(connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or to listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 817 3982 4848#
Webinar Passcode: 1660#

Executive Committee Agenda
Chaired by Angie Rivera-Malpiede
I.

Call to Order

II.

May Board Meeting Agenda Review

III.

Physical Meetings & Meeting Streaming

IV.

Other Matters

V.

Adjourn

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - May 11, 2021
I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
None

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
Communications & Government Relations Committee
Civil Rights Committee
Operations & Customer Services Committee
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
GM Oversight & Performance Management

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 20, 2021

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Contract Amendment and Transfer for the Platte Boiler Project

For the RTD Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager, or her designee,
to amend contract #19 DD-001 with Rasmussen Mechanical Services to increase
the not-to-exceed amount from $278,182 to $838,000, and to authorize a budget
transfer of $324,519 from the General Manager’s Contingency Funds to fund the
purchase of three replacement boilers at the Platte Division.
B.

ADA Paratransit Eligibility Assessments/Travel Training

To authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her designee, to execute all
documents necessary to enter into a contract with Medical Transportation
Management, Inc. (MTM) for the provision of ADA paratransit eligibility functional
assessments and travel training for a five-year period and an amount not to exceed
$4,735,769.
XII.

Recommended Action

XIII.

Executive Session
None

XIV.

Old Business

XV.

New Business

XVI.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

2.11.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Contract Amendment and Transfer for the Platte Boiler
Project

Committee Meeting Date:
May 4, 2021
Board Meeting Date:
May 4, 2021

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the RTD Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager, or her designee, to amend contract
#19 DD-001 with Rasmussen Mechanical Services to increase the not-to-exceed amount from $278,182
to $838,000, and to authorize a budget transfer of $324,519 from the General Manager’s Contingency
Funds to fund the purchase of three replacement boilers at the Platte Division.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Henry J. Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager, Capital Programs
PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes
BACKGROUND
The Platte shops has three boilers servicing the facility. The heating plant requires two boilers to heat
offices, workshops, and the bus garage in cold weather. A third boiler provides spare capacity. The
boilers were replaced in 2014. The scope of work included three new boilers. Issues arose with the
boilers requiring that they be replaced, and new flues added. RTD filed claims with its insurance carrier
for all three damaged boilers. RTD has received funds ($278,182 minus a $100,000 deductible) for
Boiler #1. Claims for Boilers #2 and #3 are being negotiated and processed with litigation against the
original contractor scheduled for a July 2021 trial.
The initial notice to proceed with Rasmussen Mechanical Services was given on September 13, 2019
after the completion of RTD’s Invitation to Bid process Which resulted in a base bid of $278,182. One
amendment has been added to the contract for $10,648. Total contract value is currently $288,830 to
replace one boiler and modify the flues. Rasmussen Mechanical Services is a national firm with
experience with these systems. They were also the only qualified bidder for the replacement of Boiler
#1. With this information the RTD procurement and legal staff has completed a sole source evaluation
based upon the emergency nature of the required services needed.
Currently a budget of $589,481 has been allocated to replace Boiler #1 and the flues. A replacement
boiler was ordered and received. Further investigation showed in late 2019 that the other two boilers
were damaged in a similar way. They were operated in a reduced capacity through the 2020-21 heating
season but could not be replaced due to the claim and litigation process. RTD Facilities staff were able
to maintain heat to the facility without any interruptions through the last heating season.
DISCUSSION
Based on the expertise of Rasmussen, the original bid process, the timeline to get the work completed,
the configuration of the boiler room, and the cost of the additional work compared to RTD’s internal
estimate; the recommendation is to continue with Rasmussen Mechanical Services.
Thus, given that the remaining two boilers are compromised it is being recommended to replace all three
boilers. Cost to repair the boilers exceeds replacing them. Replacement work needs to begin before June

Packet Pg. 4

2.11.A

1, 2021 to have the heating plant back in operation for the 2021-22 heating season. RTD has a quote of
$838,000 from Rasmussen Mechanical to perform the work.
There was no SBE requirement for the project due to the emergency needs for services.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
This project utilizes 100% local funds that are included in the approved 2021 capital programs budget.
RTD Risk Management is proceeding with legal action to recover damages from the contractor who
installed the existing boilers and flues. The case is set for trial in July 2021. RTD has also filed claims
with its insurance carrier. Money recovered from these efforts will be returned to the general fund.

Prepared by:
Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Chief Engineer
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 5

2.11.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
ADA Paratransit Eligibility Assessments/Travel Training

Committee Meeting Date:
May 4, 2021
Board Meeting Date:
May 4, 2021

RECOMMENDED ACTION
To authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her designee, to execute all documents necessary to
enter into a contract with Medical Transportation Management, Inc. (MTM) for the provision of ADA
paratransit eligibility functional assessments and travel training for a five-year period and an amount not
to exceed $4,735,769.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer
Paul Hamilton, Senior Manager, Paratransit Services
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 Minutes
BACKGROUND
RTD requires all applicants for Access-a-Ride services to participate in an in-person functional
assessment. Functional assessments enable RTD to determinate eligibility for ADA paratransit services
within three eligibility categories under the ADA. The three categories include determining whether an
individual: 1) is unable to understand how to complete bus or light rail trips due to a cognitive
deficiency; 2) requires a lift-equipped bus or light rail vehicle and such accommodations are unavailable
(this category no longer applies as all RTD services are accessible); or 3) is unable to navigate
independently to and from a bus stop or light rail station.
DISCUSSION
On January 5, 2021, RTD issued a Request for Proposals (RFP) soliciting technical and price proposals
to provide paratransit eligibility assessments and travel training services. On February 8, 2021, RTD
received proposals from the following firms:
ADA Ride.com
Easter Seals Colorado
Medical Transportation Management, Inc. (MTM)
Transdev
A panel was assembled to evaluate the proposals based on the following evaluative criteria:
experience of the firm and individuals proposed for key positions and disciplines (35%);
understanding of RTD’s requirements and objectives in relation to the specifics of the scope of work
(35%); and cost (30%). The evaluation panel consisted of RTD’s Senior Manager, Paratransit
Services; Manager, Paratransit Services; and Paratransit Eligibility Program Coordinator. Two
members from the disability community participated on the evaluation panel and advised staff.
Based on the average of the individual scores received, MTM was deemed the most technically
qualified proposer for award. The score for the “Cost” element was calculated by RTD Procurement
staff and was then added to the technical score of the proposal to determine the overall total score.

Packet Pg. 6

2.11.B

MTM’s experience with providing eligibility evaluations and travel training nationally, and the
experience of their proposed staff were key elements of their proposal.
Performance under the contract is for a five-year period and shall not exceed $4,735,769 for a fiveyear term.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funding for this contract for Calendar Year 2021 is included in the 2021 Budget that was appropriated
by the Board of Directors. Future contract year funding will be included in annual budget appropriation
requests.

Prepared by:
Paul Hamilton, Senior Manager, Paratransit Services
Larry Buter, Manager
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 7

