November 12, 2019
Operations & Customer Service Committee
KATE WILLIAMS: I get the agenda up and running. We have one recommended action tonight.
That's the promotional fare pilot program. Do I have a motion on that?
VINCE BUZEK: Second.
KATE WILLIAMS: That would be Director Whitmore and Director Buzek. And do we have any
discussion on that subject? I'm going to read it. Read it? OK. I will. Hold on. I'll get it out.
Maybe I'll read it. Maybe not. OK. Thank you.
This motion is added to the committee agenda as director-initiated request pursuant to the RTD
Board Bylaws, Article VI, Section 1F. It is recommended by Directors Buzek, Cook, Guissinger,
Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Whitmore, Williams, and Chair Tisdale at the Operations Customer
Service Committee meeting that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager take
all necessary steps to design and implement a promotional fare pilot program, hereafter referred
to as PFPP, and to deploy the first project in the program on the North Metro line commencing
from its opening date and continuing for a period of six months thereafter.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager's goals to increase ridership.
We already have a second, and a mover on it. So now I'll open it up to discussion. Director
Buzek, I think you're there.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. And although this director-requested agenda item
says it's requested by me, there are plenty of other people involved in advancing this and moving
it forward. I want to thank Directors Cook, Guissinger, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Whitmore,
Williams, and Chair Tisdale for all their work on advancing this. There were many, many
meetings and discussions to put this together. I want to thank staff for their hard work in assisting
me in putting together these agenda items to be brought forward here tonight.
I also want to thank our regional partners, particularly Representative Kyle Mullica and members
of City Councils of North Glen and Thornton who were actively involved and are very excited
by this project as well.
The report itself talks about this in great detail. And in essence, we want to explore the impact of
reducing higher regional fares on ridership and on parking demand. And we're going to measure
ridership in one of two ways, or maybe both ways. It's against projected ridership figures that we
have for the corridor, or also in a before and after analysis.
N Line was selected for a number of different reasons. It's a brand new line. There's been intense
local interest and recognition that it is one of the last areas to receive FasTracks projects. We also
have on the N Line technology that will provide the most accurate ridership counts.

The end of line communities that will be affected by this, the ones that would have paid regional
fare, but if this moves forward, will pay local fares, are the communities of Thornton and North
Glen. These communities have significant communities of color and communities facing
economic challenges.
For example, North Glen has an Hispanic population of 34% and 7% of other racial minorities.
Thornton has an Hispanic population of 38.5% and 11.3% of other racial minorities. These
figures come from the Denver Regional Council of Governments, and fare relief could be of
great importance to members of these populations.
We also initially had some internal concerns regarding non-Title VI equity issues, just fairness
issues generally, because there are other corridors in our system that are faced with similar
situations of having one or two stops outside of a local fare zone into a regional fare zone. And
they, I'm sure, would want to be treated the same way. But it's good to remember this is a pilot
program, and it's going to be used to study the impact of this fare reduction on the things that
we've talked about.
One of the areas that was discussed is the W Line, and that is the poster child for this concept of
general fairness because only one stop, the very last stop in Golden, is in a regional fare zone.
All the others are in a local fare zone. And when members of this group that have been our
movers in this action spoke to representatives of Golden, you should all have received the letter
from the mayor of the city of Golden in support of this project, even though it's on the N Line,
because they recognize that this can be a template to be used potentially in other areas to explore
impact on fare flattening.
The PFPP, I think, is an important program, as I indicated, to explore the impact of reducing fare
on ridership and parking. And the support we've received so far has been very positive. If anyone
noticed The Denver Post today, on the front page, below the fold, I understand it, it says
"Agency may try fare pilot program." So here we have a front page report in The Denver Post,
and it's a positive article. So that's kind of nice for RTD to experience that.
And I want to thank our Assistant General Manager of communications for her comments in this
that were very positive and informative. I want to thank our chair for his positive comments as
well in that article. We've got also legislators and local government officials along this N Line
corridor that have embraced this or are seeking to have this happen because they want some of
this fairness to come up north as well. And they also want to see if RTD can do more in a general
sense with regard to fares.
So I'm all in favor of this, obviously. I hope to get support from more than just the directors that
are on here. And I have, and I should not let that go by, that there are other directors not
mentioned in this report that were very instrumental in helping me shape this and craft this
report, and I thank them as well. That's all I have at this time, Madame Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Lubow.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair, I just want to say quickly that I'm supporting this measure
because I think it's wonderful, the idea of really getting some facts and understanding more how
elastic demand really is based on price because so many of us want to make sure that our costs,
our fares, are as low as possible. And this pilot program is going to help us determine how best
we can do that. So I'm very much in favor of this.
I wanted to raise a point that Director Guissinger had raised to me. There was a mention in the
Staffs section of the memo that if we do-- excuse me-- if we do another one of these six months
projects that we might need to do an equity analysis of all the fares. And she and I were talking
about the possibility, well, if they're each pilot projects for separate corridors, perhaps that isn't
necessary. And so I would hope before we would jump into that, we would evaluate whether
that's true or not. That's it. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just want to say thanks to Director Buzek and
many others that did the heavy lifting on this concept, Chair Tisdale, obviously, staff's
involvement critical. You know, this breeds, I think, a little bit of a spirit of cooperation with
some local governments that perhaps we were longing for and needing in a big way. I think this
allows us to say we are thinking outside the box, and this is not a huge risk.
And I do think that it's obvious that when we have partnerships in cooperation with local
governments, good things happen. It's been proven over and over again. And I think this sets that
kind of an environment that hey, we heard you. As a matter of fact, we heard from Thornton and
North Glen months ago in this regard. And I just appreciate the effort from staff and all the
names on the resolution. I certainly was not one of the heavy lifters. I appreciate those that were.
And thank you so much for moving us forward, and I'm certainly going to be a yes vote. Thank
you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Back in 2014, maybe early 2015, when we looked to restructure the
fares back then, we looked at eliminating all fare zones for a quick minute. And that wasn't-well, we still have fare zones, so evidently that didn't happen. I was in favor of that, but there
was some Board members at the time who weren't in favor of that because they live closer in,
and why should I pay the same amount as somebody who's living 20 miles outside of downtown
if they come into downtown?
So I was in support of that. I'm in support of eliminating regional fares in total and just having
one flat fare for wherever somebody needs to go. I'm not in favor-- I'm having a hard time
getting to the point where I could be in favor of having a pilot program for six months for one
line with two stations when there are-- I'm sure some of my constituents on the southwest
corridor have been paying a regional fare for 20 years.
The last few stations on the Southwest Line, Downtown Littleton, and Mineral Station are both
regional fares. So I don't know how to answer them other than to say we got pressured into it by

somebody from the state. Are there other circumstances that anyone is aware of where a
promotional fare has been enacted, other agencies?
KATE WILLIAMS: I think that's a question for the room in general. I personally am not aware,
if anybody would like to speak to that.
JEFF WALKER: I didn't put any research into that. I didn't look that up. But I was just
wondering if the folks who did do the work on this had found any go bys in other areas.
KATE WILLIAMS: Excuse me. General Counsel?
ROLF ASPHAUG: Yes. This is Rolf Asphaug, RTD General Counsel. There have been
promotional fares in some places. And the Federal Transit Administration circular does provide a
specific provision that allows for up to six-month promotional fare to be done without having to
have an equity analysis ahead of time.
JEFF WALKER: Right. Yeah, I was aware of the allowance. I just didn't know if it had been put
in practice anywhere, just like we paid off our credit risk premium nobody else ever had. Any
rate, so I was just wondering if the ridership of those had been recorded.
Can a PFPP be implemented on more than one line? Is it still promotional in a pilot project if it's
been enacted in that same region already? It seems like it wouldn't be a pilot anymore if it's
already been put into place. Has a source for $180,000 that this might cost around approximately
been identified?
KATE WILLIAMS: If you'd like to-VINCE BUZEK: Do you want me to respond to any of the-- I mean, I'm happy to tell you what I
know. And just so you know, the $180,000 presumes complete failure of the program. It
presumes that not one rider gets added to the count.
JEFF WALKER: Right. Yeah. Worst case scenario, where's $180,000 come from? I'm
addressing the Chair, but the Chair can dish it out to whomever she wants.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's fine. I think that your questions are valid. If anybody wants to speak
to them while we're having this discussion, I'd be willing to take you out of order. Or if you just
want to have these questions defined as part of the discussion, I'm happy to allow for that as
well.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, that's fine. Those are the questions I have. If the answers are presented
during the discussion, that's great. So that's all I have. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Thank you for that input. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair. I'm supporting this item. I'm really glad to see it's coming
forward. We called it a program for a purpose. We contemplated the idea of a potential second or

third. I think what it does that's important is it creates a space for some experimentation. And one
thing I'm hoping we can do, kind of in line with what Director Buzek said, is that we can
explore-- and it sounds like, from Bill Van Meter, that we can explore after or during this phase
what the guidance is for moving into a second, separate trial in a different corridor if that turns
out to be something that's beneficial that we want to explore.
And you mentioned the W corridor. There may be other places, too, where we can try something
that might look like this or might be different, actually, and a chance to collect data of a different
sort or for a different geographic region. And so I just wanted to reinforce that I really support
this.
I agree with the idea that the N Line is the first one, but I'm hoping also that we can actively look
at, or at least get guidance from the FTA about what Director Walker was talking about, what
that second piece might be, and what the guidance is about whether we can do that as a separate
pilot entirely under this program. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Cook. I'd like to make a comment that we did do our
research, what is allowed, as counsel mentioned, by the FTA in this, and that RTD as an agency
has had other pilot programs. For example, the autonomous vehicle was a pilot program. So I
was myself to say that this is not our first, and maybe not our last pilot program. Thank you for
that. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I spoke to Board member Buzek on the phone about
this briefly and told him that in general, I support simplifying our fare system. I think it's so
complicated. But the question I would have about this particular program would be at the end of
six months, who's going to give it a pass or fail grade?
And then what are they going to base that decision? What's this line going to have to do to pass?
Are they going to have to wipe out that $180,000 potential loss or something like that with
additional ridership? Is that the scale that you're looking at? Or how's that going to be
determined?
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Buzek, if you would like to speak, feel free.
VINCE BUZEK: Our report talks about, in general sense, how we do that. And that's something
that we're going to flesh out between now and the beginning of the project. But more than likely,
it would be an examination of whether the pilot program increased ridership to the extent that it
leveled out, balanced out any fare revenue loss, and/or increased or spread out use of our parking
facilities in a way that was advantageous as well. So there's a couple of different things that will
be looked at.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I do have some concerns with this PFPP. The first
one is equity, both in terms of Title VI and the corridor equity that was mentioned previously. I
also think it's a slippery slope when we go down a path where somebody makes a request, or

even a strong suggestion, that they may do something that wouldn't benefit RTD as a means to
get their project done.
I'm also concerned that comparing six months ridership with theoretical planning forecast is
risky. I've been told by some of our modelers that sometimes they get it right and sometimes they
get it very wrong. So that concerns me, although Director Cook has reminded me that we will
actually have ridership with lower fares that we can compare when, after six months, we do have
to raise the fares.
So as you know, the Board of County Commissioners from Jefferson County made a similar
request. And they had compelling reasons for their end of line station. Among them, the jail is
there, people coming to visit from the jail, the Human Services, the Veterans Affairs office.
Those are all centered at that end of line station, and they have patrons that they believe are
paying the regional fare who may not really be able to afford them.
The city of Golden also had expressed similar concerns, and we turned them down last year.
Although they are supportive of this, I think they're a little bit lukewarm. Director Cook and I did
meet with the Jefferson County commissioners, and although they would have preferred to have
had the W Line be the first in a pilot program, they felt it would be more reasonable to compare
reduced fare with actual ridership as opposed to theoretical ridership. And they would have liked
to have been considered.
But as kind of the consolation prize, they would really prefer to be considered for a second study
should there be one. And as I said, they're not going to object strongly to this. They did provide
some other ideas for other types of pilot projects which intrigued me, and perhaps could increase
ridership, such as maybe looking at some express trips on the W Line that had limited stops that
might encourage people to ride that since the W Line is one that takes quite a bit of time to get
from Golden to downtown.
If this PFPP moves forward, it does worry me that after six months, raising the fares could be a
PR nightmare. And I would hope that those elected officials who are pressing for this would be
just as engaged in getting the word out about the reality that after six months, these fares would
likely be increased. And I hope that they could take the lead in the messaging. I do appreciate the
cooperation with the elected officials, and I would hope it would continue in that vein. Thank
you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Tisdale. And I'm sorry, Director
Broom. Were you happy before then when I moved on? Thank you. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I appreciate the opportunity to address
this because there's a lot going on. And there's a lot that people are perhaps not comfortable in
expressing. And there are concerns.
On balance, I really think this can work. I really think it can send a tremendous statement, and I
think we're due for a tremendous statement. So let me back up on a couple of things. First of all,

read the full Board report. It consists of two parts, the part that was put together by the
submitting directors, and then added to that was the unedited, unfiltered write-up of staff.
And that unedited, unfiltered write-up brings up a number of serious concerns. I believe
personally that each of these concerns can be addressed. But we must make certain that we have
in our leadership and all of our staff the commitment to addressing those concerns because I
think the people who spoke out-- and I know there are those on staff who remain very troubled
by this.
And I want you to know I personally take that to heart because I don't want this staff thinking
that this Board is somehow so divergent from what the staff sees as the future of this agency
because if that's what's going on, then the Board has failed.
We should not be that divergent from staff. We are the governors of staff. You have a General
Manager who manages you. You have Assistant General Managers who work with you. We are
your governors. We're here to try to give inspiration and leadership where we can and provide
for the opportunity to explore possibilities. And that's what this whole discussion began as, the
exploration of a possibility.
It is not assuredly going to be put into a second place. We don't know that yet. The template
exists where it could. That's how this was crafted. It was specifically and deliberately designed to
allow for this to go forward. But there is no commitment that it go forward because we think that
that, too, might have potential implications with the FTA in reviewing this relative to the equity
analysis.
I'm going on too long, but I'm going to risk going on just a little bit longer because I am going to
call on staff to speak out because you've heard Board members give their feelings. And on the
whole, you hear support and polite constraint. And I think it's appropriate that the record reflect
the extent of concerns so that we can give you the assurance that the concerns will be addressed,
and that this promotional fare pilot project-- and we changed the word from program to project
because we didn't want to create the sense that it was something that was automatically carrying
forward.
But the PFPP was very carefully crafted to do its best to address what the staff is concerned
about. We think, in large part, we have. And I think the staff report-- by the way, there are those
who've seen the staff report was very heavy-handed and uneven. No, if you read the whole thing,
it is very balanced. In each paragraph where there's a statement of a concern, in the next
paragraph there's a statement on how that can be addressed. And I went through and double
checked that again last night just to ensure that staff really did do a good job at addressing this.
I've gone on too long, but I'd like to yield to the floor to our General Manager and give him the
opportunity to address this as well. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, governor. I would appreciate, General Manager, if you could
wait until I let the rest of the Board members speak, and then I promise I will come back to you.
Thank you. Director Mihalik.

KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I guess the one concern I have, the biggest concern I
guess I have, is the validity of the information. Being a new line, I know it's been shown that
people can be a little slow to adopt it. And so are we within that six months? Or actually, after
that six months, how good is that information going to be compared, after the fact, I guess? So at
the end, are we just going to say, well, we're not sure what we found out. We're not sure what we
studied. And that's really my concern. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that, Director. Director Menten. And Director Malpiede, are
you on the phone?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, ma'am. I am.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I'm going to come back to you after Director Menten speaks and before
the General Manager speaks.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Chair, I'm also on the phone.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, Director Folska, good evening. OK, you all. Stand by. Director Menten,
you have the floor.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I have the same concerns. When I read this, I was thinking
what sort of measurement would we have? If we would use projections, boy, history would not
make me want to go that route. So this is not logical to me. And I really wouldn't even put the W
Line first. I think that's been mentioned specifically because city of Golden's been a little bit
vocal in the past.
But I think it's even stranger looking at the R Line and what's affected out there with a regional
route. And I think about the lines Southwest, Southeast that haven't stated. They've been dealing
with that for many, many, many years. And they have measured performance. So that, to me,
would make sense. I would even look at some of the regional bus routes.
So last night-- which of course, I didn't bring my copy-- I would look at the EV Route for
Evergreen, which has very limited service and high subsidy rate. And perhaps that would be
something that we could use in a promotional fare for looking at regional. We tend to think of
the rail. We forget about the bus.
So I think about those things. I also would say I don't know how much weight I put in elected
officials speaking about this versus the actual riders. And when I think with the riders saying,
why would North Line get this promotion when we've been paying regional for a long time, I
have to think about speaking to the constituents.
And I think there is some promises, some silent promises that might be those elected think about,
well, if I say I'll support the North, I'm going to get mine. So let's do this system wide if we're
going to do it. I don't know why we need to do it tonight for this.

And I'm going to bring up a matter that I don't think anybody in this room will be comfortable
with, but I'm going to bring it up. My understanding is that state representative Kyle Mollica is
proposing to run a state legislative bill to turn who-- and he represents Adams County area. I
believe it's District 34-- to turn RTD district elected officials into appointed officials.
I will be careful with the words that I use because I would not want to be accused of improper
conduct. But I think it's a strange occurrence that that threat exists and we're making this change
with the North Line.
I will have to be a no vote on this. Perhaps that will change. I believe it will pass because there is
eight sponsors. But I sure don't want to look constituents in the eye that ride the R Line and have
been-- and it's a really weak line-- and the W Line, which has its definite own challenges-- and
then the EV, the Southwest, the Southeast-- I would not want to look those constituents and say,
sorry, but the North Line, which has no proven history, got this promotion. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. OK. I'm going to ask the people on the phone to
speak. They've been very patient. I'll get back to you. I'll get back to Director Lewis. Director
Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair. So here's kind of what I'm thinking at this
point. I am very pleased to be supporting this initiative, and I'll tell you why. First, I'd like to talk
about divergence, and that maybe it is time to think in a different direction. I think that we all see
that we need to be creative. We're starting to reimagine RTD, and I think this has the basis, the
beginning of a true collaboration with the community.
I think it shows a commitment to community inclusivity, and it addresses gentrification for our
community members who have been pushed out the furthest to come in and work at minimum
wage. I think that sometimes it's right and sometimes it's wrong means that we are just human
and that we're willing to think outside of the box.
In terms of hoping elected officials will help us really doesn't begin to touch an equation for me
because for me, it is really a commitment to our community, that we're listening to the needs of
the community and that we're in it together. And I think this is going to provide a template and
information that will lead us in the direction that we might be able to go. So I'm very pleased to
be supporting this. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Folska, would you like to speak?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes. Thank you, Chair Williams. I have a question, and I'm just
wondering if anybody could answer it. And maybe Director Buzek can address it. But what if
this is wildly successful beyond anybody's imagination? Would then the district move forward in
doing that on all routes?
VINCE BUZEK: Madam Chair, do you want me to respond to that?
KATE WILLIAMS: I would appreciate it.

VINCE BUZEK: I would certainly hope this is wildly successful. And what happens in light of
that kind of success, that would be for us, as the Board, to determine and to figure out. So I think
it could open up an incredible number of possibilities for us to impact transit in a very, very
positive way. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that response. And thank you, all who are waiting. Director
Guissinger, I think you-- oh, I'm sorry. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. Yeah, I'll be in support of that because I'm hoping it is wildly
successful. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. We will mark you down as a yes vote. OK, Director
Guissinger. One more try.
LYNN GUISSNGER: Just once. Thank you, Chair. Much of this has been said already. But I
think that there are two things that this PFPP serves. And one is, as the chair said, to really start
trying some new things to move us in a new direction, and see what some options are.
In terms of comparing it to projections, that bothered me for quite a while. And Bill Van Meter
actually cleared that up for me when he pointed out if we, at the end of this, have to raise it back
up to regional fares, then we see what happens at that point and we have ridership statistics.
I think the other thing to keep in mind is that a lot of people have been paying the regional fare
for a long time. But this area has been waiting for a train for a long time, and they're getting it.
It's delayed. This area, I think a lot of the elected officials have been working very hard up there.
And I think it's a great example of working with our local communities. It's an example we can
take to others. And that's what the mayor of Golden saw when she joined in this.
So I will be supporting this. One other thing is I think it could jump start ridership. Maybe it'll
help us get to those projections. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you ma'am. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. So I do agree with the spirit of this. And many of
you will have heard from me. This is not the first time you've heard this. And I think, like many
of you, this proposal does signal RTD's willingness to be a good partner and try something new.
And I'd support trying something new when the old way of doing things hasn't shown significant
progress. I, like many directors on this Board, utilize our services, and that utilization, you notice
the way in which different individuals pay their fares. Some folks have discount cards, some
EcoPasses.
But the person I pay the most attention to is the individual that boards the bus, stands at the fare
box, and proceeds to unload all of their change to pay their fare. That is the person I think about
when we discuss a benefit, which a promotional fare would be a benefit to regional riders to the
exclusion of local riders. I'm speaking particularly from a lens of equity and what I know about
Title VI.

And I am no expert, nor am I an attorney. As many of you know, I have worked in the agency in
transit equity specifically with Title VI. And as a reminder, it states no person in the United
States shall, on the ground of race, color, or national origin, be excluded from participation in, be
denied the benefit of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving
federal financial assistance.
The promotiona fare pilot program, also affectionately known as PFPP, is, in fact, a benefit as it
is currently written, and benefits regional riders at the exclusion of local riders to achieve the
goal of increased ridership. As it stands, we have some of the lowest regional fares and some of
the highest local fares.
As the current Civil Rights Chair, I lean on the side of caution, particularly when we have not
explored the implications with an equity analysis. And I will say that for an equity analysis, it's
based on ridership analysis of fare utilization, not residential demographics. And I think that's
important to point out.
For me this, begs more questions than answers with an equity analysis that could bring forth a
version with proper analysis, I'm duly concerned about what happens after the six months. Now
we ask those who have experienced a promotional benefit to change their spending habits. Then
what? We're back to the PR nightmare.
Finally, it begs the question, why this line? What are the ridership and demographic datas? The
N Line has modeling data, and we have actual ridership data on other lines that this could truly
be a pilot, and one that is more inclusive of both local and regional riders. I cannot support this
measure because it is at the exclusion of many of my constituents.
Speaking of my constituents, I am not confident, as a director, that I have a response for, nor an
answer for, if I am questioned and asked why were they excluded from this benefit. I would
appreciate a version of this from staff brought back with a fare analysis. I hope we remember that
our legislation, as it states, that we are here to support the poor and transit dependent. Full stop.
I'm committed to working with my fellow Board members on regional fares. We share the same
concerns, and unfortunately I cannot accept this proposal as I believe it violates both Title VI and
the spirit of what regional transit planning should be. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Seeing nobody else up there, I don't have to click my
name up there in order to speak. I'd like to say something since I don't want to be the only person
here who didn't.
In my day job, I answer phone calls all day every day from people who are looking for
transportation. And one of the largest transportation deserts in the greater Denver area is Adams
County. We have the hardest time helping people get rides in that part of the MPL, the greater
Denver area. And I think that anything that we can do to help people be able to ride the N Line
when it's open is, in fact, a benefit to that region as a whole. That's all I have to say about it. We
have had a request to ask the General Manager and any staff that he would like to call to speak to
this. And so General Manager Genova, you have the floor.

DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Chair Williams. So I'll be very brief. I support this. I think we
could learn from this particular pilot. And I would just refer to the Board report that has the
information for the Board's consideration regarding making sure, whatever we do, that we stay
within our FTA guidelines and that we do stay within Title VI, and that going beyond a sixmonth, or going beyond this particular pilot, is most likely going to require equity analysis. And
we'll just be upfront with that. And that concludes my remarks. And I think that would be a
reflection of most of us that worked on this.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Is there any further discussion? Anybody that needs a
second bite of the apple? OK. I'm going to call for a vote. The mover would be Director
Whitmore, and the second Director Buzek. If you all would vote, the rest of us can vote. This
motion passes committee with eight yeses. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Director Folska, you said
yes. Director Malpiede, you said yes?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. So I'm going to count it as 10 yeses and five no's and no abstains. And
this passes committee. Thank you all very much.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. That business being concluded, I think that we will move on to
updates. And we have five updates on the agenda tonight. I'm going to ask Mr. Ford to come up.
And Mr. Ford, it would be great if you would call any of your staff that are here as you need
them as we move through this part of the agenda.
First update is the service availability. Do we have any questions from the Board? Director
Malpiede, Director Folska, do you have any questions on the service availability update that we
received in our packet?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I do not. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I do not. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lubow, I recognize you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. I just have a question. The whole issue of service
availability. Has there been an analysis of the organizational culture issues that have been raised
by a variety of people that allegedly exist that help increase this problem or cause the failure to
maintain our employees.
MICHAEL FORD: This is Michael Ford, COO. We have concluded an employee survey that
ended last week. In addition to that, we have focus groups that we've been dialing into for
information to give us a full assessment of information on the survey. I believe that's been
wrapped up and our vendor is actually putting that information together for us. So we can now

take action steps to address the concerns and issues that have been raised and have a game plan
going forward.
And then in addition to that, we've been also being visible out in our garages, meeting with union
employees, meeting with the Executive Board Officers. So there's a variety of different ways
we've been receiving information to help us better understand what's happening in the culture,
and more importantly, what things we're going to be doing to continue to fix and improve the
conditions.
JUDY LUBOW: That's wonderful. I'm wondering, are we going to-- the Board-- be able to see
this survey results, and also, moving forward, that you're going to be doing. It seems like it's a
real big piece of the puzzle.
MICHAEL FORD: Absolutely on the survey results. Again, that's being wrapped up right now
as far as my understanding and will be put together in the next, I believe, month or so. And then
some information will be getting out. Defer to our General Manager on that.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah. It's looking like right now, maybe mid-December, we'll have some
summary information available on the employee survey. That's our target date for now.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you. Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you both for that. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Mr. Ford, or Fred. Forgive me. I meant to call you earlier today. But remind
me what the spikes that we see in missed runs in March and October. Was that something to do
with the run boards or something? I'm just not clear about that part.
DAVE GENOVA: I believe both. I'd have to check back, but I believe March was also related to
inclement weather. October we had four different inclement weather events that definitely hit us
hard.
SHELLEY COOK: Got it. OK, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Seeing nobody else, thank you. I think we will move on down the line since
we've had some information for a while. The next update is the rail operations update. I see Mr.
Jensen here. Does anybody have any question? I'm going to ask the phone people first. Director
Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No. Thank you, Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, ma'am. Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just had a question about rail operations. My
recollection was is that there were some missed runs because of frozen switches at Union
Station. What steps were taken so that those switches don't freeze in the future?
DAVE JENSEN: So this is Dave Jensen, AGM of Rail Operations. That particular switch had a
fuse that was blown. So when staff worked on it, they found that and replaced it.
DAVE GENOVA: You might talk about heaters a little bit.
DAVE JENSEN: Right. So to elaborate on that, each of our switches have heaters in them to
prevent that very thing from happening. So when the temperature drops below 32 degrees, or 32
degrees or below, those heaters kick on and heat the switch area so that they don't lock up, they
don't freeze.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: So the fuse was actually in the heater.
DAVE JENSEN: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Got it. Thank you. Seeing no one else, we're going to go right on down the
line. Director General Manager, did you want to speak to this?
DAVE GENOVA: I would just like to ask Dave Jensen a question. I understand we had a pretty
good class come in yesterday. Can you give us any information on that?
DAVE JENSEN: Yes. 31 students started class officially yesterday. They began the training
program today.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super. Where's The Denver Post? We want that on the front page. OK.
Thank you for that, gentlemen, both of you.
Our next update is on the Access-a-Ride report, which had some really nice numbers in it.
Hopefully everybody read it. Again, I'm going to go to the phone first so that I don't forget them.
Director RIvera-Malpiede, do you have any questions on the Access-a-Rid report?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I do not. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I do not. Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I think we have some stuff that we want to present here for a minute,
so we're going to allow that to happen. And then if the ladies on the phone have additional
questions after the presentation, we'll come back to you. Thank you.
Gentlemen, introduce yourselves, please.
JEFF TRANGUCH: Thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you to all Board directors here. My
name is Jeff Tranguch. I'm the Market Research Manager here. I prepared a very high level
summary of the Access-a-Ride survey results that we conducted in July of this year. It is a
satisfaction survey at its core, so we'll focus on that. And I'll also share some of the trends that
we've been seeing. So we usually conduct this every three years to meet FTA requirements, and
we do have the ability to compare results from the last time we did the survey in 2016. So I'll
cover some trends that we've noticed since then.
A little bit about the methodology. We contracted this out with BBC Research, who's been our
vendor for the past several years. They were in charge of the analysis, and Davis Research was in
charge of the actual data collection, so doing a random phone survey, and also collecting data
through email. Davis Research was also the main data collector during the last time we did this
survey. So a lot of the stuff that happened in 2016, we were able to keep consistent, which helps
for validity and reliability.
To qualify for the survey, you had to have used Access-a-Ride or Access-a-Cab in the past six
months at least one time. And the reason for that is because we ask a lot of questions where
salience is going to be important. So we want to make sure that those answering the survey can
have a memory of their most recent trip so they can speak intelligently to that.
We had 500 respondents, 502 exactly, complete the survey. Most completed the survey through
the phone. We have a small percentage-- we have 97 total that completed it through email. Now
you'll notice that 321 were Access-a-Ride, or 321 respondents had used Access-a-Ride on their
most recent trip versus 167. You notice that number does not add up to 502. That is not a
mathematical error. It's just simply there were some folks-- I believe there were about a dozen or
so-- that could not recall what their most recent trip was, so they were not included as part of that
number.
I'll say a quick note about interpreting some of the numbers that you'll see. The average scores
are based on a five-point scale, where numbers closer to five are positive or good and numbers
closer to one are poor. And I'll also share some top two box which is basically jargon for taking
the number the percentage of folks who answered 4 or 5 and lumping them together just to give
you a clearer picture because sometimes averages work better sometimes top two blocks work
better. So I just report bought both to make it a clearer picture. And sometimes they will not add
to 100 just to do rounding
A quick note about some of the respondent characteristics. I thought I'd share these only because
it's markedly different than what we see on fixed route. So if you'll notice here on the first figure,
81% of respondents that took part in the survey identify as being retired or being disabled,
unable to work. Now that's markedly different than our fixed route services, and it's just

something I wanted to share here because you have eight in 10 folks saying that they do not work
or have a steady source of income.
A new question that we added this year was asking folks to identify the disabilities that they are
affected by. We have 77% saying physical or mobility-related. And then you see the list goes
down there, but a large margin saying that they have a physical or mobility-related disability.
When we asked about the satisfaction with their most recent trip, you'll see the results here
reported specifically for Access-a-Ride, and also for Access-a-Cab. Again, the average numbers,
numbers closer to five, are good. Five, in this case, was very satisfied, where one was very
dissatisfied.
So you'll notice the numbers have changed. In 2016, with Access-a-Ride, the average was 4.30.
Now that is 4.19. With Access-a-Cab it was 4.09. Now it's 4.15. So we ran statistical tests-- I
should say BBC ran statistical tests to see if this difference is statistically significant, meaning
we know there's random errand surveys. Does this fall outside of that threshold that we would
say yes, this has changed, this is statistically significant? And we do not see that here.
So even though satisfaction, if you look at the top two box for Access-a-Cab has gone up from
72% to 77%, and it's gone down, conversely, for Access-a-Ride. Because this does not fall
outside of that statistical significance threshold, we conclude that nothing has really changed.
People are just as happy or unhappy as they were the last time this was conducted back in 2016.
In addition to asking for satisfaction with their most recent trip, we also asked respondents to rate
RTD Paratransit Services as a whole, rate their experience for the past six months. And what
you'll see here is 2016 versus 2019, 79% versus 76%. Again, that does not fall outside of the
threshold of statistical significance. So we therefore conclude that nothing has changed, and that
the true statistic is somewhere around 76% or 79%.
We asked a number of different quality ratings. So a rating of one would be poor, a rating of five
would be excellent. We ask a number of different ratings around their attitudes toward our on
time performance, their attitudes toward their experience with their driver, experience with
dispatch, experience with the operator. And what you see here is the lowest score that we
obtained through the survey.
So the rating time to reach an operator was the lowest score overall out of all them tested. And I
can't recall the number of top of my head how many different ratings we had. I want to say it's
around the ballpark of 20 to 25. This was the lowest. So you see 3.8 among Access-a-Ride users,
and 3.72 among Access-a-Cab users, and that equates to about a coin flip. So about half of them
are satisfied on either service with the wait time to reach an operator.
One other thing we asked BBC to test in terms of our hypothesis was is a number of Access-aRide users and Access-a-Cab users, is the number of those folks using fixed route services within
the past 12 months going up, down, or staying about the same? And what you see here is just
exactly that. So this is looking at the percentage of respondents who said yes, I have taken fixed
route services, whether it's a bus or a train, at least once within the past 12 months. Now we don't

know how many times within the past 12 months. It could have been once, it could've been 10
times, but this is just once.
And what you'll see here is 2016, 44% of the sample said that they had used fixed route services
at least once, and now that's 53%. Now that does fall outside of the threshold that we would
expect by random chance. So we conclude that is statistically significant. And we think
something has actually happened, i.e., this did not happen by dumb luck.
What's interesting is in the survey we asked those respondents that said that they used fixed route
services at least once in the past 12 months, about how many one-way trips did you take last
week? So getting some sense of how often they're using it. And we have the averages reported
here from 2016 versus 2019. And you'll see it's dropped for bus, but that does not fall outside of
that threshold, so we assume nothing has changed there.
But for light rail or train, that has dropped beyond that threshold, so we think that something is
actually happening, i.e., the number of average one-way trips that folks took on light rail that
we're accessing cab or accessing ride eligible has dropped since 2016 now it's small but it does
lie outside of that threshold and we conclude it is statistically significant.
This is not in the larger BBC report, and if there are folks that haven't seen that, I'm happy to
share it. Please let me know. I'm working with Larry Butina and Paul Hamilton with our
Paratransit Services to uncover a little bit more. So we thought this would be interesting to share.
Technology ownership across the Board has gone up. I think probably unsurprising, but wanted
to share that. Technology is becoming more accessible for folks. You'll see particularly
smartphone, we had 26% of folks saying that they owned a smartphone back in 2016. That
number is now 42%.
And finally, one other thing we wanted to share. This is not, again, in the BBC report, but we
wanted to share it because it's a trend that we're seeing going up. The percentage of folks that
used Uber or Lyft within the past six months that are Access-a-Ride or Access-a-Cab eligible has
gone up. So you see 2016, it was 7% for Uber. That is now 16%. And then for Lyft, it was 4%,
and more than four times that now. It's 17%. So we're seeing a trend of more usage of those third
party apps among our users in Paratransit.
That is the very top level summary. I'm happy to answer questions. But I would like to take a
moment to thank the folks at the Paratransit community, particularly the APAC members-- some
of them here tonight-- that took part in the survey. This was a long survey, about 20 minutes per
interview. So we certainly appreciate their time and everybody else that took part. And I'm happy
to field any questions you guys might have.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you very much. I see some people waiting in queue. I'm going to go
back to the phone to make sure if they have any questions there. Director Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, I'm good. Thank you, ma'am.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Folska?

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I know this is near and dear to your heart. I wanted to make sure
you had an opportunity. Thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. Thank you. It seems that the biggest problem people mentioned was the
long time, maybe average six minutes, to reach an operator. And I was just wondering, have we
been able to address that problem?
JEFF TRANGUCH: So because of the survey, I'm going to be working with Paul and Larry from
our Paratransit to see what we can discover. I don't know what data we have available, like if we
have average wait time and some type of database that we could see what the current number is
to see what that might look like. And I'd be happy to see if we can address that and measure that
again in the future to see if it could make some change. But I don't know what data we have
available at this moment. We just haven't had time to dive into it.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. It's just that I saw something in the report that said six minutes.
JEFF TRANGUCH: Six minutes? Average time?
JUDY LUBOW: It looked like it.
JEFF TRANGUCH: So that is their reported time. And what tends to happen, especially as you
get further and further away from event, you do what's called telescoping in the business. So it
may have been three minutes, but you think it is six minutes. So like I said, I'd like to compare
that against data we might have to see if there is any alignment or discrepancies, and see what we
can do from there.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you.
MICHAEL FORD: Michael Ford, COO. We will definitely look into it and see what
improvements we need to be making based on the information we get.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. And one more question. It looks like the number of weekly oneway trips by disabled folks on light rail has gone down considerably, and I wonder if that has
something to do with maybe Uber and Lyft getting some of that business. I don't know if we've
thought about that.
JEFF TRANGUCH: It's a great question. I can only speculate. I don't have any hard data to say
this is the exact reason or something to point to just based on the questions we asked.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Have we've been thinking about what happened?
MICHAEL FORD: We are going to examine every possible method in why we've seen a drop.
We're continuing to monitor that, do analysis, so we can bring back more information to you
once we have a little bit more information. But it's a constant focus for us.

JUDY LUBOW: Have people been asked? Have we asked people if you're not taking these
anymore, what are the reasons? Is that part of the survey, or could be an after part?
JEFF TRANGUCH: We haven't worded it in such a way like that. The way the question is
worded in the survey is just which of the following third party apps have you used? And I think
Taxi Cab is on there as well. I don't know the numbers off the top of my head. But worded a to
get t what you're looking for, I don't think we have anything like that at the moment.
MICHAEL FORD: We can always adjust and ask those kind of questions in the near future. I
think we just need to go through the data that we have now, and then formulate a game plan
going forward with maybe more penetrating questions in the future. But we'll work on that.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I don't have a question about the report itself, but I'd
just like to relate something I overheard. Riding on the mall shuttle tonight to this meeting, there
was two gentlemen that got on, and they were standing right next to me. One gentleman was
visually impaired because he had a white cane. And they were talking about Access-a-Ride and
the problems that they were experiencing with it, and so on and so forth.
And one of them said, well, I've got a solution. We should scrap the entire program, and then the
districts should think outside the box and enter into contracts with Uber and Lyft to provide the
service. And I thought that was interesting that they would come up with an idea like that. Thank
you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that, Director Broom. I'm going to come back to that when
it's my turn. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: No question. Just a comment. Thank you. Great presentation. The survey
was very easy to make our way through, I believe. And then your summary was outstanding as
well. So congrats on that, and the BBC. Very helpful information.
JEFF TRANGUCH: Thank you. Appreciate it.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Thank you, gentlemen. I'd like to comment and question.
CDOT did some work recently on emerging mobility surveys. And one of the things they've
found is that a number of alternative services do not have wheelchair accessible vehicles. And so
I think that if we looked at the statistics, we would note that in this community, there is less use
of that service because the vehicles are not able to handle that kind of service. So that would be a
comment there.
And then another question I would have is have we looked at all about travel training services,
which we partner with a number of agencies on that. And I believe that there is new and
increased interest in travel training. And the stated purpose of travel training is to allow the

recipients of that training to be able to use the public network. So I'm hoping that as we see that
increase, that we are contributing to that.
MICHAEL FORD: Michael Ford, COO. Yeah, we've been working. With we also been working
with Easter Seals and having somebody there to help make the navigation of the service a little
bit easier for people. So that's another focus that we've been having.
And then with regard to an Uber or Lyft comment, it's just that we are also looking at different
ways to change the trajectory of how we deliver service, and potentially partnering with them on
services, particularly for the disabled community. We have a lot more work to do with that, but
we are working, as we speak, on that very, very issue.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Ford. I appreciate that. Chair Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just one quick question, if I may.
Looking at packet page 38, which is page 18 of the report, and its Figure 18, use of third party
apps, and you talked a little bit about that.
We don't need to take the time with it now, but I tried to make the math work. And it doesn't
work for me in terms of adding this up. At some point I would like to have some better idea
because Director Broom's comment, overhearing some individuals talk about Uber and Lyft, I
think, is important for us to know. Are we, in fact, able to collaborate with them and create a
better solution than we're currently encountering?
And some of that, I just would like an opportunity to understand these numbers more. So rather
than burden us now with a full discourse, if perhaps you could provide that information-- of
course, to the full Board, not just to me-- that would be appreciated. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. I'd also like us to be aware that we recently, in the state
of Colorado, and particularly in the Denver region, had a change in some service from the health
care policy and financing department. They switched over from one provider to another provider.
And they had a absolutely horrendous experience with trying to get their new system up and
running. And a large number of those people were coming to Access-a-Ride.
So I don't think that any of that is reflected in this report. But it did happen. We had six surgeries
based on other services that were unable to serve the clientele that sometimes we serve jointly.
OK. Seeing no one else wanting to speak, thank you. I'm sorry. Oh, on the phone. I asked them. I
did ask them. I can ask them again. OK. Hang out there, ladies. Hang out. OK. Seeing nothing
else on this subject-- thank you, gentlemen-- we'll go on to the next update, which is the public
transit agency safety plan.
And it looks like we have a switch in personnel here. So I'm going to wait. If you gentlemen
would like to speak to something, we're game for that. If you feel like maybe we all did our
homework, we can go on to see if there are any questions from anybody in the room or Director
Malpiede. Do you have a question on this part of the Agenda

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, Madam Chair. Anybody here? Everybody read? Did their homework?
Wow. Thank you, gentlemen. We're happy. Everybody's happy. It's great, you know? We do
have-- oh, I'm sorry. General Manager Genova.
DAVE GENOVA: I just want to ask Mr. Meader. So was it included in the Board report? I don't
have a full packet in front of me, but that this will be coming for action next month.
MIKE MEADER: I'll clarify that this. Is Mike Meader, Chief Safety and Security Officer. I've
got Dan McClain, our Senior Manager of Safety and Environmental Compliance here with me as
well. So this is an opportunity for you to review annually. We bring the public transit agency
safety plan to you for your review and ultimate approval. So this is an opportunity for you to
review it right now. It will come before the committee in December for a vote and approval in
December as well. So that's what you have to look forward to.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. General Manager?
DAVE GENOVA: And if I might, this is a fairly new requirement under the Federal Transit
Administration State Safety Oversight Rules that the Board approve the agency's safety plan.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir.
DAVE GENOVA: To provide a little bit more info.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd like to tack onto that we do have availability to speak with either of you
at any time between now and the time that this does come back. There's some good information
in here. I'm taking assent that everybody read it. That doesn't mean that you won't get questions
between now and then.
MIKE MEADER: Happy to answer any questions you have. And I recognize there are some new
folks here. Obviously, we do this every year. So we're happy to answer any questions, either Dan
or myself, that you have about the process and just what it is exactly we're trying to accomplish
here.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, gentlemen. OK. We have one more additional item on the
update agenda, which is revised on vehicle and digital advertising approach. I'm assuming we're
going to have some different people up at the table, so we'll have a little personnel switch here.
OK. We're going to follow the regular procedure. Would you all introduce yourself?
PAULETTA TANELIS: Good evening, directors. I'm Pauletta Tonilas, the Assistant General
Manager of Communications. And with me tonight is Adrian Mabrey, who is our Manager of
Projects and Contracts in the marketing department. And we're here tonight to just give you a
very quick information update about an effort that our team has been working on for a while,

which is our desire to enhance our approach to system advertising. You guys doing the slides or- oh, here. There we go. Sorry about that.
So advertising is changing quickly. Digital advertising, and the technology that makes that
possible for us, is emerging all the time. Currently we have an on vehicle advertising contract
with Lamar Advertising of Denver. But that's only for the on board advertising. That's the static
advertising. It does not include any digital advertising.
Currently we receive a minimum annual guarantee of $3.4 million, or 60% of the net sales,
whichever is greater. Lamar was awarded a three-year contract with a two-year option back in
2014. A two-year option was exercised 2017. That contract does expire at the end of this year.
We then, last year, submitted a RFP, put that out on the street, for a digital advertising program
for specific locations along our rail lines. And we got many questions through that procurement
process from many contractors across the country. Some of them concerned us a little bit. We
answered the questions, went forward with that, and we received only two proposals.
After a thorough evaluation and consideration of the kind of questions and concerns that came up
from the industry that does this, we decided to cancel that procurement. And we now recommend
this more comprehensive and financially lucrative approach to system advertising versus just
doing an on board advertising and then a separate digital advertising. This would be combining
those two components into a much more robust, comprehensive advertising program.
The benefit here, there are really three main things. This gives us the opportunity to enhance our
customer experience in the way that we share information with our customers as it relates to
vehicle arrival time when something is happening on our system. Or even something good that
we want to be sharing across our system, we could put those messages up right away.
It also reduces costs to the agency, and there are various ways that that's possible through these
contracts. And one that is music to a lot of people's ears is that it allows us to increase the
revenues that we generate from the assets that RTD owns across our system, our facilities, and
what have you.
Again, this is just an example of one type of digital screen and some of the interconnectivity that
can happen through what some of these digital products are. But again, this is really giving us an
opportunity to mainly enhance the customer experience through better customer information,
optimizing our advertising revenues, and then giving the industry a chance to showcase us
through the procurement process, the emerging technologies of digital advertising.
So the next steps that the staff proposes is that we return to you in December at our
Communications and Government Relations Committee meeting with a recommendation to
extend our current contract with Lamar Advertising for a one-year extension that would go from
January 1 through December 31. This gives us the time to develop a new, robust RFP that we
then would put out on the street, and then would come back to the Board in 2020 with a contract
recommendation and give us an opportunity to transition into this new advertising program.

Also in December, we'd like to come back to the Board with a recommendation to approve a
revised system advertising policy that reflects language of emerging trends, new products,
technologies aligning with the agency's progress. For instance, what that means is with the
emergence of cannabis being legal, we need to reflect language in our advertising policy now. So
we'll be coming back to you with that. And then us preparing a more comprehensive advertising
RFP, and proceed with that procurement process.
So that is just a quick overview to lay the groundwork for you, knowing that we'll be coming
back to you next month.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Pauletta. I see two Board members are waiting to speak, but it
doesn't tell me who they. Are so I'm going to ask the people on the phone first, then, because I
know who they are. Director Folska, do you have any questions you would like to ask on this
subject?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes, I do. Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Pauletta. That's really great
news. My question is, are you anticipating putting language in that says we cannot advertise
cannabis products in our policy?
PAULETTA TANELIS: I'm sorry. I didn't understand.
KATE WILLIAMS: I believe the question was, are we putting language that says we cannot
advertise transit products? Cannabis. I thought, OK.
ADRIAN MABREY: Yeah, this is Adrian Mabrey, Manager of Project and Contracts. That's
correct. We are excluding cannabis from being able to be advertised on any of the RTD locations
or rolling stock. So we'll exclude that in order for us to remain in alignment with federal funding.
Director
KATE WILLIAMS: Folska? That answers your question?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: That's fine, yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super. Thank you. Thank you, Adrian. Director Rivera-Malpiede, do you
have a question?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Thank you. On that same line, are there any other kinds of
components that we can't do, such as alcohol? And I know in the past, we've had issues with
advertising from different groups that were really considered concerning.
ADRIAN MABREY: This is Adrian again. Short answer is yes, there are other portions of
things, such as tobacco, that are excluded. But I don't have the policy readily available in front of
me, so I would certainly refer us back to the existing policy that already has those items
excluded. And we can certainly share that with the Board again in advance of us bringing the
action item back next month.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I guess I'm asking a question about the new electronic
boards that would probably go up at major stations or light rail stations and so forth. Will those
be accessible and usable by the district to put out information to riders that train trips are being
canceled and that type of thing? Because the current boards that we have right now don't give
you very good information.
PAULETTA TANELIS: Yes, of course. That would be definitely something that would be part
of the digital information display. So the digital information displays would allow us a certain
percentage of the product of the screen through the course of the day for our own information. So
the train arrival time will always be there, but our own information, we can rotate it through. And
then, of course, advertising is present on those screens all through the day and night because
that's what pays for the infrastructure.
And so we absolutely would have that ability to be-- for instance, if it's one station or one whole
line or across our whole system, we can program that in and put that information out right away.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. Hey, Pauletta. Thank you so much for this information. I
had very similar question to Director Broom. On packet page 190, I was curious of what specific
information would be shared.
PAULETTA TANELIS: And I'm sorry, I don't have the page numbers. I think what you're
talking about, the information. It shows on the screen?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes, where it says enhance the customer experience. And if you go down a
bit, it says flexibility in sharing customer information. I was just curious of what that looks like.
PAULETTA TANELIS: Right. OK. So the allowing convenient management and flexibility in
sharing customer information is what we were talking about, is that the content management
system that we would use, that our staff would have available, is kind of like how rider alerts go
out now. But we have the ability to put those messages out on the digital screens, and they would
be able to go up very quickly to share information.
If it was even like a rail line opening that we wanted to promote, we could spool that information
through the digital screens through the day, or we could change that through the course of the
day, that type of thing.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And what's the percentage breakdown of RTD information versus
advertising information?

PAULETTA TANELIS: That's all part of what we end up seeing in the proposals that we get,
and then what we could even negotiate. So even once the proposals are received, we then-whatever contractor we think we want to negotiate with, we negotiate various terms with them.
And sometimes you can negotiate a higher percentage of agency information.
But again, these are digital advertising screens, and that is what pays for the infrastructure. We
would not be putting out any money for the infrastructure of the signs themselves or the
maintenance, because typically the contractors, they pay for those, they install them, they
maintain them, and they recoup their costs by selling advertising. But we then still have the
ability to share customer information with our customers. And that's, I believe, a value in
keeping up with the times.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. And what about for folks who utilize our bus services? Is there any
plans in the future to bring in such technology?
PAULETTA TANELIS: Well, typically these types of digital products are at major rail stations
or major transit centers. Now we can look at what major bus centers, or whatever should put into
the mix. Ridership and eyeballs is where the money is with these. And so that is really how the
models are set up.
That being said, because we have such a large bus system and 10,000 bus stops, there are digital
products that you can use, for instance, flags at each bus stop. That gets into a little bit of a
different area. This gives us the opportunity to enter the digital advertising and customer
information trend.
And then, of course, what's always exciting in these procurements is what the industry speaks to
us with, and that is what they propose. And sometimes they will even propose an option for us
to, for instance, change out the variable message signs that are at every rail station that currently
now just showcase estimated time of arrival, so our scheduled time. And they will sometimes
propose an option for, like, TV screen-type signs that show the train arrival, but then also
showcases advertising and can even play videos on it. So it's just interesting and exciting to see
what the industry will bring to us through procurement.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. That's great. One final question. You mentioned an extension of the
Lama contract from January to December. What's the cost of that contract?
PAULETTA TANELIS: Adrian? She was asking about the cost of the contract.
ADRIAN MABREY: That would actually be a revenue-generating contract of $3.4 million.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK.
PAULETTA TANELIS: So it's the same model as what we have now. So we wouldn't be putting
out any money. It's just extending what they do for us right now.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thank you so much.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. General Manager Genova.
DAVE GENOVA: I promise I'll be brief, but I just wanted to add a couple things while we have
this thought. So the improvements we're doing now on 15L, for example, would be a great way
that we could expand this into the bus area because we'll have communication with a lot of those
improvements. And then we have seen in some transit agencies where the advertisers have
proposed actually onboard types of digital advertising as well. So there could be some options
there.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, General Manager. Chair Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Yes. Yes. Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Governor. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: I don't know if I can beat that. So Pauletta, I just happened to-- and if you've
already addressed this, forgive me. But my ears perked up when you were talking about the
digital display of arrival information and so forth.
I just have gotten a complaint today, or a concern, about the signs not reflecting the actual
station, or there was just some technical glitches, and also the question about whether we can
introduce the real time information. Is this an opportunity to look at some of that?
PAULETTA TANELIS: Well, the signage that we have currently, and anything that we have in
the future, is all dependent on our own information that we make available to even third party
entities right now. Currently, our signs that are at our rail stations are estimated time of arrival, or
our planned, scheduled time. We don't have the ability currently to change that up dynamically
as things are changing. Like now, with us having the right to drop rail trips, we don't have the
ability to change those scheduled times that are on the signage right now.
And so again, the real time and connecting that infrastructure is part of what we plan to do in the
future. But right now, that's not possible.
SHELLEY COOK: If there was a way to build in the conduiting or whatever to help make that
possible at a lesser cost going forward, or just keeping that in mind. And then there appear to be
some technical issues. I'm sure it's just partly the age of the signs or something. But just wanting
to be able to reflect to this person that hey, this is a chance we have right now to improve the
reliability of those signs, for example.
PAULETTA TANELIS: Yes. And that is absolutely what we have the ability to do through this
new program. And again, the digital signage would be across the rail system and at major transit
centers or certain major locations where that makes sense to have that infrastructure investment.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Cook. Pauletta. Thank you, Director Williams. I'm
wondering if, in this proposal, if there is an opportunity-- you know, you have a QR code, and
everybody's standing around waiting there, as we saw. Even Access-a-Ride people have their
electronic media.
If we could have a QR code that you could scan that would take you to next ride, or that would
take you to our Twitter feed, or that would take you to our Facebook page, and that would give
people who were standing around waiting for our vehicles something to do that we would be able
to interact with, and maybe give us more opportunities. That just occurred to me. I have one on
my phone. I could do it myself. So it doesn't take a lot to do that.
OK. Seeing nobody else waiting to speak, we thank you very much for that information. Look
forward to where that's going in the future. Thank you, Adrian. And I think that's all the updates
we have right now. If anyone has other matters that they would like to bring this committee, now
would be the time. General Manager?
DAVE GENOVA: I do not. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: So you know that you have a very, very happy, fulfilling life when a
friend calls you up on Saturday night and says, let's go and have fun. And Director Menten says,
I've got an idea. Let's go survey RTD riders.
SPEAKER 1: Party time.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, I know. So I just wanted to share with you that Pauletta was good
enough to share with me a paper version of the survey that we're conducting right now on this
very hard decision. Yeah, and I got a paper version. So we take a clipboard out and we survey
people. And that's what we did from 7:00 to 9:00 PM Saturday night, and did a little bit today.
And I would just suggest to the other Board directors, if they're interested in doing that, there's a
paper way to do it. Obviously, there's the digital, and you've all gotten the forms to send people
to that portal. But Pauletta was good enough to let me give her the 20 plus surveys that we've
done so far.
And really, really the feedback is-- you know, it's hard to get through a lot of surveys within a
short amount of time because people do want to talk and express their thanks to the drivers for all
the extra work, the extra hours that they've done, and the constituents and the riders know that.
So I just wanted to share how much I enjoyed Saturday night doing that. And we'll continue to
do it. And I guess I won't share the results yet. But it's very interesting seeing what people are
commenting, and I wanted to go with that. And one other question. And maybe Paulette in now
needs to come back up to the table. Sorry I'm creating extra work for you, Pauletta.
PAULETTA TANELIS: I'm sorry. Mr. Jensen was distracting me, so I didn't hear what you said.

NATALIE MENTEN: I was going to throw you a bunch more paperwork, is what it comes down
to. But my question is, because I haven't been on a bus over the last week when the surveys find
out, is there paper notice or something there on the buses telling people about the survey?
PAULETTA TANELIS: So we don't have paper notices really anywhere. We've been doing
everything by way of electronic communication. The media has actually been really good about
educating people and telling them what to do. The Chair is holding up some little pieces of paper
that we've been handing out at our pop-up events at all of your districts.
So we do have those, and that gives people the URL of where they can go. But we also tell
people just go to the website because you can get to the survey from the website. And so that is
what we've been doing to promote it.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. So on that same line-- and we had an interesting discussion
about putting signs up for meetings this week, as a side note-- but let's just say I wanted to take
some of these paper copies, and I was on the number one bus, and that I wanted to stash some of
those in those little pamphlet holders along with some of my meeting notices for my November
20 and 23 meeting. As Board directors, are we able to do that? Rolf?
ROLF ASPHAUG: I apologize. Now I'm the one.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. So let's say I'm traveling on the number one bus and I want to take
my paper notices-- thank you-- of Your Voice Matters because they're not on the buses right
now, and I wanted to take some of these and stuff them in the little pamphlet holders on a bus,
and I also wanted to insert some of my own meeting notices flyer on the bus. And I able to do
that?
ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair, Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel. Yes and no. The first item that
you've got is an RDD prepared document. And if RTD decides, and if there's not a-- there needs
to be a decision by RTD operationally how they'd like to do that. But I think if RTD decides to
issue something, RTD can do it.
The issue we have about people, be they directors or be they other individuals, placing their own
items on RTD property, is that we run the risk of creating a public forum. And that's where
anybody could say, well, you allowed so-and-so to do it, so I should be allowed to put up my
notice as well. And it doesn't matter whether the subject is transit or not. It's really just making
sure that RTD property is being used and communications are done through RTD-approved
advertising policy, which includes RTD announcements and our facilities use policies. So that's
the best I can offer.
NATALIE MENTEN: So since I know Board directors like to do outreach and have meetings at
times, especially, how would a Board director go through a staff process to be able to have theirROLF ASPHAUG: Now you're getting beyond my wheelhouse and getting more into how things
are done between the Board office and communications on how-- and operations, I imagine, too,

depending on where you want to place things. I know that we've had announcements in the past
about things like telephone town halls and things of that nature. But the concern is things that are
developed by individual directors. And you can imagine, especially when you start getting
towards election time and all that, we just have to be very, very careful that RTD messages are
sent out as opposed to private messages.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm going to suggest that you all have this conversation. It seems to me like
that's a long, involved legal discussion about what-- I can tell you that on Monday night in 20
degrees of weather, I was on buses, lots of buses, at Civic Center Station giving this document to
people. So I know that you can do that because if you can't, I'm in big trouble because I did it for
two hours in the cold.
And people were wonderful. And it's nice to know. And we did speak about this earlier this
evening. And all of the pop-up events, I think, are very carefully distributed to mostly cover
everybody's district. But I think the discussion-- I apologize. Between me giving out DRMAC,
getting their guides on the buses, and you giving out invitations to your meetings is a discussion
that maybe we should have at another time.
DAVE GENOVA: Well, here's the problem I have. I've had a discussion with our legal staff
about posting. I don't want to stand eight hours at a bus stop or a light rail stop to advertise one
of our elected official meetings. And I've been told that I'm prohibited from posting a sign to let
constituents know that I'm holding meetings at their convenience in the evening and on a
Saturday. So I would say that we have a little bit of a problem that we, as Board directors, can't
use our own public property to let constituents know that we're having a meeting for their
benefit.
So I think it needs to be addressed, and that's why I'm bringing it out into the public right now.
KATE WILLIAMS: Have at it, Counselor. I guess that it would fall under customer service. And
this is Operations and Customer Service.
ROLF ASPHAUG: This is Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel. The distinction is between materials
prepared by RTD materials prepared by individuals. The request I got was that an individual
poster prepared by a Board member, could that be posted up on RTD facilities and property?
And the answer to that, under our standard policies and procedures, is no.
But if RTD decides that RTD wants to prepare documents to post somewhere, RTD can do that.
Again, we have to be careful about following our own policies. And if we start putting up
handbills all over the place and posting them on our facilities, we have to be very careful about
that. That was what I was asked about, was whether a director could prepare their own document
and post it someplace by virtue of being a director. And I said unfortunately, no.
KATE WILLIAMS: Is it possible that a director could work with the Communications
Department to produce an RTD sanctioned invitation to a telephone town hall or to a meeting?
And would that suffice for this discussion?

NATALIE MENTEN: It would as long as I could post a corrugated-type sign at light rail stations
along the west corridor, multiple stations, where it'd be visible to as many constituents as
possible. I will admit that being, in my self-sufficient manner, I have a lot of corrugated plastic
yard stakes and a vinyl cutter. I also have the professional logo with our 50th anniversary, which
I produced on my own flyer. I used our Tahoma font that we're required to use. So I was just
trying to make my own sign and save the agency a little money, is what I am guilty of.
KATE WILLIAMS: I think, perhaps-- and I'm sorry. I'm only the chair of this committee-- I
think perhaps that if you would speak with the communications department with your materials,
that perhaps we could reach a compromise that would suit everybody. Pauletta?
PAULETTA TANELIS: Yeah. And actually, Director Menten and I did speak. And we're happy
to do what we can within the ability that we have. And out of the initiative that Director Menten
had, we're going to go ahead and promote her other two meetings that she took the initiative to
do so she can get input. So absolutely we'll do that and continue to talk about this moving
forward.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you very much. I'm very satisfied.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you very much. I see other directors that are waiting to speak under
other matters. Director Lubow, what other matter do you have?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. You know, the Board was sent an email of complaints by a
union officer about what she considered cultural problems that were causing high turnover. And
I just wanted to make sure that the Board would see a response.
KATE WILLIAMS: Please, sir.
DAVE GENOVA: Chair, thank you. Yes, we're in the process of preparing an item by item
response for the Board.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you so much. That's all. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: And we will receive that at the same time that the correspondent gets it.
OK. Thank you. Seeing nobody else, last call for other matters. I am so sorry. I've been so
careful all night. Director Rivera-Malpiede, please speak to us.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, that's fine. I just want to add to Director Lubow's request. I
also would like to see that. So I'm very pleased that we're addressing that. Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: You are very welcome. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, I have no further comments. Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: You get brownie points. Thank you. Seeing no or hearing no other
comments, this meeting is ended. Our next meeting will be on December 10, 2019. Same time,
same bat channel. We hope to see you all then. Thank you.

