1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Vince Buzek, District J
First Vice Chair – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Second Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Secretary – Marjorie Sloan, District M
Treasurer – Troy Whitmore, District K
Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Shelley Cook, District L
Erik Davidson, District I
Bobby Dishell, District D

Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Rosenthal, District E
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Operations and Safety Committee

Wednesday, June 15, 2022
REMOTE MEETING
5:30 PM
To join the meeting Register Here
(connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 815 9657 3360#
Passcode: 1660#
Public Comments can be emailed in advance to be
included in the record to
RTD.BoardOffice@rtd-denver.com

Operations and Safety Committee
Chaired by Paul Rosenthal

A. Call to Order
B. Public Comment
C. Information from External Entities
D. Recommended Actions

• Innovations in Transportation, Inc. (INIT) CAD/AVL Software Support
Contract

• Allied Universal Security Services Contract Option

E. Discussion Items
F. Other Matters
G. Next Meeting Date: Wednesday, July 13, 2022
H. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.D.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Innovations in Transportation, Inc. (INIT) CAD/AVL
Software Support Contract

Committee Meeting Date:
June 15, 2022
Board Meeting Date:
June 28, 2022

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to enter into a
contract with Innovations in Transportation, Inc. (INIT) for the implementation and operation of a
software support contract for the Computer Aided Dispatch/Automatic Vehicle Location (CAD/AVL)
district-wide dispatch system. The contract will include five years’ software support, with five additional
one-year options, for a total cost not to exceed $7,500,000.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer
Jeff Bissing, Supervisor, Intelligent Transportation Systems
PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes
BACKGROUND
The Information Technology Division regularly works in close partnership with the Operations
Department to ensure that the department’s emerging technology needs continue to be addressed in real
time as well as to establish a cadence and a methodology for future technological adjustments,
advancing operational efficiencies/effectiveness to better serve employees and customers. One such
technology is the agency’s existing CAD/AVL system.
The CAD/AVL system is currently supported by INIT and serves as a connection between the agency’s
revenue vehicles and scheduling and dispatching operations. Among other capabilities, the system also
facilitates coordination with police, fire and medical emergency services. Operationally, the system
enhances response times; enables dispatch employees to reroute and supplement vehicles in real time;
and enables on-time performance monitoring and automatic stop announcements.
RTD executed a contract with INIT for three years of initial software support commencing June 1, 2015.
The contract included four additional option years of software support. Following the execution of the
fourth option year, the current contract expired on May 31, 2022.
DISCUSSION
With the Board’s adoption of this recommended action, the agency strives to meet the 2021-2026
strategic plan priorities of Community Value and Customer Excellence. This recommended action is to
enter into a new contract with INIT for the continuation of the system software support required for
CAD/AVL system functionality.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The anticipated contract cost over 10 years, including, five base years and five option years, is $7.5
million. There is no additional agency financial impact, as funding designated for CAD/AVL software
support is included in the 2022 adopted budget.

Packet Pg. 3

1.D.1

Prepared by:
Jeff Bissing, Supervisor ITS Systems Administration
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 4

1.D.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Allied Universal Security Services Contract Option

Committee Meeting Date:
June 15, 2022
Board Meeting Date:
June 28, 2022

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO (GM/CEO), or her designee, to
execute the first option year of the existing security services contract with Allied Universal for a total
contract cost not to exceed $20,296,083.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Steve Martingano, Interim Chief of Police and Emergency Management
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 minutes
BACKGROUND
RTD’s security model consists of internal police officers, secondary employment officers from local
jurisdictions and contracted security officers to provide security for RTD customers, facilities and
property.
On July 11, 2019, following a comprehensive procurement process, Allied Universal was awarded a
three-year contract with three one-year options to provide system-wide security services. The initial
contract term expires June 30, 2022, and the first option year term would begin July 1, 2022 and end
June 30, 2023.
Currently, Allied Universal’s services provided under the contract include but are not limited to:
• Critical infrastructure security at facilities including bus and rail stations
• Fare enforcement
• Patrol services
• Enhanced security presence during large-scale events
• Integrated security technology services
• Security command and dispatch center staffing and monitoring
DISCUSSION
Staff recommends that the Board authorize the GM/CEO to execute the first of three contract option
years with Allied Universal to provide system-wide security services.
In adopting this recommended action, the agency seeks to meet the 2021-2026 Strategic Plan priorities
of Community Value and Customer Excellence. Specifically:
• RTD’s perceived Community Value would be enhanced through the hiring of additional unarmed
security officers to serve in ambassador and customer service roles and the deployment of
contracted security personnel in higher visibility uniforms, yielding a greater sense of security
among employees, customers, and the communities the agency serves
• Customer Excellence would be achieved via the agency’s ability to deploy unarmed security
guards on commuter rail services, thereby improving system reliability and decreasing delays

Packet Pg. 5

1.D.2

FINANCIAL IMPACT
The financial impact associated with the adoption of the recommended action is $20,296,083, of which
$9,950,171 is accounted for in the 2022 Budget, and the remainder would need to be incorporated into
the 2023 Budget. Moreover, the cost of services provided in the first contract year is $2,991,590 less
than the cost of the final year of the initial three-year contract term.

Prepared by:
Steve Martingano, Acting Chief of Police and Emergency Management
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 6

