2022-06-15
Operations and Safety Committee
PAUL ROSENTHAL: So the Operations and Safety Committee is now coming to order.
[TAPS TABLE AS IF HOLDING A GAVEL]
We are convened as of 7:17 PM. I would respectfully ask for everybody attending this meeting to please
mute yourselves unless you're recognized to speak. Thank you, everybody, for joining us.
Please note that under current circumstances official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors, as mentioned
earlier, are held remotely. For the immediate future, the official meetings will be held via Zoom and audio
and video recorded. Are we being recorded? I don't know. Are we being-- oh, we are.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Oh, it says, "Live," so I guess that means we're being recorded. OK, our meetings will
be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website, rtd-denver.com, and scroll to the bottom of the
page for the link to Board of Directors page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you'd like to be acknowledged during tonight's
proceedings, I ask that you please raise your hand, your virtual hand, and wait for me to call on you before
proceeding to speak. Speaking out of turn will only add confusion for the record and to the proceedings.
Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to indicate they would like to
speak by pressing star 9. To toggle your mute setting, press star 6. Let's now do the roll call of the committee
members. So let's start off with Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And Director Lewis indicated to me that she was not able to come tonight, so she's
excused. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I'm still here.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And myself. I'm still here too. So for the record, I see that we have four Directors
present. Let's open up the public comment to anybody who would like to address the committee regarding
any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month.
If you'd like to speak and have not already done so, please raise your hand or press star 9 on your phone.
Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you are dialing in, press star 6 to toggle your mute
settings. Please bear in mind that, participating in this process, you're being recorded.

If you do not wish to be recorded, then your comments will need to be submitted in writing. If any speaker
has documentation or reference materials for the committee or any member of the public would like to
submit written comments, please do so by email. You can email the Board Office at the following email
address, rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
During public comment, the committee will not offer any comments or responses. Directors or staff may
contact speakers following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow-up. Yes,
Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Could we recognize the other Board members who are not part of this committee but are
here in attendance?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Most certainly. So let's see we have. Director Broom, Director Rivera-Malpiede,
Director Buzek, Director Sloan, Director Whitmore, Director Davidson, Director Catlin, Director Cook, and
Director Guissinger, and, of course, General Manager/CEO Johnson many of her staff, which we will and
who we will introduce shortly.
Speakers, so we're now entertaining any public comments at this time. Please begin your remarks by stating
your name, and you will have three minutes to speak. Let's see. Barbara, do we have any speakers in the
queue?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I see no hands up, and we received no emails in the Outlook box.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All righty. So with no participants in the queue, we are going to close the comment
period at this time. [POUNDS TABLE] And let's see. Next agenda item-- information from external entities.
There's no information from any external entities at this time. Recommended actions-- looks like we have
two recommended actions on the agenda this evening.
The very first is Innovations in Transportation, INIT, CAD/ABL software support contract. So for the Board
of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to enter into a contract with
Innovations in Transportation, INIT, for the implementation and operation of a software support contract for
the computer-aided dispatch/automatic vehicle location, CAD/ABL, district-wide dispatch system. The
contract will include five-year software support with five additional one-year options for a total cost not to
exceed $7.5 million. Do we have a motion?
JULIEN BOUQUET: So moved, Bouquet.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second. Second.
DOUG TISDALE: Second.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right, so it looks like our first two are moved by Director Bouquet and seconded by
Director Williams. At this time, I'd like to ask, first of all, Madam General Manager and then perhaps Michael
Ford, Chief Operations Officer, and Jeff Bissing, Supervisor, Intelligent Transportation System, to present
this item.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I will yield the floor to Mr. Ford.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you

PAUL ROSENTHAL: And by the way, Director Tisdale, if you don't mind putting yourself on mute.
DOUG TISDALE: Sorry.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, good sir. All righty, let's proceed.
MICHAEL FORD: All right, thank you, Michael Ford, COO. And by way of background, just want to
emphasize that the Information Technology Division regularly works in close partnership with the
Operations department to ensure that the Department's emerging technology needs continue to be
addressed in real time, as well as establish a cadence and methodology for future technological
adjustments, advancing operational efficiencies/effectiveness to better serve employees and customers.
One such technology is the agency's existing CAD/ABL system. The CAD/ABL system is currently
supported by INIT and serves as a connection between the agency's revenue vehicles and scheduling and
dispatch operations, among other capabilities. The system also facilitates coordination with police, fire,
medical emergency services. Operationally, the system enhances response times, enables dispatch,
employee to route and supplement vehicles in real time, and enables on-time performance monitoring and
automatic stop announcements.
As part of the discussion, with the Board's adoption of this recommended action, the agency strives to meet
the 2021 through 2026 Strategic Plan Priorities of Community Values and Customer Excellence. This
recommended action is to enter into a new contract with INIT for the continuation of the system software
support required with the CAD/ABL system functionality.
As far as the financial impacts, the anticipated contract is over 10 years, including five base years and five
optional years, which is at $7.5 million. There is no additional agency financial impacts, as funding
designated for the CAD/ABL of software is included in 2022 adopted budget. With that, I'm happy to answer
questions. Thank you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Ford. Do any Directors have any questions for Mr. Ford or anyone
else? Well, seeing none, are there any no votes, on this action, on this recommendation? Seeing none, the
motion passes.
The second recommendation is for the Allied Universal Security Services contract option. Sorry-- window
popped up. For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to
execute the first option year of the existing security services contract with Allied Universal for a total contract
cost not to exceed $20,296,083. Do we have a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: So moved, Tisdale.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second, Williams.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: So we have moved by Director Tisdale and second by Director Williams. I'd like to
ask, first of all, General Manager, if you have any comments. But otherwise, Mr. Steve Martingano, Interim
Chief of Police and Emergency Management, to present this item.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Please proceed, Chief Martingano.
STEVE MARTINGANO: Thanks, Chair. I want to give a background. So RTD's security model consists of
internal police officers, secondary employment officers from local jurisdictions, and contracted security

officers to provide security for RTD customers, facilities, and property. On July 11, 2019, following a
comprehensive procurement process, Allied Universal was awarded a three-year contract with three oneyear options to provide system-wide security services. The initial contract term expires June 30 of 2022,
and the first option year term would begin July 1, 2022, and run to the end of June 30 of 2023.
Currently, Allied Universal services provided under the contract include but are not limited to critical
infrastructure security and facilities, including bus and rail stations, fare enforcement, patrol services,
enhanced security presence during large-scale events, like today's Avalanche game, integrated security
technology services, security command, and dispatch center staffing and monitoring.
Staff recommends that the Board authorize the GM/CEO to execute the first of three contract option years
with Allied Universal to provide system-wide security services. In adopting this recommended action, the
agency seeks to meet the 2021 to 2026 Strategic Plan Priorities of Community Value and Customer
Excellence.
Specifically, RTD's perceived community value would be enhanced through the hiring of additional unarmed
security officers to serve an ambassador and customer service role, and the deployment of contracted
security personnel in higher visibility uniforms, yielding a greater sense of security among employees,
customers, and the communities the agency serves. Also, customer excellence would be achieved via the
agency's ability to deploy unarmed security guards on commuter rail services, thereby improving system
reliability and decreasing delays.
The financial impact associated with the adoption of the recommended action is $20,296,083, of which
$9,950,171 is accounted for in the 2022 budget, and the remainder would be need to be incorporated into
the 2023 budget. Moreover, the cost of services provided in the first contract year is $2,991,590 less than
the cost of the final year of the initial three-year contract term.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you very much, Mr. Martingano, for that presentation and for that information.
Any Directors have any questions or comments? Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Chair and thank you very much, Chief, for the presentation. I guess my
question is going to kind of go towards the bullet point, which is public for everyone, regarding the
community value. Could we dive a little bit deeper potentially into specifically where it says "the deployment
of contracted security personnel in higher visibility uniforms, yielding a greater sense of security among
employees, customers, and the communities the agency serves"?
Specifically why I'm asking about that is, speaking with constituents, speaking with employees of RTD, and
speaking with community members, it's kind of the general sense of having someone present, be it
enforcement, or be it through just having someone be present as a security force, or have that interpretation- folks anecdotally might have a sense of safety and security.
And that's why I'm kind of asking is-- sometimes that isn't how it's perceived, where some folks might
perceive it as, oh, I'm seeing armed officers, or I'm seeing unarmed officers. Anyone who's perceived as a
security force of ours, just not present. And I think that I would just like a little bit more detail into what our
goals are going forward into-- there's limitations, as we are all aware. But what are our goals going forward
with having the perception of more security forces around our RTD buses and RTD light rails? Thank you.
STEVE MARTINGANO: Chair?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Oh, go ahead, sir.

STEVE MARTINGANO: OK, so thanks, Director. The reason why we wanted a high visibility is the old
uniforms used to be the darker gray, and they were attributed more to a police-type force. These are not
police officers. They are security officers. We train them within their training modules to have a lot of
community service aspects to understand our system.
And what we wanted them to be out there in that more high visibility is for our customers, as well as
individuals that maybe don't know the system, to know that they see somebody with an RTD patch on their
arm, they are high visible to go to them and ask them for directions or assistance or which alignments to
get to different locations.
So the sense of that is more so not to be a authoritative force in that type of uniform, but what we've also
learned from best practices, like MARTA and some other agencies-- they went to a higher visibility because,
again, people want to see individuals out there representing the agency and be able to go up to them rather
than be a more-- within a darker gray, and maybe you don't see them. Our goal is not to be hidden within
the crowd. We want to be seen within the crowd.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Chief.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Chair, if I may?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Director Bouquet, please, go ahead.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. So I'm not sure if you would have an answer for this, and apologies for a
surprise question, but would you have an answer just regarding where we can't have an individual, an
unarmed officer, or a security force at every present area. We can't have it at every station that we have.
If you were potentially even the CEO or GM, or Mr. Ford potentially could give a public answer regarding,
where do we put our priorities when it comes down to our security forces? Or I kind of like it how you worded
it, as just an individual that has-- a help or authority for if a first-time rider comes up and says, hey, I have
questions. And I could actually turn to an RTD employee.
My question is kind of regarding disbursement of these resources when sometimes folks might feel that
there isn't someone present. I'm just curious what is our strategies when it comes down to where do we
actually place individuals?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And let's go to the General Manager and CEO, Debra Johnson, for this answer.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair, and thank you Chief, Martingano, for your
presentation and the responses, and to Director Bouquet for the questions. I think they're very good ones.
And I would share, oftentimes, as we look at safety and security is the perception because somebody could
be in an environment that is surrounded with different security personnel and feel unsafe.
But to get to the issue in which you raised, as we look at priorities holistically, what we are trying to become
here at this organization is a data-focused organization because we need to have data sets in order to
inform our decisions as we go forward. Being in this forum with you all and in public settings in which I have
the chance to engage, we have been promoting, for instance, the Transit Watch app because, basically,
this type of information that we can garner for that basically gives us the opportunity to ascertain where we
should deploy resources, more so as we work with our frontline staff.

And I mean not just operators. I'm talking about people working on the right of way, I'm talking about our
customer service agents and things of the like. We can garner a better understanding where that may need
to be.
To the chief's credit-- and I'll yield the floor to him momentarily to talk about this. But when he stepped into
this role, we went forward with our high-impact teams basically by having them working toward the different
modalities, focused on bus and rail, not just vehicles, but its stops, and looking at the population that is
unhoused. And this is the model that is typically used within transit agencies that have a police force.
And more specifically, when we talk about this collectively, we are leveraging the information that we were
able to ascertain when we have the American Public Transportation Association do an assessment because
a lot of the elements that have spawned from that are in the process of being implemented. When they talk
to us about if they-- a paid-fare area and what might we do in the collaboration going forward and how we
should have a holistic approach in dealing with jurisdictions and partnering, recognizing that we can't
enforce our way through anything, but we need to have that firm compassion.
So as we talk about the priorities, that's not being done in a vacuum. It's through the work of Interim Chief
Martingano engaging with the multitude of jurisdictions, Mr. Ford, with his collaboration, leading various
subgroups as it relates to creating an environment where our employees feel safe. So that's the prioritization
based upon the data sets that we're getting, look at that, and inform decisions. So if I may yield the floor to
Chief Martingano to elaborate on that, I'd appreciate it. Thank you very much.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam General Manager. Chief?
STEVE MARTINGANO: Yeah, I know, everything the CEO said is 100% accurate, right? What we're trying
to do is to find out where to best deploy our resources. We have seen that already with the Bus and Rail
Impact teams.
You know, I had spoken to FOX31 News today. They had asked questions about the impact that the bus
Impact Team is having out there. Our officers, since April 3, when that deployment has come, they have
reached out and contacted over 260 bus operators at different bus stops at different locations. And this is
all garnered from bus safety meetings, the work that Mr. Ford does in regards to our Bus Assault Team
committee meetings.
So as the more and more data we get, and the more and more information that we need to go out and be
present at, that's what we're hoping for. And again, the visibility of the higher visibility uniforms-- we want
individuals to see our security personnel out there when they are out there and know that they are RTD
personnel, they're reflective to what our uniforms are, and for them to go up to help.
I will just say, I was at the security roundtable meeting in San Diego. They were asking about-- there was
about 20-plus agencies there asking about what individuals do for mental health illness. Does anyone have
clinicians? RTD, I was able to raise my hand. Does anyone have homeless outreach coordinators? Able to
raise our hand. Does anyone have security personnel that are highly visible? I was able to raise my hand.
So RTD, I think, is well ahead of the game in establishing a security sense as well as providing safety for
our customers.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And thank you, Chief. If I may, just sort of drilling down, Chief, there's been a lot of
media attention in regards to the 15 bus. If you don't mind drilling down, just sort of addressing that, given
the comments by our General Manager and yourself on how we're placing and how we're using data.

STEVE MARTINGANO: Sure, Chair. Thanks for that question. We provide a lot of resources to the 15 along
Colfax. We have our secondary employment contract with Aurora Police Department, and we have officers
that are to ride buses especially along 15 corridor 10 hours a day, seven days a week. We also have a
deployment of Denver police officers not only within vehicles throughout 24 hours a day, seven days a
week, but we also have an additional three Denver police officers that are directed to address any bus
issues, whether it be the 15, Evans, or Broadway, so they are out there anywhere from four to five days a
week.
Our bus impact team has been present along Colfax, especially along more the west side of Colfax from
Sheridan further out west, just because we have so much police involvement along Denver and Aurora, so
we want to make sure that we covered Colfax. It's a very long strip, right? It's one of the largest roads in
the country. So we wanted to make sure that we covered the west side of Colfax as well and didn't neglect
those bus operators.
And then also, our security personnel-- when we have an abundance of security, we put them out there.
They sometimes ride with our bus supervisors. They go out along the bus alignments as well. So we
dedicate a lot.
And one thing that has not been spoken about is our camera system. RTD places a lot of money as well as
emphasis on video. We have a lot of cameras within the area, so that's another tool that has not been
expressed here as well.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Chief. And my apologies, Director Tisdale, that I interrupted before you.
Go on ahead, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate that. You have hit some of the
points I was going to make, and I think it's important that we all realize we've had a series of articles about
safety and security in the local press.
But then we had a scathing indictment in The Washington Post relative to the operation of our 15/15L line
on Colfax Avenue that appeared just two weeks ago, which was very troubling and very problematic and
ended on a very depressing and nonoptimistic note, just indicating what happened to that particular operator
and not saying what RTD was doing about all of this.
Then, of course, we had the 7News story that we just saw today, I guess, or yesterday, relative to the
15/15L again. And then, of course, we heard about the Fox31 interview that the Chief gave. I think it's
critical for us to make it clear and adopting this resolution, and approving this contract and sending it to the
full Board is part of the response that we need to make.
And I do want to thank the Chief very much for continuing to emphasize my favorite app, which is, if you
see something, say something-- the RTD Transit Watch app. I will remind you yet once again, folks, if you
have the RTD Transit Watch app on your phone, you'll never ride alone. So I am very happy to support this
action this evening, and I hope that we can get good press out of it so that people understand that, yes, we
are renewing and reinvigorating our investment in safety and security. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: You bet. Thank you, Director Tisdale. Chief, did you want to comment any further on
that or not? So in regards to the app, from my understanding, actually, there's now another menu item on
there to include drugs. Is that correct? And so that's also going to help inform our data and also how we
respond to events that people are reporting. Is that correct, Mr. Martingano?

STEVE MARTINGANO: Yes, Chair. That is correct. I apologize. I don't have the data in front of me when
we first put that classification on there, but that actually came from a customer. A customer had called in
asking, I utilized the app the other day, and I wanted to be specific to drugs, but I had to use the Other
classification to talk about something that I had seen along the alignment.
So as soon as we heard that, we then reached right out to our app person that designed the app, and they
placed that, and that has been a classification that now people are able to go ahead and utilize. So it was
a great addition. It gives us better numbers in regards to what our customers and our employees are seeing
out there and whoever downloads the app, and we'll continue to make those changes as drug activity was
not a huge issue several years ago. So if anything else does come up, we'll continue to change that app as
needed.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I appreciate that. And I know this conversation is drifting a bit from the contract, but
the safety and security issue is all encompassing with the people that we are hiring. So I think it is germane.
So speaking to that, Chief, do you believe that this action will adequately help us recruit and retain the
necessary staff, both armed and unarmed, to provide the security that we need, or at least help us to start
addressing it?
STEVE MARTINGANO: Chair, yes, for several reasons. One is this now gives a step system within the
contract by having the unarmed positions. If individuals stay on their contract, retention-wise, they also then
can advance to the armed position, which would then give them a higher salary rate. And also, they don't
have the employee ownership within their strategic plan, but I think that is definitely something that could
be expressed because they will start off being unarmed, understanding be more that customer service
aspect.
And if they want to make more money, they could go to that armed faction, but they continue to understand
that customer service is first. And it also will get individuals more into the security field because the armed
qualifications are a little bit higher standards. So they'll get people to come and be able to work within RTD's
umbrella in a different faction.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: If I understood-- sorry, Director Bouquet, just real quick. If I understood correctly, we
will be saving about $3 million versus last year's contract, and part of that is due to the hiring of unarmed
staff. Given that we will be saving some money, do you think that we could pay more for both armed and
unarmed staff in this contract in order to hopefully help attract and retain those contractors? General
Manager.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And I raised my hand intentionally recognizing
that we're coming before the Board as it relates to putting forth an option here. This contract was approved
and went through a solicitation process back in July of 2019, whereby, with the open and fair competition,
there was a price model that already was submitted.
So recognizing that it is a contractor, while there are savings, it would not be within RTD's auspices per se
to dictate what the salary rates should be for a contractor if that makes sense to you. So as we go forward
and look at this, there are various aspects where everybody's trying to be competitive as we go forward.
But as relates to what might happen in reference to the contractor in and of itself, that's not within the
purview of RTD per se in relationship to where we are with the current contractual agreement that we have
with this vendor.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Understood. Thank you, General Manager. Director Bouquet.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thanks, Chair, for another-- allow another bite at the apple. I guess my question would
be, as we're looking into this contract, is our goal as an agency-- are our goals as an agency to be proactive
of our placement of our personnel, or reactive, or is it it's really a mixture of both?
I think that would be my question because, again, the comments and questions that I've gotten from
constituencies regarding just the presence of an authority figure or when it comes down to an RTD
personnel-- are we reacting to the Transit Watch app? And most likely, it's a hybrid, but I am just kind of
curious-- going forward, what are going to be our goals as an agency?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: General Manager.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you so much. And as we talk about where we're going as an agency and talk
about those and priorities, I do want to be able to opine. So, collectively, as we talk about where we are,
we do have people power problems, as we've talked about ad nauseum. And as we go forward, we want
to ensure that we have adequate resources. When you look at the size of this agency in comparison to
others, we have a very small police force, and that was something that came out of our APTA peer review.
And recognizing that we do rely heavily upon a third party, in a Utopian society, we would like to move
forward where we have auspices because recognizing that we have security personnel that serve as
second crew members, and we need to have greater deployment of resources, we would be better apt to
do that.
And so as we have been working collectively-- and it's been a cross-functional team ranging from our
colleagues within the transit police division, within operations, more specifically as it relates to rail, both on
light rail and commuter rail-- we have been talking about what might be optimal. And I believe, in reference
to the question that you pose, Director Bouquet, one of those first instances is how we look at deployment
on the N line. And one thing's for certain what we're working towards is ensuring that we have RTD
conductors on board, right, as opposed to being reliant upon a third party that was carrying a firearm.
And so as we talk about this collectively, it's looking at the business models that we were utilizing and trying
to optimize on the resources we have for the betterment of the services in which we're providing. So those
are the priorities in which we have collectively. And I would yield the floor to Chief Martingano and Mr. Ford
to elaborate since they have been working on this collectively with their teams to effectuate this going
forward.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. Mr. Ford, Mr. Martingano.
MICHAEL FORD: Yeah, Michael Ford, COO. I just wanted to elaborate that we have graduated nine
conductors as of yesterday. We've got another three that are scheduled to be graduating in the next couple
of weeks and another class going. That should provide some relief. The nine are actually out in service
right now to help with some of the things that we've been experiencing. We're continuing to try to build up
our workforce, and we hope that that will come to full distribution here in the coming months. But we have
been actively working on this and trying to provide additional resources out there, and maybe that can help
augment some of the concerns that have been raised.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you,
KATE WILLIAMS: You should give them a heads up. There might be unhappy people on the train. We're
in a tie game now.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: Oh no.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah,
[LAUGHTER]
PAUL ROSENTHAL: No. Oh no. Mr. Martingano, did you have any other further comment?
STEVE MARTINGANO: No, I don't, Chair. Thank you, though.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All righty. Any other Directors would like to ask a question or make a statement or
what have you? All righty. Let's take a look. So let's vote, and are there any no votes on this action? Seeing
none, it passes unanimously, 4 to 0.
So there are discussion items-- there are no discussion items this evening. Other matters? Are there any
other matters to discuss? Anybody? Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: This is me sticking my hand up to say there are other Directors on this call. If anybody
has a question or wants to bring up anything, we welcome you to participate in our committee.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Vice Chair for pointing that out. Director Whitmore? No? OK, so
you just popped up. OK. Well, in that case, thank you, Madam Vice Chair for bringing that up. It looks like
there are no other matters to discuss. So looks like our next meeting is Wednesday, July 13 and that'll be
a Wednesday. And at this moment, I'd like to take a motion to adjourn.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'll adjourn. Go Avs.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: [LAUGHS] Go Avs. Thank you, everyone, for all of your hard work. I really appreciate
it very much. Thank you. Have a good night.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you.

