May 19, 2020
RTD Board Meeting
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good evening, everybody. Welcome to the May 19, 2020 RTD
Board of Directors meeting. I'd like to call the meeting to order, 5:29 PM Mountain Daylight Time.
I would respectfully ask everyone connected to this call to mute your phones and to set your ringers
on silence.
Please note that under the current circumstances, the official meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. During this
time, meetings will be primarily audio recorded. The audio recordings, along with the unofficial
minutes of the meetings will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website.
Please visit www.rtd-denver.com and scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to the Board of
Directors page. If anyone on the phone would like to engage with the Board during the public
participation portion of this evening's agenda, please press *3 now. You will be placed into a queue
and I will call on you.
At the Directors and members of the staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be
acknowledged during tonight's proceedings, I would ask that you would please announce your
name and wait for me to call you before proceeding to speak. Speaking out of turn will only add
confusion to the record and to the proceedings. Please note that at the appropriate time during our
discussion and voting processes later this evening, I will call on each director in turn. So please
know that your time to speak will come, and if possible, please hold your comments until that time.
We will dispense with the pledge for the time being. Ms. McManus, could we please do the roll
call?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: You missed Guissinger. I'm sorry. You missed Guissinger.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'm going in a different order. I'm just going in a different order.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Go ahead.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lubow.

JUDY LUBOW: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Menten. Director Menten. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I am here, thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Here.

BARBARA MCMANUS: 15 present, zero absent.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you ma'am. OK. At RTD, safety is our core value, so I'd
like to begin this meeting with a short safety briefing. Even though we've all heard and heeded this
health advice time and time again since the beginning of COVID-19 pandemic, this information
bears repeating, if we are to stay vigilant in the weeks and the months to come. We aren't out of
the woods just yet.
Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands. Cover your cough or sneeze
with a tissue, then throw the tissue into the trash. If you don't have a tissue, cough or sneeze into
the upper sleeve or elbow, not your hands. Stay home when you are feeling sick. Self-monitor for
flu-like symptoms and consult with your doctor's office via phone as necessary.
Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces both at work and at home. When soap and water
aren't available, use hand sanitizer with a concentration of at least 60% alcohol. Washing your
hands is still one of the most efficient ways to prevent the spread of the virus. Be sure to lather
each and every part of your hand and scrub for at least 20 seconds, 30 is better.
Wearing a mask has also been shown to reduce the spread of the virus. RTD patrons are encouraged
to wear masks when using public transportation. And for RTD employees, please refer to the
signage in your work areas, as well as the recent letter from our Chief Safety Officer, Mike Meader,
on the topic of mask use in the workplace. And lastly, though cities and counties are beginning to
relax their stay-at-home orders, for your safety and the safety of others in our community, continue
to avoid close exposure to those outside of your household to the greatest extent possible. This
includes practicing social distancing aboard buses and trains, and around station stops and
platforms.
I'll mention this again. If anyone on the phone would like to engage with the Board during the
public participation portion of tonight's agenda, please press *3 now, and you will be placed into
a queue and I will call on you at the appropriate time. Thank you.
This evening, there are no retirees for the month of May. And now I will open it up to public
participation. Roger, do we have-- I'm not seeing anyone in the queue. Oh, I do see one person.
Michael Hughes, I'm going to give you-- you are now called on. Could you just state your name
and your address for the record. You have three minutes, thank you.
MICHAEL HUGHES: Thank you so much. I appreciate the opportunity to speak to the Board of
Directors. My name is Michael Hughes. I live at 40 South Bellaire Street in Denver, and I'm the
Executive Director of the West Corridor Transportation Management Association, and a member
of the technical working group for Reimagine. And that's what I want to talk about tonight is I
have talked with the consultant team and with the staff team, so this will come as no surprise to
them.
I am asking the Board of Directors to direct the staff and consulting team to redirect Reimagine to
the near term coronavirus changed circumstances, and focus our attention squarely on 2021, 2022,

so that we can use the extraordinary goodwill, and intellectual power, and political wherewithal of
the whole Reimagine stakeholder group to help RTD with what I believe to be an existential crisis
at this moment.
And just from my own work on the team, let me just tell you a couple of the things that I think are
affecting RTD-- not that I have to explain many of them, but here's one you may not know about.
We are engaged in a strong effort with the TMAs to do something called telework tomorrow. So
we are going to try to keep workers at home, continuing not to make work trips, to improve air
quality and to reduce congestion. And those are trips, many of them, that might otherwise flow to
RTD.
So I think just one example of a lot of things that are happening to really reshape the customer
world for RTD. And I think Reimagine could be enormously helpful and I think 2040 will take
care of itself. I think we should be helping you with the next year to three years, at most, to try to
grapple with the changed circumstance of the agency. And we'd love to help. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Hughes. Again, for anyone just joining the call,
if you would like to speak to the Board, you can press *3 on your phone now, and you will be
placed into a queue. When it's your turn to speak, I will call you by name.
ROGER SHERMAN: Does not appear to be anyone else in the queue, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Correct. So with no other callers in the queue, we will close the
public participation period at this time. Committee Reports. The committee minutes were included
in the Board packet. Are there any corrections from the directors?
Hearing none, those committee reports will stand as submitted and will become a part of the
permanent record. GM Executive Search and GM Oversight and Performance Management
update. Committee Chair Catlin, if you wouldn't mind, at this time, please share with us your
comments regarding the GM executive search and Oversight and Performance Management
Committee.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. Last week was a busy week for the Executive Search
Committee, GMLC Committee. The job description that had been initially circulated was
revamped by our consultant, Gregg Moser, and based on Board feedback, Gregg wrote a new
description that included all of the comments received by Board members. The committee
reviewed that and it was agreed that it was a bit lengthy, and so he subsequently drafted a shorter
version that eliminated some of the redundancies and consolidated some of the issues.
So the Executive Search Committee met over the phone last Thursday. We discussed it, made a
few revisions, and agreed to release the shorter version, and issue a press release and begin the
solicitation process. So you all saw that the press release was issued Monday morning. Also, the
activities were a compiled list of stakeholders with whom we would be doing outreach. And we
agreed that it was a dynamic list, very comprehensive, but wanted to encourage our fellow Board
members that they should feel free to go ahead and reach out to candidates that they might feel
would be a good fit for this agency. So please feel free to do that.

We also began discussion of the revised 2020 goals and the 2021 goals. There was some discussion
about whether these were goals or tactics. And I would remind Board members that we really set
the goals at the retreat both for 2020 and 2021, so those are the overarching goals. And the list that
you had in front of you that are named Revised 2020 and 2021 Goals are really the tools by which
staff will march forward to try and achieve those goals. So I think we will have additional
discussion on that, but we need to make sure that we give staff clear direction on the best way that
we think that the agency can achieve the goals that we set forth at our retreat.
We also discussed the process for evaluating our Interim GM CEO, Mr. Ballard. And I think there
will be some more discussion about that. He shared with us that, and reminded us of the two page
letter that he received prior to his start, and prior to our March Board retreat this year, or Board
SLT retreat this year. And we thought that might be a good place to start with some discussion
about the changed circumstances due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Also, Ms. McManus developed a timeline that she shared with the rest of the Board. We are staying
pretty close to the proposed timeline that Gregg Moser had outlined earlier in the process. We
wanted to stick with the eight week process. The timeline for applications will be closed, the date
of July 10.
There was some discussion as to whether or not we would be flexible on that date. And I think the
committee felt that it would be important to have a hard stop on July 10. Then, with committee
reviews of shortlisted candidates, resumes, interviews, et cetera, those will take place the end of
July and through August. So the timeline is well within our desired goal of having someone on
board prior to the end of the year. Madam Chair, that's all I have.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
PEGGY CATLIN: If any other committee members would like to add to it, I'd appreciate the
support. Thanks.
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. Per our history of strategic goals and how we handle those, we should
be voting on those, I think in the June meeting. That would be how we've done it historically.
We've had an actual vote on them.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. So we will be bringing forward the goals, the 2020 and the 2021 goals, in
the June Finance Meeting.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, thank you. That clears that up for me. Thanks.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Any other questions or comments from members of the
committee?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I would just like to add that we also discussed potentially having
another meeting with the Board, as we were discussing the 2020, 2021 goals, to ensure that we
were all on the same page as it pertained to our principles as well-- our principles, values-- and so
just wanted to add that context to the conversation because it was shared by several directors on
that call.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lewis. Anyone else from the committee?
LYNN GUISSINGER: This is Guissinger.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I don't know if it's best to do on the night that we're voting on them, or
have a workshop before this-- I think it's a good thing to revisit after all of our COVID issues and
changes. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Any other members of the committee want to speak?
OK, thank you. The next agenda item is the Approval of the Board Meeting Minutes for April 21,
2020. May I please have a motion to approve the minutes from the regular Board meeting of-BOB BROOM: Approval.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry, who was the first one?
BOB BROOM: Bob Broom.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, I have-- Director Broom is the movement and Secretary
Buzek is the second. Unless there is discussion-- does anybody have any discussion on the Board
meeting minutes? OK, hearing none, we'll proceed with the voice vote. Are there any no votes on
the approval of the Board meeting minutes? Tongue twister. OK. Hearing none, the motion is
adopted and the minutes are approved. Next is the Chair's Report.
You know, it's been a really busy month since the last time we've met. There's a couple of things.
The first thing that I'd like to talk to you about is the letter from Governor Jared Polis that we

received on May 5, 2020. All of the Board members received a copy of the letter from the Governor
outlining some of the issues that he would like for RTD to address.
You also have in your possession our response to that letter, dated May 15, 2020, outlining to the
Governor exactly what RTD has done in terms of complying with the issues that he has brought
forward. One of the things that he did talk about was putting together some kind of a committee
that would do some oversight on RTD.
And I know that that is something that you've heard us talk about and we've asked you for some
suggestions, but I would like to ask Director Guissinger to step in here right now and just talk
about this proposed ad hoc committee that we're looking at. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I think you also got at the same time or around the same time,
a letter from the Chair and from me that talked about the Oversight Committee that is being
considered, or Accountability Committee being considered potentially in the legislature this year,
that Representative Gray has been given the authority to pull a late bill. It's going to be a pretty
crazy legislative session, but I think the way we've felt about it is that if it doesn't move forward
this year, it may be back next year, and let's work with them, let's try to help move it forward.
The letter we sent was asking for Board input on what the committee might look at and the types
of people, or specific people you think should be on that committee. And I would encourage you
to talk to your local electeds and bring us back your feedback. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Guissinger. So the second thing that I want
to talk about is the ad hoc committee that was formed to discuss the code of conduct with some
key stakeholders in the community. We did host our first meeting, and it was attended by
everybody who committed to sitting on that committee. And I want to thank everybody.
It was really a very robust discussion about taking a deep dive look at the code of conduct, what
verbiage we were using, what the meaning behind words were. And I think it was really an exercise
for me in realizing that sometimes we get so caught up in our own jargon that we assume people
know what we mean. And based on that, what we've done is we've asked the committee members
to send us exact verbiage and line items of what they think needs to be changed, deleted, or really
looked at.
And so we have been receiving comments from the committee and we hope to bring you some
more information next month on that. But from my perspective, I think the committee really has
done their job well, and their perspectives are so well appreciated by the Board, I think, because it
really did open up a lot of-- just kind of gave you a different perspective of what we were saying
and how we were saying it. Even though the code of conduct is from 2016, and even though 95%
of transit agencies use this across the country, it reminds us that we need to keep our finger on the
pulse of the community to make sure that we are conveying the correct message as we move
forward.
So I look forward to bringing you more information, and I'd like to thank the five Board members
who are participating-- Director Lewis, Director Whitmore, Director Mihalik, Director Williams,

and myself. I think it's great. And our staff was really great in terms of being there to answer any
kinds of questions. I'd like to thank Chief Grado and Mr. Meader for participating, as well as Mr.
Ford. So I will be bringing you more information as we move forward on that.
Next is the General Manager's report. Mr. Ballard, would you please share with us your report.
PAUL BALLARD: Well, thank you, Madam Chair. It's a pleasure to be here. First of all, I'd like
to go back to some of the comments that were made last week concerning the ridership on our
existing bus routes in particular. We continue to monitor ridership on our services through
observations and counts provided by bus operators, street supervisors, dispatchers, and our police
officers.
We are currently evaluating service and schedule adjustments for several routes now that we have
been in the current COVID service level for four weeks. In these four weeks, we provided over
3,000 backup trips to support the existing schedule on multiple routes. We anticipate adding
regularly scheduled trips to several of these routes by the end of this week, now that those patterns
have evolved, so that we can do some planning. And these routes include South Broadway, Colfax,
Federal Boulevard, Colorado Boulevard, East 48, Havana Street, Peoria Street, Thornton Road and
Wagon Road Park-n-Ride, and Boulder Junction and Depot Square.
So we've seen some travel patterns on those particular routes. And we anticipate, as I said, probably
by the end of this week, actually adding some regular schedules to those. Now, on light rail and
commuter rail, we've been maintaining social distances without any serious challenges. And we
can still add cars as necessary to existing trains, so that's not been an issue.
A couple of other issues that we're trying to ramp up, as you know, we've been in conversations
with Greyhound for a long time to try to resolve an agreement that will successfully bring them
into the bus station at Union Station. It's my hope and plan that we'll be able to bring to the Finance
and Audit Committee meeting on June 9 a final number.
Heather and Bill Van Meter and others have been working on this for a long time. I think we've
got a lot of good work done. It's time to reach a number and bring that back to you. So I have high
hopes we will be successful in bringing you a satisfactory number on June 9.
We've also successfully modified our third-party contracts for service providers to accommodate
the reduced service level and the shift to backup buses. We still have one contractor, Via, which
we're still in discussions with to try to resolve one of their three contracts. And we would like to
discuss it with Finance and Audit Committee also on June 9, if we're not able to resolve it by then.
As I said at the start, we satisfactorily modified all of our contracts with all of our vendors, except
for one contract with one vendor. And we really hope we can wrap that up the way we've done the
rest.
Another new initiative that I want to thank Director Folska for is she arranged a meeting with the
Denver Public School Superintendent and a Board member to talk about expanding students' use
of RTD. It was a very positive conversation and we're going to be following up. I have a group

meeting on Friday with some staff members who have worked on this issue before. We believe it's
an opportunity to expand even further how the secondary students use RTD.
So those are some of the issues we're working on. Thank you very much, Madam Chair, for the
time to make my report.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Ballard. Are there any questions for the General
Manager?
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's Director Lewis.
Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, Director Lewis, did I call on you or did I mute you by
accident?
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry. Go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I had a quick question. Well, I had a comment-- it's probably
more of a comment than it is a question. I received a video. To your letter, I know we talked about
Governor Polis' letter and we talked about the oversight committee. And so one of the questions I
had regarding is what is the hope for that oversight committee, and what is the question that we
are hoping to be able to answer with putting an oversight committee together?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Which oversight committee are you talking about?
SHONTEL LEWIS: The one you mentioned in response to Governor Polis' letter.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. So I think there's a couple of things. I'm going to have
Director Guissinger talk about it a little bit as the Chair of the Government Relations Committee,
and then I can jump in, and you as well, Director Whitmore, since you are Vice Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: The Oversight Committee, or the Accountability Committee, originally
came up in Senate Bill 151. Senate Bill 151 is probably not moving forward. Most things are not
moving forward after the pandemic. But that piece, I think, that likely will move forward, although
we're not sure about that. Representative Gray, as I said, had authority to pull a late bill and he and
Senator Winter have been working on it. We haven't heard back from them in terms of what it
looks like. We haven't seen a draft or anything like that.
We could probably send out the language that was in SB 151 that showed what they wanted to be
looking at before and what their concerns were. In the Governor's letter, he talked specifically
about oversight of the use of the CARES Act funding, the $232 million, and also more generally,
oversight of operations, and I can't remember exactly his wording, finances, and sort of RTD's
processes and decision-making going forward.

In the SB 151, it was originally a three year committee. It's not clear what they're looking for at
this point. What we are hoping to do is start making some-- getting feedback from you, from other
elected officials, from the legislature. And if we can do it without legislation, we'd move something
forward in concert with the Governor's office and the leadership. If they want to have legislation,
then we hope we can at least give constructive feedback so that what comes out of it is constructive
for the agency.
Then, like I said, probably the only other thing we could provide is the language from SB 151. if
people don't have that, that kind of set out what they were looking at. We don't know at this point
what they're looking at, but hopefully we will soon.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's helpful. No, I don't need that language. It is helpful. Thank you,
Director. I don't need that language. I think I was asking more specifically about what you all were
proposing in terms of putting together, but it sounds like it's still up in the air. And so that's helpful
to know.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. We'd like to help move it forward constructively, whether that's
preferably through a Board committee, but an independent one, one that they're comfortable and
happy with. Or if that's not going to work for them, we would at least like to help be involved in
what the committee looks like if it comes through legislation.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it. Thank you so much. And then I have a question to Mr. Ballard. General
Manager Ballard, you talked about the monitoring ridership-- and I appreciate that we're coming
back to this conversation specifically as it relates to the second part of Governor Polis' letter
addressed to Chair Malpiede, it was around social distancing.
And I had someone send me a video this afternoon, late this afternoon, that I can forward it to you
of someone who was on the 15L who was pretty upset because there were about 25 to 30, as this
person describes, people on the bus. And you can see a number of folks who could not properly
social distance. And so I appreciate you all monitoring this. I do think, to Governor Polis' point,
that we should be doing a bit more to be proactive so folks aren't put in these uncomfortable
situations. So appreciate the work that you all are doing on that. I do think we have a bit further to
go to ensure our folks are safe on our services.
PAUL BALLARD: Thank you. I'll look forward to reviewing that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Does that conclude your remarks, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. And then the Greyhound, I appreciate the update about Greyhound. I
will say that just hearing that update, it makes me really nervous that we put forward the code of
conduct and now we're going to bring in-- and I know we've had discussions previously about the
Greyhound contract, but a lot of the folks who are utilizing Greyhound may be folks who may be
unfairly targeted, just based on the demographic that they might belong to, as we know, who
potentially utilize those services. So just feeling some concern for our folks who might be coming
in, utilizing those services, and what training that folks may or may not have to be able to deal
with diverse demographics. That does conclude my comments. Thank you.

PAUL BALLARD: Yeah. I would not agree with that assumption. I think that we've made a lot of
progress in training of our security officers to be sensitive to all folks. And so I don't think you
should be concerned about that, but we certainly will monitor very carefully. We have supervisory
people who will oversee that. And I think that should we make this agreement and reach an
agreement with Greyhound, I think that Greyhound's customers will find an inviting environment,
one that is safe and secure.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I appreciate that. I sure hope I'm wrong. I think you and I can
agree to disagree on this topic.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Anyone else have any questions for General Manager
Ballard?
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
SHELLEY COOK: Shelley Cook.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Let me go with Director Menten and then I'll get you next,
Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Sounds good.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten, you're on.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So in regards to the letter from Governor Polis and a follow-up
to Senate Bill 151, but also now adding in oversight of the CARES Act funding, I somewhat see
those in two separate areas. Senate Bill 151 had more of a long-term oversight type of a view,
whereas CARES Act really requires quite speedy action. And as we move through this money, it
looks like we're roughly going through, from my figures, $19 million a month. And I'm already
probably a week behind on that.
So perhaps we address [INAUDIBLE], we internally as a Board of Directors. And perhaps that
would mean two to five of us-- and I'm going to raise my hand, go on the record-- be part of a
committee that starts to look at that now and address this head on. Because it seems like what we're
almost doing is saying wait and see what the legislature does. And we have already moved forward,
so the ADA component of Senate Bill 151. So could maybe I find out here what the thoughts are
on the CARES Act oversight, which is mentioned twice in Governor Polis' letter.
PAUL BALLARD: Well, I would really refer that to the Board Chair and to the Board committee
that's preparing and putting that thought together. As far as how the money is expended, I mean,
it's in our accounts and anyone is welcome to look at that at any time. But as far as any oversight
or anything like that, I would defer to the Chair and to the committee.
NATALIE MENTEN: Well, I'll mention where I've gone with this so far. I asked for a spreadsheet
of the money that we've pulled as a draw because as a reminder-- and I know the Board knows

this, but for the record-- it's not that we got a check for $232 million and change. We have to spend
the money and then ask for reimbursement.
So I asked for a spreadsheet detailing those reimbursements. And while some of it is detailed, it's
really not a detailed line by line listing. And when I asked for that, I was basically told that I really
don't need to get anything more than we are giving to the FTA. So there is a little bit of a difference
there on it's there, anybody can see it, versus having that detail. And as a committee and as an
oversight body, I would think that we would want to see those details all the way through so that
we can do the best job for our constituents, the taxpayers, and, by the way, also, make Governor
Polis happy. Those are my thoughts on that.
PAUL BALLARD: Well, let me talk with our CFO and see what additional level of detail we can
provide.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you.
PAUL BALLARD: You're welcome.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. I was wondering whether I could consolidate what I was going to
say at the very end. But in response to the urging by Director Lewis on adding service, I've been
one of those too. It can't happen soon enough. But I do want to acknowledge that they are-- and
Paul recapped it quickly-- they are adding service to select routes where we're seeing filling, and
one of those was the 15L. And so I just wanted to acknowledge that and say thanks, and I really
appreciate you moving on that.
PAUL BALLARD: Thank you very much, appreciate it.
JUDY LUBOW: This is Director Lubow.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you so much. I just wanted to support Director Menten in her quest to get
more detail so that there could be the kind of more in-depth analysis that I think the Governor was
expecting of us in terms of oversight for the CARES money. And I do agree with her that now's
the time, not later. Later, it's going to be done, so I would urge the Chair and Director Guissinger
to perhaps think about maybe doing something quicker on the CARES Act as opposed to the other
issues that we're going to be subject to accountability. It's just a thought.
And I have another issue. I was listening to Michael Hughes and I agree with him in principle that
it would be very good, given the intensity of the COVID-19 experience for us, to reimagine
Reimagine, at least be open to that. Because the world, it seems to me, has been kind of turned
upside down, not only for transit, but for society, but especially for transit. And that I think we
need to review what we're doing with Reimagine in light of the profoundly changed environment
that we find ourselves in. So that's just a comment and a suggestion. Thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
PAUL BALLARD: Thanks very much. On the Reimagine, that's absolutely a valid comment and
I know we're having discussions on how do we pivot. The world has changed and we recognize
that. And we need to make sure that what we're planning for takes into account, the best we can,
the changes that are taking place. So we absolutely are having those conversations and determining
the best way to reimagine, to quote you. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Are there any other Board members?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Guissinger.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I just wanted to say that I also, like Mr. Ballard, I hear what Director
Menten's saying. I think it's a good suggestion. We've been trying to kind of move things forward
quickly to put something together to talk to the Board about it and talk to legislators and all of that,
but the timing is an issue.
So I think we'll talk with Mr. Ballard, and with the Chair, and again, with you, Director Menten,
and see where we are on that. But it's a good concern, thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Are there any other directors who have any question
or comment to the General Manager? OK, hearing none, our next item is Unanimous Consent.
There are no items on the unanimous consent agenda tonight. So now we have four
recommendations, or recommended actions this evening, listed as Item 12, Actions A through D
in your agendas.
The first one is the agreement with Denver at I-25 and Broadway Station to facilitate Denver's
Transportation Project. It's recommended by Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to negotiate and execute
all documents, including intergovernmental agreements necessary to officiate Denver's
Transportation Project, which includes transportation infrastructure improvements and the
disposition and acquisition of real property at I-25 and Broadway Station, otherwise known as The
Station, to and from, respectively, the city and county of Denver, or known as the city or Denver.
This action addresses the following General Manager's goals for 2020. Core goal number 1-- strong
fiscal management; oversees operations and fast tracks budget; ensures compliance with local,
state, and federal reporting; and development of finance plans for future projects. And task goal 1- to strengthen transparent public communication collaboration. Do I have a motion?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So moved, Director Folska.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, so moved.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I have a movement as Director Folska and a second as
Secretary Buzek. Is there any discussion on this motion? OK, hearing none, I will now call on the
directors in turn for their vote. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry, was that yes?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No. It's a no. N-O.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, OK. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And Chair. Yes. All right. That is 14 yeses, one no, with Director
Lewis voting in the negative. All right. Now, our second one is the contract option award for the
purchase of 48 cutaway buses. It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager or his designee
to exercise the option of Contract 25FK006 with Master's Transportation for the purchase of 48
Goshen cutaway buses to be used for the Access-a-Ride and FlexRide services at a price not to
exceed $3,616,009. Costs by-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So moved. Oh, sorry.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Director Folska. Do I have a second?
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Williams, second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Is there any discussion?
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I did have-- oh, sorry.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, Director Menten, go ahead.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, I've been meaning to ask this for years, so I got to just ask now
because I might not get another chance. These suspensions are notoriously a little bit harsh. Is there
any way that, you know, I don't expect an answer on the spot. But if there is one now, that's great.
But is there any better suspension system? I mean, these run-- these are real rough riders. And with
some of them being especially ADA, I'm just curious. I've been meaning to, again, ask that for a
long time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Ballard.

FRED WORTHEN: This is Fred Worthen, AGM with Bus Operations. I can take that if you'd like.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, yes, please do.
FRED WORTHEN: So we have specific suspensions that were specked out for this procurement
and changing any of that comes at a significant cost. But this is our last option on this particular
vehicle. So as we go into new procurement, we will definitely look at that issue and see if there's
better suspensions.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, hold on. Director Menten, does that answer your question?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, if I could get something, maybe a ballpark. I would imagine it's been
a bit maybe sometime in the past. And I don't expect it tonight, but I would be curious if we have
something from a previous bid or RFP that could give me a little more details on whether that
might be $2,000 per vehicle or is it $20,000 per vehicle, just some kind of a rough idea. I would
appreciate that at some point in the time in the future. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Menten.
FRED WORTHEN: So-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Mr. Worthen.
FRED WORTHEN: Yes, ma'am. There are changes to the chassis and suspension coming next
year with these types of vehicles. It will add, like said earlier, it'll add probably $10,000 plus,
depending upon who the vendor is. But there will be changes coming next year to the chassis and
suspension.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Folska, did I hear you?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes, yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah. Well, first of all, I'm really happy to support this. I had the
opportunity to talk to Mr. Ballard, get some of my questions and concerns addressed, and so I was
really happy to support this. Being able to provide accessible transportation to folks with
disabilities is absolutely critical.

With regard to Director Menten's comment about the rough ride, I am a user also of Access-a-Ride
paratransit, and I can tell you, I'd like to see a dentist and a chiropractor when I get off each ride.
So it really is important. And I don't have, you know, any spine issues or something like that. And
so I think it is incumbent upon us to require that the ride is better.
It's not just window dressing. It's really important. So that's all of my comments. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Folska. Any other comments from any other
Board Member, please?
SHONTEL LEWIS: This is Director Lewis, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Please, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Fred, you said you would give us an update about whether or not
this fleet could be fixated with protections for operators, so some kind of shield of some sort, some
kind of barrier of some sort. And you said you'd give us an update regarding that.
FRED WORTHEN: Yes, ma'am. We have identified products. We're working with Master's to get
pricing on those. There is a ion system that will work on this particular vehicle and there are driver
shields available. We're working through pricing for those items right now.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Wonderful. Thank you so much for the update. No further comment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lewis. Anyone else? Hearing no, I'm-JEFF WALKER: Hey.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry?
JEFF WALKER: This is Jeff Walker.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh. Director Walker, please.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah. Thank you. I am just wondering if Mr. Worthen could go over the
wheelchair accessibility in those vehicles again, please.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, Mr. Worthen?
FRED WORTHEN: I'm not sure I understand the question, sir.
JEFF WALKER: For the FlexRide vehicles, if you could explain the lift and how many places for
wheelchairs there are in those.
FRED WORTHEN: There are two wheelchair positions in both the paratransit and the FlexRide
systems.

JEFF WALKER: OK. All right. Thank you very much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Any other director?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek, please.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. Another question for you, Mr. Worthen, and thanks
for the update. With regard to the ion systems and the shields, is it possible that we're going to get
some pricing options that we might be able to modify this contract or is this for future quarters?
FRED WORTHEN: We're looking at pricing to modify this particular contract, if possible. We
also have to talk to the vendor about possible lead times to be able to do this, but we're working
through those processes right now.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you so much, and to the extent that's possible, I'd like to see that happen.
Thanks, Fred.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Anyone else? OK, hearing no one, I'm going to call for the vote.
Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Absolutely.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And myself, yes. It passes unanimously. OK. Our next one is the
Broomfield CMAC Agreement. It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service
Committee that the Board of Directors authorizes the Interim General Manager or his designee to
execute all documents necessary to enter into an agreement with the city and county of Broomfield
to provide the expanded Broomfield FlexRide Service. This service will be funded through the
grant and the total match. No RTD money is required. This agreement is for the period of 2019
through 2023, federal funding years of 2020 through 2023. This recommended action supports the
following General Manager's goal-- core goal 1, successful delivery of transit service and core
goal 3, strong financial management. Do I have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
JUDY LUBOW: Lubow, so moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, I heard Williams and-- who was the second?
KATE WILLIAMS: Well, I moved.
JUDY LUBOW: I think you heard Lubow.
KATE WILLIAMS: I think it was Guissinger.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. So I'm hearing a lot of people. So Director Guissinger, you
were the movement?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I was saying second, but if Lubow wants it, that's fine. OK. So I'm going
to go Williams and Lubow, is everybody OK with that?
JUDY LUBOW: Perfect, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Is there any discussion on this motion? OK,
hearing none, I will now call on the directors in turn, starting with Director Broom. Your vote, sir?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lubow.

JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And Chair, yes. So the movement, Director Williams; the second,
Director Lubow. We have an unanimous vote in the favor.
Our next item is Board Expense Reduction Resolution. It is recommended by the Chair of the RTD
Board of Directors that the Board approve a motion to adopt the attached resolution number, series
of 2020, concerning a reduction of directors' expense budget lines to offset revenue shortfalls due
to COVID-19 impacts. This recommendation is consistent with the following General Manager's
goal-- core goal number 3, strong financial management. Do I have a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
SHELLEY COOK: Move for approval.
TROY WHITMORE: So moved, Whitmore.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Whoa, whoa, whoa. OK. Who was the first one?
PEGGY CATLIN: I, Catlin was.
SHELLEY COOK: It's Shelley.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. And second is Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: That sounds good.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Is there any discussion? Hearing none, I'm going to call for
the vote. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale.

DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And myself, the Chair, yes. So the movement, Director Catlin; the
second by Secretary Cook. It's unanimously voted through. Thank you, everybody.
The next agenda item is Executive Session and there is no executive session for this evening. Next
is Old Business. Does any Director have any old business to discuss?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm not sure if Heather is on the call, but I think there seems to be some
confusion from our operators about furloughs and I wondered if you could just talk a bit about
what you all have discussed in terms of furloughs, because it is my understanding that we were
looking at certain dates, but I think from the folks who have reached out to me, there's been
concerns that there are a number of folks who are going to lose their jobs and that wasn't my
understanding.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: If I might, Director Lewis, ask if we could hold that to new
business because I do think that Ms. McKillop will be doing a presentation. Is that OK?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, that's fine.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you so much. Any other old business? OK, hearing
none, I'm now going to ask Mr. Ballard for any updates regarding the N Line. Mr. Ballard?
PAUL BALLARD: Thank you, Madam Chair, and the news continues to be good on the North
Line. We are on track for a September startup. All railroad agreements are signed. Final acceptance
of the right of way is now set for next week. It's a couple of weeks later than we had anticipated,
but it's not a deal breaker in any way.

Training continues. We're turning our attention to what type of event we feel we can have in this
era of social distancing. Pauletta and her team have already started putting together some ideas.
So everything is on track, pun intended, for September.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Does anybody have any questions of Mr. Ballard
regarding the N Line?
SHONTEL LEWIS: This is Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please, Director.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure. I just want to acknowledge Mr. Hughes' comment about the Reimagine
RTD-- and I think I've said this previously on the call and I just want to say this on the record
because I think it's important as we are moving. The N Line and many other projects do feel as
though we are just moving forward with business as usual and we aren't taking into consideration
the impacts of COVID, COVID-19 and our ridership.
I think in the presentation that we received a few weeks back about the ridership, particularly for
rail, we've seen some pretty steep declines. And so I'd really like for us to think about, as we are
considering opening the N Line, if it makes the most sense for us from a financial standpoint, but
also if we expect to have the ridership to warrant such actions. That concludes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lewis. Any other comments for Mr. Ballard
regarding the N Line?
JEFF WALKER: Hello, this is Jeff.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry?
JEFF WALKER: Jeff Walker.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, Director Walker, please.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, I just want to comment on that request to reimagine Reimagine. A lot of
what we do is based on-- well, everything we do is taking people places where they need to go. I
know that a lot of large corporations and even small ones are reconsidering the footprint that they
need for their workers. So like Twitter, for instance, right, their CEO said if you want to work from
home, keep working from home forever. So that might be a couple thousand people in San
Francisco that won't need, at least on a daily basis, transit anymore, at least not at those times.
So we'll have to keep a close eye on what the real estate market's doing to know how we will react- and not necessarily just react, but work in partnership with them. I expect to see that happen with
the N Line, and we'll adjust our service schedule as needed, and our other bus services. But that's- I just wanted to acknowledge and to let staff know that they'll have my support. And however I
can help them in keeping an eye on the real estate market to see where our customers will be going,
and if they will be going back to where they used to go. That's it. Thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Walker. Are there any other directors who
would like to speak to Mr. Ballard about the N Line? OK, hearing none, I have to ask for your
apologies. I thought I was doing a great job on the script, but I need to go back to old business.
And Ms. McKillop, I'll give this to you. So Director Lewis, you were absolutely right to bring this
issue up regarding the operators and furloughs under old business. I thought it was new business,
but I stand corrected for the record.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Ms. McKillop, I'm going to turn this over to you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Heather McKillop, CFO and AGM
of Finance Administration. So thank you for your indulgence. Last week we had a discussion about
what some options might be for the 2020 amended budget going forward. And based on that
feedback and trying to answer questions that came up from that discussion, I put together a memo
for you to kind of read based on what I heard, and also try to get some additional direction tonight
so that we can finish preparing. We only have like a week or two to prepare for the June, the
amended budget.
I did get several questions as to why we need to do an amended budget at this time. It is not to
necessarily enact the furloughs. That can be done administratively and it could be done tomorrow,
if we wanted to. It's more because we are trying to identify the cuts, that $26.2 million dollars
worth of cuts that we discussed that are in your packet related to administrative reduction,
operating reduction, projects, and then the things that we need to increase, such as the set aside for
fringes and some other things in the additional costs item.
CEO Ballard does not have that authority. His authority's at $250,000. And so as you can see, these
dollar amounts will exceed that. So that's the purpose of doing the amended budget is to realign
all those costs so that they get put in the proper place, they get set aside, and they don't get
expended. If they're sitting in the cost centers, that tends to happen. So that's really the sense of
urgency for that.
But we're also trying to get a direction so that we can start making estimates for 2021 and what
that might look like. In the revised scenarios I sent out to you-- they went out on Friday or Saturday
and I think they went out again today-- basically I was trying to keep a remaining balance of about
$25 million at the end of 2020 so that we could roll that into 2021 and offset what might be
shortfalls in 2021.
We have done some preliminary estimates, again, very preliminary based on the lead forecasts we
received last, some time, I can't remember which day. And 2021 is not looking great. In fact, we've
estimated between fare revenue losses and the forecast in sales and use tax, we'll probably be
seeing about a $220 million shortfall next year. So carrying over $25 million dollars plus all the
reserves that I've outlined in this memo will be something that we want to look at doing.
We are needing to proceed sooner rather than later. So what we're looking at is, for furloughs, a
kind of phased approach. Since we don't know where we're really headed with sales and use tax

and definitely with fare revenues, we're looking at implementing nine days to start with. And we
haven't settled on exactly what that would look like. It would probably be different for office staff
versus in the field. Operations both on the bus and rail side have very-- what am I trying to say-constraints that we don't have necessarily in the office environment. We are trying to implement
these furloughs without overtime and without dropping service. Particularly on the rail side, that
will be difficult as we still are not up to our manpower estimates there.
So we looked at nine furloughs to start. That is something that is probably doable in Operations
right at this time. Any more than that until we get further along in the process with training, get
more people and operators situation, we will not be able to do probably more than that. So we'd
like to get started with that. And again, want to move forward with some options, a little more
detail on the options that we talked about the other night, based on your feedback.
So with that, I'd be glad to take any questions. Oh, I did want to address Director Lewis's question
while I have the floor. So we have been discussing furloughs all along. I think we've had several
conversations with the Board that we've been trying to avoid layoffs, if at all possible, because we
are not where we want to be from a manpower standpoint and we've been working for a very long
time to get there. We still have issues in rail and we still have some issues in bus. And one of the
goals was not to go back to mandating overtime.
And so with that, we have been looking at furloughs instead of layoffs at this time. We've been
having those conversations with the union on furloughs. I think you may have received a memo
from the union right before this meeting started saying that that wasn't the case, which I think COO
Ford can talk to that. But you know, if we were to do layoffs, I can tell you that-- and I think I
mentioned this the other day at the meeting-- that the equivalent of nine furlough days is equivalent
to laying off 150 employees. So that's significant, whereas we'd like to take those impacts across
the whole organization instead of in a very specific area.
So that's what we're particularly looking at. I think CEO Ballard also had sent in a memo on the
15th to the Chair talking a little bit about these issues too. So we'd like to just get your feedback.
And I know that Michael can talk a little bit about his discussions with the union, or Dave or Fred
can talk a little bit about the impacts to operations that we're trying to avoid. But with that, I'll open
up to any questions or guidance that you may have.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So thank you, Ms. McKillop. Mr. Ford, could you update us on
your discussions with the union, please?
MICHAEL FORD: Yes, of course. Michael Ford, COO. I've had a number of conversations with
the union about potential for furloughs. We have not got into any specific details, but we have
talked about the implications of our financial situation, what's been going on. And my role is just
to try to keep dialogue going, talking about options, and potential issues that could arise from
doing furloughs.
So I plan to do a little bit more deeper dive with the union about these issues going forward, but
we have been in conversation for well over the last month or so about the potential and the
ramifications of these potential furloughs. So that's as far as I'll go with that. And then obviously

I'll be meeting more frequently to talk about how we move forward with this philosophy that we're
moving forward on.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather again. I apologize. I forgot to mention one
thing. I know there's been some concerns from some of the Directors about moving forward when
we still don't know what 2021 through '26 looks like. We will be presenting information on that
next month in June. And remember, this is kind of unprecedented times. We are taking this on a
day by day basis, literally, as we get more and more information.
And we will have the opportunity to make additional adjustments, either cuts if we can find them- and we are, trust me, looking under every stone right now. We're reexamining every contract we
have out there to do that. And if the situation becomes worse or closer to the worst case scenario
that I highlighted versus the mid case, which I'm thinking is probably more probable right now,
then we will be able to make adjustments and also do additional furloughs in the future. But right
now, we need to start somewhere and we need to start with the information that we have available
to us now. So I did forget to mention that. I apologize.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Ms. McKillop. I'm going to open this up now for
questions from the Board. So I think I'm going to go alphabetically again. So let me begin with
Director Broom. Director Broom, do you have any comments or questions?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. The only one that comes to my mind right now is what's
going on with operator turnover. You would intuitively think, given how bad the economy is, that
turnover would really drastically drop off and that we should be increasing our operator counts. Is
that correct or are we still experiencing a lot of turnover?
DAVE JENSEN: This is Dave Jensen, AGM for Rail.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Mr. Jensen. Yes.
DAVE JENSEN: Dave Jensen, AGM of Rail Operations. And I can say on the rail side, last year,
our attrition rate monthly was eight train operators a month. This year, we're averaging three
operators a month. So your observation is correct. There's a significant drop in the attrition rate,
so we are keeping our operators.
BOB BROOM: Thank you. That's all I have.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Broom. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. No comments.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Great. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: I just would encourage Mr. Ford and other SLT members to basically
overcommunicate with our union representatives, because it's clear from the letter that we got that

there needs to be a little bit more dialogue. And I just would appreciate that going forward. Thank
you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, quick question. We had, in the last Finance Meeting, had asked about
tiers and whether that's being considered. And it says, or the Q&A that Mr. Ballard sent through
said we're not considering it. Could you elaborate why we aren't? Because if one thing that's
constraining our ability to move on some furloughs-- and again, that's not layoffs, but furloughs-that seems like a much softer approach. If we're constrained in doing that by the Operations side,
then is there a thought about doing a tiered approach and why aren't we considering that, is my
question. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather McKillop. So we did look at a small tiered approach and
that was setting some type of level. And the level I looked at was those people that make less than
$15 an hour, which is equivalent of 185% of the federal poverty level for two people, a household
of two. We only have 40 employees that fit in that category. Most of those are part-time employees.
So we did look at excluding those. I did look at other tiering options. There are three concerns with
those other tiering options. One is the union agreement. It probably will not be perceived well if
the most senior represented employees have to take more furlough days than those that are newer
employees. That is counter to how the CBA is currently written in all other aspects that everything
is done by seniority. So that's a major issue that would be, I think, a big stumbling block for the
union.
The second piece of it is we looked at the percentage of employees that were over a certain age
bracket where it would be considered discrimination to treat them differently than other people.
As you can imagine, more of the people that make a higher income tend to be older people. And
so that sets us up for a potential discrimination situation.
And the other was people get paid based on the job type that they have, their years of service, their
age, but more importantly, they get paid based on their qualifications, their degrees, their
education, and experience. And so it was a possibility that we would have a lot of grievances as it
relates from an HR issue. So we have the age discrimination issue on the EEOC side and then we
have the potential grievance issue on the HR side where you're discriminating against people based
on their pay level, which then usually means their level of experience, their education, and other
factors like that. So that was a combination of reasons that we did not pursue that tiered approach.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair, can I ask one more here?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So actually, where I was going is what about represented versus nonrepresented? And that way, have less impact on the operations issues that you had raised earlier,

but at the same time, allow us to get moving a little bit earlier or more differently to address that
looming shortfall. And then by way of feedback, so you don't have to come back to me, I do
recognize-- and we've had several comments and Mr. Hughes as well-- that we are in this
unprecedented time. We're going to have to devise approaches that probably will be unprecedented
as well. We just want to do it in a really thoughtful way. It is, however, apparent that we're going
to be pretty far into the hole going to 2021 and we want to do what we can to the extent we can
now. It looks like, it seems like that's just a foregone conclusion. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Cook. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, ma'am. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Yeah, I asked Heather a number of questions today and she
answered them and I appreciate that. I do have concerns about moving forward and approving the
amended budget before we really get into the 2021. Sounds like 2021, if it's $220 million, that's a
huge shortfall.
And I know, Heather, your projections were-- you had a broader range between the best and worst
projections for how we do this year than the Leads Team did, so I guess, as I mentioned, and some
of what I talked to you about earlier, I'd like to see what the assumptions were. I would agree with,
I think it was Director Menten last week that said we should move forward based on the worst case
and take action.
I agree with you in terms of moving forward with the nine days and getting it started. Yeah, that
surprises me that there are age discrimination claims based on-- you know, potential claims based
on tiering salary cuts like this. So I guess it does seem like tiering-- I have concerns when the union
says that [BUZZING] it necessary to furlough represented people. So I do have some concerns
going forward and will probably engage more conversation with you, if you don't mind.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, Madam Chair, if I could just respond to one piece of that. I can
send out the analysis that the Leads folks sent to us. They released it to us, so it's a public record
that I can send out to all the Board members. So I will do that tomorrow through Barbara.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Yes, thank you so much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That would be great.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, Director Guissinger, anything further?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just that that will show the assumptions that they make in terms of when
fares are coming back and when we shift back to the May 23 service cuts, service plan, and all of
those things, Heather?

HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, Leads only does a forecast for the sales and use tax. I do the forecast
for the fares, so I can include that separately and what I assumed for that. But their forecast is only
for sales and use tax. So they go in significant amount of detail on how they modeled it. The issues,
of course, are there's a lot of caveats in that it could all change tomorrow.
LYNN GUISSINGER: When you gave us the numbers-- you gave us numbers last week, that the
high, the worst case was something like $258 million. When you gave us the numbers this time
where the worst case was $228 million, are their sales and use tax numbers and your fare
projections, is that right?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct. Their sales and use tax projections I used for their best, most
optimistic, baseline, and their worst case. And then I used my projections for fares.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Yeah, anything you can send that shows how those were calculated
would be helpful for me. Thanks very much.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, I can do that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I do have a few questions and a number of
comments. The first question is for Heather. Heather, in your verbal presentation, it sounded as
though you were asking for direction and I wasn't clear on what the two things-- and maybe it was
three-- that you were asking for direction on.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So Madam Chair, I'm sorry. This is Heather.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So what we're just looking at-- this is the information we gave you last
time, but we did not fill in kind of what we thought we should maybe consider as far as furloughs
and kind of an ending balance, so to speak. And so I really was just saying this is what we're going
to be looking at for next month. We're going to present one of these scenarios. As far as the scenario
right now for the furlough piece of it, we're looking at the nine days.
So right now looking at somewhere-- just to be honest with you. The best case is not going to
happen, I don't think. We're somewhere between the mid case and the worst case. And what we're
saying is we'd like to take it incrementally right now. So we're just looking for feedback on the
Board's feeling about what they would like to see as far as what revenue scenarios, et cetera, that
we should be looking towards for the June amended budget. Sorry, that was kind of long winded
to answer your question. I apologize.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I caught it. And was there a second piece of that or was it just the feedback
on the scenarios for the June amended budget?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That was the main piece.

SHONTEL LEWIS: You said that was the second piece?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, that's what I'm looking for.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it, OK. And then you mentioned in your update that you were all looking
at that there would be differences for administrative staff versus our frontline staff. And I wasn't
clear on what you meant by that, so can you just expound on that for me?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So yes, definitely. Madam Chair, this is Heather. So what I meant by
that is when it comes to operations and people that work in the field or work on 24/7 operations,
we'll probably have those scheduled in based on when we can give people time off and not impact
service or create additional overtime. In the office environment, it's a little easier.
We might be looking at a series of set days, for example. I think Denver came out where they had
five set days and three days that the employees could take whenever, and the five set days they
surrounded around holidays. So that's what I meant about different. The number of days would be
the same, but how they're implemented could be different between the office environment and
what's out in the field.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it. OK. So that's helpful in my understanding. And then you mentioned
that you had all run some data for $15 an hour. And I'm just curious how you all arrived at that
number, considering that we start our operators off at $19, or between $19 and $26.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We actually start our operators off at $20 an hour. So I had to look at
something because all of those, that's quite a good salary or a good hourly rate. So we looked at
what based on the LIVE program. And we have the numbers for 185% of federal poverty level
published on our website. We looked at for a family of two and backed into what that hourly rate
would be based on the annual amount. And so that's $15.22 per hour. We had to pick some type
of dividing line.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No, that's fair. I just wanted to understand where it came from. And so you
also mentioned that there were about 40 folks who fell at that $15 an hour mark. And I know at
our last meeting I suggested maybe a three tiered approach. And so I was wondering if you had
looked at income for folks who are over between $15 and, I don't know, $50, and then a range for
those that are over $100 an hour or more.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. So we did look at that. I think I mentioned that when we looked
at that tier approach we ran into three problems, potentially. One is the union. They're not going
to agree to allow their most senior people to take more time off without being paid than their entry
level folks. That would be problematic.
And so when we want to talk about furloughs, we need to treat people evenly on the union side.
And then the second piece I mentioned was the age discrimination piece. The higher in salary you
do the cut-off, the more people that are in that age discrimination bracket. So over the age of 40,
the higher you get up in salary. And the third piece of it is related to the HR piece of it as far as
people get paid on the type of work they perform, their education level, and their job experience.

SHONTEL LEWIS: So can you send that to me? I am curious how that breaks down
demographically. Because pay, experience aren't a part of protected classes, but it sounds like there
are concerns around protected classes that you all would have divided those up and then put that
altogether in some kind of analysis. Is that what I'm hearing?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I looked at those in different income brackets and the number of
people that were over the age of 40 for an EEO. And then the HR issue is just anticipating those
grievances we will get as it relates to being at a certain income level, you have a certain job
responsibility, education, experience, that type of thing. That is something that somebody could
grieve over. Now, whether they'd be successful or not is a different story, but it is grievable.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, no, I hear that. I'm particularly interested in demographics, if we were
to look at women versus men, demographics of race. And so if you could send me the report that
you all put together, I would really appreciate it because I'm interested in it, if we are going to
move forward.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I did not-- I did not look at age. I mean, I did not look at gender or race
or any of those type of things. I looked at age.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's helpful. I think, personally for me, I think it's important if we're making
a decision to not move forward, if those things are considered in that. And that actually brings me
to the next point and we're talking about furloughs. I'm curious as to, especially based on the email
we received-- and this may be for Mr. Ford-- how the furloughs interface with the collective
bargaining agreement.
MICHAEL FORD: It's Michael Ford, COO. We don't have a provision in the contract for
furloughs. We could probably enter into some kind of an MOU to talk about that. Again, we have
been communicating with the union often and frequently about this situation and looking at
scenarios and ways in which we could work together.
Now that we have a little bit more meat on the bones, we will have some conversations. And I
think an MOU may be an appropriate way in which we may be able to deal with this. But again, I
will need to meet with the ATU and talk about that more intently about next steps going forward.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Great. Thanks. I would really be interested in that because Lance's email was
quite concerning for me. And then finally, and you all probably aren't surprised that I am talking
about the $23 million that RTD received and what I believe we should be doing with that money
is paying our frontline staff. And so I'm going to say it again because I always say it and I think
it's really important that we are taking care of folks who have worked for six days a week for a
very long time under not the best of conditions, and that being expanded into COVID. And so I'm
really encouraging us to look at how we might, as we're looking at our budget, pay our operators
hero pay, enhanced pay, hazard pay, whatever you like to call it. I don't have any further questions.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Lubow.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I have a couple of concerns. I am most interested in protecting our
financial situation as we go into 2021, which could be a horrendous year for us. And so I would
urge more rather than less in terms of cuts to protect us financially. Another concern that I have is
I'm wondering is it possible to treat the operational folks differently than the non-operational folks
in terms of how many furloughs are required, based on the fact that they do the primary work of
the agency, when we look at it in terms of our primary goal, which is moving people.
And I don't know legally if you can do that, but it kind of makes sense to protect them and treat
them somewhat differently logically because they're doing the actual primary work. I don't know
if we've thought of things like that and legally even if it's allowed, but I'm just wondering if it had
been possible or has that been thought about.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
PAUL BALLARD: This is Paul Ballard, General Manager.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
PAUL BALLARD: Yeah. We certainly have considered all of these approaches, but right now,
our intention is to treat everyone equally and fairly.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir.
JUDY LUBOW: Well, then I would-- thank you. Thank you for that. I guess I would like to say
that I just think it's important to look at those differences because they're real. And to me, what we
really need to do is move people, so I would just urge us to think that through again.
And another question that I had had to do with the legal constraints in terms of dealing with the
union. I couldn't tell, actually-- I couldn't tell if the contracts would forbid us from doing
furloughing, so I guess my feeling is it's kind of unknown territory and we're just taking it day by
day, and seeing whether an MOU can enable us to do that?
MICHAEL FORD: Yeah, I believe-- this is Michael Ford, COO. Yeah, I believe that we have
ways in which we can work together and an MOU may be a right fit for this discussion. We'll have
to sit down and hammer out some issues and concerns and ways forward, but I think that would
be the probably more desirable way to go. Again, we are in constant contact with the ATU and
discussing these issues. And we'll explore what options might be available and how we can do this
in an equitable manner.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. What interests me is could the union, if they chose, say no, just hell
no, we won't go, so to speak.
MICHAEL FORD: The union has options. And we'll explore everything we can. We want to work
with them. We want to partner with them and we want to make sure that everybody is taken care

of in this process. So we'll have to see. I don't want to be presumptuous about what they may or
may not say, but I do think that we have a good relationship here and we're working on, trying to
work through these difficult times. And I believe we can get something done.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, all right. Thank you. That's it for me. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lubow. If I could for a minute go back to
your question about treating operators differently than, or operations differently than drivers, Ms.
Ross-Amato, can you talk about that a little bit?
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: I'm sorry. I haven't been asked to look at any of these issues from a
legal standpoint, so I'm not sure that I am prepared to speak to it, but I can talk with Ms. McKillop
and Mr. Ballard about what I can look at from a legal standpoint and get back to you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That would be great. I'd be grateful. Thank you so much. Director
Menten, do you have any questions or comments?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, I do.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. So start with, first of all, we've talked, as we've had multiple
conversations about this, that while we've had a service reduction and yes, we are going to be
adding on some more towards the end of the week on the very busy routes, that what we're doing
is keeping the drivers, operators-- let's say maybe more drivers-- busy with catching up on some
training. What is the length of time that each class, or term, or whatever you would call it? Is it a
week? Is it two weeks? Is it two days? What is the training time takes?
MICHAEL FORD: Michael Ford, COO. Are you talking about refresher training?
NATALIE MENTEN: Well, I'm not exactly sure what the classes are. I've heard over and over,
while we have this lull and we've reduced service by what, 30%-- granted, we, again, added some
at the end of the week-- let's do some of this training that we've done behind. I don't know what
the names of the courses are.
MICHAEL FORD: I will defer to Fred Worthen on there. I think he'll be able to answer that a little
more succinctly.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you. Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations. So we have two major
classes that we're working on right now. One is the Smith Systems Defensive Driving. That is a
complete eight-hour class. And then we are also working on the CPI System. The CPI System is
geared towards working with individuals that have additional mental health issues, and is primarily
geared around de-escalation with individuals that have those types of issues, or challenges, or
however you would classify it. But those are eight hour classes also.

So those are pretty significant. And then we also have annual refresher training that will be coming
up a little bit later on this year. That could be anywhere from four to eight hours, depending upon
the topics that are chosen for those sessions.
NATALIE MENTEN: So am I understanding correctly that if they all took all three classes, at a
maximum, that's three days of pay?
FRED WORTHEN: Yes, ma'am. That's what we have scheduled right now, but that's also 1,000
operators.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. All right. And then one thing I do want to get on the record. I know
Heather you had said we are starting the operators at $20 an hour, but it's actually, if I understand
it correctly as it is on our front page, $20.58, which inches it closer to $21 an hour. And I agree,
especially in this market right now, you go to the job boards, it's quite a challenge.
So I don't think that is low pay. Yes, cost of living is a challenge, but comparing to the rest of the
economy, especially now, and even before the COVID hit. So I just wanted that to be on the record
that, especially with the March increase in compensation to the $20.58 starting, and benefits that
can't be found in some other sectors, that's pretty good.
Then I'm going to go to Mr. Ford. I'm not sure I did hear. You said with conversations with the
union, there have been multiple ones. And I think these may have started in late March. What has
been the response about the furlough?
MICHAEL FORD: The response about furloughs have been concerning. Everybody is concerned
about their livelihood and what it means for them and how we can work together. I've been very
clear that this is a situation that would affect everybody in the organization. And we have been
talking about the implications and what we could do, and maybe coming up with some creative
ideas.
Nothing has been cemented at this point, but we are engaged, we're talking. So I don't want to
move or say anything more than we've had conversation. We understand the nature of it, the
implications, and how people will feel about these things. And we're working on ways in which
we can move forward. And I believe as a result of tonight, that will spur some additional
conversations so we can solidify a way forward on this.
I really don't have more to tell you than that, but it's understanding each other's side, what's going
on, what things we need to consider. And that's been the nature of our conversation.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, thank you. Well, in my perfect world, what I'd be sharing with
the union-- in my perfect world, granted, is the unemployment claims in Colorado have, if you
really want to look at the market, go on to the job boards and take a look. Talk to your neighbors,
talk to the small businesses who don't know how they're going to pay the rent. I might get a little
emotional, but that's in my perfect world what I would be sharing. And that furloughs is pretty
minor compared to what some others are facing. So I'm just sharing that too as a reminder of the
reality that's out there.

All right. Then moving on, when I look at our payroll, because I do get the payroll every year,
what I'm really seeing is that the only folks who are making $15 or less per hour all have a job title
of Undercover Ride Monitor or they're an intern. Otherwise, everybody is at $16 an hour or more.
So I'm not sure where that, you know, when I look at as an intern or an undercover ride monitor-and I actually thought we were going to be kind of getting rid of the undercover-- I don't know. Is
there a requirement that we have undercover ride monitors?
MICHAEL FORD: Well, we obviously would like to continue to sample our service. We get
customer complaints, we get issues that arise on our operations, and we want to be able to
sometimes verify issues or see how our service is being handled. So we use those resources
appropriately to make sure that our service is meeting our standards and the customer's standards
as well.
NATALIE MENTEN: And we put undercover ride monitors on our buses before we put security
cameras? There's been a long running standard to have those individuals, which is maybe 30
people. So I don't know that that really-- if we still need as much of that, considering we now have
the security cameras on every-- so I'm just mentioning, just to get it, again, on the record. We're
not talking about bus drivers that are making $15 an hour. We're talking about a college intern, an
undercover ride monitor, which, you know, do we absolutely need that? So just putting it on the
record there.
And then one last thing, and that is the big picture, and trying to get feedback on these scenarios.
So I look at it as, like I want to create a diet plan because that's basically what this is like, is a diet
plan. And you've got a recipe. And the recipe is scenario one, two, or three.
And scenario one says, mm, you know, I'm still going to have that doughnut at the end of the night.
And scenario-- actually, these are numbered strangely to me. I would think three would be the
worst case scenario, but it's actually number two. Again, it's about the ingredients in this recipe
that we want to get to, the ideal scenario.
And so I lean towards using the worst case scenario, which would mean the maximum amount of
furlough days. And what's also included is the service-- and I'm just getting, I apologize, the
administrative reductions. All of those pretty much remain the same. I just want to see us have as
best of a recipe as possible because we are dealing with this day by day. And just like on a diet,
you don't get to go back again and say, oh, I'm going to, you know, reduce the calories on a previous
day. It doesn't work that way. I know that's a pretty bad analogy.
But as we move through this and going into 2021, I think the agency should position itself on the
best diet possible. And that's numbered here as scenario number two, which would leave us with,
based on the projections, $25.3 million going into next year. In an agency that's $1.2 billion, that's
actually not a lot. So I know that's what you wanted to get feedback on, Heather, so those are my
thoughts. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: I don't have any additional input tonight. Thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. A couple of things, if I could.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
DOUG TISDALE: I will give a little expanded discussion of this under new business, but I did
spend seven hours today in nonstop telephone calls with the legislative directors and the chiefs of
staff of every member of the Colorado Congressional Delegation, both senators and all seven
members of the House of Representatives. And it was on behalf of APTA, and we were talking
about the APTA COVID response package that the Legislative Committee submitted on May 7.
But all of them wanted to know about the RTD. And so I spent a great deal of time talking to each
of them about what's going on with us. One thing that came up, obviously, was our intense
appreciation for the CARES Act and the $232 million that we have received. I was, unfortunately,
because I was working off of last week's number, I told them all that our worst case scenario was
a revenue loss of $258 million. And I see that our estimated revenue loss, worst case in the revised
numbers is $228 million.
That's not a major change, I suppose, in some respects. I do want to confirm with Ms. McKillop,
however, relative to our shortfall, with additional costs, we've got, I'll call it, $16 million for worst
case and $9 million for mid case. Those are our best estimates today based upon our information
for all of 2020, is that correct?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is correct.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you. The considerations that were raised by the members of
Congress related to the fact that-- and this is good news, indeed-- they are all, almost to a person,
very confident that we at last, and everybody should applaud internally as to this, approved the
refund of the credit risk premium for the RIP funds for Denver Union Station. And Congressman
Perlmutter is actually really leading the charge on that, but with cooperation from Congresswoman
DeGette and both senators very actively involved.
They've included language to that effect in a separate bill and also in an amendment to the FAST
Act reauthorization that has to be done before September 30. They also noted that the HEROES
Act-- actually, I was kind of amazed. All of them were less than enamored with the HEROES Act
that was passed by Congress, by the House last Friday. They all recognized that it's artificial in the
sense that it excludes Denver from any funding under that act because it's using 2010 census data
instead of 2020 or 2020 Census estimates.
And as a result, Denver shows up as 2.9 million people in urbanized area for 2010, and so we just
missed the cutoff of 3 million people. They pointed out that some of that information, in order to
say that they're hoping to address, even if they can't get additional separate transportation funding,
that they're hopeful that other things will come about that will help RTD address its shortfall, and
at least I can say it's $16 million versus $9 million, somewhere in there.

They asked about 2021 also. And that's why I am eager to see what our discussion will be in June
because they've each asked me to get back to them and let them know what we see in terms of
2021 projections as well, so that if they need to start working with us, they can. Nobody's promised
anything, but they were all exceptionally receptive and very appreciative of the quandary that we're
in and the efforts that we're taking to address it.
So those are my comments and I'll give a little bit more under new business, not much more, but
I'll just supplement with some other things because they talked about Reimagine and so forth as
well. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Nothing for me, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yeah, just one supplemental question to Director Broom's ask for Fred. The
bus driver situation in regards to what Dave Jensen gave us for the trains, what's our turnover ratio
there?
FRED WORTHEN: Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations. I don't have the exact stats in front
of me, but I believe last year and April, we lost 19 drivers. This year, we only lost about 9, so it is
less. But we've also had less people that have been applying for positions. I think we have had
maybe 12 employees come through the doors in the last three training cycles.
TROY WHITMORE: OK, thank you. That's helpful. That's all, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: No, Madam Chair. I think that all of my predecessors asked all the questions
that I had. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I would just like to say to everybody thank you so
much for this discussion. I think that as Board members, this is our most important function that
we do in terms of ensuring that this agency moves forward to serve the community that we all
represent. I would encourage all of you to think about all of these components tonight. And as you
start having questions, to formulate them into an email or some kind of a document and send it to
myself and to Ms. McManus, or any of the Executive Committee to bring forward and take a look
at.
I think this is the first shot at looking at this stuff and having this discussion. I have to agree, after
being involved in so many Zoom calls over several months, that this is really a very fluid kind of
time that we're dealing with that's unprecedented. And so I think it is going to take all of us to
really do a deep dive, think about it, come back, reevaluate, and make sure that we are making the
best decision on behalf of everybody that we represent. So with that, I just want to say thank you.

And now, new business. So is there any new business to come before the Board? And let me go
back again. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. The only question I have, I guess, is could we maybe
get an update on where we're at as far as offices reopening in downtown Denver that may lead to
consideration of resuming service on the mall shuttle?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Ballard.
PAUL BALLARD: Yes, Madam Chair, this is Paul Ballard. We're not seeing them come back.
We're staying in touch with the different associations and people are simply not coming back to
work yet. So we're not-- we're just not seeing that. So we're trying to stay on top of it, particularly
with the mall shuttle in mind. And we're checking the mall, we're checking the offices. They're
just not coming back yet. It's just not developing, but we're staying on top of it.
BOB BROOM: But I guess the question is, have the companies been allowed now to bring back
50% of their workforce, is that what they're currently allowed to do?
PAUL BALLARD: Yes. That is in fact what they can do. But what we're seeing is the companies
that have shared plans with us are saying they're bringing back 10% of the people in June and they
might not get to 50% till the end of the year. People are really stretching this out. I don't know of
anyone who has gone to the 50% at all, and don't know of any that are going to do it in the very
near future.
We welcome input from anyone who has any additional information, but that's the information
we're getting is people are being-- businesses are being very, very conservative.
BOB BROOM: And that doesn't bode well for our sales tax revenues.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No.
PAUL BALLARD: That's correct. That's correct.
BOB BROOM: That's all, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Buzek, do you have any new business?
VINCE BUZEK: I do not, Madam Chair, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No, Madam Chair, I do not. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: No, Madam Chair.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Nope.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I just did want to ask a question about what Mr. Ballard stated with keeping
up with business organizations and the response. Who are those organizations? What I'm really
going down to, the question that pops into my head is, are we-- we're not seeing the traffic as much
on our buses, of course. Do they keep parking reports? What organizations have you talked to?
Are people maybe still going down, but they're using parking instead of using RTD? Could you
tell me a little more on that, please?
PAUL BALLARD: You know, those are very good questions. This is Paul Ballard. And I think
the organization I'm probably staying closest to is the Denver Downtown Partnership. In a
conversation with their board, they pointed out that 46% of the employees of their members use
RTD, which is a really, really significant percentage for downtown workers. But it's the same
organization that their members are not bringing people back. Now, the retail and the restaurants
are trying and want to bring back people sooner, but that's being slowed down because they still
can't open up the dining room.
There's an effort to allow them to use parking lots, sidewalks, and other outdoor spaces, but it's on
a permit basis from the city and county in Denver. And so that process is evolving. So I think the
group of workers that are the most interested in coming back to work quickly, and the employers
support that, are the restaurants and the retail. We're just not seeing that.
I know we have other members of the staff are talking to other organizations-- there's the Southside
Business Group that I know we're in touch with and there are some others that I don't know the
names of, but our planning staff and others monitoring them as well.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, thank you.
PAUL BALLARD: You're welcome.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Nothing for me, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just briefly to follow up on what I said
before. David Stack and Ray Melleady of APTA suggested a DC fly-in for business members and
transit board members last year, and they asked me to work with the transit board members to
coordinate that. We turned it into a virtual fly-in as of last month.
We had about 80 or 90 business members and transit board members participate in that event
today. Our entire delegation made themselves available to us. And we were very, number one,
surprised by that, but very pleased by that too. And they each commented on the fact that it was
good to stay in touch with us.
I was intrigued. At least three of the members-- and I'll give a written report that I have to give to
APTA that I will provide to the Board as well. I was intrigued that at least three of the members
of Congress mentioned that Patty Dorsch had been in touch with them last week on the credit risk
premium. So I know she's working that hard too.
The thing I wanted to add that I didn't mention before was that Congresswoman DeGette's office
specifically expressed interest in Reimagine RTD and wanted to be sure that she would continue
to receive regular updates on the workings of Reimagine. So I committed that I would make sure
that every time Reimagine has a meeting, we'll get that information sufficiently in advance to the
Congresswoman so that she can have someone in person, or if we're meeting virtually,
electronically present for that. And they were very appreciative of that. Many other interesting
things discussed, but that was a full seven hours today. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Walker, do you have any new business
to bring forward?
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, just one quick thing that might affect our ridership coming up pretty soon.
Denver's going to start reinforcing-- or going to start enforcing parking meters or metered parking
again after June 1. It might not make any difference if there's nobody working down there, but it
could drive some workers, what few there are downtown, onto the buses and trains. That's it. Thank
you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Nothing from me, thank you much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. There's a couple of things that I would like us to
look at. There is some discussion that one of the largest paratransit companies in the area-- and

that's the Seniors' Resource Center-- is going to stop providing paratransit as of the 30th of June.
There's also going to be a number of cuts in the government agencies, one of which is HCPF
(Colorado Department of Health Care Policy and Financing), HCPF provides NEMT ( Non
Emergent Medical Transportation) service to IntelliRide-- that's Medicaid service.
And so I believe that when their department is cut, that one of the places they will cut is
transportation. And if we lose the largest provider right now, I think, after us, Seniors' Resource
Center, and if we lose some service from Medicaid, Access-a-Ride is going to be overwhelmed. I
just think that that is something that we need to be aware of. I don't think it's going to happen
tomorrow, but I think we're going to see as we come up into July that our paratransit service is
very, very overwhelmed. And I would like to see us take a look at that in advance of the fact. That's
all that I have at the moment. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Williams. I will just close with the fact that
a friend of mine is on the concierge staff at the Hyatt at the Convention Center. I think they have
like 3,500 rooms. And I asked her when they were planning to open up the hotel again and she
said the current discussion is mid to late June.
So if the major hotels are not opening up till then, I think we're going to continue to see not a need
for our shuttle. I don't know. But it really is quite interesting to see the lack of workers downtown.
It's pretty surreal.
But I thank you all for this robust discussion. I think that this is really good dialogue for us to have
as the staff and as a Board together so we can move forward. With that, I'd like to now entertain a
motion to adjourn.
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
JUDY LUBOW: Second, Lubow.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Do I hear any no's? Just checking. OK, with total silence, we
are now adjourned at 7:32 PM. Have a wonderful evening and thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good night, everyone.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good night.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Good night.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You're welcome. Thank you.

