Financial Administration _ Audit Committee - 413-2021
PEGGY CAITLIN: All right, good evening. I'd like to call to order the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee of April 13th, 2021. We are convened as of 5:32 PM Mountain Daylight Time. I would
respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that under the current circumstances, which has
been going on for a year now, the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely
in the interest of public health safety and welfare.
For the immediate future the official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom, and will be
audio and video record. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be
posted as soon as practical on the Board's website. Please visit RTD-Denver.com. Scroll to the bottom of
the page for the link to the Board of Directors page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceedings, I would ask you to please raise your virtual hand. Wait for me to call on you before
proceeding to speak. Speaking out of turn will only add confusion to the record and to the proceedings.
Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to indicate that they would like
to speak by pressing star nine. To toggle your mute setting on the phone, press star six.
Please note that we will not be taking public commentary during this meeting. Members of the public
interested in speaking directly to the Board are encouraged to do so during the monthly Board meeting.
For future meeting dates please refer to the Board's meeting portal, located at RTD.iqm2.com
At RTD safety is our core value. I'd like to begin this meeting with a safety briefing. It says short, but it's a
little bit lengthy, so bear with me. As more and more people become fully vaccinated many are wondering
when life will return to normal. Before you throw away your face masks, experts warn that we'll need to
continue wearing them a while longer, especially in public settings.
Face masks and physical distancing will still need to continue into the foreseeable future, explain
Infectious Disease Specialists with the CDC. Unfortunately, getting vaccinated does not instantly mean
we can go back to how life was before. Until we have some level of herd immunity, and some more
evidence and research into this, the vaccine is just Another layer of protection against COVID-19.
To reach herd immunity 50% to 80% of the population will need to be vaccinated. And since it takes time
to ramp up production and distribution of the vaccines, and as we saw lately the little hiccup with the
Johnson & Johnson vaccine, CDC urges folks to manage their expectations about a quick return to
normal.
The CDC also says fully vaccinated people can now gather safely indoors in small gatherings with other
people who are fully vaccinated, with no mask requirement. It's important to note that fully vaccinated
people should continue to wear face masks-- masks-- and maintain physical distance while in public
spaces.
The vaccines are certainly a step in the right direction and a reason to celebrate. But we're not quite yet
out of the woods. There are five reasons to still wear a face mask and social distance after you've been
vaccinated. As I said briefly, it does take time for the vaccine to kick in. You won't reach the 90% plus

effectiveness rate until two weeks after your second dose of either the Pfizer or Moderna vaccine.
Although the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, you're considered fully vaccinated two weeks after your single
dose, there's still some research to be done on that.
The vaccines do not provide 100% protection. No vaccine does. They're incredibly effective, up to 94 or
95%. There is still some risk for getting COVID-19, but the CDC assures folks that even if you do contact
it with the vaccine, your symptoms will not be as extreme.
Those who have been vaccinated might be asymptomatic spreaders, and experts are concerned that
vaccinated people can still become infected without symptoms but spread it to others who have not been
vaccinated yet. And some of those may be those with compromised immune systems and those who
can't be vaccinated. So even if you are fully vaccinated, it's recommended to steer clear of those
considered high risk.
There are still some limited doses of the vaccine. So be patient in trying to get yours If you have not done
so yet. That concludes the safety briefing.
At this point, I'd like to determine if we have all Directors. Have we been able to reach Director Broom?
Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair, I left a voicemail. There was no answer.
PEGGY CAITLIN: OK. So it appears that we have 14 directors in attendance, those being Bouquet,
Buzek, myself, Cook, Davidson, Dishell, Guissinger, Lewis, Rosenthal, Sloan, Tisdale, Whitmore,
Williams, and Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
So we have three recommended actions on the agenda tonight. Let me pull up my agenda, to see
[AUDIO OUT] The first recommended action is approval of a contract to purchase validators for accountbased ticketing. I'd like to read it-- the recommended action.
"For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager, or her designee, to enter into a contract
with Mesabi to purchase new bus and rail platform fare validators for the account-based ticketing ABT
system."
Do I have a motion?
SHELLEY COOK: So moved, Cook.
PEGGY CAITLIN: Director Cook is there-BOBBY DISHELL: Second.
PEGGY CAITLIN: That was Director Dishell. OK, so Directors Cook and Dishell. We have a brief staff
presentation. Michael Ford?
MICHAEL FORD: Yes, thank you. This is Michael Ford, COO. I'll just give a little background and then
have others weigh in if there are additional questions.
Back in November 2020, the RTD Board approved the funding needed to advance this account-based
ticketing system, known as the ABT system, forwarded with the goals of replacing the cumbersome and
obsolete existing smartcard fare technology and equipment used by MyRide card, and College, and
EcoPass.
The existing card system is a card-based system, in which customer balances and transactions are
stored on individual cards.
This causes several delays-- up to 24 to 72 hours for our customers, and managing card balances,
hampering the ability to perform stored value transactions, limited locations, card management limited to

the types of fare availability, and requires more intensive on-going system maintenance, coding payment
card industry compliance PCI.
In contrast, based on the fare system, such as the ABT stored information, the account allowing for such
benefits for real time information, the ability for more widespread varied means to load the fare value,
more fare offerings, flexibility and changes, and less maintenance. This is an overall focus for our
customers that will be an improvement. In consideration of the replacement of the card with the ABT, RTD
has contracted with Masabi to provide the back office technology to be consistent and compatible with the
RTD existing mobile ticketing platform-- that is also provided by Masabi. The current target date for the
completion of this is at the end of the year, December 20-- excuse me, December 31st, 2020.
And one other component to this-- the second component of the ABT implementation is a replacement of
existing fare validators that were purchased in 2010, prior to the smartcard system. The existing
validators have obsolete proprietary technology specific to the smartcard system, which necessitates
replacement of the validators.
So, we need to obviously make some changes here. These new validators would bring RTD into the
modern age while providing RTD customers with improved, eased method for transit payments. And
additional, new APT fare validators will be compatible for processing open payments, thereby providing
additional fare payment options for our customers.
In order to acquire this, the ABT of fare validators, RTD issued a request for proposal for the back office
for the software procurement. The RFP was a separate one, so it was open and competitive process for
the validators. They would be required to be compatible with most of the ABT systems.
After a thorough RFP evaluation, the scoring procurement process, Wasabi was selected as preferred
vendor-- validated vendor-- for negotiations.
The funds needed to complete the work around $4,054,504, of which $1,813,084 comes from federal
funding. If approved, will allow RTD to work towards achieving the planned ABT system go live-- again,
December 31st 2020-- with a phase in validator replacement as well.
The period of performance for fare validator replacements is tentatively planned for October through
December. Some of the criteria used in the making the selection-- 40% technical specifications and the
ability to meet stated requirements, 20% overall cost, 20% experience of the vendor and the project team,
10% timeline and the ability to meet deadlines, and the 10% for the DBE.
So, that kind of rounds out the focus, the rationale, what we need to do. This is essential to the operation
and to improve customer service and how we interact with our public. With that, I'm happy to take
questions, but there are others that also are available to answer more detailed questions. Thank you,
Madam Chair.
PEGGY CAITLIN: Thank you, Mr. Ford. I would like to remind Directors that this action and the
information was included in the packet, and you all have had some opportunity to talk to staff offline. But if
there are some new questions that you have, or have not had answered previously, I'd like to call on you
to speak.
So I believe that the first Director to have his hand raised was Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. Just a quick question-- in terms of the transition from the
card-based to the ABT-based-- if somebody has a card with a ticket that has money on it, would that be
basically invalid as of December 31st as it transitioned to the new system?
MICHAEL FORD: I'm going to defer that question to either Tanya Anderson or Paul Snyder. If they're on.

[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: All of you are muted, we can't hear you.
PAUL SNYDER: Can you hear me now?
KATE WILLIAMS: We can hear you now.
PAUL SNYDER: Thank you very much. Thank you for the opportunity to answer that question. We are in
the process of working on plans for transitioning the MyRide customers' account balances to alternative
means. There are several options that we will be working to present to our customers.
One of them may be giving the customer the option to simply move their MyRide account balance over to
a balance in the new account system. Another potential option is having that customer MyRide account
balance be moved to a different potential product, whether that be a paper pass, or some sort of passes.
Or a third option, probably, would be to refund the customer's money until we had the new system up and
running. We're trying to give our customers as many options as possible so that they have options for
moving forward with their fare payments, and are not just stuck come December 31st, when we are
transitioned over to the new system.
PEGGY CAITLIN: Did that answer your question, Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes. Just real quick, also, how do people put money into the account? Is that
through credit card or automatic transfer?
PAUL SNYDER: So, the initial customer migration from the existing smartcard system to the new
account-based system will be a manual effort on the part of RTD to get those customers moved over,
based on their desire. However, if you're asking what happens post go live-- how does a customer get
money onto their account? There are a variety of means in which that could occur.
Certainly one of them is through a credit card-- can be done directly through the app-- the mobile ticketing
app on the phone. And we are also working on-- you also will be able to go to our sales outlets, and be
able to load value at the sales outlets, for those folks that do wish to use cash for loading of the value.
And we're also working on a separate work stream of this project that will potentially allow you to go to a
retail partner, for example a Safeway, or King Soopers, or something to that effect. And also use cash
there to be able to load value. That's a separate stream.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
PAUL SNYDER: You're welcome.
PEGGY CAITLIN: Thank you, Mr Snyder, I appreciate it. Next we have Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Hi there, thanks. And just right quick, I saw a transit center webinar tomorrow about
privacy. Do we have policies in place-- just remind me-- as we're increasing the number of people on
account-based ticketing, to protect their information? Especially with the private companies having
access-- do we have policies that protect their sharing of that information? And also, as regards our own
use.
PEGGY CAITLIN: Mr. Ford?
MICHAEL FORD: Yes, we do have policies in place. I would also again defer to either Tanya Anderson or
Paul Snyder in terms of protecting our clients or customers through various means. But I would like them
to provide maybe even more detail than that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Ford, if I may, this is General Manager Debra Johnson. As it relates to that, I
would like to have a General Counsel speak to that, recognizing that we do have other forms, i.e. my
card-- MyRide, excuse me-- where we leverage and we do not release that information. Somebody would

have to enable us to do that. So we don't provide or disseminate information without their
acknowledgment. So I will defer to Melanie Snyder to address the question in more detail from a legal
standpoint. Thank you.
PEGGY CAITLIN: Thank you. Ms. Snyder?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you, General Manager and CEO
Johnson. Yes, we do have policies and procedures in place. We also have provisions in our contracts, as
well as contacts with our members. There is actually an internal Working Group right now that's going
through and taking a look at those policies to see to what extent we want to update those.
SHELLEY COOK: Excellent. Thanks so much.
MELANIE SNYDER: You're welcome.
PEGGY CAITLIN: That answers your question, Director Cook? OK. If you would put your hand down, that
would be great. Director Dishell, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: Back to you, Madam Chair. This is also on the data privacy standpoint. This, though,
stems from our receiving federal funding to convert to this system. And really the concern here is are folks
who are undocumented-- is documentation or immigration status really stored anywhere in our system?
And how can we make sure that those riders feel safe using a MyRide card? Do we have any
requirements to turn data over to the federal government?
PEGGY CAITLIN: General Manager CEO Johnson, would you like to respond?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I would. Thank you very much for the opportunity, Madam Chair, and to you,
Director Dishell. No, we do not have any obligation to turn over that information to the federal
government. Quite naturally, when we go through these processes, I don't even believe we collect that
information. But recognizing that the whole intent is to provide equity and access to the system, that that
isn't customarily a portion of information of which would be required. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great, thank you.
PEGGY CAITLIN: Thank you. Are there any other questions before we go to a vote? Seeing none. In
order to streamline our process here, I'm just going to ask if there are any no votes-- if you would raise
your hand at this time. Seeing none, the motion passes. 14 in favor, one absent.
So the next recommended action is for the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager, or her
designee to authorize, a budget transfer of $400,000 to fund increased commuter rail liability insurance
coverage and premiums for the N Line. I believe the staff representative that will be presenting this is
Melanie Snyder, our General Counsel. Ms Snyder?
DOUG MACLEOD: actually, Ma'am-KATE WILLIAMS: You need a motion first, I think, Peggy?
PEGGY CAITLIN: Oh, yes, I do. I apologize. Is there a motion?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
Was the mover Chair Rivera Malpiede?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah.
PEGGY CAITLIN: And the second?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams.
PEGGY CAITLIN: Thank you. Now we can have our presentation.

DOUG MACLEOD: Madam Chair, this is Doug MacLeod, acting Chief Financial Officer. So, I'd like to start
off this item, and Melanie's available for additional questions. So, thank you. Good evening. This item is
seeking additional funding for additional premium costs that RTD will incur. So in February of 2021, the
US Department of Transportation raised the claims liability limits for railroad providers from $294 million
up to $323 million.
So along with that, RTD insures itself for railroad liability claims through insurers. And in doing so, we had
to go back out to our insurers-- RTD did to get additional insurance coverage to meet these new limits.
This insurance covers the North Metro Line Railroad commuter rail.
And in relation to that, we also have contractual agreements with the Suncor Refinery along the N Line
corridor, as well as Burlington Northern Santa Fe.
So in seeking this insurance through our broker, Marsh, we were able to find insurers that would provide
these higher limits. Along with that comes higher insurance premiums. So we, each year, RTD,
establishes a General Manager contingency fund, and the Board appropriates the funding for the budget
for the year.
This fund is used exactly for this purpose, for unforeseen items that arise. What this would cause is that
our current insurance premiums for the North Metro Line for liability insurance, before this increase, is
about $2.9 million annually. The increased insurance premiums Add about $362,000 to those premiums
through September 30th of this year.
So we are asking to transfer $400,000 of the General Manager contingency funds to those insurance
premium project funds. This is coming to the Board because it exceeds the General Manager's authority
of a $250,000 budget transfer, which is why we are asking for this approval. And with that, we would ask
for any questions.
PEGGY CAITLIN: Are there any questions for Mr. MacLeod or Ms. Snyder? I don't see any hands raised
at this point. I know that when this was brought to my attention-- it just flagged it that we may have an
additional discussion after September-- is that right Doug-- as this budget increases.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, Madam Chair. And in fact, what we don't know is what the insurance premiums
will be at that renewal period on October 1st going forward. The insurance broker, Marsh, has indicated
they think we could see up to a 30% increase in the current $3.3 million that we'd be spending annually.
Yet that remains to be seen and we won't know until we get to that point.
What our intention would be would be to come back to the Board when that's known to ask for additional
authority, or to inform the Board when we develop the amended budget-- if we develop an amended
budget for 2021, and include that as a discussion item.
PEGGY CAITLIN: Thank you, Mr. MacLeod I think that's important to keep in mind as we move forward
with our Northwest corridor studies and look at operation cost.
Director Tisdale, I see your hand is raised.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just for the sake of the record I wanted to confirm
my understanding, and please disabuse me of any incorrect understanding, as to Bus Operations, we are
self-insured, and we do not go out to third party agencies for that insurance. Is that correct?
PEGGY CAITLIN: Mr. MacLeod, would you like to answer that?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'd like to refer that question to Melanie Snyder.
PEGGY CAITLIN: OK.

MELANIE SNYDER: I will have to double check. One thing to note is that we are self-insured, but we
also, as a governmental entity, have immunity under the Governmental Entity Act-- the Colorado
Governmental Entity Act. And so when you're talking about bus operations, there is a waived area there
for us. And so we are liable up to the caps in the state statute there. But we can get additional information
about the specific levels of coverage.
DOUG TISDALE: And while you're doing that, the discussion has focused on the N Line. Am I correct in
understanding that for the other commuter rail lines-- the University of Colorado A Line-- it's still the
Colorado A Line for another month or so-- and the B Line, and the G Line, are those coverages for those
lines provided for by Denver Transit Operators, and we're a named third-party beneficiary for those
policies?
DOUG MACLEOD: Madam Chair?
PEGGY CAITLIN: Yes, please.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, that's correct. Denver Transit Partners does pay for their own insurance since
going into Revenue Service. Prior to that, RTD did provide OSIP insurance to cover their portion.
Currently, my understanding is that Denver Transit Partners insurance for those rail lines under the Eagle
P3 project is approximately $7.1 million in premiums per year.
So it's a significant cost to both of us to operate those lines.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you.
PEGGY CAITLIN: Did that answer your question?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CAITLIN: Mr. MacLeod, am I correct in saying that this is a requirement of the FRA, and for the
rail lines themselves, and not for bus service? So as General Counsel Snyder mentioned, we are covered
under the Governmental Immunity Act for our bus service operations. So we have limited liability. Is that
correct?
DOUG MACLEOD: Again, Melanie Snyder, would you please help me answer that question? I think I may
have confused items when I spoke to the Chair earlier about where the coverages begin and end, and
who's responsible.
PEGGY CAITLIN: Thank you.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. So, yes.
Just to be clear, the federal law that we're talking about right now is a liability cap.
So it's setting a cap on the amount that for which we would be liable. The reason that we have to get
insurance is because, under the state Governmental Immunity Act, there's a provision in there that says-to the extent the government entity obtains insurance for a railroad, we have to insure up to the cap limits
in the federal statute.
So that's what's in place. So, yes, Greg-- excuse me, Madam Chair-- we are only talking about our liability
as to our commuter rail. And specifically, as to the N Line, as acting CFO Doug MacLeod [AUDIO OUT]
PEGGY CAITLIN: Thank you for clarifying that. I appreciate it. Any other questions before we proceed?
Oh I see one. Director Dishell, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: This is a quick logistical question. I noticed that our start date is March 26th. Today is
April 13th. We won't have our April Board meeting until later this month. Is there a need to suspend the
rules or do anything special to ensure that we can get this money out the door and make sure we're in
compliance?

DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, this is Doug McLeod. So those premium rates are good until April 26th. And the
way that the broker found the insurers was through their brokerage services. They found two insurers to
cover these limits and they're both based in Bermuda, which many insurance companies are. And so we
do have until the end of the month.
One of the things we need to do is also account for any foreign currency translations because both those
insurance companies deal in British pounds. But yeah, we do believe we have plenty of time to get this
through, after, presumably, the Board would approve this item.
BOBBY DISHELL: All right, thank you.
PEGGY CAITLIN: Good question Director Dishell, thank you. OK now I'd like to go to a vote. If there is
anyone opposed to this motion, instead of raising your virtual hand, could, you please articulate that you
are opposed, verbally? Hearing no opposition, the motion passes. 14 in favor, one absent. Thank you.
The third recommended action that we have this evening is for the Board of Directors to authorize the
General Manager, or her designee to authorize, a budget transfer of up to $4 million to fund activities for
the upcoming paratransit software replacement contract. Do I have a motion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved.
PEGGY CAITLIN: Chair Rivera-Malpiede. Is there a second?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
PEGGY CAITLIN: Director Guissinger? Vice Chair Guissinger? OK. We have Michael Ford. Would you
like to introduce this ? Thank you.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you very much. Michael Ford, COO. We've been with Route Match since 2008.
So scheduling paratransit software-- still in existence, but it's outdated. The software doesn't work the way
it needs to. Software does not offer mobility, web portal, trip-booking, and management customers.
IT has developed some portals, but there are shortcomings. And as it stands right now, the software lacks
basic modern functionality needed to optimize-- to fully support the agency's paratransit customer base.
So, additionally, Route Match has developed a new cloud-based product that will cease to be supported
by their representatives. Thus, the system requires a replacement due to obsolescence. So again, it's old.
It's not worked the way it needs to. We feel that we can go out and retain a new software which would
improve productivity over the current system, thereby saving RTD approximately $2 million to $4 million
annually.
These savings can be leveraged to offset the cost for a vendor to implement new technology, and pay for
the selected contractor. RTD is really seeking a proposal with a provider at risk. So we believe that there
are enough of vendors out there that can sign up for something like this, and help us move and navigate
forward with the new system. So due to the budget forecasting for 2021, we want to make sure that we
are able to move and transfer this money. Whereby budget savings were identified, staff is now seeking
the authorization to provide funding through the budget transfer up to $4 million.
The estimated unfunded cost for contract replacement software on-board hardware is less than $4
million. And the funding is available through the existing operations funding currently designated for
Access-A-Ride, through the fuel and transportation. This is anticipated that these proceeds will not be
needed for the original intent, due to the reduction in fuel and operation costs, due to increased AccessA-Ride productivity.
So this is a real long overdue need for the paratransit area to help improve time performance, the ability
to carry more people, and just to be more productive altogether.

So with that, I'll conclude my remarks and I'm happy to take questions. Thank you.
PEGGY CAITLIN: Are there any questions of Mr. Ford or his staff, either Paul Hamilton or Eric
Farrington? I don't see any hands raised. I think this has long been requested by a number of our
customers in the paratransit community.
So at this time, I'd like to ask if there are any directors who are opposed to this motion-- to speak up?
Seeing none, the motion passes with 14 affirmative votes and one absent.
Moving on to discussion items. We have two discussion items this evening. The first is an update on our
COVID-19 relief funding and the RTD financial update. I have Debra Johnson and acting CFO Doug
MacLeod on to make this presentation.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. You're welcome. Good evening to you, and
committee members, and to all who are virtually assembled. I'm Debra Johnson, General Manager and
CEO. I am before you this evening to introduce the discussion item pertaining to COVID-19 relief funding.
As of late, there has been a myriad of conjecture and speculation pertaining to RTD's current financial
status. And how these apportionments of these federal dollars can level-set the agency's budget. As an
agency, it was not our collective understanding that this funding would come to fruition, recognizing these
were unknown variables several months ago.
Doug MacLeod, RTD's acting Chief Financial Officer, will discuss the apportionments and how that
parlays the agency's financial outlook, including the mid-term financial plan. Moreover, as you know, the
agency received notification on March 29th of 2021 of an apportionment from the American Rescue Plan
Act, which we're referring to as ARPA.
However, the agency has yet to receive the guidance from the Federal Transit Administration. As a point
of reference, on January 11th, 2021 RTD received notice of its CRRSAA apportionment of $203 million.
Yesterday, which was Monday, April 12th, 2021, nearly three months later, the agency learned that the
Federal Transit Administration had executed the CRRSAA grant award.
Moreover, the grant application that was approved stated the following project description, for which RTD
will draw grant funds from these eligible expenditures. And it reads, and I quote,
"RTD plans to use 5307 CRRSAA funds for operating, maintaining, and managing bus and rail lines in the
Denver area, which can include salaries, utilities, and fuel for the period of January 1st 2021 through
February 28th, 2022. "
I share this information to ensure that there is mutual understanding of timelines. Thus, it may be summer
before the agency understands where it stands with this ARPA funding. As you are aware, the CRRSAA
funding utilization plan will vastly be used for the restoration of service, and will be leveraged
incrementally for service change.
I will now yield the floor to acting CFO, Doug MacLeod who will present the financial outlook and speak
more directly to the application of funds for the elements I outlined. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
And I turn it over to you, Mr. MacLeod.
PEGGY CAITLIN: Thank you, General Manager. Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you Chair, and thank you, General Manager Johnson. And I would ask the
Board Office if they could allow me to share my screen for the presentation? Or if the Board office could
call up the presentation materials?
PEGGY CAITLIN: I believe for directors it begins on page 15. If you're able to follow online.

DOUG MACLEOD: Correct. Thank you, Madam Chair. And hopefully, you can see the screen. Great. So
as General Manager Johnson discussed, we would like to give the Board an update on the three
apportionments that RTD has been notified of for federal COVID relief funding, and then also discuss,
towards the end, what that means for RTD In terms of its financial condition.
So tonight we will discuss the federal COVID relief funding update. We'll talk also about the fiscal policy in
the Board's funding priorities, also which could be referred to as the guiding principles, and then finish up
with an update on the mid-term financial plan numbers,
As General Manager Johnson mentioned-- you see on this slide-- we have received apportionment
notifications for a total of $774.1 million from the federal government for COVID relief funding. So that
consists of the three apportionments.
One for the CARES Act, in 2020, which was $232.3 million, the second apportionment was from January
2021, $203.4 million. And then in March of 2021, on March 29th-- as General Manager Johnson
indicated-- we were notified of the ARPA funding, $338.4 million.
So I'll talk a little bit briefly about each one of those apportionments, what they consist of, what they are
designated for, and what the limitations are, to the extent that we know so far from the FTA.
So beginning with the CARES Act-- this slide should look very familiar because we've had many
discussions about the CARES Act that was apportioned in 2020. That funding was fully drawn down in
2020 and it was a total of $232.3 million.
Each of these apportionments is a grant in which eligible expenditures are drawn down against the
funding. So we do not get the funding up front. We have to incur eligible expenditures, draw the funding
down-- and for each one of these apportionments, they are all 100% government funded, unlike many of
our other grants, in which it requires a local match, or a match from RTD.
Typically it's 80-20, where the federal government provides 80% of the funding if RTD provides 20% of
the funding from local funds.
So as you can see-- and this will be consistent probably for the other two apportionments in the manner
of which we draw down funding-- we will draw that down as quickly as possible. And as General Manager
Johnson indicated, the guidance provided so far by the FTA on the CRRSAA in the ARPA funding has
been pretty specific about what types of expenditures. They have to do with operations.
In the case of CARES we drew down wages and benefits for represented and non-represented
employees. And we also drew down funds from our contracted bus and rail services.
The CRRSAA Grant. We did just receive the notification that RTD CRRSAA application was executed.
Again, just to reiterate what General Manager Johnson said earlier, those funding monies are also to be
used for operations, particularly salaries, fuel, and utilities.
So it's fairly narrow in what we can use that funding for. So we intend to draw down those funds in the
same manner as we did for CARES, rapidly, using our existing expenditures as they occur. That
application goes back to January of 2021 so we can already start drawing immediately for expenses
incurred year-to-date.
Initially, back in February, we did talk to the Board about the planned expenditures for uses of those
funds. So we will draw those funds down using ongoing operating expenses and replace those funds with
this CRRSAA funding.
You may recall that the largest portion of that, almost 90% of the CRRSAA funding, was $180 million,
which we intend to spread over six run boards, starting in June. So that would-- six run boards takes us

through two years. So what we're trying to do there is stretch that funding as long as possible to maintain
operations.
The other items you see here were really changes and eliminations of certain actions that were taken for
funding cuts before we knew about the CRRSAA funding. So we restored extra shift pay and overtime
pay, eliminated furlough days that were planned for 2021, and pay reductions as well.
And then we allowed-- we reinstated the ability of employees to cash out excess balances of paid time
off, vacation and sick.
The one item that we have out there that's been designated but not specifically encumbered is almost $14
million, $13.9 million. But we have several uses identified, potentially, with Accountability Committee
recommendations. They have to peer review, which have already largely taken place. As well as state
performance audit recommendations-- the responses to those-- there will be some costs associated with
that.
So that rounds out the full $203.3 million of CRRSAA funding with intended expenditures.
So the most recent funding notice that we received at RTD was the ARPA grant, the American Rescue
Plan Act. Our apportionments for the ARPA grant was $338.4 million. There's a couple of more unique
items attached to this, although we are still awaiting specific guidance for the use of these funds.
But those specific items in particular-- are that-- they can be used for payroll, operating costs, and
personal protective equipment, similar to other fundings, but there is a timeline associated with this,
where the other ones were open-ended. The CRRSAA and the CARES Act were more open-ended
without a final date to do draws.
With the CRRS-- or with the ARPA funding, the funds must be obligated by September 30th of 2024, so
we need to obligate and draw those funds down by September 30th of 2024. Or-- sorry, we need to draw
them down by September 30th 2029, but we need to notify FTA of our intended obligations that we're
going to use to draw those funds by 2024.
So it's a significant amount of money. But again, there are some limitations as to its usage. And we are
still awaiting notification as to the specifics on that one.
So just to circle back a little bit, what does all this mean to RTD? Circling back to our fiscal policy that the
Board approved in November 2020 for the fiscal year of 2021, the Board did include in there a new
section on our fiscal policies, discussing the COVID-19 fiscal policies, and guiding principles, and
guidance for restoration if more funding were to be found at a later time.
And those are restore reserves to three months. The current RTD policy is to strive to maintain three
months of operating reserves, which is the equivalent of $150 million. At the time that the midterm
financial plan was approved, and the fiscal policy was approved, we were not at that level. We were at
approximately 1 and 1/2 months on the base system and about 2 and 1/2 months on FasTracks.
Secondly, the Board's guiding principles directed that we do not use existing FISA balances. And then we
also limit, or do not use, future rubber tire contributions for the FISA, which is FasTracks internal savings
account. The FISA is intended to be used for additional FasTracks projects.
The fourth bullet there is restored deferred projects related to compliance or safety. That item was
particularly important because in the mid-term financial plan we have an asset management plan, which
directs us towards a state of good repair and schedules out when certain items need to be repaired or
replaced.

What we did in the mid-term financial plan is we delayed all new capital spending in 2021. So there's no
new capital spending in the budget in 2021. And then we deferred all of the rest of the projects out one
year, and then we only included 70% of those projects that are required to be replaced according to our
asset management team.
So there's a big need there in terms of maintaining our state of good repair. And then finally, restore
services ridership allows.
So before we get into the numbers, just a couple of background items here. In November 2020 the
Finance staff presented to the Board the mid-term financial plan. The mid-term financial plan is our six
year plan at RTD. The first year is the budget, and the remaining five years are forecasted out.
At the time there was a great deal of uncertainty. So the Board agreed to only approve the first two years
of that mid-term financial plan, 2021 and 2022. However we did present the full six years, and what was
evident in those six years, at the time, was that the base system was in pretty good shape from a
balanced budget standpoint, even before we knew about CRRSAA and ARPA funding.
So they were in pretty good shape but there were some uncertainties built in there that we'll discuss here
shortly. The big area of concern at the time was FasTracks. FasTracks has a significant amount of debt,
and a significant amount of their funding goes towards paying the debt service on that debt that's been
issued to build out FasTracks.
So in the mid-term financial plan, what was contemplated is that with the reduced revenues that were
projected due to COVID for those six years, it was contemplated that we would have to use all the
FasTracks reserves that they had, and we would use all those reserves through 2026 and still end up with
a $28.8 million.
So why it's problematic is that there would be nothing left. And then if you go out further past that point
there's not enough money to fund ongoing operations. So that was a big concern at the time.
So where does that leave us now? So just summarize some of the items that we've discovered, or that
have happened since the time of that midterm financial plan. This first slide shows some of those positive
items that we've recognized-- or we will be able to recognize.
Number one is additional beginning reserves. As we've been able to close out 2020, and we're still
working on the financial audit there but we've gotten a better picture of how we finished up last year. We
actually had a better year than what was anticipated in the mid-term financial plan due to a combination of
slightly better sales and use tax reserves and reduced expenditures.
So what that allowed us to do was finish the year with an additional $118 million in reserves. And when
I'm talking about numbers here, I'm talking consolidated, rather than the FasTracks and base system
break out.
In addition, we will have a presentation after this board item about the sales and use tax forecast. The last
sales and use tax forecast was used for the mid-term financial plan that was received in September.
Since then, our partners at CU Leads have gotten additional information and revised their forecast, and
provided us with the forecast for March 2021. That shows an increase in sales and use tax forecasted at
$114 million. So a slightly better improvement than what we anticipated earlier.
We've spoken about the debt refinancing interest savings. The largest one was the one that the Board
approved just a couple of months ago and was closed out in March. That refinancing saved $127 million.
We also had a refinancing in December, with the private activity bonds. And then we have a potential for
another smaller refinancing, about $5 million.

So $140 million in savings from that. Then we also have the CRRSAA funding and the ARPA grant
funding. So all told those items accumulate to $915 million that we did not know about back in November.
So that's great news on the funding standpoint.
So this next slide shows some of the other items, some of the challenges that have arisen since we did
that mid-term financial plan. The top line is just a summarization of what we looked at on the prior slide,
with a total of $915 million positive new funding and reduced expenses.
So walking through the usage of this funding, the CRRSAA funding, as we saw in that previous slide, has
already been designated for certain uses. $180 million towards six run boards and then the other items
totaling $203 million.
So the $915, $203 million has already been designated for specific uses. One of the items that was very
uncertain, and still remains uncertain, when we did the mid-term financial plan, is our fares. So we were
still about midway through to where we are now in the COVID process, and it was really uncertain as to
when fares would recover, when riders would return, and it's still very uncertain.
So at the time, certain assumptions were made that we would recover ridership within a two to three year
time period and get back to where we were pre-COVID.
So this line item is put in here and it sums to $356 million because we wanted to bring this to the Board,
just so that you're aware that if the new future state of our RTD's ridership is the current state, which is
about 60% lower in ridership, then there will be an impact of the fares that were contemplated in the
forecast.
If we just keep the fares at the current state going forward, that means a loss of an additional $356 million
in fares that was included in the mid-term financial plan. So that's a very big number and a very big
concern.
I guess the good news is, right now, the CRRSAA funding and the ARPA funding have given us a little bit
of time to see how things develop. But this is probably a potential worst case scenario that we want to be
planning for if that does really materialize.
So that leaves us-- if those do materialize, that leaves us with $356 million of the $915 from this funding.
And I would like to reiterate that it is one time funding so some of these items are ongoing, obviously, with
fares and reserve usage.
We have a line item in here for possible DTP, Denver Transit Partners, legal costs associated with the
litigation. We still don't know what the outcome is from that. We're waiting for the judge's decision on that.
Nothing has been budgeted for that. So that's an outstanding item that we don't know what that may
result in.
I also put a line item in here for the TABOR effect. So we've had a few discussions with the Board about
TABOR. Taxpayer's bill of rights. Under TABOR, governmental entities have to seek authorization to
collect taxes and issue debt. So for RTD, what that means is we have the Base System and we have
FasTracks.
Under the Base System, we are exempt from some of the provisions of TABOR, in terms of this ratchet
down effect. And what the ratchet down effect is, is that year over year, a government agency cannot
collect an additional amount of taxes from taxpayers more than, for us, the growth in population and
property taxes within the district.
So as an example, if we weren't exempt from TABOR currently, year over year, when we had the
decrease in sales and use tax revenues of about $30 million in 2020, that would reset our baseline. And

that's our new baseline, and we cannot collect more than the growth of population and property taxes in
2021. Any excess has to be returned to the taxpayers.
So why this is in here is that in 2025, the Base System debt is paid off, and then the Base System then
becomes subject to this ratcheting down effect. So there could be some potential negative impacts to
what was shown in the mid-term financial plan where we are budgeted to be balanced in the Base
System.
I also included a line item here, eliminate use of FasTracks reserves. So when I spoke to the fact that the
midterm financial plan, we were using up all of our reserves to stay balanced on the FasTracks books,
that total is $238 million through 2026.
So if we want to maintain the three months of operating reserves, and maintain our financial footing in
terms of our foundation, we would not use those reserves and then instead would save some of the
funding that we've received.
Finally, I have a line item in here for the ARPA grant fund use. And it's blank because with the $915 if
these items do materialize, we're only left with $78.9 million at the end of 2026. So essentially, what this is
saying is that we are using the ARPA funding to help subsidize the loss of fare revenue and some of
these other items, if we continue on the same path in terms of our expenditures.
So that kind of rounds out what we're currently looking at. And we will continue to update the Board in
terms of additional items that come forward. We do plan later in the year to bring a new forecast forward
as well as more budget information. But that's where we are currently.
So just to summarize some of these items. So these are our staff's financial concerns at the current time.
So we do have the great news that we've gotten this funding. This federal COVID relief funding has been
amazingly helpful but it's only one-time funding that doesn't last.
So one of the items in this came from the Board guiding principles was to solidify RTD's financial
foundation, which is really establishing reserves and preparing for the rainy days, and then really setting a
path forward in terms of knowing what our expenditures will be, and matching our expenditures to
anticipated revenues.
I mentioned the supplemental funding is one time, so some of the costs that we are incurring will be
recurring costs, service costs. If those aren't adjusted, those are recurring costs going on into the future,
obviously.
And then fare recovery post-COVID, that was a really big line item as you saw on that that one slide.
$356 million if we stay in the current state of fare collections. So that remains to be seen if customers
return, where they return, what our fare policies are at that time. A lot of unknowns on that end, but it's a
big number.
Maintaining efficient levels of expenditures. Again, we do have-- and the final bullet too-- state of good
repair and some of these projects. So along with our funding of operations, we do have a lot of concerns
going forward since we've delayed a lot of projects, a lot of asset replacement and repair. We've been
doing that long before COVID. We've been kind of kicking the can down the road. So we have several
items that are becoming more critical and they're building up. So another concern on that end is just
maintaining what we do have. So Madam Chair, that wraps up my presentation, and we'd be happy to
answer any questions.
PEGGY CAITLIN: Thank you Mr MacLeod. There's a lot of information there. I do see Chair RiveraMalpiede's hand is raised.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. And Mr. MacLeod, thank you so much for the presentation. This
was very, very good. I have two questions. The first one has to do with really addressing our asset state
of good repair. what is that price tag? That's my first question.
And my second question is solidifying RTD's financial foundation. You were saying three months of
research. What is the price tag of that as well, please.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Great questions. Yes. So on the three months' reserve, so the price tag of
that for both Base and FasTracks-- currently-- in 2020 we were averaging about $51 million per month in
operating expenditures, excluding depreciation. So just maintaining that same level is for three months at
$51 million per month is $153 million. So that would be the ideal level that we want to get at.
Now obviously, that can change over time because we'd want to use those reserves when we ran into
difficulties, economically. Say if we had a recession loss in sales taxes, that kind of smooths out the
bumps in the road. So that was the idea behind the 3 months and $150 million. So at least at the end of
2020, we were right there because of that additional funding that we were able to keep in reserves, the
$118 million. We were right at three months' reserves so it really depends on how things look going
forward.
In terms of the state of good repair costs, I don't recall the exact cost right offhand, but it was significant.
It's in the $150-$200 million range. And a large portion of that is some of our fleet replacement. So we
have a need, we've been pushing off bus purchases for quite a while. I just had a discussion today about
our fleet replacement plan. We've got a large number of buses that are reaching 15, 16, 17 year lives that
we've delayed replacing just due to our previous financial challenges. So it's a significant number. And I
can follow up and get you an exact number of what that looks like.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And if I might Madam Chair, what is the average life expectancy for buses? I
know we're over a lot.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yeah, and if anybody else wants to weigh in, please do.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I would. General Manager Debra Johnson, CEO. Basically, in reference to our
assets, as we look to the Federal Transit Administration we're required to hold on to that asset from 12 to
15 years, contingent upon the mileage, which can go up to 500,000 miles.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
PEGGY CAITLIN: Is that all, Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes Madam Chair. Thank you.
PEGGY CAITLIN: Thank you. Director Dishell, I see your hand is up, Please.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you Doug MacLeod, and for you and your staff,
and GM CEO Johnson for putting this together. I want to make sure that I'm reading this graph correctly
which is that in 2023 if we do not-- assuming the worst case scenario, in 2023 we are looking at $103
million deficit. Am I reading that right?
PEGGY CAITLIN: Mr. MacLeod?
DOUG MACLEOD: I'm sorry. Let me refer to that slide. So that is a slide on page-DEBRA JOHNSON: Page 25.5.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. So page 25. So we broke this down by year just so we can see the effects
by year. So that's true. For that particular year, it would be a deficit of $103 million. You can see in the

prior years, we actually have a positive balance, so technically that amount will be carried forward and
used to pay for some of that deficit.
BOBBY DISHELL: Got it. Thank you.
PEGGY CAITLIN: Thank you. Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. A quick question for our acting CFO. Do your
projections take into account the Leeds School of Business forecast that is a later part of this
presentation, this evening.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, we did not have that most recent forecast when we did the last mid-term
financial plan. So yes, we did include that. During the mid-term financial plan period of 2021 through
2026, that's an additional $114 million.
However, what I would point out is what you'll see in this forecast. If you get past that point, when you
compare the latest forecast to the September forecast, basically the positive impact has all been brought
forward into these earlier years. The gentlemen from CU Leeds will explain that. They're seeing some
different activity where they think some of the spending will occur earlier, which results in the later years is
actually going to be lower than their September forecast.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you, I appreciate that. I just wanted to say, and I know [AUDIO OUT] for
a little bit when Rich Wobbekind and the others speak. Thank you.
PEGGY CAITLIN: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Are there any other questions? I have one. And I think I
may have missed something earlier, so I apologize if you already said it. So when you look at operating
expenditures, does that assume going to pre-COVID service levels, or does it mean reinstatement of
service, or does it maintain the service levels that we have right now?
DOUG MACLEOD: In the mid-term financial plan, the assumption that was made was that it would
maintain the current level of service, with slight increases going forward. So the costs associated with that
would increase according to inflation. So that's the idea that happened behind that expense and the
expenses. The other thing that would be important to know, is that those expenses weren't significantly
reduced, because the thought was that we would maintain service based on the CARES funding, and
then that was carried forward. So the expenses that we have in there are really current state that we're
carrying forward.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. And those were also taking into account that we had to double-up on buses to
maintain social distancing.
DOUG MACLEOD: Correct.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I think Director Lewis was next.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Doug, for this presentation. It's actually quite
thorough and super easy to follow along. I'll say at the beginning I really appreciate seeing the debt
refinancing, so thank you all for your work in that. I do have a few questions from the-- I actually don't
know what side this was-- where you talked about the reversal of the furloughs, the tiered pay reductions,
and then the PTO payouts, and I was just kind of curious as to the thinking around the reversal of those
decisions.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Madame Chair, if I can direct the response to Director Lewis. So recognizing
when we receive the legislative text, as related to the CARES Act-- excuse me, Carissa Act, it specifically
cited that these monies were being allocated for those who had been placed on furlough. Recognizing
that furlough days were instituted for non-representative employees, we leveraged this going forward,

looking at what was done and the sacrifices that had been made-- holistically throughout the entire
organization-- hence, we are redoing a rescission with those that have been laid-off in the front-line
operator and mechanics ranks. And in relationship to the furloughs, those were only geared toward that
classification of employee. Hence, that was the rationale recognizing the intent of the legislation as put
forward.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I see. So if I might follow up, General Manager, with the representing employees, was
there a revisit there, or was it not necessary because you had already had that information going into the
re-negotiation of contracts?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So with the represented employees, they never were impacted by furlough days.
What was done instead was eliminating positions, i.e. some that were vacant. Hence, when we received
the money, that's why a rescission was done of the layoffs, and doing a recall of said positions.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thank you so much, I appreciate that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome, ma'am. And so Director Rivera-Malpiede actually asked this
question, but I had an additional follow up for the deferred projects list. I know we tend to receive that
deferred projects list as a Board, and I'm curious if we've made any headway, or been able to prioritize
projects based on the funding that we have recently received, or are in a position to receive.
PEGGY CATLIN: General Manager Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much. And I will have acting CFO MacLeod address this as well. But
as we look at what's happening-- recognizing we just received information pursuant to what the Carissa
money actually can be leveraged for-- and as cited, we're talking about salary, utilities, fuel, and salaries,
utilities, and fuel, and the operation of the bus and rail lines. Recognizing that there could be some
implications relative to safety, we're going to reconvene and have a discussion around that, since we now
understand the parameters.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. And if I might ask-- Oh, Mr. MacLeod go ahead.
DOUG MACLEOD: No, thank you. I was just agreeing. General Manager Johnson covered it all. Thank
you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thank you. And if I might-- and this may be coming to the Board. I'd be curious as
to-- as you all revisit that conversation-- where we might be in terms of being able to get some of those
projects off of that deferred projects list, and begin to address some of those. And so if that might come
back to the Board, I'd be interested in it. You can also send that via email. You don't have to bring it as a
Board report.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. Appreciate that, Director Lewis. And recognizing we want to ensure that
we are operating in a state of good repair, so anything that is past the typical preventative maintenance
aspect, or whatever else there is, that we need to ensure that we're meeting the threshold relative to the
operability of our service. Those will be top of mind, and we can most definitely do a communicate to the
Board outlining what that is. So thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. I'd love to be able to talk about those things. And then finally, Mr.
MacLeod you spoke about the fares trending downward, and I was curious. In terms of the services that
we weren't offering during the pandemic service, were there any cost savings at all? Or because we were
having those followers, that maybe we might have broken even?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yeah, that's a great question. Thank you, Doug MacLeod here. So, yes. And that's a
really good question. So that slide was intended to show that in the original mid-term financial plan-- we

had contemplated a fairly significant recovery over those six years, getting back to almost a pre-COVID
normality, in terms of fair collections and ridership. What that line-item of $356 million was intended to
demonstrate that this is the new normal. We don't make that recovery to pre-COVID levels. That's what
our exposure is on the revenue side.
And to answer the second part of your question, definitely, there were some significant measures taken
towards the end of 2020 that saved quite a bit of money, which also contributed to the additional fund
balance that we were left with at the end of the year. Which was great, that we had a good starting point
for this year. Then for 2021, the budget contemplated a lot of those reductions in force, and some of
those other cost reductions that were necessary to meet what was anticipated back in November for a
loss in revenue.
So the great news is-- after the first two months-- is that we're trending right at budget. So we have been
successful in reducing our costs to this point this year. So that was going to be one concern. With all the
changes that were happening, it's difficult to tell what that really looks like until you actually see it
happening. So I think we're in decent shape on the expense side, but it's a very cautious position that we
don't have much wiggle room, given that the additional funding is really temporary in nature.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. Thank you for that. I-PEGGY CATLIN: Does that answer your questions, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I was actually in the middle of a sentence. So it does beg for me the discussion that
we've been having with the state legislature and the Accountability Committee, and this conversation
around providing more flexibility for RTD and I think the dialogue naturally going to, hey, now, you can
offer RTD for free-- fair free-- and now we're talking about fairs trending downward, and not really seeing
an increase in ridership. And so it's definitely an interesting conversation to be had in the future. But thank
you so much, Mr. MacLeod I really appreciate your work on this. And with that, those concludes my
remarks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I guess I just misunderstood when you said, finally. I didn't know you were
going to continue, so I apologize. I wanted to acknowledge that Director Broom has joined us. And he
does have his hand up, but prior to Director Broom, I see that Director Davidson has his hand raised.
ERIC DAVIDSON: Hi. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Mr. MacLeod. Thanks for the conversation
today-- the presentation. I just want to make sure I understand, from a cash flow standpoint, and a
mechanics standpoint-- recognizing that we did just get the final guidance on the Carissa funding for
salary, utility, fuel, operation, and bus and rail today. This may be a little bit premature, but do I
understand correctly that the Carissa funds need to be dispersed-- not obligated-- but dispersed by
February 2022? That's kind of part one to my question.
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. MacLeod
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Madam Chair. No. Sorry, the Carissa funds-- I'm trying to recall-- yes,
those do have to be dispersed by 2022. And that has not been a concern for us necessarily, because we
have the expenditures that we can draw that down long before. And we intend to take the same approach
that we did with the CARES funding, to draw that money down as quickly as possible, get it in our bank
accounts to earn interest, and then use it to fund operations or other options going forward.
ERIC DAVIDSON: OK, great. Thank you. And I know we've talked a little bit about that, but that's kind of
part two to my question. Do we have yet to identify all of the expenditures now that we just have the
guidance of what we'll actually obligate, and then disperse the funds to. I know we're doing the run board,

but we're just basically pulling forward some expenses in the categories that qualify, and then extending
out other money forward from a cash flow standpoint. Have we identified what we'll draw against yet, or is
that an ongoing process now that we have the guidance?
DOUG MACLEOD: Our approach with the Carissa funding, the second round of funding, was going to be
the same approach that we used with the CARES funding. So we would use those same categories of
expenses, mainly costs associated with operating. In terms of wages-- salaries, wages, and benefits, and
then also purchase transportation.
One of the balancing acts that we have to do, is we also receive on an annual basis an apportionment for
preventive maintenance grants that are 5307. Those are approximately $65 to $70 million annually. We
can't mix up the expenditures for each one. You can only draw on one, obviously, using a certain
expenditure. So we're being very careful in how we administer that, but our intent is to use those same
types of expenditures to draw.
ERIC DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Davidson. We have Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. Can you hear me?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. Thank you.
BOB BROOM: My question is this for staff. How confident are you in all the information that you've
provided to us here tonight? I've never seen such wild swings before in anybody's set of municipal books.
And so, I'm concerned that you really haven't had a chance to study these numbers and make sure that
they're firm. And going forward, we need to have firm numbers in order to make good decisions. But that's
just an observation. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Broom. Would CEO General Manager Johnson, or Mr. MacLeod
like to respond to that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I appreciate Director Broom's comments, and I support those of-- I had a
conversation very similar to that with Director Guissinger, as relates to where we are-- recognizing we are
getting guidance, and these are one-time expenditures. And as we go forward, we have to make informed
decisions. So I appreciate him acknowledging that. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. OK. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Just quickly, one thing the numbers really drive home for me is the need to focus on
ridership, and building that back up. I also think that's where the Accountability Committee is coming in,
too. I mean, I've heard several times that the aim-- our aim should be to build ridership. And that would
address that yawning gap in fare revenues that we see coming in, too, even if it means lowering fares at
some point to build ridership in order to have that happen. Thank you, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. One question I had is about TABOR. You mentioned that it may hit the
ratchet down where we know more than growth in population and property tax in the district, what actually
triggers that ratchet down? Is it the lowering of property values? That was my understanding at one point,
which seems weird, but do you know, Doug?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yeah, this is Doug MacLeod, and Melanie may have a little more background. So
Tabor is notoriously vague on some of these items. So we've actually tried to go and look at what that
means for RTD, and how we could calculate that. And it's very, very difficult, as you can imagine, trying to
assess property values within the district But yeah, that's really the intent. It would drop us down to a

lower level and we would only be able to collect on that basis. And I'm sorry, I'm probably not answering
your question, if I'm missing a portion of that.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm sorry, was somebody else saying something?
PEGGY CATLIN: No, I just asked you to go ahead and follow up.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I'm not exactly sure what my question is, and you sort of answered it,
because I was trying to figure out how we calculated the $19 million each of those years. Because it does
seem like it's hard to-- it's something we have to keep an eye on, I think, as we move forward, and
whether we need to take action on that-DOUG MACLEOD: Yeah, definitely.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Go ahead.
DOUG MACLEOD: I'm sorry. Those numbers were just-- basically what we did is we eliminated the
growth in sales, and we used taxes for those years on the base system. So those two $19 million
numbers were what were projected for growth in sales and use tax. And if we were to remain flat, that's
what we'd be giving up.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. And then you talked about the CARES Act funds, and that the $125.6 million
went to represented employees' wages and benefits, and about $21.3 million went to non-represented
employees. Are those are the numbers going forward? We're non-representing may have changed, I
guess. But are those essentially the numbers that we expect, going forward?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yeah, probably. This is Doug MacLeod. Probably about that same ratio. And as I
mentioned, we do have-- what we have to do, is when we gather those expenditures to draw down on the
CARES or the Carissa funding, is we have to separate out what we're going to use to draw down on
preventive maintenance. So the ratio between represented and non-represented is a little misleading,
because a lot of the preventive maintenance costs that we would draw on the 5307 annual grants funding
are not included in this COVID relief funding. So mechanic costs-- costs of mechanics-- those types of
preventive maintenance costs actually get drawn on a separate grant.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks. Just one last question. The $30 million each of the next six run
boards that we're putting, is that largely wages, salaries, additions to service-- or I guess it would be all of
the costs of service. Is that what's there?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Director Guissinger, yes, that's everything from soup to nut when we talk
about deploying service. So it's all the aspects that we're outlining. CRRSSA, i.e. salaries, the operation
of bus and rail lines, fuel, all of it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you
PEGGY CATLIN: Looks like Director Rosenthal has his hand up.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is another question down for down the road, but with
Tabor, if there were to be a fix to allow RTD to escape that revenue pressure, to where we'd have to
return money to the taxpayers, would that be a legislative fix, or would that be a constitutional fix? To
where we could address that-- and that's probably best for General Counsel Snyder, or whomever would
like to answer it
PEGGY CATLIN: General Counsel?

MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. If I'm understanding the question, I think you're
referring to the fact that we lose our de-Bruce'ing in 2024. And so, that hasn't been budgeted for as I
understand it. So we would have to go back to the voters to be able to either collect, or impose new
taxes, or to be able to retain tax revenue beyond that point, if it's been collected.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I'm sorry. I guess what I was saying is, is there an act of the legislature, so we could
actually avoid doing that? Or would we have to go to the voters with a constitutional amendment to say,
can we, as RTD, avoid doing this?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, Director Rosenthal. RTD would need to go to the polls. It wouldn't be a
constitutional amendment, but we would be voting on the resolution.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And then one last question, which is-- so the reserves being at three months-- and I
know this sounds counterintuitive, but if we do see, potentially, any additional revenues as the economy
recovers, would we potentially see putting more money into the reserves above the three months? Maybe
getting to four months, or five months, and would that be helpful? Would that be something that would be
good for RTD to do?
DOUG MACLEOD: This is Doug MacLeod. Yeah, that's really a policy discussion that needs to be had.
What level do we as an agency feel comfortable? Obviously, the more we have, the more security we
have for our future-- for future surprises. On the flip side, there's also the obligation to taxpayers to
provide an efficient service, and an efficient level of service, in return for their taxpayer dollars. So it's
striking that balance that I think is kind of a policy decision that would need to be discussed-- if that does
materialize.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. MacLeod Does that answer your question, Mr. Rosenthal? That that
would be part of a fiscal policy discussion that this Board might have, if it chose to change that three
months of operating. That could materialize in the future, I believe. I don't see any other hands raised. We
have one more discussion item for this committee tonight. It was alluded to in this earlier presentation,
and I'm just going to refer again to Acting CFO Doug MacLeod to introduce our guests. Doug?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Madam Chair. So in September and March of each year, the team from
the University of Colorado-- the School of Business Business Research Division, who we have contracted
with to prepare our sales and use tax forecasts-- come to the Board to present an economic forecast
update. In the Board package, this item starts on page 28. There is a presentation that the gentleman will
walk through. But I also want to point out that we did attach the actual forecast report in the back. It's a
lengthy report, and if you have any questions about that, you can certainly contact me at the time that's
convenient for you.
So tonight, we have Rich Wobbekind, Robert McNown, and Brian Lewandowsky, I believe, who are going
to do the presentation. So gentlemen, please take it away. You may be on mute.
RICHARD WOBBEKIND: Thank you. Sorry. There's a lot of new faces on the Board, and I just wanted to
make a couple of very quick introductory comments holding to the concept of brevity that was requested.
So we will move through the presentation rapidly and hopefully have time for questions.
We've been involved in the forecast with RTD for the past 10 years, and just recently signed a new
contract. And going back to Director Broom's comment, and also Director Tisdale's, we've seen volatility
like you can't imagine. You're all living it, so I don't need to describe that to you. And during the past year,
for a period of time we were producing monthly forecasts for the staff, just to help them sort of get through
this, because the volatility was so dramatic in so many of the indicators.

Realizing that, and realizing changes, I very much appreciate the comments about how can you be sure?
We'll talk a little bit about that. But when I look at the economy going forward-- and you'll get that sense, I
think one of the biggest unknowns, now with all the things that have happened, is that ridership piece.
And we're not forecasting that ridership piece, but I'll address that very briefly in just a little bit.
Along with renewing the model, we also updated a lot of pieces, changed the report, so you're seeing a
new product, if you will, as it came out of the most recent contract. So I'm going to talk about the sort of
background information that we're using to forecast the economy, and then my colleague, Robert
McNown, is going to pick it up and talk about the actual model results for RTD. And really, part of the
reason here is this is what we're using to drive the forecast, so I want to just make a few comments about
that. But also, to reinforce some of the conversation that you've been having over the last hour and 15
minutes or so, in terms of the fluctuations, and the things you're paying attention to.
So you look at the GDP output, and I won't go through the three stimulus bills-- because you've heard so
much about them with respect to specific funding for RTD-- but every time one of those stimulus bills
passed, it dramatically affected the level of personal income, tax rebates, and unemployment insurance
increases, and that affected all of the sort of modeling. And you'll see the effects of that as we go through.
So before the December bill was passed, we were saying that GDP would get back to its previous peak
by the end of this year. When the December supplemental was passed, we were saying it would happen
in the fourth quarter-- beginning of the fourth quarter. Now with the most recent Act that was passed, the
American Rescue Plan, it is likely to hit the same level of GDP by the third quarter. So in terms of the
output recovering, that's in place. The employment is doing-- especially in the last couple of months-- is
doing well. As the vaccines have rolled out-- as we're all witnessing-- things are getting a little bit closer to
normal.
But if you look at this graphic, you can see what we've been talking about for the last year and a half.
Recovering from that kind of a collapse in employment takes awhile. And even with the last couple of
months having very strong employment data, we're still down about eight million jobs. And so, this is one
of the concern areas-- getting that employment all the way back. That's not likely to happen until probably
the end of next year, or into 2023. So that's one of the things we have to sort of build into the forecast as
we're looking at the pieces.
Until the last two months, we were still down a higher percentage-wise of employment than we were in
any of the recessions, basically since World War II. So we were down over 6.5% until the last two months
of employment data. And you can see the Great Recession that you all lived through in 2008 and 2009.
That bottomed out at 6.3%. But you can also see that that took over six years to recover, to get back to
the same level of employment. And as I'm suggesting to you, we're going to see this get back to the same
level of employment at probably 30 months, somewhere in that range. So much more rapid recovery to
full employment.
Colorado has fared OK in the recovery, in terms of year over year growth. We went into this February a
year ago, and February 2020, we were fifth in the nation, so we were really doing well. Now we're in the
middle, so the recovery has been a little slower. There's lots of reasons that we can sort of conjecture. Is
it a different pattern of rollout? Is it a different pattern of industry mix? Being a heavy tourism state, for
example. So there's pieces that are involved there.
But what's clearly known-- and what you're seeing in terms of part of your ridership, and so on-- is it's
becoming very much a K-shaped recovery, the haves and the have-nots. And that's, I think, one of the

greatest areas of concern that we have going forward. How do we make sure that the have-nots, the
people who have been sort of left behind in this recovery, ultimately get assimilated back into the
workforce? Not just additional stimulus checks and additional unemployment benefits, but actually getting
them back as fully functioning members of the economy?
This sort of shows you the relative strength or weakness, if you wish. All of them negative year over year
through February, but you can see Boulder and Greeley out there at the end, having the weakest job-- or
the greatest job loss, if you will. The Denver sort of in the middle for Colorado. So you can sort of see the
impact has been sort of spread out throughout the state.
So going back to my comment about stimulus, just very quickly, when we look at this particular graphic,
the red line on the bottom is the savings that's occurring in the economy, the blue line in the middle is
consumption, and the tan line at the top is personal income. So what we've seen is, with every one of the
spikes in personal income-- the tan line-- and those spikes in personal income are being driven by
transfer payments and unemployment insurance. Not by higher levels of wages, but by higher levels of
transfers.
So we had the transfers in April of 2020, we saw a big surge in consumption. We had the transfers in
December of 2020, we saw January's numbers jump up. We have transfers now that are-- as I
understand from looking at the information today-- the IRS checks are hitting right now. We would
anticipate that April is going to see a surge in retail sales again. And of course, that's hugely important,
when you're talking about that revenue stream for the state, but obviously for the RTD district.
So you can see here that February-- 6.3%. Again, year-over-year, but minus 3% from the prior month. So
we had this January surge from the December stimulus, we had February fall-off, and now when you see
the April numbers-- March isn't out yet either-- but when you see the April numbers, we're really
anticipating a stimulus hit from that.
So this is through December, and again this is just sales tax. This is not sales and use, so I want to make
sure that's clear. But to give you an idea of how you're faring, RTD district is down 2.6%. All the way at
the bottom, you can see Colorado-- through December-- is up 2.3%. But you can see all the variation inbetween. The city of Boulder is down 8.8%. Lone Tree is down 23%. Superior is up 18.1%. So our view
on this is you're not doing all that badly in this particular regard. In fact, you've got a balanced portfolio.
You've got some of those really good spots, and some of those really bad spots. And by having that
diversity in RTD district portfolio, overall it's helping pretty nicely in the overall picture of things.
But again, you probably have read this, so I don't want to take too much time, but the areas that had
open-air types of retail, that had big box types of retail, have fared much better. Main Street still
struggling, and many, many places in terms of retail. And part of why I bring that up is, when does that
Main Street retail come back? Well, part of it comes back when you have a thriving downtown Denver
area-- people living there, and as the restaurants reopen at higher capacities, and so on.
But you also have a lunch business, and maybe a after-business business happy hour, or whatever you
want to call it. And that's driven by occupancies in those buildings. The other piece of this, which relates
back to the main question that came out of the earlier presentation, if more telework occurs, does that
impact the level of public transportation that's used? And you can see the various sectors-- this is the
most recent month that we have from the Bureau of Labor statistics-- but this is showing roughly the
percent of telework on a month-to-month basis, and then the different types of industries-- how they're
being impacted.

So this is, I think, the key uncertainty, vis a vis public ridership of RTD. Sure, there's concerns about the
spread of the virus, but people are going to get over that, and all of that stuff is going to be in the rear
view mirror at some point in the not-too-distant future. But if people are commuting to work three days a
week instead of five, or four days a week instead of five, I think that's a bigger question.
So with that, I am passing the baton to my colleague, Robert McNown. I'm going to still be controlling the
slides, but you're going to hear Professor McNown-- Dr. McNown-- talk about the RTD model and give
you more detail.
ROBERT MCNOWN: Right. Thank you, Rich. And thank you to the Board of Directors for inviting us to
give this presentation. Rich has set the background, both at the state and the national level, in terms of
the key economic indicators that are driving our forecast ultimately. And this little chart on the left traces
the general modeling strategy that we use, where the national economy is driving the Colorado economy,
which in turn drives the district economy. And together, those last two economies determine these sales,
and use tax revenues for RTD.
So we obtain our forecasts from Moody's Analytics for the national variables. And then we've developed a
model for the Colorado economy that's extended now to the Regional Transportation District, and
ultimately, the equations that provide forecasts of the sales and use tax revenues for RTD. So in some
sense, it is the national economy that lies behind our forecasts, but we do allow for some independence
in the Colorado economy. In some periods, the Colorado economy is stronger than the national one, and
that's reflected in our model as well.
But you can see sort of anticipating the forecast here, if you look at the row for 2021, and reading across
to the second entry. After that date, the percentage change in retail sales at the National level projected
by Moody's to be over 9%. And so, you can see that's a remarkable boost in this key variable that's going
to be ultimately driving the sales and use tax revenues for RTD.
Now I want to mention that we've been working with the staff of RTD over 10 years, particularly with Doug
MacLeod and with Monika Treipl-Harnke. And more recently, we've been provided with some really
valuable data by Todd Nikkel, who has provided data on key components of RTD sales tax revenues,
which we didn't have before in our previous updates. We simply worked directly with total sales tax
revenues.
But in the current situation, during the pandemic, and now during the recovery as well, some of the most
important components of retail sales-- or sales tax revenues for RTD have been moving in opposite
directions. And in such a situation, it's really valuable for us to be able to make a more nuanced and
informative analysis of these individual components. Take, for example, the sales of hotels and
restaurants, which of course, we know have really been depressed. And you contrast that with ecommerce, which has been soaring. So to be able to treat those now separately, I think, has really
enhanced our modeling capability.
So on the next slide, you can see that the strength in the US economy is going to carry over to the state,
and ultimately to RTD revenues. So again, focus on the row-- probably looking at the right panel there,
where it's the percentage changed year to year in RTD revenues, and you can see for 2021 we're
anticipating an 8% growth in RTD revenues-- really, a remarkable turnaround. And that reflects that very
high expected retail sales growth, at both the national and state-level, too.
And what you see here, this slide displays the forecast out to 2027. So this presents in both our shortterm and medium-term forecasts, which I know goes into your medium-term planning. And so going out to

2027, all these numbers here-- kind of overwhelming. But just to summarize that in one statistic here,
these forecasts call for a 41% increase in RTD tax revenues between 2020 and 2027. So it's a strong
sustained growth over this period of time.
Now of course, we recognize-- and you'll see in the next slide-- that all these future projections are
subject to some degree of uncertainty. And we always try to capture the range of uncertainty-- first of all,
with alternative national economic scenarios. And you can see those in the green line where it says
optimistic, and the red line, pessimistic. These are two alternative scenarios that are provided by Moody's
in addition to the baseline scenario, which we take as the most likely outcome. But this is one possible
way of viewing the range of uncertainty generated by the different possible outcomes at the national level.
But in addition to that, we also present a more extreme range of uncertainty-- what we call the high
forecast, and the low forecast-- at the top and the bottom lines. And those are statistically based bounds
on the possible outcomes. And in this particular case, what we present are abounds with a 67%
probability will contain the actual outcome. That is, the expectation is that RTD tax revenues will fall
between those most extreme upper and lower bounds with a 67% probability.
Now we ought to do this-- you'll see in the next slide. For the long-range forecast, we're charged with
developing a forecast that goes out 40-- I'm sorry 30 years. And so now carrying out to 2050. And for this
purpose, we've developed a separate model that focuses really on future demographic change-- about
which we have some reasonable expectations, because so much of fertility and mortality rates are going
to be very slow to change. And even so, as they do change, their impact on actual populations is not
going to change so dramatically. There's a lot of momentum-- or inertia, I should say-- in demographic
projections.
And so, this is a reasonable basis, I think, for making some intelligent projections about what's likely to
happen to the national economy, and then ultimately, of course, RTD revenues. So demographic change
features in importantly in two ways. First of all, there will be a slowing in population growth in total, and
secondly, in aging of that population. And both of those factors will tend to retard overall economic
growth, and consequently, overall levels of expenditures by households, and therefore a slower growth in
RTD tax revenues.
And you can see that in the table of numbers there on the right. And what you'll notice is that in each
subsequent decade, the average annual rate of growth of first, Colorado retail sales, and ultimately RTD
taxable sales, declines as we go from the 20s, to the 30s, to the 40s. And so the long-run prospects for
growth in RTD revenues are pretty modest, I'd have to say, to be kind of polite about it. But we think this
is a pretty reasonable way to look at what's likely to happen in this very long run.
And so finally, our last slide-- which, we just want to emphasize that we're trying to present forecasts that
have integrity-- that are not biased. We don't have a political stake with RTD, or in the particular forecast
that we're making. We do try to update, as Rich mentioned. Particularly over the past year, we provided
frequent updates at least to the staff, because of the rapidly changing economic situation. And as some of
the slides have emphasized, the forecasts may be too high, or too low. We always have emphasized-from early on-- the uncertainty in the economy that is generating uncertainty about our forecasts as well.
But I would also point out that our forecast record, at least up until 2020, I think was very good, with an
average forecast error of approximately 1% of total RTD revenues. And the forecasts are unbiased in the
sense that approximately many are overstated as understated. And I think that's a good outcome as well.

So thank you for your attention to this, and we would be happy to take any questions you have about the
forecast or presentation.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Misters Wobbekind and McNown. Really appreciate your presentation, as
always. I did notice that Director Williams had her hand raised, and if there are other Directors who have
questions of our guests, please raise your hand and I'll call on you. Dr. Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm just wondering if the recent move toward employeeemployer trip reduction planning was included. That's been a big deal here, and I wonder if that affected
the projections in any way.
ROBERT MCNOWN: No. So of course, we have to keep in mind that we're only forecasting the sales and
use tax revenues, so we're not dealing with fare-box revenues. I don't know if you were suggesting that
this change in policy could be having wider economic effects that are not incorporated in our forecasts. If
so, I would have to admit that no, we've not considered that in our equations.
KATE WILLIAMS: It's a policy that requires employers in Colorado to reduce their employees commute by
40% upcoming, and that I think that that will also have all kinds of effects on people eating out, and
people buying things, and that we are not-- in many ways-- let us hope we are not going back to the world
that we used to live in. And that I am glad that you guys do this for a living, and not me. I think that
projecting the future is a nice role about now. So, that's all. Thank you gentlemen.
ROBERT MCNOWN: Thank you for that insight. That's certainly something we should keep our eyes on.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Williams. And is that not for employers with more than 100
employees?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, it is. For now, it is, yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Are there any other questions from Board members? Seeing none. Let's move on-- and
thank you again, gentlemen, for your presentation. We really appreciate it.
RICHARD WOBBEKIND: Our pleasure. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Are you going to be-- typically, the cycle is you would be presenting again in
September, is that correct?
RICHARD WOBBEKIND: That's correct, and I certainly hope it's live.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So do we. So do we.
RICHARD WOBBEKIND: My colleague, Professor McNown, rides the RTD bus from Boulder down, so-[LAUGHTER]
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, let's keep our fingers crossed. Thank you.
ROBERT MCNOWN: I'm missing that ride.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, are there any other matters to discuss? Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: This is the other matter section of the agenda, correct? I wasn't just-PEGGY CATLIN: Correct.
BOBBY DISHELL: --rhetorical. Yeah, I just wanted to ask-- and I think I might have brought this up last
month as well. We're now in mid-April. The state audit had us-- by December-- really updating our audit
function. And this is the Audit Committee. So I would ask if we have an update on-- how we're
progressing on meeting that December deadline for updating our internal audit practices, and how the
Board can or should be involved with that?
PEGGY CATLIN: I might start, and then I would like to turn it over to CEO General Manager Johnson. As
you are aware, the APTA Peer Review Committee has been working on a peer review of our internal

audit. But there have also been some really good strides made in terms of our reporting for personnel
actions. I mean with the training that we've all gone through, with our logging time, and Debra, if you want
to add anything to that? But I think there are some opportunities to make progress, and when we
reconvene with the audit portion of this committee, I think that would be a good agenda item. General
Manager CEO Johnson, do you want to-DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. So what I would share, Director Dishell, recognizing
that we are, I would say, in the process of our APTA peer review, because they've done their due
diligence and are preparing a report. That report is anticipated to be received within 30 days-- I was just
briefed last week. So recognizing we're more or less looking at early May, the intent would be to brief this
Board in executive session as relates to what those recommendations are, understanding the nature of
internal audit, and what the purpose is, and what would be disclosed.
So at that juncture, that would be steps we're making. I am going to work in-tandem with Chair Catlin and
Vice Chair Davidson, as there are auspices of which the Board has relative to the internal audit function
outside of the General Manager CEO'S purview. So that's why we will be working in-tandem and having
discussions in that appropriate form, being in closed-session to deduce what the path forward is relative
to what it is that you all collectively decide as a policy body. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, General Manager CEO. I also was a little bit disjointed in my response, but
there was more than the internal audit as part of the state audit, and I thought maybe some of those
aspects could be brought forward in terms of progress at our next meeting. And particularly, the tools that
we're starting to employ for employee retention, which includes things like exit interviews-- some of those
things that are automated.
The main focus of this committee is to really focus on internal audit, but I think that there could be an
opportunity at next month's meeting to discuss those other elements of the state audit as well. And we
can work with Director Guissinger to see how we might structure that so that we can report out our
progress as an agency for the other components of the audit.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you all so much.
PEGGY CATLIN: Any other comments? Our next meeting date will be May 4, 2021, and seeing no other
discussion, this meeting is adjourned at 7:26. And I suggest that we take a five-minute break, and
reconvene in our next committee meeting at 7:31. Thank you.

