Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, February 24, 2009,
Page 1 of 4
Regional Transportation District

Memorandum
To:

RTD Board of Directors

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

February 25, 2009

Subject:

Minutes of the Meeting of the Legislative Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, February 24, 2009 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Committee
Members Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Chair Daly, Vice-Chair Pulliam, Director Bagley, Director Brohl,
Director Busck, Director Christopher, Director Cohen, Director
James, Director Kemp, Director Martinez, Director McMullen,
Director O’Boyle, Director Tayer, Director Tobiassen
Director Chacon

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Bruce Abel, Larry Buter, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry
Howerter, Marla Lien, Caitlin Magee, Ryan Mulligan, Robert
Merriman, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna,
Cal Shankster, Bill Sirois, John Tarbert, Bill Van Meter , Phil
Washington

Others Present:

Mike Dino (Patton Boggs), Peter Hynes, Tom Coogan (Route
Match), Rob Andresen (First Transit), Steve Cook (DRCOG), Gary
Ulberg (First Transit)
****
Chair Daly called the meeting to order at 5:32 p.m.

Call to Order:
I.

Federal Update  Mike Dino from Patton Boggs gave this update. Details and information are
beginning to come forward about the stimulus package and how it will affect
RTD. We are still waiting on more information particularly around the
competitive grant opportunities that will benefit RTD and various capital
projects the District has planned.
Mr. Dino then talked about some “old business,” the Fiscal Year (FY) 2009
Omnibus budget bill that has been laying around in Congress for the last half
year is moving forward. It contains $60 million for West Corridor and a bit
over $1 million for the Southeast Corridor to finish up that Full Funding Grant
Agreement (FFGA). Hope to have it passed this week in the House and next
week out of the Senate.
Stimulus Package – Money that RTD would be eligible for would come in two

Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, February 24, 2009,
Page 2 of 4
areas: 1) traditional transit formula funding and 2) competitive grant
opportunities.
RTD is hoping to get approximately $73 million through
traditional transit formula funding and staff will be working on a draft plan for
how RTD will tackle spending that money. The bill has parameters of getting
the obligated money spent within 180 days. The money has not been put
into play yet. There is $753,399 in the fixed guideway modernization
program that RTD will get. Other opportunities will be mostly competitive
grant opportunities. There is $1.5 billion in the new stimulus bill designated
for “Regionally Significant Projects.” It will be a competitive process and the
details of how agencies will compete for that money are not clear at this
time.
Patton Boggs feels this is an ideal pot of money for Denver Union
Station.
Also, $750 million for New Starts could also help the District.
This money is set aside for Full Funding Grant Agreements (FFGAs) that are
already in place, possibly the schedule could be accelerated as this is not
new funding. Staff is still waiting on criteria for this money. A lot of transit
projects are still in play; FTA has different regulations so we are still waiting
to hear what some of the criteria will be. Mr. Dino believes that RTD is in a
very good position to put the money in play. If the other agencies cannot
obligate their funds, it has to be returned to the Secretary of Transportation
and RTD could go after this money too. There is a lot of competition for this
money both from highways and transit.


Cal Marsella presented an additional update on RTD’s plans for stimulus
funds. The next step is a preliminary screening of available projects. We
need to make sure we are ready to use the money. There will be a DRCOG
hearing on March 4, 2009 regarding available projects. At the March 3,
2009 P&D committee, staff will present a list of projects that RTD will
pursue. On March 17, 2009 the Board will take action on projects that will
be implemented. There will be no waiver of FTA program requirements
(Planning/NEPA/Buy America/Labor Protections/etc. still apply).
This is
100% federal money with no local match required. Capital expenditures are
the only eligible expenditures. US DOT has 21 days to apportion funds, 50%
of funds must be obligated within 180 days, 100% of funds must be
obligated within one year. Funds apportioned and not obligated on this
timetable will be withdrawn. Recovery and redistribution of funds withdrawn
after 180 days and one year only to those who did not have funds
withdrawn. The stimulus also contains a $100 million Discretionary Energy
program, $742 million New Starts/Small Starts, $1.5 billion Discretionary
Multimodal Program. The $1.5 billion is really a small number for the whole
country to compete for. The District is aiming for $18 million of DRCOG
money and $72 million for specific projects.
Director McMullen asked about $1 billion for P3 for the East and Gold lines.
This is not part of the stimulus; the District will be asking for this in the next
authorization process.
Staff will be going to Preliminary Engineering (PE)
and then going for authorization in the next reauthorization bill. Sherry
Ellebracht says this authorization usually runs behind by about two years.
Regardless, the District will be in the authorization process for East/Gold.
Mr. Marsella outlined the process for applying for this money which is to get
authorization first and then appropriations every year.

Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, February 24, 2009,
Page 3 of 4
Director Martinez asked questions about “Buy America” and what does it
mean. Buy America has specific language that calls out what percentage of
construction and assembly must take place in the US to meet the Buy
America provision. Mr. Marsella will get the details to the Board.
Director Tayer asked about P3 - will there be competition for these funds?
All funds have to be authorized. There are certain advantages for the District
since we are in the FTA Penta P program.
Director O’Boyle asked about extensions in the stimulus - is it faster to
reallocate money or grant extensions? Mr. Marsella responded that if the
criteria are not met, the money will be taken away.
Director Martinez asked if it is possible to apply for specific projects that are
part of the West Corridor. The answer is no. You cannot use the stimulus
money to supplant existing money that has been funded.



APTA Legislative conference, March 8-10, 2009 – Sherry Ellebracht gave a
reminder that the conference is coming up.

State Update – Sherry Ellebracht gave this update. Jenifer Brandeberry and Julie
McKenna were up at the Capital as the FASTER bill is on the floor and were
unable to attend the committee meeting. Director Daly mentioned that there are
many amendments to this bill. There is an amendment that passed that says
RTD does not to have permission from the Legislature before going to the ballot
and there was no percentage cap attached. This was not a RTD initiated piece
of legislation. Representative Andy Kerr introduced this on his own with no
prodding from RTD.

II.

Director Pulliam said the FASTER bill still has a ways to go. It needs to pass on
3rd reading with 33 votes and then it will go back to the Senate where the
Senate will decide if they want to pass it or if they don’t like the amendments.
If it is not passed, a conference committee would try to iron out the differences
between the House and Senate and then the bill is re-passed. The schedule
looks like the House will pass it today on 2nd reading; 3rd reading scheduled for
tomorrow (Wednesday); and then on Thursday going to the Senate for
concurrence or conference committee.


Recommended Action: FASTER Resolution

Motion: Director McMullen made a motion for
approval by the Board.
Second: Director Kemp seconded the motion.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed 14-0.

Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, February 24, 2009,
Page 4 of 4
Director Kemp made a clarification that will move it forward on the unanimous
consent agenda. All members present voted in the affirmative. One director
was absent; otherwise, he believed it would have been a 15-0 vote.


Proposed Legislations: Language change Regarding Penal Bonds on Public Works
Projects. This came up in the context of the P3 proposals. State law requires
that on public works projects over $150,000 that a Penal Bond (usually a
performance and payment bond) for 50% of the contract be issued. The P3
project would require a bond larger than anything that has ever been issued. We
are seeking legislation that would ask that on a multi-year contract a penal bond
be obtained that is 50% of the annual contract amount instead of the total
amount of the contract. Director Daly made a motion to forward that to the
lobbyists to proceed and find a sponsor. There was no objection from the
Committee.

III.

Other Matters – Cal Marsella told the Committee that at about 5:20 p.m., the
District received notice from the Colorado Labor Board denying the union’s
petition to strike. This means that if no agreement can be reached, it will go to
binding arbitration. The goal is still to come to an agreement. Bill McMullen was
glad to hear that the strike is off the table and has complete faith that a fair
agreement will be reached between both sides. Director Martinez asked about
the timetable for negotiations since the contract expires this coming weekend.
Mr. Marsella responded that negotiations will begin again this week and usually
the District and the Union have an agreement to extend the existing contract
until a new agreement is worked out. An arbitrator is brought in only when both
sides come to an impasse in negotiations.

IV.

Date for Next Meeting - The next meeting of the Legislative Committee will be
determined at a later date.

VI.

Adjournment - Chair Daly adjourned the meeting at 6:26 p.m.

