Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, August 4,
2009
Page 1 of 2

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

August 4, 2009

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, August 4, 2009 at 5:36 p.m.
****
Board Members
Present:
Chair Christopher, Directors Brohl, Busck, Cohen, Chacon, Daly, Kemp,
Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Tayer and Tobiassen.
Board Members
Absent:
Director’s Bagley, Chacon and James
Subject:

Staff Present:

Phil Washington, Marla Lien, Rick Clarke, Bill Van Meter, Karen Morales,
Sherry Ellebracht, Dave Genova, Susan Cohen, Teresa Sedmak, Terry
Howerter, Bruce Abel, Cal Shankster, Stan Szabelak, Susan Wood,
Chuck Culig, Paula Perdue and Lisa Trujillo.

Others Present:

Roger Sherman, Jeff Leib – Denver Post, Tammy Lang – CDOT,
Jeanne Shrene – Adams County, Gene Putman – Thornton.
****

Call to Order

Chair Christopher called the meeting to order at 5:36p.m.

I.

Update
 CDOT High Speed Rail
Bill Van Meter was contacted by CDOT and informed that they are preparing a
couple applications for planning grant monies for high-speed rail studies in the
Denver metro area. Tammy Lang, CDOT Branch Manager for Information
Management, discussed this item with the board. This program is broken up into
four different tracks. Track 1 is similar to high-way projects – ready to go, track 2
is new and enhanced services, track 3 is primarily looking at planning activities,
track 4 requires additional non-Federal dollars from States to move forward with
projects. Eight billion dollars is available and they received 103 billion dollars
worth of applications in pre-application process.
CDOT was approached by State of New Mexico and asked if they would partner
with them along with Texas to do a feasibility study. They will be looking to see

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, August 4,
2009
Page 2 of 2

what the connection between high-speed rail and other systems in place or plan to
be in place and how they interface with each other.

II.

Other Matters
No other matters were discussed.

III.

Next Meeting Date
The next Planning and Development Committee will be held on Tuesday, September
1, 2009.

IV.

Adjourn - Hearing no objections, Chair Christopher declared the meeting adjourned
at 5:55 p.m.

