Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday April 24, 2012 at
5:30 p.m.
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Nate’ Malone, Senior Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

April 24, 2012

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, April 24, 2012
at 5:31 p.m. in Rooms R, T & D
****
Board Members
Present:
Chair Kemp; Directors Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy,
James, Malpiede, McMullen, Tayer, and Williams.
Subject:

Board Members
Absent:

Anderson (participated by phone), O’Boyle, Tobiassen, Walker

Staff Present:

L. Skip Brown, Rick Clarke, Lee Cryer, C.J. Czupor, Kevin
Diviness, J. Donovan, Bob Downes, Sherry Ellebracht, David
Genova, Mike Gil, Terry Howerter, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien,
Nate’ Malone, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Jerry Nery,
Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Jannette Scarpino, Teresa Sedmak,
Daria Serna, Roger Sherman, Cal Shankster, John Shonsey,
Walt Stringer, Paulette Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter,
Del Walker, Phil Washington, Brian Welch, and Susan Wood.

Others Present:

Sherman Hamilton, George Gerstle, Mayor Gunning, Bob
Moody, Mac Callison – City of Aurora, Joni Goheen, Sherman
Hamilton, Roger Sherman-CRL, David Lewis, Judy Lubow,
Matthew Kuchar, Matthew Kuykendoll, Marta Sipeki, Julie
Skeen, Sgt. Weeks – DEA

****
I. Call To Order
Chair Kemp called the Study Session meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.
II. 2012 FasTracks Ballot Discussion


FasTracks Stakeholder Panel Discussion
Chair Kemp introduced the Stakeholder panel; George
Gerstle,Transportation Director of Boulder County, Honorable Mayor Jim
Gunning of Lone tree, Robert Moody-Denver Chamber of Commerce, and
Mike Fitzgerald-SE Business Partners (not present).

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday April 24, 2012 at
5:30 p.m.
Chair Kemp stated the input of this panel is a critical part of the program
to if or when we go to the ballot and when it will be completed.
Mayor Gunning stated how much he has enjoyed the partnership with
RTD. He shared that he will continue to support the FasTracks program
for both transit and economical development. Mayor Gunning stated that
it is important to move forward and get it right. He stated that because
there are still some issues that have not been resolved in regards to the
Northwest Corridor it has been difficult to get a good consensus on
where the community stands. He believes the community wants more
answers and a definite completion date before being able to make a
better finding.
Chair Kemp thank Mayor Gunning for his hard work on the FasTracks
Committee. He stated that this has been a great collaborative effort
between partners working together.
George Gerstle introduced himself as the Transportation Planner for
Boulder County and as the Chair of the US 36 Solutions. He shared that
his personal observations from many organizations, one of the challenges
of the project is revenue. This is an industry issue and not just unique to
FasTracks. There is less revenue than anticipated and the cost of the
project has increased. He shared that he has yet to find anyone in any
corridor that is not in favor to continue FasTracks and move forward;
however it is important to the people that they have a better
understanding of what they are getting for their money and the need to
feel comfortable. There is a need to build trust in the community and
they need to be educated on the FasTracks project. We need to take the
time to explain what is proposed and the benefits of the project. He
stated he was convinced that once people know what it is and what the
benefits are, they will support it even more and if that takes place we
have a stronger chance in having a successful turn out in favor of a tax
increase. Mr. Gerstle complimented the staff on their hard work on this
project.
Chair Kemp acknowledged the hard work from day one on this program
that Mr. Gerstle has provided and expressed appreciation for his
candidness.
Bob Moody expressed the Denver Chamber of Commerce remains 100%
committed to the completion of the FasTracks project. He is encouraged
by the new hybrid plan currently being discussed but believes that
additional time is needed to understand all of the plans and to be able to
translate them to the constituents. He shared that the biggest concern
was timing-the time it is going to take to put together a team, raise the
money and sell the plan. We need to be sensitive to the NW corridor and

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday April 24, 2012 at
5:30 p.m.
their concerns and truly have a plan in action in order to sell to that
community the changes of cost and timing.
Chair Kemp thanked the panel for coming and sharing. He articulated the
importance of their input and how valuable it is and relaying what is
being spoken out in the community. Chair Kemp agreed that we need to
address the concerns and issues with the project that people have
expressed.
Mike FitzGerald with Southeast Business Partnership was expected to
attend but may have encountered something that prevented him from
being here but we thank him for the work he has put in and we hope to
hear some of his comments.
Chair Kemp then turned the meeting over to General Manager
Washington for his comments. General Manager Washington also
thanked the Stakeholders/friends for coming and sharing their insight.
General Manager Washington provided a brief presentation on the 2012
Annual program Evaluation (APE) which was passed out in the meeting.
For a copy of this presentation, please refer to the Study Session
minute’s notebook located in the Board office.
Highlights from this presentation focused around two assumptions:
o Assuming a 2012 Sales and Use Tax Election—RTD would expect a
DRCOG approval of SB 208 in June followed by a certification of
the ballot language with the state during the July-August
timeframe. Hopefully, this would result in a successful election
where RTD would begin releasing RFPs for construction contracts
and environmental work for the Northwest Bust Rapid Transit
project. If unsuccessful election, RTD would begin developing a
plan to build the remaining, partially-funded FasTracks projects as
the funding allows.
o Assuming No Sales and Use Tax Election in 2012—The DRCOG’s
Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) identifies planned transportation
projects through 2035. The RTP must be fiscally- constrained or
DRCOG’s ability to allocate federal funding throughout the region
will be negatively impacted. If RTD withdraws the 2012 APE
financial plan, then the RTP will not be fiscally constrained until a
new financial plan is submitted for DRCOG’s approval.
Under this assumption, the next steps will be for the RTD Board to take
formal action during the May 2012 Board cycle to withdraw the SB 208
report. RTD will begin working with DRCOG to identify the timing of
future submittals for DRCOG review. In regards to the DRCOG process
as it relates to the next steps, FasTracks is a key piece. General Manager
Washington stated that we will be redoubling up on the efforts of

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday April 24, 2012 at
5:30 p.m.
continuing our focus on implementing $4.2 billion worth of FasTracks
projects which will lead to additional money; this is very important.
General Manager Washington stated that we will take on an “all out
aggressive” pursuit for a future sale and use tax election when the region
is ready. The key will be successfully delivering on what we have now
while actively pursuing the private sector markets who will speak on
what they are interested in. This will be a game changer.
Feedback from Board members:
Director McMullen stated that he has been a big advocate for going to
the ballot from the beginning. However, he understands the current
economic market conditions and that it may be difficult to obtain money
from across the board from homeowners to car sales. Perhaps this is the
time to pause and re-focus. We need to continue to work on building
FasTracks but need to come up with a plan that is solid before moving
forward. This has pulled the wind from his sail.
Director Anderson (by phone) commented that she was extremely
disappointed and believes it is time to regroup and rethink the process of
the FasTracks project. She believes that when we go back and forth on
rather we will go to the ballot that it generates credibility issues. We
need to remain focused on the projects already being built and that we
can leverage federal and private funds. We should not even speak of
going to the ballot unless we are fully ready and that includes the full
support of the NW corridor constituents.
Director James shared his caution on “irrational exuberance”. The
Board’s decision needs to based on a business decision and weigh the
risks versus the rewards. This is only one step in a larger process. He
agrees with the other Directors that this is not the time to go to ballot.
Director Williams shared that her meetings with Stakeholders in her
district showed that they are not ready and there is not a consensus of
the need. She believes this was a wakeup call for her constituents and
this delay will give them appropriate time to build consensus around this
issue. The Northwest corridor needs to become very aggressive in
pursuing unsolicited proposals or private sector funds. She also stressed
the importance of not communicating a date to go to ballot until the time
is right and that not going to ballot at this time is in everyone’s best
interest.
Director Malpiede shared that change is inevitable. As she has talked
with her community, there is a definite adverse economical impact. She
stated “The greater the challenge, the greater the opportunity”. While
she is disappointed, we must also celebrate the successes and the
passion this has created in the regional community. However, she also

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday April 24, 2012 at
5:30 p.m.
agrees that it is not the time to go to ballot and this is a life lesson that
can have very rewarding outcomes.
Director Cohen shared that he has advocated for sooner rather than later.
He agreed that we do not have the support for going to ballot in 2012.
Director Cohen commented that the panel showed that there is not a
comprehensive understanding in the region of the new Hybrid plan. He
agreed that we need to focus on current projects and what is still to
come and not to put out a date for ballot. He feels that we need to reestablish confidence and faith in RTD. He believes that as we continue to
roll out the funded projects, this will whet the appetite of the region for a
full build out.
He shared that in a recent survey, 54% of the constituents do not have
confidence that the new tax would get the job done. Approximately 47%
would prefer any new tax to go toward funding of K-12 education. RTD
(transportation) falls low on this list.
Director Tayer concurred with the direction from the Board and wanted
to share the perspective of the NW area. Indeed, this was a wakeup call
for the Northwest Corridor. We have challenges to address the best mix
of transit for this area. We need to be clear that that could be a
combination of rail and BRT and it is not one versus the other. Both are
integral parts of the complete FasTracks Plan. The area still supports
FasTracks but there is not a consensus to move forward. He cannot
support going forward until there is a commitment to specific plans for
investment and a defined timeline. The voters need this level of
certainty. We have some heavy lifting to do but we are we are
committed to the vision and overcoming the challenges.
Director Bagley shared that his main reason to committing to being on
the Board was his commitment to FasTracks being completed. But with
the changes in the economy and the issue of the lack of confidence in
the government, he agrees that it is not the right time to go ballot. This
time will provide several opportunities for us to strengthen our partner
relationships, improved collaboration with partners, education and clarity
on the issues in the Northwest but above all, helping to address the
understanding around mobility versus mode.
Director Hoy stated that we do not have a consensus of support from
the NW corridor. Depending on which constituent, they may disagree on
the value of having rail in that corridor period. RTD needs to spend time
better communicating the benefits of rail. We need to develop a good
plan and message that back to the community.
Director Deadwyler indicated that she agreed with the other Directors in
not moving forward with going to ballot and did not have much to add.
In conversations that she has had with constituents they shared that
they do not like a tax increase especially since many are already transit

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday April 24, 2012 at
5:30 p.m.
dependent and barely able to make it financially. She suggested working
with legislatives and college students for ideas as an opportunity to do
things a little differently.
Director Daly shared that no groups have talked to him about this and
that he was surprised by the consensus to not go to ballot. He was
hoping for another survey to help further direct their decision. He was
encouraged knowing that we need to educate the constituents. He
shared that he and 3 other Board members will be attending a Bus Rapid
Transit conference and will have a chance to review a successful BRT in
the Pacific. He would be passing that information on.
Chair Kemp summarized by thanking the panel for their strong
involvement in the community and in representing the communications
from the constituents. This issue of when is it appropriate to go back to
the ballot is ever evolving and only about eight weeks ago did the
concept of segmentation for the Northwest corridor evolve. RTD has
appropriately addressed this by providing the Hybrid option. However,
there is still more work to do on this option and it is not ready to launch.
We need to regroup and keep moving forward to develop a plan that
addresses the concerns on the table and ensures this can be successfully
implemented. This Board is committed to the full regional build out of
FasTracks
Chair Kemp thanked the General Manager and staff for their diligence in
putting the options on the table and generating the necessary
conversation from which a decision can be made.
III. DRCOG Overview
Steve Rudy, Director for Transportation Planning and Operations for DRCOG,
provided a review of the process for the DRCOG FasTracks Annual Review.
For a copy of his PowerPoint presentation, please refer to the Study Session
minutes located in the Board office.
Chair Kemp thanked Mr. Rudy for taking the time to present to the Board. He
also reminded the Board that at the May 1st meeting staff will propose an
action plan for the Board approval on what needs to be submitted on the
fiscally constrained plan.

IV. GM 2013 Tactical Plans
General Manager Washington began by stating that the purpose of the
Tactical Plans is to achieve the Strategic Goals that will drive next year’s
2013 budget. Each year at the annual joint Board-staff planning advance, they
identify the items that they deem important from which he and his staff
prepare these tactical plans. He reviewed the five tactical plans that were

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday April 24, 2012 at
5:30 p.m.
outlines in detail in the memo dated April 24, 2012. These are:
o Collaboration and Partnerships
o Financial and FasTracks
o Fiscal Sustainability
o Customer Service and Communications
o Efficient and Effective Base System
Additionally there are other items that came from the Advance from Directors
Deadwyler and Williams that are under consideration.
General Manager Washington reviewed each of these items references
accomplishments in the past and plans/next steps.Director Bagley asked the
question: how does the tactical plan relate to the core and task goals? General
Manager Washington responded by saying that the core goals are already set
but the tactical plan is used to define the task goals.
Director Bagley also reminded the Board that the next steps involving these
tactical plan as defined in the Goal setting process approved by the Board in
July, 2010 states the General Manager will bring these tactical plans back to
the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee.
This Committee will work with the General Manager to further ferret out the
task goals and formalize this into the form utilized by the rest of the agency.
The full Board will review and vote on these as part of the 2013 goal setting
process in July.
General Manager Washington also referenced a handout on the unsolicited
proposal process. He wanted to make sure the Board was clear on the process
as defined and that given the consensus of the Board to not go to the ballot in
2012, the unsolicited proposal process will be a critical vehicle in how we
move ahead to complete FasTracks. He believes the private sector market will
be responsive to this process and the market will determine which way we will
go. These will be policy decisions that the Board will need to make. He has
communicated to the private sector that RTD will welcome innovative ideas
and proposals. We cannot appear parochial. This will be a game changer.
Director Deadwyler expressed some concerns over the process and her
perception that the Board is being asked to vote on these unsolicited proposals
in the dark. She asked for assurance on how to make sure we do not show
favoritism.
General Manager Washington indicated that this is a clear and fair process.
The RFP will be shared with the Board members prior to release. When the
RFP is released, everyone including the proposer of the unsolicited proposal
will have to respond to the RFP.
Director Deadwyler later indicated that per a brief discussion with Delbreath
Walker, she has a better understanding of the process.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday April 24, 2012 at
5:30 p.m.
Director Tayer asked to stress two points related to unsolicited proposals:
1. We are always looking for unsolicited proposals for all the corridors
2. The unsolicited proposal will advantage the full system and not
disadvantage any of the other corridors.
V. Finance Budget Workshop
Terry Howerter reported that they had just completed a call for projects and a
report was compiled showing necessary versus “nice to have” projects. The
next step is to sit with General Manager Washington to review the list. Once
they have met they will begin to build the SBP plan around the 2013-2018
time frames that will be brought to the Board next month.
Terry Howerter also reported that currently we have $48M in the fund
balance. He is estimating that by the end of 2012, we will have $36M in
fund balance.
Jannette Scarpino provided an updated PowerPoint report on the 2013-2018
Strategic Budget plan. She noted that the SBP includes only service and
projects funded from the base 0.6% sales and use tax and that the FasTracks
expense and projects are included separately in the FasTracks Annual Program
Evaluation (APE) financial plan.
Jannette referenced the priorities for 2012-13 from the fiscal sustainability
recommendations:
 Top tier
o self-collect taxes
o Technology/energy innovation
o Partnerships/privatization
 2nd tier
o Sales/use tax exemptions
o Naming rights
 Lower Near term
o Charge for parking
o Tolling and managed lanes
o value capture
o Home rule initiative
Jannette explained that the red color on the graphs reflects actual and the blue
color reflects forecast.
General Manager Washington highlighted page 7-“Rubber Tire Services”
wanting to be sure the Board had a clear understanding of the services. This
has to do with the Board needing clarity on how are new services funded as
they become operational from FasTracks. This information shows that
FasTracks is currently funding base system 1% service increase that began in
2006 through 2020. FasTracks will fund a 1.5% service increase from 20212025. This 1% funding provides for growth over time and prevents substantial
service reductions over time.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday April 24, 2012 at
5:30 p.m.
Director Tayer asked how much of this covers the access-a-ride services. CFO
Howerter expressed this is a 50/50 split. Director Deadwyler inquired if the
1% discussed above equate to what we would have asked for in the ballot.
CFO Howerter confirmed that the .1% would equate to roughly 40M compared
to the $14M being discussed here.

Chair Kemp asked about the process for acquisition of new equipment and if
the urea requirement will affect fuel cost per gallon. General Manager
Washington indicated he will need to take a look at this.
Directors Hoy and James asked about the expectation on fuel efficiency and
new equipment and if this had been factored into the budget. General Manager
Washington indicated we put specifications into our RFPs and we evaluate this
as received.

VI. Other Matters
Director Bagley referred to page four of the GM report that discussed the
parking structure at the Iliff Station and asked that a detailed report be
presented at the next meeting so that the Board would have a better
understanding.
Director Malpiede announced the death of Paul Sandoval, a leader in the
Colorado and the Latino community. He passed away from pancreatic cancer
and this is a great loss to the community. There will be a celebration of life
for his many contributions.
VII. Adjourn
Study Session adjourned at 8:26 p.m.

