Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Civil Rights Committee
Tuesday, April 14, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Civil Rights Committee
Chaired by Jeff Walker

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Walker called the meeting to order at 6:21 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta

Director, District L
Director, District C

Present
Present

6:23 PM
6:24 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Present
Present

6:20 PM
6:29 PM

Claudia Folska

Director, District E

Present

6:19 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy
Bill James

Director, District N
Director, District J
Director, District A

Present
Present
Present

6:21 PM
6:21 PM
6:19 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Absent

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District I
Director, District M

Present
Present

6:22 PM
6:19 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

6:23 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District F

Present
Present

6:29 PM
6:20 PM

Jeff Walker

Committee Chair

Present

6:20 PM

Director Lasater was absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Lacy Bell, Shirley Bennett, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke,
Carolyn Conover, Lou Cripps, Lee Cryer, Martell Dyles, John Elias,
Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, Dave Genova, Mike Gil, Kim
Heldman, George Hovey, Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop, Erin Klaas, Marla
Lien, Michael Nabhan, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Barbara
McManus, Deborah Mendez-Wilson, Vivian Morales, Paula Perdue,
Scott Reed, Jan Ross, Jannette Scarpino, Zamy Silva, John Tarbert,
Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington

Others Present:

Josh Benninghoff, Heather Copp, Eugene Howard, Bill McMullen,
Daniel Pearsall, John Rebter, Brian Stelmack, Vivian Stovall, Joe
Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Dace West, Tracy Williams

B. Recommended Actions
No recommended action was presented.

C. Updates

• Civil Rights Committee Update
Zamy Silva, Senior Manager for Civil Rights, introduced Martell Dyles,
Workforce Initiative Now (WIN) Program Manager. Martell Dyles presented a
video the WIN program created for introduction, marketing, and training
purposes. He then reviewed the WIN presentation included in the Civil
Rights Committee Agenda packet for April 14, 2015. The presentation
reviewed the WIN program statistics, projects where RTD has implemented
WIN requirements, WIN program partners and events, the WIN Ambassador
program, and the WIN and Transit Workforce National Perspective.
Martell Dyles pointed out that the WIN program had 31 new placements in
the first quarter of 2015, making it the largest single quarter placement total
in WIN’s history.
Zamy Silva reviewed the Civil Rights Division Update included in the Civil
Rights Committee Agenda packet for April 14, 2015. The update included
the following items:
 Introduction of Ed Neuberg as RTD’s new ADA Manager
 The Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) computer based training to
RTD personnel is scheduled to start on during the 2015 2nd quarter
 The EEO new software will launch May 27, 2015
 Various Small Business Office (SBO) events, including networking and
pre-bid events

 Small and Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (SBE/DBE) Advisory
Committee update
 SBO/WIN Program Orientation on March 12, 2015
 Memorandum of Understanding Stakeholder event scheduled for May
28, 2015
 Statistics on FasTracks DBE/SBE participation
Director Folska thanked Zamy Silva for the introduction of Ed Neuberg as
ADA Manager for RTD. She noted that the creation of this position is a
hallmark on how the agency is moving forward. She hopes that the ADA
Manager’s scope would include people with disabilities in the conversation
of affirmative action, as this would line up with President Obama’s Executive
Order 13548. Zamy Silva replied that her team has already started putting
some of those plans in place to help raise awareness in terms of the ADA
community. This includes starting the conversation to make the WIN
program information accessible as to not exclude the disabled community.
Director Anderson said that it is wonderful to have the stops announced
audibly on the light rail and buses. She recalled that recently a man sat next
to her on the train wearing a sweatshirt indicating that he was deaf. She
wondered how a deaf person would be able to tell which one was their stop
when it is dark out. She said that staff did not need to reply at the moment
but that she wanted to bring this incident to the discussion. Zamy Silva
replied that she will look into this type of incident. She noted that Ed
Neuberg is in the process of meeting with all the departments within RTD to
find out where we are and how the agency functions. She added that this
research is crucial as her team moves forward addressing these types of
concerns and issues.

D. Other Matters
No other matter was presented.

E. Next Meeting Date - June 9, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Walker adjourned to the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee at 6:43 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

