1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, Ph.D., District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Larry Hoy, District J

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

STUDY SESSION
April 24, 2018 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pass Program Working Group Update

III.

General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan

IV.

Other Matters

V.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

2.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

April 19, 2018

Subject:

Pass Program Working Group

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: April 19, 2018
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: April 24, 2018
Information

ATTACHMENTS:


Board Study Session - Pass Working Group Recommendations 04-24-18 (mw edits)

(PPTX)

Prepared by:
Mike Washington, Title VI Manager
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 2

Attachment: Board Study Session - Pass Working Group Recommendations 04-24-18 (mw edits) (3460 :

2.1.a

Board Study Session
Pass Program Working Group
April 24, 2018
Heather McKillop
Michael Washington

Packet Pg. 3

Attachment: Board Study Session - Pass Working Group Recommendations 04-24-18 (mw edits) (3460 :

2.1.a

Agenda
• Current State
• Current Fares
• Pass Working Group Recommendations Review
• Alternatives
• Still Evaluating
• Timeline

Packet Pg. 4

Current State
• Fare Box Revenue
- Set by the RTD Board of Directors
- The Board’s Fiscal Policy Statement directs staff to plan on a fare adjustment every
three (3) years to adjust to inflation
- Policy directs staff to review potential fare adjustments to establish a fare structure to
ensure that it:
• Is understandable
• Is implementable
• Is equitable
• Achieves the revenue levels established in the Mid-Range Financial Plan (Formerly SBP &
APE)

- The current Mid-Term Financial Plan for 2018-2023 incorporates a planned fare
increase assumption in both 2019 and 2022.
• Approximately 10% in 2019 and 10% in 2022

Packet Pg. 5

Attachment: Board Study Session - Pass Working Group Recommendations 04-24-18 (mw edits) (3460 :

2.1.a

Current Fare Structure
Fare Type

Local Bus & Rail

Regional Bus & Rail

Airport Bus & Rail

Adult

Discount*

Adult

Discount*

Adult

Discount*

Cash (includes free one-way
transfers)

$2.60

$1.30

$4.50

$2.25

$9.00

$4.50

MyRide One-way Trip

$2.35

$1.15

$4.25

$2.10

$8.75

$4.35

Day Pass

$5.20

$2.60

$9.00

$4.50

Included in Regional Fare

Day Pass Book

$26

$13

$45

$22.50

Included in Regional Fare

$23.50

$11.75

$40.50

$20.25

Upgrade Required**

$99

$49

$171

$85

Included in Regional Fare

$1,089

$539

$1,881

$935

Included in Regional Fare

10-Ride Ticket Book
Monthly Pass
ValuPass (Annual)

* Applies the federally required 50% discount to seniors 65+, individuals with disabilities, Medicare
recipients and the non-required 50% discount to students in elementary, middle and high school, ages 6-19
** Individual 10-ride tickets can be upgraded to the $9 airport fare. A local ticket upgrade is $6.40 (discount $3.20). A regional ticket
upgrade is $4.50 (discount $2.25)
4

Packet Pg. 6

Attachment: Board Study Session - Pass Working Group Recommendations 04-24-18 (mw edits) (3460 :

2.1.a

Attachment: Board Study Session - Pass Working Group Recommendations 04-24-18 (mw edits) (3460 :

2.1.a

PPWG Recommendation
• Increase ease of accessing pass programs and discounts
• Introduce a Low-Income Fare Program
• Increase the discount for Youth
• Continue EcoPass, Neighborhood EcoPass, and CollegePass Programs,
priced based on cash value of trips taken
• Replace 3-hour one-way transfer with a 3-hour pass
• Retain day and monthly passes
• Retain FlexPass without a discount
• Incorporate non-profit program into Low-Income Fare Program
• Link the timing of a fare increase with the start-up date for the
recommendations for pass program changes

Packet Pg. 7

PPWG Recommendation: Base Fare
Local Bus & Rail
Fare Type

*

Regional Bus & Rail

Airport Bus & Rail

Adult

Senior/
Disabled*

Youth**

Adult

Senior/
Disabled

Youth

Adult

Senior/
Disable
d

Youth

Cash/MyRide
3-Hour Pass

$3.00

$1.50

$0.90

$5.25

$2.60

$1.60

$10.50

$5.25

$3.15

10-Ride Ticket
Book

$30

$15

$9.00

$52.50

$26.25

$15.75

Upgrade Required***

Day Pass

$6.00

$3.00

$1.80

$10.50

$5.25

$3.15

Included in Regional Fare

Day Pass Book

$30

$15

$9.00

$52.50

$26.25

$15.75

Included in Regional Fare

Monthly Pass

$114

$57

$34.20

$199.50

$99.75

$59.85

Included in Regional Fare

Applies the federally required 50% discount for seniors 65+, individuals with disabilities, and Medicare recipients

** Applies the PPWG recommended 70% youth discount to persons between ages 12-19. 12 and under would free
with a fare paying rider
*** Individual 10-ride tickets can be upgraded to the $9 airport fare. A local ticket upgrade is $6.40 (discount $3.20). A
regional ticket upgrade is $4.50 (discount $2.25)
6

Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: Board Study Session - Pass Working Group Recommendations 04-24-18 (mw edits) (3460 :

2.1.a

PPWG Recommendation: Low-Income Program
The PPWG recommended an income threshold of 185% of the federal
poverty level with minimum of a 40% discount.

Fare Type

Local Bus & Rail Regional Bus & Rail

Airport Bus & Rail

Low-Income Adult

Low-Income Adult

Low-Income Adult

Cash/MyRide
3-Hour Pass

$1.80

$3.15

$6.30

Day Pass

$3.60

$6.30

Included in Regional Fare

Day Pass Book

$18.00

$31.50

Included in Regional Fare

10-Ride Ticket Book

$18.00

$31.50

Upgrade Required*

Monthly Pass

$68.40

$119.70

Included in Regional Fare

* Individual 10-ride tickets can be upgraded to the $9 airport fare. A local ticket upgrade is $6.40 (discount $3.20). A regional ticket
upgrade is $4.50 (discount $2.25)
7

Packet Pg. 9

Attachment: Board Study Session - Pass Working Group Recommendations 04-24-18 (mw edits) (3460 :

2.1.a

Attachment: Board Study Session - Pass Working Group Recommendations 04-24-18 (mw edits) (3460 :

2.1.a

Alternatives
• No fare increase
- Doesn’t generate enough revenues to meet fare targets in current SBP/APE
- Will see what aspects of PPWG recommendations could be implemented

• Fare Increase Pre-Pass Working Group Recommendations
- Local One-Way $2.60 to $2.90
- Regional One-Way $4.50 to $5.00
- Airport One-Way $9.00 to $10.00
- Will see what aspects of PPWG recommendation could be implemented

• Fare Increase with Pass Working Group Recommendations
- Full recommendations of PPWG

Packet Pg. 10

Still Evaluating…
Staff continues to evaluate implementation of the Low-Income program
and Youth discount:
• Low-Income Fare and Youth Fare
- What will it take to apply the discount to all products
- Which fare product(s)/media would allow for the lowest implementation cost
- Which fare product(s)/media would allow for the soonest implementation
- Which fare product(s)/media would allow for the simplest operator/customer
interaction
- Is mobile ticketing an accessible option
- Administration: means-testing, proof of eligibility, fare product acquisition etc…

Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: Board Study Session - Pass Working Group Recommendations 04-24-18 (mw edits) (3460 :

2.1.a

Attachment: Board Study Session - Pass Working Group Recommendations 04-24-18 (mw edits) (3460 :

2.1.a

Timeline and Next Steps
Quarter 2 -3

Quarter 3

Deliver
Recommendation to
SLT

Public Meetings
Board Update
Public Input Summary

Board Committee
Meeting
Pass Program & Fare
Change

March 13th

Quarter 2

Quarter 3

Board Update
Recommendation
Overview

Board Update
Draft Pass Program &
Fare Change Proposal

Official Board Meeting
Pass Program & Fare
Change

March 7th

March – April
Staff Analysis of
Recommendation

April 24th

We Are
Here!!!!

Board Study Session
Pass Program & Fare
Analysis Update

10

Packet Pg. 12

Questions?

11
Attachment: Board Study Session - Pass Working Group Recommendations 04-24-18 (mw edits) (3460 :

2.1.a

Packet Pg. 13

3.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Board of Directors

Date:

From:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

GM

Date:

May 3, 2018

Board Meeting Date: April 24, 2018

Subject:

General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan

ATTACHMENTS:


04.24.18 2019 Tactical Plan FINAL



GM Tactical Plan 2019 - Address Future Transportation Needs and Methods FINAL



GM Tactical Plan 2019 - Address Service and Human Capital Balance FINAL



GM Tactical Plan 2019 - Enhance Safety and Security FINAL (DOCX)



GM Tactical Plan 2019 - Ensure Fiscal Sustainability FINAL



GM Tactical Plan 2019 - Ensure State of Good Repair and Asset Management FINAL

(PPTX)
(DOCX)

(DOCX)

(DOCX)
(DOCX)

Prepared by:
Tai-Shrae Parish, Senior Board Office Liaison
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 14

DAVE GENOVA
GM & CEO

Attachment: 04.24.18 2019 Tactical Plan FINAL (3466 : General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan)

3.1.a

Tactical Plan Highlights for 2019
Strategic Goals
Board Study Session
April 24, 2018

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Denver, Colorado

Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: 04.24.18 2019 Tactical Plan FINAL (3466 : General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan)

3.1.a

Enhance Safety and Security
• Implementation of Automated Accident, Hazard and OJI Data Collection
• Promotion of Enhanced Safety Capabilities
• Initiate Safety Audit Process of Bus Operations
• Commence Program for Implementation of Safety Champions in Every Department
• Enhance Safety Training for All Employees
• Safety Certifications for all RTD Projects
• Security
• Rail Security Enhancements
• Internal Security Education/Training and Marketing Programs
• Advancement in Emergency Management Programs
• Increased Security Measures for Bus Operations
• Increased Capability and use of Data Analysis for Allocation of Police/Security Resources

2

Packet Pg. 16

Address Service and Human Capital

3
Attachment: 04.24.18 2019 Tactical Plan FINAL (3466 : General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan)

3.1.a

Packet Pg. 17

Expansion, Economy & Wages

DUS
FF, A, B

Recession

4
Attachment: 04.24.18 2019 Tactical Plan FINAL (3466 : General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan)

3.1.a

Packet Pg. 18

Attachment: 04.24.18 2019 Tactical Plan FINAL (3466 : General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan)

3.1.a

Address Service and Human Capital
• Human Capital
• Recruitment
• Retention
• Service

5

Packet Pg. 19

Attachment: 04.24.18 2019 Tactical Plan FINAL (3466 : General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan)

3.1.a

Ensure Fiscal Sustainability
• Revenues
• Reserves
• Liabilities
• Promised Expenditures
• Policies

6

Packet Pg. 20

Address Future Transportation Needs and Methods
• Alternative Service Delivery Approaches (Non-traditional fixed Route Public Transit)
• Focused Bus Service Improvements, Including Bus Rapid Transit (BRT)
• Other Transit First and Last Mile Access Opportunities
• Systems Optimization Plan
• Unfunded Corridors
• Technology

7

Packet Pg. 21

Attachment: 04.24.18 2019 Tactical Plan FINAL (3466 : General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan)

3.1.a

Attachment: 04.24.18 2019 Tactical Plan FINAL (3466 : General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan)

3.1.a

Ensure State of Good Repair (SOGR) and Asset Management
• Continue Along Path to ISO 55000 Certification
• Maintain Infrastructure and Rolling Stock
• Manage and Expansion of Facilities

8

Packet Pg. 22

DAVE GENOVA
GM & CEO

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION
DISTRICT
Denver, Colorado
Attachment: 04.24.18 2019 Tactical Plan FINAL (3466 : General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan)

3.1.a

Packet Pg. 23

GM TACTICAL PLAN FOR 2019
Strategic Priority
Address Future Transportation Needs and Methods
Background
Over the past few years, the transportation and public transit sectors in the U.S. have been
undergoing significant changes. In response, the Board of Directors has approved addressing
this “Transportation Transformation” as an RTD Strategic Priority for 2019, recognizing that
these accelerating changes have the potential of transforming how we serve our passengers
and the public. The opportunity exists for RTD to take a leadership role regionally as a key
mobility “integrator”, “aggregator” or “convener” addressing future transportation needs
and methods. The following are focus and opportunity areas for 2019 and beyond.
 Alternative Service Delivery Approaches (Non-Traditional Fixed Route Public Transit)
 Focused Bus Service Improvements, including Bus Rapid Transit (BRT)
 Other Transit First and Last Mile Access Opportunities
 Systems Optimization Plan
 Technology
Alternative Service Delivery Approaches (Non-Traditional Fixed Route Public Transit)
For many years, RTD has operated numerous Call-n-Ride services throughout the District,
providing shared ride, on-demand service to our customers. In late 2017, in response to
RTD’s “Mobility on Demand, Transportation as a Service & Technology Providers” Request
for Information (RFI), we received responses from private and public sector entities providing
information regarding alternative service delivery approaches that can be generally placed in
one of the following categories:
 On-Demand Transportation (including Microtransit and Mobility as a Service)
 Automated Vehicles
 Fixed-Route Shuttle
Staff is analyzing the information received through the RFI and is planning on hosting a
Mobility Summit or regional mobility strategy in the summer of 2018 to explore the
possibility for partnerships to implement one or more Alternative Service Delivery projects
in 2019. Staff is also exploring grant-funding opportunities to ascertain if financial resources
to support promising project(s) are available.
Focused Bus Service Improvements, including Bus Rapid Transit (BRT)
In recent years, RTD has implemented the Flatiron Flyer BRT service on US 36 and other
focused bus service improvements such as the Free MetroRide. RTD Service Development
has also recently completed the Transit Priority – Corridor Analysis. Additionally, RTD’s
State Highway 119 BRT National Environmental Policy Act/Preliminary Engineering project
(Longmont to Boulder) is well underway, and the Regional BRT Feasibility Study has begun
to identify BRT candidate corridors. We are also collaborating with local jurisdictions to
analyze BRT opportunities along east Colfax Avenue and State Highway 7. These projects
and efforts will afford RTD the opportunity to pursue continued implementation of these
relatively low capital cost/high service benefit fixed route bus service improvements. In 2019
and beyond RTD will continue to explore local government partnership and funding
opportunities to start implementation of recommendations from the Transit Priority –
1

Packet Pg. 24

Attachment: GM Tactical Plan 2019 - Address Future Transportation Needs and Methods FINAL (3466 : General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan)

3.1.b

Corridor Analysis and the Regional BRT Feasibility Study.
Also in 2019, RTD will be under-way with construction of the Route 15L Transit
Improvements project on Colfax Avenue. This grant-supported project will bring
improvements to traffic signal timing, shelters and other physical improvements to increase
service reliability and speed and add passenger amenities for our patrons on the route.
Other Transit First and Last Mile Access Opportunities
RTD has worked with both BCycle (bike) and car sharing companies to improve First and
Last Mile access to our bus and rail stations. RTD has also embarked on the First and Last
Mile Strategic Plan; this grant-supported project will define strategies to address multimodal
transportation and connectivity to RTD services, with the goal of increasing transit ridership
and improving the customer experience. Recommendations from this project will be finalized
and ready for action starting in 2019.
Systems Optimization Plan
The Systems Optimization Plan, scheduled to start in 2019, will set the framework for the
RTD Board of Directors to determine short-, mid- and long-term investment priorities and
future opportunities to improve efficiency, increase ridership and respond to regional growth.
This is an ideal time for RTD to conduct this sort of unifying analysis of current and future
transit services given the opportunities and challenges presented by the ongoing
Transportation Transformation. The project will take a customer first approach, with robust
stakeholder engagement, communications and outreach. It will lay out a flexible approach
for RTD that will allow the agency to adapt to future change.
The Analysis has two key components as follows:
 The Comprehensive Operations Analysis component of the project is intended to
review current RTD operations, service standards and practices and develop
comprehensive region-wide recommendations for changes to RTD service delivery
methods. This also aligns with the 2019 strategic priority of addressing service and
human capital.
 The Systems Optimization Analysis component is intended to have a longer study
horizon to correspond with the DRCOG Regional Transportation Plan, with
incremental mileposts and identification of capital and service improvement
opportunities. It will address fiscal and financial planning, optimization and expansion
planning, workforce challenges, safety and security, and technological innovations.
Unfunded Corridors
There are four remaining projects within the FasTracks program: remainder of the B line from
Westminster to Longmont; remainder of the N line from 124th to 162nd and state highway
7; the southwest corridor extension; and the central rail extension. While the original capital
cost estimate for FasTracks was $4.7 billion, RTD has expended and/or committed $5.6
billion through 2020. The capital cost estimate for the unfunded corridors is approximately
$2.2 billion. We continue to pursue all opportunities for the capital funding and the
operations and maintenance funding including reduction of debt (current debt does not allow
significant additional borrowing or bonding), federal grants, private sector involvement, and
2

Packet Pg. 25

Attachment: GM Tactical Plan 2019 - Address Future Transportation Needs and Methods FINAL (3466 : General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan)

3.1.b

project scope review. We will continue to pursue the peak service model for the remainder
of the B line in discussions with stakeholders and the BNSF. It is also interesting to note the
difference in estimated sales tax revenue versus actual of approximately $1.5 billion ($588
million FasTracks, $877.4 million base) in forgone revenue from 2005 through 2017.
Technology
RTD has successfully launched the MyRide card and Mobile Ticketing for easy fare payment
for our riders and the Trip Planner is helping thousands of passengers plan their trip each
day. RTD also provides real time information to many more customers through our web
applications and those of third party providers.
Additionally, RTD is collaborating with the Colorado Department of Transportation and the
Denver Regional Council of Governments on the yearlong Mobility Choice Blueprint. The
Blueprint, which targets a 2030 time horizon, has the following proposed vision:
As a collaborative metropolitan region, we employ flexible technology to access
mobility choices that connect people of all ages, incomes and abilities to jobs,
recreation, healthcare, amenities and necessary services, enhancing our quality of
life now and in the future.
The Blueprint will include short-, mid-, and long-term recommendations that RTD can deploy
to enhance existing services and plan for future technological advancements.
RTD has taken the first steps towards bus fleet electrification with the 36 buses providing
the FREE MallRide service on the 16th Street Mall. Opportunities for expanding the number
of electric buses in operations on additional RTD bus routes are being explored. RTD expects
this technology to be advantageous from an operating and maintenance cost perspective,
however the higher upfront capital costs compared with diesel buses have precluded electric
bus purchases to date. Grant funding opportunities, including the Volkswagen settlement,
may present RTD with the opportunity to purchase additional electric vehicles in the next
few years. This will allow a greater understanding of costs and benefits and operational
reliability.

3

Packet Pg. 26

Attachment: GM Tactical Plan 2019 - Address Future Transportation Needs and Methods FINAL (3466 : General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan)

3.1.b

GM TACTICAL PLAN FOR 2019
Strategic Priority
Address Service and Human Capital Balance
Background
RTD’s function is to move people. As is reflected in our mission statement, RTD strives to
do that in a way that is safe, clean, reliable, courteous, accessible, and cost effective. For
the most part, RTD moves people very well. However, in the last several years, the
availability of labor has negatively impacted reliability. While RTD “lost service” has remained
at less than 1% for the past several years, it has grown markedly from 2013 to present. In
2013, RTD was not able to deliver approximately 73 hours of our scheduled bus service due
to personnel related reasons. RTD lost only 108 hours of service in 2014. However in the
fall of 2015, RTD began experiencing rapid growth in the number of shifts that we had to
“mandate” and the number of hours of service that we were unable to deliver due to
personnel related reasons. RTD “lost” approximately 1,393 hours of service in 2015, 5,184
hours of service in 2016 and 6,261 hours of service in 2017. While this remains far less
than 1% of the approximately 2.5 million hours of scheduled bus service provided each year,
this does represent a decline in service reliability that our customers depend on.
RTD did not arrive in this situation in the short term over a period of one year, two years or
three years, but rather over many years of flat wages (10 out of the last 15 years wages
remained flat), two major economic downturns, and over 20 years of system expansion
most rapidly over the last several years (W line, DUS, Flatiron Flyer, A line, B line, and R
line).
In order to move people, RTD relies on our workforce. RTD has a current headcount of 2,904
employees. Of the 2,904, 863 are salaried employees and 2,041 are represented employees.
Of the represented employees over 63% are bus or light rail operators.
Changes to RTD transit service levels have historically been generated by, and related to
ridership and financial changes and impacts. However, current labor market conditions and
historic unemployment continue to be a serious challenge to recruitment and retention of
bus and rail operators. The Leeds School of Business currently estimates there is only one
half of a person available for every available job. In 2017, twelve (12) percent of all regularly
scheduled bus service was delivered by operators working on one of their scheduled days
off. Approximately half of these hours were performed by operators that volunteered to
work, while the remaining hours were delivered by operators that were mandated to work
on a day off. This practice has a negative impact on employee recruitment and retention
efforts and makes it difficult for RTD to meet our service commitment to our customers.
This strategic priority addresses the following.
 Human Capital
 Recruitment
 Retention
 Service
Human Capital
RTD has a current short-fall of bus and light rail operators. Since mid-2015, RTD has been
1

Packet Pg. 27

Attachment: GM Tactical Plan 2019 - Address Service and Human Capital Balance FINAL (3466 : General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan)

3.1.c

mandating most bus operators to work 6 days per week. Since 2016, RTD has been
mandating most light rail operators to work 6 days per week. The vacancy rate for bus
operators as of the end of February 2018 is 13%. There were 143 vacant positions out of
1,079. The vacancy rate for light rail operators as of the end of February 2018 is 27%.
There are 59 vacant positions out of 216. As of the end of February 2018 there were 202
positions between bus operators and light rail operators to fill.
In addition to the issue of recruiting operators, retaining the operators we have already hired
is also very problematic. In 2017, RTD hired 361 new bus and light rail operators. During
that same period of time, 391 bus and light rail operators left RTD for a net loss of 30
operators. Reasons for leaving were mandating of days off, long shifts, split runs, retirement,
promotion or other position within RTD, and cost of living. Although the recruitment and
retention of operators is a nation-wide industry issue, it is more pronounced in the Denver
Metro market. In addition, it is important to note that the average age of our represented
employee is 48.7 years.
In October 2017, RTD and the Amalgamated Transit Union (ATU) began negotiations on a
new collective bargaining agreement (CBA). The biggest issue was the working conditions
of our employees. These issues were identified as being mandated to work days off, long
shifts, and split runs.
In order to address these issues RTD agreed to increase the amount of straight shifts from
55% on weekdays to 60% and from 70% on weekends to 75%. RTD also agreed that no
runs would have a spread time greater than 13 hours down from 14 hours. In addition, no
day board operator will be assigned work that gets off after 8:00 p.m. to the extent
practicable and in no circumstances that gets off after 8:30 p.m. No night board operator
will be assigned work that starts before 9:30 a.m. While these changes will make some
improvements in working conditions, the greatest improvements will come when RTD can
significantly reduce mandated overtime. This can be done by a combination of three things.
1. Increase recruitment of qualified employees
2. Increase retention of existing employees
3. Better match the level of service offered to our available workforce
Recruitment
As the economy has improved and unemployment has dropped to under 3% in the Denver
Metro area, recruiting has become much more challenging particularly in the areas of bus
operators and light rail operators. Over the last two years, the following improvements have
been made:
 Advertising on buses
o Includes outside of bus (Tails/Queens) and replaced the “Need a break” signs
on the back of the buses with “RTD Hiring” signs.
o Advertising on the back of each RTD non-revenue vehicle
o Bumper sticker hiring ads were placed on all RTD fleet vehicles
 Implemented signing bonus of $2,000 for bus operators, light rail operators, and
mechanics
 Implemented referral bonus to $1,000 for bus operators, light rail operators, and
mechanics that are hired
2

Packet Pg. 28

Attachment: GM Tactical Plan 2019 - Address Service and Human Capital Balance FINAL (3466 : General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan)

3.1.c














Started accepting hand written applications.
Changed customer care “On hold” message to advertise that RTD is hiring bus and
light rail operators.
Increased shift differential pay
Implemented incentive pay of $2.00/hour for working split runs
Implemented incentive of $2.00/hour for work in addition to their bid runs
Implemented “One Stop Job Stop” hiring process for bus operators, light rail
operators, and mechanics
o Bring in all applicants at one time
o Conduct Background Check
o Conduct Drug Screening
o Present Job Offers
Increased professional development funds from $1,500/ year to $2,000/year
Increased bus and light rail operators pay by $1/hour (6%) in July of 2017 in addition
to the CBA increase of 3% that was received in March 2017
March 1, 2018 increased starting pay to $19.40 (11%)
Focused advertising on specific demographics such as the Hispanic and African
American populations with ads featuring our own employees
2018 will be focused on expanding outreach to workforce centers, targeted
advertising such as advertising in Spanish, use of better screening tools make sure
RTD is hiring employees better suited to the operator job classification, utilizing RTD
personnel outside of Human Resources for recruiting, and transitioning the WIN
program to focus on recruitment for RTD’s needs

In 2019, RTD will continue to focus on full use of the WIN program for screening and
recruitment, focused recruitment based on latest information, and implementation of better
technology for application and hiring process.
Retention
Many of the working condition improvements that were agreed to in the CBA focused on
retention of employees. As mentioned previously the increase of straight shifts and decrease
of spread times will help. In addition, the operators received an 8% pay increase over the
8% pay increase received in 2017. In addition to those things negotiated in the 2018 CBA,
RTD will be looking at providing resources for represented employees that can provide
assistance with technology, day care, errands, banking, etc. RTD will be working on ways
to improve the work environment and working conditions. Operations will be exploring
mentoring or buddy programs.
With the recruitment and retention efforts, RTD staff estimates that over 2018 and the first
eight (8) months of 2019 we can solve approximately up to half of the vacancy issue or 75
to 100 employees.
Service
From a process perspective, RTD implements service changes three (3) times per year, in
January, in May (when school lets out) and in August (when school resumes). The timing
of these changes is set forth in our CBA with our represented employees. Under normal
circumstances these service changes (or “run boards” in our jargon) allow RTD to adjust the
3

Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: GM Tactical Plan 2019 - Address Service and Human Capital Balance FINAL (3466 : General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan)

3.1.c

levels of transit service provided to better correspond to the level of service needed by our
customers. These service changes also provide the means by which RTD adjusts levels of
service to conform to prevailing economic conditions and to respond to changes in
operational conditions.
The process to implement service changes consists of several steps:
1. RTD staff develops a set of initial service change proposals for Board;
2. RTD staff presents these initial proposals to the Board of Directors prior to taking
these initial proposals to the public for public comment;
3. RTD staff holds public meetings in areas throughout the District that would
potentially be impacted by the proposed changes;
4. RTD staff develops a revised set of proposed service changes based on the initial
proposals and also develops appropriate modifications based on public comment and
continued analysis;
5. RTD staff presents the revised service change proposals to the Board of Directors
for final approval and/or modification by Board action.
The entire service change process usually takes a period of 3-4 months from the time of the
development of the initial service change proposal until the implementation of the changes.
A number of activities must be completed once final approval is given in order to prepare
the service proposal for final implementation. These activities include the preparation of final
schedules, the creation of driver schedules (called “run cutting” in our jargon), the bidding
of work by drivers throughout the RTD system, the creation and printing and distribution of
public timetables to the public, among numerous other detailed activities that must be
properly completed in order to implement the service changes.
When designing and evaluating RTD services, staff looks at many factors when considering
how to best allocate scarce resources in support of RTD’s mission. Primary among these
factors are:
 The performance of these services (ridership) based upon RTD Service Standards
(ridership per hour of transit service provided, subsidy per passenger boarding, etc.);
 The effects of the potential changes on the overall transit network (system impacts)
and on transit dependent riders;
 The availability of reasonable alternative transit services;
 The distribution/impacts of such changes throughout the District and throughout the
RTD’s Family of Services (Local, Express, Regional, Call-n-Ride, etc.); and
 Title VI of the Civil Rights Act to be sure that services are equitably provided without
regard to race, color, national origin, etc.
The consideration of these factors provides a systematic, objective and rational framework
within which RTD staff can evaluate potential changes in services in order to maximize
ridership and optimize the use of RTD’s resources.
In many ways, “service standards” could also be referred to as “expectations” as they reflect
what RTD’s performance expectations are in terms of ridership and subsidy for a service
(route) to be considered successful. Such standards are necessary because transit
4

Packet Pg. 30

Attachment: GM Tactical Plan 2019 - Address Service and Human Capital Balance FINAL (3466 : General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan)

3.1.c

organizations cannot “produce” ridership or mobility. Transit agencies such as RTD can
provide an hour or a mile of bus/LRT service. Hopefully these services are provided in such
a way that customers use the services and in turn “ridership” is generated and mobility is
enhanced. Accordingly, transit performance indicators typically measure how well resources
are utilized to provide transit services, and how much of the service is actually used
(ridership).
The purpose of the standards is to help identify routes that are most in need of service
changes in order to maximize ridership and optimize the use of RTD’s resources. Service
changes do not necessarily translate into the elimination of a route, but could include such
actions as the restructuring of a route to adjust route segments or branches, adjustments to
service frequency to better match the level of service provided to ridership demand, or
providing additional promotion of less patronized routes as appropriate. Elimination of routes
is generally intended only as a last resort, when it has been concluded that no cost-effective
actions are available to improve the productivity of a route or when necessary to bring
service levels in line with the organization’s financial capacity.
Central to the evaluation of how RTD allocates resources is the question as to whether the
organization strives to maximize ridership or to maximize geographic coverage (that is to
say, to offer some service to nearly everyone). In reality, practice falls somewhere in the
middle as staff strives to find the balance between these two perspectives. Financial
constraints often temper this evaluation as well, but the basic question remains as to how
to strike the balance between using limited financial resources to maximize ridership versus
providing some service to everyone.
RTD recognizes that different routes serve different types, levels and areas of transit
demand. As such RTD utilizes a system of performance standards that reflect these
differences. For fixed route services, RTD has developed standards for “CBD Local” service
for Local or Limited routes operating to/from the Denver Central business District (CBD); for
“Urban Local” service for Local and Limited routes that predominantly serve urban areas
which have very high residential and/or employment density, but do not serve the CBD; for
“Suburban Local” service for Local or Limited routes that primarily serve suburban areas that
have low to medium residential and/or employment density; and for “Regional” services that
are essentially long-haul routes providing service between outlying areas and employment
centers in Denver or Boulder. Regional service is generally over 18 miles in length. By using
different standards for different types of service, RTD is able to compare individual routes
to other like routes as we evaluate whether or not a route is performing up to expectations.
Call-n-ride service is provided in areas of low population density and low transit ridership
potential and is employed because of low probability of the area supporting more traditional
fixed route bus service. RTD also employs such service standards in evaluating call-n-Ride
service, BRT service and SkyRide service.
In applying these standards, RTD’s guidelines call for routes falling below the lowest 10%
productivity threshold based on either subsidy per passenger boarding or passenger
boardings per service hour, or below the lowest 25% productivity threshold for BOTH
measures, to be evaluated for marketing, revision, or possible elimination. To be clear, these
are not the sole criteria as RTD’s service standards also take into account services provided
5

Packet Pg. 31

Attachment: GM Tactical Plan 2019 - Address Service and Human Capital Balance FINAL (3466 : General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan)

3.1.c

to areas of high transit dependency and RTD staff also considers the existence of alternative
transit services in a given area when developing service recommendations.
In order to support the Board of Directors in their policy deliberations, staff provides detailed
ridership information, cost information and revenue information to help identify the rationale
behind service change recommendations. These recommendations are discussed at both
Operations Committee meetings and Board meetings. Staff also presents annual service
evaluation reports to the Board of Directors to help communicate the performance of the
various services provided by RTD.
RTD has begun the process in 2018 to optimize the level of service provided throughout the
District. This process will need to continue into 2019 with the goal of better matching the
level of service offered by RTD to available workforce.
Between the efforts with recruitment, retention, and service changes by the 3rd quarter of
2019, RTD should be able to significantly reduce the need for mandating overtime by our
bus and light rail operators, thus providing a safer and more reliable service for our customers
and providing for more suitable working conditions for our employees.

6

Packet Pg. 32

Attachment: GM Tactical Plan 2019 - Address Service and Human Capital Balance FINAL (3466 : General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan)

3.1.c

3.1.d

Background
The Regional Transportation District (RTD) mission is to provide safe, secure, reliable and
effective transportation services to our customers. Safety and Security are the primary
concerns that affect all RTD activities and transportation modes. Therefore, all RTD
personnel and appropriate contractors are charged with the responsibility of promoting the
safety and security of customers, employees, property and the public.
Employees and our customers are RTD’s most important assets, and their safety and security
are RTD’s greatest responsibilities.
Safety
The purpose of RTD’s Safety Division is to fulfill the responsibility to provide transit services
that are safe for the public and safe for employees. RTD is committed to maximizing safety
by implementing the Safety Management System (SMS) framework contained in the Federal
legislation and required by law. The purpose of the Safety Division is to manage the path to
improved safety, SMS certification and thereafter, ensure continued compliance to the
standard.
Safety Management System (SMS) is a comprehensive, collaborative approach that brings
management and labor together to build on RTD’s existing safety foundation. Its purpose is
to better control risk, detect and correct safety problems earlier, share and analyze safety
data more effectively, and measure safety performance more carefully. SMS is about
applying resources to risk, and is based on ensuring that RTD has the organizational
infrastructure to support decision-making at all levels regarding the assignment of
resources. RTD is committed to enhancing and maximizing System Safety by implementing
the SMS framework contained in the Federal legislation and required by law in 2019.
With the understanding that SMS requires the sharing and collection of information to be
successful, the Safety Department sought assistance in integrating data from other
organizational processes to further the safety data analysis effort. This effort was fruitful in
helping to develop a more comprehensive view of where Safety can provide guidance
throughout the agency. The data collected thus far makes evident a number of trend
increases of accidents (bus), incidents (bus & rail), and procedural concerns for both modes
of transportation. That said, it is imperative RTD closely examines leading indicators related
to safety and health and afford necessary resources in order to effectively mitigate these
recognized challenges as our agency continues to grow.
The objective of SMS is to provide a structured, data driven management approach to control
safety risks in operations. Effective safety management must take into account RTD’s
specific structures and processes related to safety of operations.
 Develop and initiate both internal and external safety risk awareness and knowledge
programs throughout the District.
 Develop actionable key performance indicators or a Safety Scorecard to track external
safety awareness and knowledge programs.
1

Packet Pg. 33

Attachment: GM Tactical Plan 2019 - Enhance Safety and Security FINAL (3466 : General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan)

GM TACTICAL PLAN FOR 2019
Strategic Priority
Enhance Safety and Security

3.1.d

Continue to map out and parse all data sources within the agency for information
that can be used to augment the safety management system effort.

2019 Strategic Safety Blueprint
The Safety Division’s blueprint for 2019 is that of SMS commencement. Application of
SMS within the agency is congruent with the Board of Directors and Senior Staff’s goal of
enhancing safety. Thus, it is timely that SMS compliance will be a requirement from the
FTA in 2019. SMS must be implemented in order to continue receiving federal funding. That
said, it is imperative that the following components of SMS framework be established
throughout 2019:








Safety Policy: This is the foundation of the organization’s safety management
system. It clearly states the organization’s safety objectives; and sets forth the
policies, procedures, and organizational structures necessary to accomplish those
objectives. The Safety Management Policy Statement (SMPS) clearly defines
management and employee responsibilities for safety throughout the organization. It
also ensures that management is actively engaged in the oversight of the system’s
safety performance by requiring regular review of the safety policy, budget, and
program by a designated accountable executive.
Safety Risk Management: This requires development of processes and procedures to
provide an understanding of the public transportation system’s operations and
maintenance to allow individuals to identify hazards associated with those systems.
Once hazards are identified, other procedures must be developed under safety risk
management to analyze and assess the risk resulting from these hazards, as well as
to institute controls to mitigate, and if possible, eliminate the risks from these
hazards.
Safety Assurance: This ensures the performance and effectiveness of safety risk
controls established under safety risk management. Safety assurance is also designed
to ensure that the organization meets or exceeds its safety objectives through the
collection, analysis, and assessment of data regarding the organization's
performance. Safety assurance also includes inspection activities to support
oversight and performance monitoring.
Safety Promotion: Safety promotion requires a combination of training and
communication of safety information to employees to enhance the organization's
safety performance. How an organization seeks to comply with this component
depends on the size and scope of the organization. It may include formal safety
training for employees, a formal means of communicating safety information, and a
means for employees to raise safety concerns without fear of reprisal.

In order to ensure successful SMS implementation and to enhance the safety of our
employees, customers and the communities we serve, RTD will also place its focus on the
following areas:
 Implementation of Automated Accident, Hazard and OJI Data Collection
 Promotion of Enhanced Safety Capabilities
 Initiate Safety Audit Process of Bus Operations (similar to that required on rail)
 Commence Program for Implementation of Safety Champions in Every Department
 Enhance Safety Training for All Employees
2

Packet Pg. 34

Attachment: GM Tactical Plan 2019 - Enhance Safety and Security FINAL (3466 : General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan)



3.1.d

Safety Certifications for all RTD Projects

Implementation of Automated Accident, Hazard and OJI Data Collection:
RTD currently manually collects data from hazards from a Hazard Reporting Form, set up on
the Hub. The Laserfiche application has the capability to automatically collect this data, and
auto-generate the necessary reports, as well as the ability to generate ad-hoc reports ondemand. Because of this new capability, RTD will evaluate the feasibility of the following:
 Develop a Laserfiche Forms application based process that collects data from hazards
reported through our various reporting mechanisms that will allow RTD to do
immediate risk assessment, develop corrective actions and automatically report to
PUC for compliance.
 Develop KPI’s and dashboard reports for Hazard Reporting, Workers Comp claims and
Liability claims to create better awareness and decision making.
 Rollout an automated accident/incident reporting system for both Bus and Rail
Supervisors using the Laserfiche Forms application.
 Develop a districtwide OJI/Workers Comp data collection and dashboard to focus on
problem areas.
 Provide Email accounts for ALL RTD employees to enable safety reporting.
Promotion of Enhanced Safety Capabilities:
RTD is developing significant systems and programs to enable employees to report hazards,
close calls and safety concerns. We are also in the midst of creating a Safety Management
System (SMS) framework for our Transportation Agency Safety Plan. SMS requires strong
employee interaction and participation, so it is critical that these programs and tools are
promoted and training is provided to each employee. To this end, RTD plans to do the
following:
 Work with Communications and Marketing to promote new safety programs and
requirements to employees, customers, and the public at large.
 Pursue a solution to educate employees on Safety Division processes (I.E. diagrams
of hazard reporting workflows posted in readily available areas, various safety data
presented on public information displays)
 Enhance the Safety Communication boards in all RTD facilities
 Schedule quarterly/semiannual Safety Roadshow presentations for all divisions to
increase mindshare, trust and awareness
 Safety and Security will meet with the ATU Executive Board quarterly to discuss
programs, indicatives’ and receive feedback on problem areas, perceptions, etc.
Initiate Safety Audit Process of Bus Operations:
RTD currently has well-established audit programs for Rail certifications, design, and
operations. FTA Regulations and Public Utilities Commission’s State Safety Oversight
Requirements mandate these audit programs for light rail. The FTA does not require these
for Bus Operations at this time. RTD‘s plan is to ensure that all modes of transportation are
a part of our Agency Safety Plan and SMS framework. To ensure this consistency RTD will
do the following:
 Develop safety certification processes for design, construction, and testing phases
prior to revenue service.
 Develop configuration management/modification processes
3

Packet Pg. 35

Attachment: GM Tactical Plan 2019 - Enhance Safety and Security FINAL (3466 : General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan)



3.1.d

Initiate a Bus Operations safety audit process in 2019 similar to that of light rail

Commence Program for Implementation of Safety Champions in Every Department
In an effort to continue to build a strong Safety Culture, demonstrate ownership and
reinforce that Safety is every employee’s responsibility, RTD will create a Safety Champion
Program:
 Safety Champions (supervisors and managers) will be identified in each unit,
department, or area who are specially trained to advocate for safety and promote
safety awareness in their work environment.
 Safety Champions will be responsible for disseminating appropriate education to the
other members of their unit or department, as directed by the safety officer.
 Safety Champions will encourage safety concern/hazard reporting and help drive
corrective actions as needed.
Enhance Safety Training for All Employees
In order to enhance the safety of our employees and customers RTD will initiate the
following:
 Develop a general safety training matrix for all employees and contractors
 Use LITMOS Learning Management System to administer and track required safety
training
 Create a "Safety 101" course for supervisors and managers to give them a base
knowledge for job safety.
Safety Certifications for all RTD Projects
RTD currently has a strong Safety Certification for new build Capital Programs projects. RTD
does not have a documented process for the many renovation and ad hoc improvement
projects that occur on our system on a continual basis. These projects have safety and
security requirements that must be incorporated into the design and build process as well.
Therefore, RTD will develop and document an all project Safety and Security Certification
process that will be required for final signoff and acceptance of all such projects.
Security
The purpose of RTD’s Transit Police Division is to aid in the secure and reliable movement
of passengers throughout the transit system and to ensure that all customers and employees
perceive the system is secure by maintaining a robust security model comparable to other
transit systems. The Transit Police Division also collaborates and coordinates with local and
federal law enforcement agencies to be most effective.
RTD’s Transit Police Division is committed to maximizing system security by implementing
a System Security Plan (SSP) framework similar to Safety Management System (SMS)
systems required by law for safety. Another purpose of the Transit Police Division is to
support the path to improved safety and security, SMS certification and thereafter, ensure
continued compliance to the standard. RTD security has a layered security approach using
a variety of security systems and methods. All projects are built according to a
comprehensive safety and security design criteria, and certified to the criteria prior to
revenue service.

4

Packet Pg. 36

Attachment: GM Tactical Plan 2019 - Enhance Safety and Security FINAL (3466 : General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan)



The RTD Transit Police Division desires to increase security capabilities primarily in bus and
rail operations and to stay ahead of the current trends of increased security incidents locally,
nationally and globally. The collection of district-wide and community security data and
analysis will be utilized to directly support employee security as well as public security
perception. This information will allow for a strategic deployment of resources.
The Transit Police Division will enhance the delivery of improved security in 2019 in the
following manner:
Continued governance via the System Security Plan (SSP) that encompasses all of RTD’s
modes of transportation including: Commuter Rail, Light Rail, Bus, Access-A-Ride and NonRevenue Operations (NRO). The document identifies tasks and requirements applied at all
levels of the RTD organization and functional departments. The (SSP) itself is a Security
Sensitive Plan and is reviewed and approved annually by the Colorado Public Utilities
Commission (PUC). In addition, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) annually
evaluates the (SSP).
There are several goals associated with enhanced security in 2019. These include:
 Rail Security Measure Enhancements
 Internal Security Education, Training and Marketing Programs
 Emergency Management Procedures Enhancement
 Increased security measures for Bus Operations as this division represents the
majority of our services
 Increased Capability and use of Data Analysis for allocation of police/security
resources.
Rail Security Enhancements
RTD Transit Security Officers (TSO) are primarily responsible for security of our rail system,
which includes vehicles, stations, and infrastructure. We have TSO’s assigned to ride trains
for security and fare inspection presence. All commuter rail trains have an officer assigned
to them at all times, acting as a second crewmember and performing 100% fare inspection.
We also have TSO’s stationed at Union Station, Civic Center Station and surrounding areas,
all RTD rail facilities; and both automobile and bicycle patrols along all rail corridors and
stations on a 24 hour basis. Despite this coverage, as the Denver Metro Area and RTD
continue to grow we have seen an increase in violent crime, theft, homeless concerns, and
suspicious activity/packages, etc. RTD has developed a more data driven approach to
security resource allocation but due to the increased security concerns , when we reduce in
in one location, we see an increase in another – we are somewhat constrained. To address
these concerns we plan to do the following:
 Utilize more complete data sets to better focus our resources
 Utilize a task force approach to fare inspection and high activity crime hotspots
 Coordinate station patrols with law enforcement officers in our communities based
upon shared crime statistic data.
 RTD will evaluate the resources and funding needed to place a security officer on
every train, particularly during peak hours and designated timeframes. This would
enhance security and provide the capability to do 100% fare inspection as well.

5

Packet Pg. 37

Attachment: GM Tactical Plan 2019 - Enhance Safety and Security FINAL (3466 : General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan)

3.1.d

Internal Security Education/Training and Marketing Programs
As Safety and Security spends more time speaking with our employee operators and
supervisors in the field, it has become very clear that there is a perception of a need for
additional security throughout our system. While there is a finite number of resources to
provide that security, the concerns especially high in bus operations, RTD actually has police
and security resources patrolling troublesome routes including plain-clothes police on some
buses and trains. Unfortunately, our employees and customers are not aware of all of these
security activities. We recognize the need to develop better awareness, education and
marketing campaigns. In order to facilitate this awareness and education RTD plans to
implement the following:
 Develop a strong Safety and Security presentation and materials for New Employee
Orientation
 Develop a semiannual “Security Roadshow” and visit all RTD divisions to make
introductions, share our security efforts, explain the employee’s role in reporting and
solicit feedback.
 Incorporate security into planned external safety marketing campaigns
 Surveys to gauge perceptions
 Establishment of security dashboard metrics communicated via PIDs, website and
other means.
Advancement in Emergency Management Programs
Emergency Management Planning is crucial, first, to ensuring the safety and security of our
employees/customers, and then to the continuity of our operations. While our Continuity of
Operations Plan (COOP) is up to date and processes are now in place to ensure currency
and training on its use by COOP administrators, RTD will enhance the Emergency
Management Plan and training program. RTD does not have a dedicated Emergency Manager
to coordinate plans with safety, security and our Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI)
Partners. This function is spread across a number of current employees. All of our peer
transit agencies have an Emergency Manager and a permanent Emergency Operations Center
(EOC), RTD does not. In order to develop and enhance our Emergency Management
programs RTD intends to do the following:
 Utilize resources in Safety and Security division to develop Incident Action Plans
(IAP’s) for the most common eventualities as well as planned events that will impact
RTD operations (weather events, power outages, bomb threats, evacuations, active
attackers, July 4th, etc.)
 Develop an annual tabletop exercise program schedule incorporating UASI partners
and community EOC’s.
 Develop and implement training programs for administrators, Incident Command
Staff, employees, etc.
 Create and implement a COOP and EMP communication/implementation plan utilizing
ReadyOp.
 Develop a mass notification protocol for specific employee groups and the entire
organization utilizing ReadyOp
 Pursue FTA and TSA grant funding for the creation of a permanent Emergency
Operations Center to be housed at the Security Command Center or other
designated RTD facility.

6

Packet Pg. 38

Attachment: GM Tactical Plan 2019 - Enhance Safety and Security FINAL (3466 : General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan)

3.1.d

Increased Security Measures for Bus Operations
Bus Operations represents 2/3 of the services RTD provides to the Denver community. RTD
operates over 1000 buses on a daily basis across one of the largest geographical areas of
any transit agency. It would take a significant security force to cover every bus on every
route, every day. Even focusing on having a presence on high crime activity routes is an
insurmountable problem with the constrained resource levels we have. Crimes on buses
have increased by 100% in the last 3 years and we have seen an increase in operator
assaults. Despite our increased use of focused crime data, we are seeing a widening of the
gap in our security coverage. One option is doubling the size of our security and police
forces; however, that is not realistic in the current financial environment. Another option is
utilizing our existing security technology to promote a stronger perception of security and
more quickly evaluate emergencies. RTD is focusing its efforts in the following areas:
 The Security Roadshow mentioned earlier, to educate, train, and develop stronger
relationships between police/security and bus operators.
 Reinforce de-escalation culture amongst our operators with regular training and
bulletins.
 Add transit security patrols to bus routes near rail patrol routes.
 More uniformed police presence instead of plainclothes police on bus routes.
 Organize an Operator Assault Coalition that includes Union representatives,
security team members and RTD management to meet on a regular basis to
discuss solutions.
 Evaluate implementation of a Live Video Look-in and Talk-Down capability from
the Security Command Center to all buses. This would provide immediate security
visibility on the bus when an incident occurs.
Increased Capability and use of Data Analysis for allocation of police/security resources.
Data and Trend information is critical to understand problem areas, times of day, types of
crimes and potential threats. RTD has begun capturing data in a more useful format and has
been working with our police partners in the District to have a better understanding of
district-wide crime and this has enabled us to focus our security resources on problem areas
at certain times. Although RTD has developed a more data driven approach to security
resource allocation we find when we reduce in one location, we see an increase in another
– we are somewhat constrained. We believe that better data, including a clear understanding
of what is going on near our system, will help us better prepare for and combat that crime
(in collaboration with our police partners in the District). In addition, it will enable RTD to
develop more targeted awareness campaigns to hopefully reduce the growth we are seeing.
RTD will do the following:
 Evaluate and incorporate into our analysis, low cost security information services
that provide trending security data in our communities
 Continue to build relationships with our law enforcement partners, DHS, TSA,
etc. to build a more complete picture of the security concerns in the district.
 Evaluate the possibility of hiring a crime data analyst that could provide
tremendous value for both safety and security – full time or part time.

7

Packet Pg. 39

Attachment: GM Tactical Plan 2019 - Enhance Safety and Security FINAL (3466 : General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan)

3.1.d

3.1.e

Background
Throughout its history, RTD has had to adapt its service levels and capital programs to
different financial conditions due to the variability in sales and use taxes, its largest source
of revenue. One of the strategic priorities established by the RTD Board for 2019 relates to
fiscal sustainability.
Fiscal sustainability, or public finance sustainability, is defined as the ability of a government
to sustain its current spending, tax and other policies in the long run without threatening
government solvency or defaulting on some of its liabilities or promised expenditures. This
strategic priority addresses the following.
 Revenues
 Reserves
 Liabilities
 Promised Expenditures
 Policies
Revenues
RTD has multiple funding sources with the largest single source being sales and use tax.
Sales and Use Tax
Sales and use tax revenues are collected (1%) primarily within seven metropolitan counties:
Adams, Arapahoe, Boulder, Broomfield, Denver, Douglas, and Jefferson, as well as a portion
of Weld County. Since 2011, RTD has utilized the Leeds School of Business, Business
Research Division (BRD) at the University of Colorado to forecast revenues for the District.
The BRD provides a forecast in March and September of each year. The March forecast is
used to develop the Mid-Term and Long Range Financial Plans and the September forecast
is used to develop the annual budget.
March 2018 BRD Short-Term Outlook
RTD has participated in the strong economic growth experienced in the Denver Metro region,
and Colorado retail sales estimates have outperformed national retail sales. RTD sales and
use tax revenue increased 6.1% in 2017; growth is projected to increase 4.1% in 2018 and
6.6% in 2019. The 2019 revenue forecast is boosted by faster economic growth related to
the federal tax cuts, which presumably lead to increased personal disposable income and
higher levels of retail sales—effects that seem to be lagged in the 2018 forecast for
Colorado. The outlook for Colorado economic indicators remains strong—personal income is
projected to increase 4.3% in 2018 and 5.9% in 2019; employment is projected to increase
a modest 2% and 1.5%, respectively; and retail sales will increase 5.2% each year.
Quarterly growth exhibits more volatility than annual growth, and use taxes are more volatile
than sales taxes. The third and fourth quarters tend to be the largest revenue quarters for
RTD. Forecasts of the national indicators that are needed to drive the state and district
forecasts are from Moody’s Analytics. Macro forecasts for GDP, inflation, and retail sales
were generally higher for 2018 and for 2019 compared with the September 2017
1

Packet Pg. 40

Attachment: GM Tactical Plan 2019 - Ensure Fiscal Sustainability FINAL (3466 : General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan)

GM TACTICAL PLAN FOR 2019
Strategic Priority
Ensure Fiscal Sustainability

3.1.e

Although sales and use taxes are RTD’s largest single source of revenue, it is the source of
funding that RTD has the least ability to influence. Increased revenues are dependent on a
vibrant economy and individual spending behavior and an increase in the rate of sales and
use tax requires vote of the citizens of the District.
Federal Grants
The second largest funding source is federal grants. RTD currently receives five (5) different
types of federal grants: (1) formula grants (2) Eagle New Start grant (3) Southeast Rail
Extension Small Start Grant (4) CMAQ or STP-Metro grants and (5) Homeland Security
Grants
Formula Grants
RTD receives three different kinds of formula funds.
 5307 – Urbanized Area Formula Funding Program
 5337 - State of Good Repair
 5339 – Bus and Bus Facilities
Urbanized Area Formula Funding Program (5307)
Provides federal resources to urbanized areas for transit capital and operating assistance and
for transit related planning. Funds are apportioned on the basis of legislative formulas. For
areas of 50,000 to 199,999 in population the formula is based on population and population
density. For areas with population of 200,000 and more, the formula is based on a
combination of bus revenue vehicle miles, bus passenger miles, fixed guideway revenue
miles, and fixed guideway route miles as well as population and population density.
State of Good Repair (5337)
Provides capital assistance for maintenance, replacement, and rehabilitation projects of high
intensity fixed guideway and bus systems to help transit agencies maintain assets in a state
of good repair. Funds are apportioned by statutory formulas based on revenue miles and
route miles as reported to the National Transit Database (NTD).
Bus and Bus Facilities (5339)
Provides funding for the financing of capital bus and bus-related projects that will support
the continuation and expansion of public transportation services in the United States. Eligible
recipients under Section 5339 are designated recipients that operate fixed route bus service
or that allocate funding to fixed route bus operators. For areas with less than 200,000 in
population, the formula is based on population and population density. For areas with
populations of 200,000 and more, the formula is based on a combination of bus revenue
vehicle miles, bus passenger miles, as well as population and population density.
New Start Grants
RTD currently has one New Start Grant for the Eagle P3 project. The last year of funding is
expected to be 2018 in the amount of $63.3 million. New Start Grants are selected based
2

Packet Pg. 41

Attachment: GM Tactical Plan 2019 - Ensure Fiscal Sustainability FINAL (3466 : General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan)

projections. Colorado personal income and retail sales were also revised higher for 2018 and
2019, while personal income was mixed. However, the District is expected to outperform
the State.

3.1.e

Small Start Grants
RTD currently has one Small Start Grant for the Southeast Rail Extension project. All of the
funding has been received for this project. Small Start Grants are selected based on meeting
specific grant criteria and then funding is authorized and appropriated by Congress. RTD
currently has no other projects that meet the criteria for Small Starts funding at this time.
CMAQ or STP-Metro Grants
These grants are selected by the Denver Regional Council of Governments based on an
application process. RTD has several of these grants and also administers these types of
grants for local entities within the RTD boundaries. RTD continues to pursue these grants
on a regular basis.
Homeland Security Grants
These grants are specific to security related activities and are awarded by Homeland
Security. RTD currently has one Homeland Security Grant.
RTD staff continues to pursue other discretionary grant opportunities, such as TIGER, as
they arise and fit with RTD’s priorities.
Fare Box Revenue
The last major funding source is fare box revenue. This is the funding source that RTD has
the most ability to influence. The fare is set by the RTD Board of Directors. The Board’s
Fiscal Policy Statement directs staff to plan on a fare adjustment every three (3) years in
the mid-term and long range budgets to adjust to inflation. As part of the process, it directs
staff to review potential fare adjustments to establish a fare structure to ensure that it:
 Is understandable
 Is implementable
 Is equitable
 Achieves the revenue levels established in the Mid-Range Financial Plan
The current Mid-Term Financial Plan for 2018-2023 incorporates a planned fare increase in
both 2019 and 2022.
Reserves
The Board has adopted 2018 Fiscal Policies which includes a Fund Balance Policy. This
policy states the following:
RTD will strive to maintain a fund balance in the Base System and in the FasTracks operating
budget, to provide for unanticipated expenditures of a nonrecurring nature, to meet
unexpected increases in costs or to mitigate service disruptions as a result of economic
downturns affecting revenue. The Base System should strive to maintain a total fund balance
at an amount approximately equal to three (3) months of Base System operating expenses
excluding depreciation among the following three reserve funds: the Board Appropriated
Fund, the unrestricted operating reserve, and the remaining unrestricted fund balance. For
3

Packet Pg. 42

Attachment: GM Tactical Plan 2019 - Ensure Fiscal Sustainability FINAL (3466 : General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan)

on meeting specific grant criteria and then funding is authorized and appropriated by
Congress. RTD currently has no other projects that meet the criteria for New Starts funding.

FasTracks, the total of the Board appropriated fund and the unrestricted fund balance should
be maintained at an amount approximately equal to three (3) months of FasTracks operating
expenses excluding depreciation. At the end of Calendar Year 2017, the Base System had
a fund balance of $72.1million. Based on three months of operating expenditures the amount
for year end 2017 should have been $117.2 million. FasTracks had a fund balance of $22.6
million. Based on three months of operating expenditures the amount for year end 2017
should have been $28.3 million.
In recent years, RTD has seen growth in the sales and use tax, i.e., 4.1% in 2016 and 6.1%
in 2017. This level of growth won’t last forever and consideration should be given to meeting
the three months fund balance sooner rather than later.
Building reserves would allow for more flexibility in dealing with future revenue shortfalls
which is important because of the inherent economic volatility of the District’s largest
revenue source, sales and use tax. Growth of these reserves requires discipline to set aside
funds in the short term rather than spending the funds on service in the short term. This
short-term constraint on spending is a strategic effort to improve the long term fiscal
sustainability of RTD. The following table lists economic conditions over time.

Debt
RTD utilizes debt and certificates of participation (COP) to fund capital construction projects
as well as rolling stock. RTD’s Fiscal Policy identifies several debt policies. RTD is in
compliance with all but one of the policies. Policy #7 states, “RTD will maintain a minimum
net revenue coverage ratio (all annual revenues remaining after operating and maintenance
expenses to annual debt service requirements net of excess appropriations required for
variable rate debt) of 1.2 times annual debt service.”Currently RTD is maintaining less than
1.0 times and isn’t expected to reach 1.2 times coverage until 2026. In order to maintain
RTD’s current bond and COP rating RTD needs to try to achieve this net revenue coverage
ratio of 1.2 times or make significant progress towards achieving it within the next 6 to 18
months or it is very likely RTD’s ratings will suffer. Annual debt payments constitute
4

Packet Pg. 43

Attachment: GM Tactical Plan 2019 - Ensure Fiscal Sustainability FINAL (3466 : General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan)

3.1.e

approximately 20% of total annual revenues. RTD has taken steps in 2017 to refund a
portion of our existing debt to take advantage of a lower interest rate environment and
realize annual savings. In 2017 alone, through advance refundings, RTD has saved over
$192 million between 2018 and 2040. Although the tax changes in December 2017 have
limited RTD’s ability to advance refund, RTD continues to look for opportunities to find
savings.
Sales Tax Bonds (0.6% Base Sales Tax)
Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2007A
Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2013A
Total

$

FasTracks Bonds (0.4% Sales Tax)
Sales Tax Refunding Bonds (FasTracks Project), Series 2007A
Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks Project), Series 2010A
Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks Project), Taxable Series 2010B
Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks Project), Series 2012A
Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds (FasTracks Project), Series 2013A
Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks Project), Series 2016A
Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks Project), Series 2017A
Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds (FasTracks Project), Series 2017B
Total

220,480,000
79,140,000
300,000,000
474,935,000
204,820,000
194,965,000
82,895,000
119,465,000
$ 1,676,700,000

TIFIA Loan and Other Parity Obligations
Eagle P3 TIFIA Loan*

$

341,878,142

TABOR Portion of the Service Payment
TABOR Portion of the Service Payment (Eagle P3 Project)

$

589,913,540

69,825,000
26,870,000
96,695,000

Certificates of Participation and Lease Purchase Agreements

Base
Certificates of Participation Taxable Refunding, Series 2007A $

6,255,000

FasTracks
$

-

Total
$

6,255,000

Certificates of Participation, Series 2010A
Certificates of Participation, Taxable Series 2010B
Certificates of Participation, Series 2013A
Certificates of Participation, Series 2014A
Certificates of Participation, Series 2015A

28,055,000
146,225,000
122,985,000

80,600,000
100,000,000
29,740,000
440,915,000
5,930,000

108,655,000
100,000,000
175,965,000
440,915,000
128,915,000

Lease Purchase Agreement, Series 2016
Lease Purchase Agreement, Series 2017
Total

62,552,512
109,855,000

43,285,000

62,552,512
153,140,000

$ 475,927,512

$ 700,470,000

$ 1,176,397,512

Promised Expenditures
RTD’s current 2018 budget contains all of our promised expenditures under state law.
However, as was mentioned previously, RTD has $3.9 billion in outstanding debt. In
addition, in 2004 the voters passed FasTracks which identified projects throughout RTD
5

Packet Pg. 44

Attachment: GM Tactical Plan 2019 - Ensure Fiscal Sustainability FINAL (3466 : General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan)

3.1.e

which were assumed to be completed by 2017 based on the financial plan at the time. To
date, all but four (4) projects have been completed or are under construction. The four (4)
projects are:
 Southwest Corridor Extension
 Central Rail Extension
 North Metro from 124th to SH 7
 Northwest Rail Corridor from Westminster to Longmont
The 2017 estimated cost of completing these projects is approximately $2.2 billion. Funds
for completing these projects have not been identified in the current 2018 – 2040 Long
Range Plan. Additional information on unfunded corridors is included in strategic priority
Future Transportation Needs and Methods.
Policies
RTD policies directly impact the fiscal sustainability of RTD. We normally think about them
in the context of the requirements of the Board adopted Fiscal Policy Statement; however,
policies around capital expenditures and operations can have a more direct impact than
following the fiscal policy. For example, how we operate our service, how much service we
provide and where, what capital projects are funded, and how our fleet is managed has a
direct impact on our ability to financially sustain the organization. In late 2018 and 2019,
RTD will be embarking on a system optimization plan that will help in determining what our
system might look like in the future and how to best operate it. This will greatly help in
determining the ongoing viability of current policies and practices as it relates to fiscal
sustainability of the organization.

6

Packet Pg. 45

Attachment: GM Tactical Plan 2019 - Ensure Fiscal Sustainability FINAL (3466 : General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan)

3.1.e

GM TACTICAL PLAN FOR 2019
Strategic Priority
Ensure State of Good Repair and Asset Management
Background
In 2019, RTD will continue transitioning its major emphasis of expansion including designing
and building new facilities to operating, maintaining and utilizing existing assets. This
transition will include key components necessary to ensure the optimization of assets and
workforce while delivering safe and secure services that are fiscally sustainable.
At the same time, the Asset Management and State of Good Repair (SGR) program is
maturing to encompass all asset types and to meet newly mandated regulatory
requirements. Emphasizing life-cycle management principles will assure safety, system
performance and efficiency. Good asset management and State of Good Repair is a strategic
data-driven approach to management that guides company investments, resources, and
policy decisions to achieve goals. RTD relies heavily on physical assets which exist to
support the delivery of its purpose of moving people. Therefore, an asset’s “value” is
determined by its ability to further this purpose.
The descriptions below provide the tactical approaches to accomplish this goal. Each of
these areas will be addressed in 2019.
Continue Along Path to ISO 55000 Certification
RTD is committed to maximizing value from its assets by implementing the asset
management framework contained in the International Standards Organization’s ISO 55000.
The purpose of the Asset Management Division is to manage the path to certification and
thereafter, ensure continued compliance to the standard.
RTD will create and utilize a Strategic Asset Management Plan (SAMP), an Asset
Management Plan (AMP), and an Asset Management Policy. These three artifacts are the
backbone of an ISO 55000 certified business and elements of the MAP-21 final rule.
Moving forward along the path to ISO certification demonstrates to both regulators and
other stakeholders that assets are being appropriately maintained while addressing short,
medium and long-term risks. Setting in place the key components for FTA compliance at the
same time as ISO certification will bring the greatest value and allow systems to be set up
and utilized for the required time prior to assessment. In addition, the independent
certification provides evidence of fiscal sustainability and compliance to safety critical
systems and procedures. The objective of RTD’s Asset Management system is to optimize
the value of assets while managing risks.
Asset Management, consistently applied throughout the organization, enables RTD to work
collectively and more effectively in realizing value from physical assets. An asset’s value is
determined by its ability to further the agency purpose of moving people. The SAMP, AMP,
and Policy are the tools that enable the entire organization to work collectively toward this
ultimate goal of achieving alignment to our common purpose, moving people.

1
Packet Pg. 46

Attachment: GM Tactical Plan 2019 - Ensure State of Good Repair and Asset Management FINAL (3466 : General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan)

3.1.f









RTD will create Strategic Asset Management Plan (SAMP) and Asset Management
Plan (AMP). The SAMP will include a procedure for capital project requests. The
procedure will stipulate that capital project requests will be categorized in the
following groups:
o Compliance - The project is necessary for RTD to comply with a law or
regulation.
o Renewal - The project is necessary to renew an existing asset necessary
for continued safe operation.
o Enhancement/Expansion - The project is requested to enhance an existing
service or to expand service.
RTD will utilize a Strategic Asset Management Plan (SAMP), and an Asset
Management Plan (AMP), and an Asset Management Policy. These three artifacts are
the backbone of an ISO 55000 certified business and elements of the MAP-21 final
rule.
Develop ISO 55000 KPI measures focused on the key themes necessary to improve
organizational efficiency and effectiveness. These will allow for more accurate
measurements to analyze risk, age, utilization, cost, condition and performance of all
SGR qualified assets
Develop methodologies to optimize for capital investment and maintenance decisions

The SAMP will designate that funding approval will be prioritized in order from 1) Compliance
projects, then 2) Renewal projects, then 3) Enhancement/Expansion projects. This process
will enhance safety and security by ensuring that capital projects necessary to comply with
safety and security related regulations will receive highest priority. Further, it will ensure
that capital projects for renewal of assets, which is often necessary to continue safe
operation, will get the second highest priority for funding.
Asset Management, consistently applied throughout the organization, enables RTD to work
collectively and more effectively in realizing value from physical assets. An asset’s value is
determined by its ability to further the agency purpose of moving people. The SAMP, AMP,
and Policy are the tools which enable the entire organization to work collectively toward this
ultimate goal of achieving alignment to our common purpose.
Maintain Infrastructure and Rolling Stock
RTD’s systems rely on maintaining infrastructure and rolling stock for service delivery.
Maintaining infrastructure supports safety, system performance and efficiency. The lifecycle
management and maintenance of all assets involves a common set of elements. In order to
achieve and maintain a “State of Good Repair” evaluation of the lifecycle cost, physical
condition, and performance of each class of assets is necessary. Asset Management is the
link between life-cycle management expenditures such as rehabilitation, preventive
maintenance, and unplanned maintenance to asset performance including reporting
performance restrictions for Fixed Guideways.
Regarding the light rail system, the Central Corridor began revenue service in 1994. The
system requires day-to-day maintenance as well as scheduling periodic service disruptions
to perform major maintenance activities including: rail replacement, ballast tamping, switch
maintenance and replacement, traction power and signal maintenance.
2
Packet Pg. 47

Attachment: GM Tactical Plan 2019 - Ensure State of Good Repair and Asset Management FINAL (3466 : General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan)

3.1.f

The state of good repair data-driven practice aims to maximize asset performance, minimize
the total cost of ownership, and manage risks. These elements are common to all asset
classes. Steps to achieving this goal include:
 Complete asset register capturing all necessary attributes
 Identify asset and business risks
 Measure and analyze age, utilization, cost, condition and performance of all system
infrastructure
 Integrate safety management system approach
Manage and Expansion of Facilities
RTD’s current facilities include:
 Two light rail maintenance facilities
 One commuter rail maintenance facility
 Four bus maintenance facilities
 Denver Union Station
 Civic Center Station
 Downtown Boulder Transit Center
 Boulder Junction at Depot Square
 A number of support and administrative facilities
 Light rail and commuter rail stations, and
 Park-n-Rides.
Most RTD facilities are operating at capacity and expansion of any facility would be
challenging. The bus maintenance facilities are of particular concern given their age (ranging
approximately 27 – 40 years old) and the inability to expand capacity. RTD manages and
maintains these facilities through the SBP and annual budgeting process. RTD’s practice is
to perform maintenance on facilities according to predetermined maintenance schedules that
are entered, tracked and reported in RTD’s maintenance management system. A number of
facility-related projects are submitted each year in the SBP process to maintain facilities in
a state of good repair and assure that all facility equipment and systems are available. These
projects are prioritized during the SBP process to address the most critical needs as more
requests are received than RTD is able to fund in any given year.
RTD will need a new bus maintenance facility should the District expand operations beyond
the current number of buses and subfleets. A new facility should be planned as part of the
SBP process.
The approach to state of good repair for RTD facilities is similar to all assets, considering
evaluation of the lifecycle cost, physical condition assessment, and performance of each
class of assets is necessary. Asset Management is the link between life-cycle management
expenditures such as rehabilitation, preventive maintenance, and unplanned maintenance to
asset performance including mean cost per square foot and frequency and time out of
service. This data-driven practice aims to maximize asset performance, minimize the total
cost of ownership, and manage risks. These elements are common to all asset classes but
differ in implementation. Steps to achieving this goal include:
 Identify asset and business risks
 Dashboard Key Performance Indicator’s (KPI’s)
 Measure and analyze age, utilization, cost, condition and performance of facilities
3
Packet Pg. 48

Attachment: GM Tactical Plan 2019 - Ensure State of Good Repair and Asset Management FINAL (3466 : General Manager 2019 Tactical Plan)

3.1.f

