Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on December 13, 2011
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Office Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

December 14, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held
December 13, 2011 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Tobiassen; Directors Anderson, Bagley, Cohen, Daly,
Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Malpiede, O’Boyle, Tayer, and Walker.
Director McMullen left before the meeting started.
Director James left early

Board Members
Absent:

Chair Kemp

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Bob Brown, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke, Carolyn Conover,
Lou Cripps, Lee Cryer, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Mike Gil, Bill
Holmes, George Hovey, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Jeff Kay,
Marla Lien, Pat McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod,
Anthony Menendez, Tai-Shrae Parish, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Steve
Pilon, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna,
Dean Shaklee, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Jim Sutton, Greg Smith, Jim
Smith, Errol Stevens, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Mike Turner, Bill Van
Meter, Phil Washington, Bill Weidenaar, and Don Young.

Others Present:

John Baron – GBSM, Ferd Belz – USA, Dana Crawford – USA,
Katherine Davis – USA, Mike Dino – Patton Boggs, Brent D. – Chandler
Films, Jenny Elich, Jared Fleisher – Patton Boggs, Carlos Gonsalez –
First Transit, Stan Gronek – ATU 1001, Tom Gruskha – Chandler
Films, Anne Hayes – USA, Jeff Hermanson – Larimer Associates,
Dennis Huspeni – Denver Business Journal, Margaret Jackson – Denver
Post, Jim Johnson – USA, Floyd Jones – CCBC, David Levine –
Larimer Associates, Stu Livensparger – First Transit, Scott M., Pat
McHenry – USA, Burt Melcher, Anne Mieno – Patton Boggs, Kyle Miller
– GBSM, Kevin O’Neill – Patton Boggs, Joseph P., Rick P. – First
Transit, Rosemary Paolillo, Michael Pecot – USA, Justin Salbia –
Chandler Films, Josefina Schnaith – Sage, Susan Spry – First Transit,
Joe Vostrejs – Sage, Cody Wertz – GBSM, Bryon White,

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on December 13, 2011
Page 2 of 5

****
Call to Order:

I.

Committee Chair Tobiassen called the Operations & Customer Services
Committee Meeting to order at 8:10 p.m.

Recommended Action
 Parking Management
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to modify the 2008 Parking
Management Program to eliminate the provisions for 50% demand management
discounts for low demand facilities and to retain all other provisions.
David Genova explained that the board report, presentation and fact sheet was
included in the board packet and would answer any questions.
Motion:

Director Daly made the motion to forward
this item to the full Board at the December
20, 2011 Board meeting.

Second:

Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed Unanimously. Directors
Kemp, Deadwyler and McMullen were
absent from this vote.
 Award of “Group 23” Contracted Fixed-Route Services
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a
contract for the provision of “Group 23” contracted fixed-route transit services with
First Transit, Inc. This contract is for three years for an amount not to exceed
$60,745,747 with two (2) one year options in the amount of $21,417,815 (option
year 1) and $21,855,925 (option year 2), for a total five year amount not to exceed
$104,019,487. In addition, RT will reimburse the contractor’s direct fuel costs in an
amount estimated to be approximately $12,195,466 for the initial three year contract
term, $4,328,399 for option year 1, $4,444,350 for option year 2, for a total of
$20,968,215 for the five year period. This results in a total contract amount not to
exceed $72,941,213 for the initial three year contract period and $124,987,702 for
the five year period. This proposal represents the most responsive and responsible
proposal received in response the Request for Proposals (RFP) 11-DH-028, to provide
“Group 23” Public Transportation Services. The contract to provide this service is
scheduled to be effective with implementation of the May, 2012, service changes on
May 13, 2012.
Bruce Abel noted this contract reflects a slight reduction from our current contract
rates and would like to thank First Transit, Inc. for acknowledging our financial

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on December 13, 2011
Page 3 of 5

circumstance and putting a very sharp pencil to their proposal.
Director Hoy asked if this group would do routes every day of the week, or would the
route be serviced by both RTD and the contractor.
Greg Smith explained that service planning and scheduling optimizes the schedules
and it varies from day to day. Some of the routes are all operated by First Transit or,
they can operate certain trips to help support RTD services.
Committee Chair Tobiassen explained that he rides the 10 on a very regular basis and
they are the happiest drivers.
Motion:

Director Malpiede made the motion to
forward this item to the full Board at the
December 20, 2011 Board meeting.

Second:

Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed Unanimously. Directors
James, Kemp and McMullen were absent
from this vote.
II.

Information
 Asset Management
David Genova noted that a number of additional buses have been run through the
assessment tool for the bus pilot program and we are very pleased with how the
assessment tool is working. It is yielding the results we were expecting and behaving
the way we thought it would. We would like to move forward with the full
implementation of this program.
Jim Sutton explained that we’ve collected data based on current bus conditions and
information we already have in the database. We can already see trends develop and
we will be able to determine what replacements will be needed. We will need to
collect more data as the project rolls out and it will take time, but it will be
worthwhile.
 Non-profit reduced fare program
Bruce Abel indicated that a quick update was included in the board packet. We are
making a few changes that are considered administrative and do not require board
action. Effective the first of the year, we are phasing out the token program to a 10
ride ticket program. One ride ticket coupons will be distributed as opposed to tokens
as well as removing the trip purposes/trip restrictions. The responsibility of tracking
trips was determined to be an administrative burden that was not necessary.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on December 13, 2011
Page 4 of 5

Director Tayer added that one way to mitigate fare increases is to ensure that those
lower income individuals in our communities still have access to our services and are
not as severely impacted by the fare increases.
Director Walker inquired as to what is the cost difference between tokens and
passes. Bruce Abel explained that tokens have a value of .25 cents. In terms of
acquisitions costs they are the same as the ticket books. We will still accept tokens
but we will not distribute them anymore. We will also utilize an exchange program for
those who still maintain token inventories.
 Over the road coach procurement
Dean Shaklee explained that we are getting ready to advertise to replace the 1998
MCIs which have an average of over 1 million miles on them. We are looking for a
traditional over the road coach: three axils, 45 ft. long, 102” wide, three luggage
bins, completely ADA accessible and with the traditional power plan.
Bruce Abel noted that there have been conversations previously about the use of
alternative fuel, but the market for over the road coaches with alternative fuel is
between limited to non-existent. Our intention is to move forward with the
traditionally powered vehicle and we wanted the Board to be aware of that.
Director Hoy further noted that the industry no longer builds diesel buses that expel
dirty air and/or black smoke. Dean Shaklee explained that the engines we will be
purchasing are 2010 EPA compliant with particulate filters and will burn as clean as a
CNG bus.
 Design Line bus
Bruce Abel indicated that staff is working with the communications group to solicit
customer input. The bus will be going into limited service beginning tomorrow then
expanding for longer and longer service periods.
Director Bagley inquired why the bus has dual rear tires. Dean Shaklee explained that
the main reason we went to the dual tire bus is that the current mall shuttles have
had to acquire a waiver from the tire manufacturer indicating that the tires would not
be driven over 20 mph because of the weight of the vehicle. However, the
manufacturer is no longer issuing that waiver. Having the dual tires in the rear
provide for better traction so that the bus will not slip or slide and helps distribute the
weight of the vehicle better.
 January run board
Jessie Carter explained that we are finished with the scheduling process. Tomorrow
we are putting out the pamphlets with the new January schedule and as of
December 22nd, we will have the timetables online for the public to view. The actual
changes will be on all bus and rail vehicles by January 12th. This is a very large
service change and 850 shelters will need to be changed beginning January 17th.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on December 13, 2011
Page 5 of 5

 CAD/AVL Project Status
Bruce Abel indicated this update was provided in the board packet and would answer
any questions if there were any.
 Smart Card Update
Bruce Abel noted that this update was provided in the board packet and would
answer any questions if any.
III.

Other Matters
General Manager Washington noted that we lost an outstanding employee this weekend.
Isan Fan, one of our structural engineers on the FasTracks team had a heart attack and
passed away. We’ve assigned a casualty assistance officer to help his family. Also, Del
Walker has lost his mother and has traveled back to Atlanta to be with his family.

IV.

Next Meeting Date – January 10, 2012

V.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 8:52 p.m.

