1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Civil Rights Committee
Tuesday, February 11, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Civil Rights Committee
Chaired by Angie Rivera-Malpiede

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Rivera-Malpiede called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Absent

Arrived

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

5:05 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Remote

5:12 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

5:14 PM
5:07 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

5:31 PM
5:10 PM
5:12 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

5:16 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Committee Chair

Present

4:42 PM

Chuck Sisk

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

5:27 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:29 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:32 PM
5:00 PM

Director Deadwyler participated via phone. Director Anderson was absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jeff Becker, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke,
Carolyn Conover, John Elias, Heather Ellerbrock, David Genova, Mike
Gil, Kenn Hardin, Terry Howerter, Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop, Austin
Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod, Tony McCaulay,
Robin McIntosh Jr., Barbara McManus, Brenden Morgan, Kevin
Parker, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Richard Rost, Zamy Silva, Walt
Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van Meter, Michael
Washington, Phil Washington

Others Present:

Marshall Crawford, Jennifer Eckert, Adrina Gibson, Rita Kahn, Dan
Pearsall, Pedro Ramos, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• Civil Rights ADA Program Update
Kenn Hardin, Senior Manager of Civil Rights, shared with the Board that the
handout in the February 11, 2014 Civil Rights Committee Meeting Agenda
Packet summarizes the activities of the Civil Rights Division as it relates to
their newest initiative, the ADA Program. He noted that there were a
number of elements associated with the program. The first goal was to reengage the community through the Americans with Disabilities Act Advisory
Committee (ADAAC) and the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
Committee. He explained that ADAAC committee is the external committee
that meets with Civil Rights staff to discuss their community’s concerns; the
ADA Committee is the internal committee that works to resolve the
ADAAC’s concerns.
Kenn Hardin stated that as part of the ADA Program, his team wanted to
focus on creating milestones to begin implementing key areas of the
program. He said that there were three core areas they would be focusing
on: communication, compliance and training. Kenn Hardin asked the Board
for their opinions and suggestions to help develop this program.
Director Tobiassen feels it is very exciting to see RTD coming up to speed
and recognizing people with disabilities. He appreciates staff’s hard work.
Director Tobiassen wondered if staff was reaching out to people with

disabilities within RTD to participate in the ADA Committee. Kenn Hardin
stated that they were.
Director Tobiassen commented that one of the things previously discussed
was making RTD a better place for people with disabilities to find meaningful
employment. He recognizes that it has been a struggle because of the rapid
development of technology; however, he believes that as a large
organization we should be able to influence our software and hardware
vendors to make sure they are providing solutions that RTD can make
adaptable for people with disabilities. He hopes the ADA program can
include meaningful employment as part of the milestones. Kenn Hardin
shared that Director Folska was instrumental in recommending two
individuals for staff to work with in regards to employment; one focuses on
working with Veterans and the other works with employer adaptability for
people with disabilities.
Director Folska believes this work is outstanding. She is excited to follow
the progress in this area. Director Folska asked if there were any plans to
hire a dedicated individual as the ADA Coordinator for the agency. She
believes this position will be very helpful in order to ensure success in this
program. She noted that other agencies and organizations often have an
ADA Coordinator so it is a very common practice. Director Folska also
thinks the ADA Coordinator would be very instrumental in making sure any
software purchased was fully accessible. Kenn Hardin said that this is
something he is working on with General Manager Washington which he will
continue to do.
Director Solano expressed his concern for the Hispanic community,
especially the disabled Spanish speaking individuals. He wonders if we will
be able to effectively communicate with them. Kenn Hardin noted that
Limited English Proficiency (LEP) falls under Title VI; however, anyone with a
disability will be worked with through the ADA Program. He shared that the
Civil Rights Division has many people within the department who speak
Spanish.
Director Deadwyler thanked Kenn Hardin for his work. She believes this
program is wonderful. Director Deadwyler noted that people have more
respect for what RTD is doing if we start from the inside. She shared that
the handicap entrance to the Blake facility is really a hindrance. There is
only one entrance that goes around a corner and is extremely cluttered with
desks and other items. She recognizes that people work in that area but
believes it should be made more safe and inviting for people with disabilities.
Director Deadwyler said that this really needs to be addressed around the
corner where mirrors are needed to avoid collisions. She asked if there were
any plans to make our building more accessible and inviting. General

Manager Washington said that the facilities managers would look at the
area. He agreed that it is cluttered. General Manager Washington
recognized that one of the challenges that RTD has is that we have
outgrown the Blake building.

D. Other Matters
Committee Chair Rivera-Malpiede passed out some information related to the recent
article in the Denver Post about 9to5 Colorado’s transit service report that is
available for review in the RTD Board Office. She asked the Board to review the
information and come back to staff with any questions.
Committee Chair Rivera-Malpiede shared that RTD received a special award on
February 5, 2014. She said that we were recognized by the Diversity Recruiters
Network with the Diversity Spirit Achievement Award for our active support of
diversity in the workplace. She congratulated the entire RTD family.

E. Next Meeting Date - April 8, 2014
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Rivera-Malpiede adjourned the meeting at 5:50 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

