Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, February 14,
2012
Page 1 of 2

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Crystal Tuggle, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

February 15, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
February 14, 2012 at 5:30 p.m.
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Bagley; Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Cohen, Daly,
Hoy, James, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen and Walker.
Directors Deadwyler, Malpiede and Williams.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Cohen, Jeet Desai, David Genova, Terry Howerter,
Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod, Tai-Shrae Parish, Paula Perdue, Chris Quinn,
Scott Reed, Daria Serna, John Shonsey, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Jim
Starling, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner, Crystal Tuggle, Bill Van Meter,
Del Walker, Phil Washington, Susan Wood, and Brian Welsh

Others Present:

Ken Burns - CAC, Joe Christie, Stan Gronek – ATU1001, Sherman
Hamilton – Virtegic Group, Daryl Kinton, Dave Lewis – CAC, Doyle
Raines – General Manager Transportation Sector Network Integration,
TSA, Bob Wilson – GLAC, and Melanie Worley- Move Colorado.
****

Call to Order:
I.

Committee Chair Bagley called the meeting to order at 7:25 p.m.

Recommended Action
 Board of Directors redistricting
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the recommendation of the Redistricting Committee regarding the
map for new Director District boundaries.
Motion:

Director Tayer made the motion to
forward this item to the full board at
the January 24, 2012 Board
meeting.
Director
motion.

Cohen

seconded

the

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, February 14,
2012
Page 2 of 2

Vote on
the motion:

The motion passed Unanimously.
Directors Deadwyler, Malpiede and
Williams were absent from this
vote.

Chair Kemp indicated his thanks to Directors Hoy and McMullen and the other members
of the Board and Staff for making this an easy process.
Chris Quinn noted that every ten years RTD is required to go though the
reapportionment process to correspond to the census and this redistricting process
went smoothly.
Director James inquired when the new maps would become effective and asked when
the maps would be published.
Chris Quinn noted that after the final Board approval on February 21st the maps will be
published online the next day.
Director Tayer noted that he would like to see adjustments made to the FasTracks emailing lists to correspond to the new district maps.
II. Other Matters
None
III. Next Meeting Date—March 6th, 2012
IV. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 7:35 p.m.

