1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Paul Rosenthal, District E
Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Erik Davidson, District I
Bobby Dishell, District D

Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Marjorie Sloan, District M
Doug Tisdale, District H
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
FA&A/Ops Consolidated Agenda
Tuesday, May 4, 2021
REMOTE MEETING
5:30 PM
To join the meeting: REGISTER HERE
(connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or to listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 838 9767 5786#
Webinar Passcode: 1660

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Peggy Catlin

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• Contract Amendment and Transfer for the Platte Boiler Project
C. Discussion
D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - June 15, 2021
F. Adjourn

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Kate Williams

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• ADA Paratransit Eligibility Assessments/Travel Training
C. Discussion

• Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee (APAC) Report
D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - June 15, 2021
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Contract Amendment and Transfer for the Platte Boiler
Project

Committee Meeting Date:
May 4, 2021
Board Meeting Date:
May 4, 2021

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the RTD Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager, or her designee, to amend contract
#19 DD-001 with Rasmussen Mechanical Services to increase the not-to-exceed amount from $278,182
to $838,000, and to authorize a budget transfer of $324,519 from the General Manager’s Contingency
Funds to fund the purchase of three replacement boilers at the Platte Division.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Henry J. Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager, Capital Programs
PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes
BACKGROUND
The Platte shops has three boilers servicing the facility. The heating plant requires two boilers to heat
offices, workshops, and the bus garage in cold weather. A third boiler provides spare capacity. The
boilers were replaced in 2014. The scope of work included three new boilers. Issues arose with the
boilers requiring that they be replaced, and new flues added. RTD filed claims with its insurance carrier
for all three damaged boilers. RTD has received funds ($278,182 minus a $100,000 deductible) for
Boiler #1. Claims for Boilers #2 and #3 are being negotiated and processed with litigation against the
original contractor scheduled for a July 2021 trial.
The initial notice to proceed with Rasmussen Mechanical Services was given on September 13, 2019
after the completion of RTD’s Invitation to Bid process Which resulted in a base bid of $278,182. One
amendment has been added to the contract for $10,648. Total contract value is currently $288,830 to
replace one boiler and modify the flues. Rasmussen Mechanical Services is a national firm with
experience with these systems. They were also the only qualified bidder for the replacement of Boiler
#1. With this information the RTD procurement and legal staff has completed a sole source evaluation
based upon the emergency nature of the required services needed.
Currently a budget of $589,481 has been allocated to replace Boiler #1 and the flues. A replacement
boiler was ordered and received. Further investigation showed in late 2019 that the other two boilers
were damaged in a similar way. They were operated in a reduced capacity through the 2020-21 heating
season but could not be replaced due to the claim and litigation process. RTD Facilities staff were able
to maintain heat to the facility without any interruptions through the last heating season.
DISCUSSION
Based on the expertise of Rasmussen, the original bid process, the timeline to get the work completed,
the configuration of the boiler room, and the cost of the additional work compared to RTD’s internal
estimate; the recommendation is to continue with Rasmussen Mechanical Services.
Thus, given that the remaining two boilers are compromised it is being recommended to replace all three
boilers. Cost to repair the boilers exceeds replacing them. Replacement work needs to begin before June

Packet Pg. 3

1.B.1

1, 2021 to have the heating plant back in operation for the 2021-22 heating season. RTD has a quote of
$838,000 from Rasmussen Mechanical to perform the work.
There was no SBE requirement for the project due to the emergency needs for services.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
This project utilizes 100% local funds that are included in the approved 2021 capital programs budget.
RTD Risk Management is proceeding with legal action to recover damages from the contractor who
installed the existing boilers and flues. The case is set for trial in July 2021. RTD has also filed claims
with its insurance carrier. Money recovered from these efforts will be returned to the general fund.

Prepared by:
Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Chief Engineer
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 4

2.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
ADA Paratransit Eligibility Assessments/Travel Training

Committee Meeting Date:
May 4, 2021
Board Meeting Date:
May 4, 2021

RECOMMENDED ACTION
To authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her designee, to execute all documents necessary to
enter into a contract with Medical Transportation Management, Inc. (MTM) for the provision of ADA
paratransit eligibility functional assessments and travel training for a five-year period and an amount not
to exceed $4,735,769.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer
Paul Hamilton, Senior Manager, Paratransit Services
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 Minutes
BACKGROUND
RTD requires all applicants for Access-a-Ride services to participate in an in-person functional
assessment. Functional assessments enable RTD to determinate eligibility for ADA paratransit services
within three eligibility categories under the ADA. The three categories include determining whether an
individual: 1) is unable to understand how to complete bus or light rail trips due to a cognitive
deficiency; 2) requires a lift-equipped bus or light rail vehicle and such accommodations are unavailable
(this category no longer applies as all RTD services are accessible); or 3) is unable to navigate
independently to and from a bus stop or light rail station.
DISCUSSION
On January 5, 2021, RTD issued a Request for Proposals (RFP) soliciting technical and price proposals
to provide paratransit eligibility assessments and travel training services. On February 8, 2021, RTD
received proposals from the following firms:
ADA Ride.com
Easter Seals Colorado
Medical Transportation Management, Inc. (MTM)
Transdev
A panel was assembled to evaluate the proposals based on the following evaluative criteria:
experience of the firm and individuals proposed for key positions and disciplines (35%);
understanding of RTD’s requirements and objectives in relation to the specifics of the scope of work
(35%); and cost (30%). The evaluation panel consisted of RTD’s Senior Manager, Paratransit
Services; Manager, Paratransit Services; and Paratransit Eligibility Program Coordinator. Two
members from the disability community participated on the evaluation panel and advised staff.
Based on the average of the individual scores received, MTM was deemed the most technically
qualified proposer for award. The score for the “Cost” element was calculated by RTD Procurement
staff and was then added to the technical score of the proposal to determine the overall total score.

Packet Pg. 5

2.B.1

MTM’s experience with providing eligibility evaluations and travel training nationally, and the
experience of their proposed staff were key elements of their proposal.
Performance under the contract is for a five-year period and shall not exceed $4,735,769 for a fiveyear term.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funding for this contract for Calendar Year 2021 is included in the 2021 Budget that was appropriated
by the Board of Directors. Future contract year funding will be included in annual budget appropriation
requests.

Prepared by:
Paul Hamilton, Senior Manager, Paratransit Services
Larry Buter, Manager
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 6

2.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee (APAC)
Report

Committee Meeting Date:
May 4, 2021

STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer
Brenda Carney, APAC Member

PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes

BACKGROUND
In the early nineties, the Regional Transportation District (RTD) established an Access-a-Ride Paratransit
Advisory Committee (APAC) in order to promote effective, efficient, and customer-responsive
paratransit services provided by the agency, APAC members engage in dialog with RTD staff on issues;
trends; needs; policies; and resources pertaining to Access-a-Ride services throughout the district and
offes a unique perspective with the goal of continuously improving those services. APAC provides input
to RTD that is intended to:
•
•
•
•
•

Improve the quality and accessibility of Access-a-Ride services
Advance the needs of customers with disabilities who rely on Access-a-Ride services
Strengthen communication between RTD and organizations that advocate for the needs of
Access-a-Ride customers
Promote collaboration, transparency, and information sharing
Ensure meaningful and diverse community input, participation, and involvement in RTD’s
paratransit-related activities

DISCUSSION
Brenda Carney, an APAC member, will provide a summary from the March 9, 2021 APAC meeting and
field questions.

FINANCIAL IMPACT
None

Attachments:
• APAC Minutes, March 9, 2021
Prepared by:
Larry Buter, Manager, Paratransit Services

Approved by:
ATTACHMENTS:
•

APAC Ops Presentation 5-4-21

(DOCX)

•

2021-03-09 APAC Minutes

(DOCX)

Packet Pg. 7

2.C.1

Prepared by:
Larry Buter, Manager
Paul Hamilton, Senior Manager, Paratransit Services
Approved by:

Authorized:

Packet Pg. 8

2.C.1.a

To:

Debra A. Johnson, GM/CEO

From:

Larry Buter, Manager, Paratransit Services

Date:

April 29, 2021

Re:

Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee (APAC) Report

Attachment: APAC Ops Presentation 5-4-21 (4514 : Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee (APAC) Report)

Memorandum

Brenda Carney, an APAC member, will provide a summary from their March 9, 2021 APAC
meeting and will be available to answer questions.
APAC provides input to RTD that is intended to:
•
•
•
•
•

Improve the quality and accessibility of Access-a-Ride services
Advance the needs of the disabled passengers who rely on Access-a-Ride services
Strengthen communication between RTD and organizations that advocate for the
needs of Access-a-Ride customers
Promote collaboration, transparency, and information sharing
Ensure meaningful and diverse community input, participation, and involvement in
RTD’s paratransit-related activities

Attached are the meeting’s minutes.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 9

2.C.1.b

Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee (APAC)

MEETING MINUTES

In attendance:
Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee:
Brenda Carney, Craig Towler – Center for People with Disabilities, Donna Thurston –
Laradon Hall, John Fahlstrom, Lyndsey Sent – Global Down Syndrome, Melisa
Mascarenas – Shalom/Denver, Merv Martin, Renee Schofield– Rocky Mtn. Human
Services, Roberto Cabrera – CO. Commission for the Deaf, Tex Elam
RTD Staff:
Karl Ballard, Zahrane Bouziani, Larry Buter, Lisa Clanin, Laura Clark, Mark Clendennen,
Julie Delaney, Ameri Gagliardi, Bob Grado, Paul Hamilton, Anne Hillyer, Dave Jensen,
Debra Johnson, Steve Martingano, Barbara McManus, Vivian Morales Jim Neff, Linda
Ober, Winona Rivera, Melanie Snyder, Pauletta Tonilas, Jeff Tranguch, Erin Vallejos,
Jyotsna Vishwakarma
RTD Director:
Kate Williams
Contracted Staff:
Marcellinus Andrew, Joey Camp, Laura Clark, Ty Coleman, Allan Klepadlo, Ann
Maddox, Patricia Martinez, Travis Menefee, Sarah Meredith, Tawana Hall
Others & Public
Andi Bailey, Uber
Jody Erikson, facilitator for the Advisory Committee for People with Disabilities (APAC), called the
meeting to order at 10:03 a.m.
Welcome/Meeting Protocol/Agenda Review
Jody Erikson welcomed the committees’ members, explained the virtual meeting protocol and
reviewed the meeting agenda.
Roll call
Jody Erikson led the roll call for the APAC.
Safety Moment
Vivian Morales, Civil Rights Outreach Specialist, shared a safety moment regarding Daylight Savings
Time’s effects and how they are compared to jetlag. She encouraged attendees to rest well in order
to adjust accordingly.

Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: 2021-03-09 APAC Minutes (4514 : Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee (APAC) Report)

March 9, 2021 – Time: 10:00 am – 12:15 pm

Introduction of Debra A. Johnson, RTD General Manager & CEO
Vivian Morales introduced Debra A. Johnson, RTD General Manager and Chief Executive Officer.
Debra A. Johnson introduced herself and opened the floor for questions. Jaime Lewis exhorted GM
Johnson to work with staff on closing the feedback loop on suggestions from advisory committees
that may not be accepted by staff. Debra A. Johnson confirmed her commitment to work with staff
and close loops on suggestions that may not be adopted.
Access-A-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee
1. Introduction of the topic of selection of APAC Member to Provide Verbal Summaries to the
RTD Board
Brenda Carney graciously volunteered to verbally update RTD Board meeting tonight, March
9th, as she was selected by APAC to give updates to ACPD. APAC will nominate and select
someone formally at the May APAC mtg.
2. COVID-19 Response - Capacity restrictions increased– Larry Buter, RTD
COVID19 capacity restrictions during most of the last year were 1 passenger a vehicle, this
was largely possible because more vehicles/operators were available due to decreased
ridership. Now, the capacity is a maximum of 3 per vehicle (unless from the same household).
This still allows social distancing while providing increased capacity as demand has begun to
return.
3. Pilot a Ride-Share (Uber) Model – Andi Bailey, Uber & Larry Buter, RTD
• Stage 1 (for ambulatory riders and those with wheelchairs that fold/fit in sedan trunk) –
for eligible riders in four zip codes (80013, 80014, 80015, and 80016); they pay $2 for an
Uber X or XL vehicle; and are allowed up to 60 subsidized trips.
• Stage 2 (for fixed wheelchair riders, using RTD vehicles and MV operators) – this stage
will begin roll-out on April 12, 2021, and will expand the pilot area to include eligible riders
in an additional three zip codes (80011, 80012, and 80017).
• ACPD volunteered to help with promotion of this pilot program.
• ACTION: Send Uber’s prepared presentation to all (was not shown during meeting but
will be distributed electronically after the meeting).
4. Mobile App/Web Portal – Larry Buter, RTD
• Beta testing on newest changes was completed and the most recent update to the web
portal went live last month.
• Usage numbers: 4000 user accounts created; 4000 trips booked, with 1000 trips canceled;
7000 pick up/arrival messages sent, and 10,9000 ETA messages sent,
• ACTION: Send the link and access instruction to the group.
5. Eligibility and Training Vendor RFP – Larry Buter, RTD
• In response to the release of the ADA Assessment/Travel Training RFP, RTD has received
several proposals/bids that are being evaluated.
• A review committee, including 2 additional stakeholders (Donna Thurston, Laradon Hall
and current APAC member; and Krystin Trustman, RTD Oversight and Operations
Subcommittee member and former APAC member), are reviewing all proposals, and will
meet soon for a final review and discussion.
• The RTD Board of Directors will consider the committee’s evaluation and final
recommendation and is expected to make a determination in April.
6. Dispatch and Scheduling Software RFP – Larry Buter, RTD

Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: 2021-03-09 APAC Minutes (4514 : Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee (APAC) Report)

2.C.1.b

2.C.1.b

•
•
•

The specifications list is complete and RTD is transferring operating funds to facilitate this
purchase.
Release of the RFP is expected to be within the next few months.
Vendor selection is expected to be later this year.
Installation of new software is expected to be at the end of the year.

7. Review of Vehicle Specifications Process (coming soon) – Paul Hamilton, RTD
• All RTD vehicles meet ADA requirements; the majority of the fleet, the newest vehicles,
exceed ADA requirements due to APAC’s input on vehicle specifications five years ago.
• RTD maintenance is ready to replace the 600 series vehicles, approximately 66 buses in
2022 (this amount is subject to change) and needs APAC’s input on specifications for the
new/replacement vehicles.
• At the next APAC meeting, members will volunteer for the input process; the process
includes in-person meetings at the maintenance facility to review vehicles and provide
input. If social distancing is still mandatory, the meeting will be held virtually.
• Current vehicle maximums: 3 mobility devices and up to 4 seats or 8 seats without any
mobility devices on board.

Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: 2021-03-09 APAC Minutes (4514 : Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee (APAC) Report)

•

