Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, July 7, 2009
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

July 7, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on July 7, 2009 at
p.m. in Rooms R, T, & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Chair McMullen, Bagley, Christopher, Directors Busck, Cohen, Chacon,
Daly, James, Kemp, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam and Tayer (via
conference phone).
Director’s Brohl, Tobiassen, and O’Boyle.

Staff Present:

Phil Washington, Marla Lien, Rick Clarke, Bill Van Meter, Pauletta
Tonilas, Daria Serna, Karen Morales, Sherry Ellebracht, Dave Genova,
Susan Cohen, Teresa Sedmak, Jim Starling, Terry Howerter, Bruce
Abel, Cal Shankster, John Shonsey, John Tarbert, Stan Szabelak,
Paula Perdue and Lisa Trujillo.

Others Present:

Roger Sherman, Jeff Leib – Denver Post, Maria Garcia-Berry, Cassie
Milestone – Downtown Denver Partnership.
****

Call to Order

Director McMullen called the meeting to order at 6:45 p.m.

Rick Clarke thanked Chair Kemp for his comments about Dennis Cole and informed all that
Jim Starling will be the West Corridor Project Manager.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, July 7, 2009
Page 2

I.

Recommended Action:


Approval to Release the US36 Final Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the US 36 Final Environmental Impact Statement and direct
the General Manager to approve the document for public and agency review.
This is the second of a series of steps in the National Environmental Policy
Act process and means that the agencies are requesting official feedback on
the Preferred Alternative, along with the No Action Alternative.
MOTION:

Director Kemp made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the July 21,
2009 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

Chair Kemp recognized Directors Tayer, Pulliam and Christopher and staff for
their hard work on this.
II.

Updates


CAC Update (no back-up)
Ann Hayes gave this update and informed the board that on July 17th will be
the CAV retreat. They are also planning breakfasts with individual board
members. Phil Washington met with the CAC and shared his plan as Interim
General Manager.
Director Daly asked Ann to ask the rest of the committee what their thoughts
are on the recent news article.
Chair Kemp finished this item by thanking the CAC and said they are involved
and their duties are increasing.



FasTracks and Base E-Newsletters (no back-up)
Phil Washington asked Daria Serna to talk about the base system e-newsletter
and then Pauletta Tonilas to talk about FasTracks and distribution list. An enews update will be sent out every Monday to a select number of people.
Director Pulliam suggested the date be put on the FasTracks brochures
because they are very similar. Inside FasTracks will be distributed the last
Monday of every month to be sent out to local elected officials.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, July 7, 2009
Page 3


CRMF Update (no back-up)
Bill Van Meter followed up and answered questions the board had had the last
meeting.
o

The size of the old layout was 38 acres the new layout is 29 acres.

o

Capital cost difference is a tougher question to answer.
million the redesigned is approximately the same.

Old 167

Phil Washington indicated that they are meeting with Owens Corning on
Thursday afternoon (July 9th) to get and discuss feedback from Owens Corning
headquarters.
III.

Other Matters

IV.

Motion to Move to Executive Session
Chair McMullen asked for a motion to move to executive session to discuss the
following:
C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(e) P3 Contract Negotiations
C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(b) NEPA Lawsuit Update
MOTION:

Director Bagley made a motion to move to
Executive Session.

SECOND:

Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

V.

Next Meeting – August 4, 2009

VI.

Adjourn
The FasTracks Monitoring Committee adjourned to Executive Session at 7:20 p.m.

