2025-06-23
Performance Committee
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Good morning. The Monday, June 23 Performance Committee will now come to
order. We are convened as of 8:30 AM. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute
yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Please note that the committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom,
and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the
meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. During today's meeting. We are
providing Communication Access Real Time Translation, also known as CART.
Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. And a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript can be
automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like the transcript translated.
A live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page. I would now like to call the role of
committee members. Director Vince Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Present.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Lynn Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Vice Chair Chris Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Matt Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Chris Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Present.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Peggy Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: I am the Chair of this Committee, Michael Guzman. I am also present. For the
record, I also see that we have been joined by Board Chair Julien Bouquet and Treasurer Karen Baker.
Did I miss anybody? OK.
I would like to open public comment to anyone who would be willing and would like to address the
committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately
preceding month. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand
or press star 9 on your phone.
During this time, the Committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would
like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board at rtd.directors@rtddenver.com. I do not see any hands raised, Mr. Kroll. Are there any hands raised in the queue?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Director Guzman, this is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. We have
two hands raised at this time, the first of which is from Mr. Richard Bamber.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Mr. Bamber, you are recognized. Please go ahead. Don't forget to state your name
for the record.
RICHARD BAMBER: Yes, good morning. It's Richard Bamber, Greater Denver Transit. Chair Guzman,
thank you for the opportunity to speak. So looking for the proposed goals. We're pleased to see that
ridership, while it might be maybe unglamorous or simple, is still a hugely important metric of how the
agency is doing, if not the most important.
The ridership statistics leading us up to April are out published on the website. They're often not
mentioned in agendas or highlighted, but are very, very simple check ins to where we are, reveals an
interesting item. Up until April this year, RTD overall has carried 20.6 million people. Now, GDT sort of
thought long and hard about do we weight this? People went well, maybe people ride more in summer,
people ride more in fall. Overall, we didn't really find much.
So a very simple, rudimentary calculation of just multiplying by 3 gives a projection of where we're going
to be at the end of the year, and that multiplied by 3 is 61.8 million. Last year, I think we were 65. The
GM/CEO currently has a target to increase that. It's around 3, I believe.
But basically, the message at the moment, and we would like to say we are raising the first warning on
this, is we're not on target. We're on target to be lower, shed riders at the moment. And the Board should
absolutely start focusing on this.
The second point is, if you look at the survey results, the Community Survey just in, only 24% of the
respondents use RTD on any regular basis, like more than once a month. And so you're asking people,
the majority, to comment on a system they have no regular first hand experience on. The agency also has
data on on time performance, could also have data on things like cleanliness, conditions on board,
conditions of vehicles, in the same way that our transit security and police are giving us metrics of how
they're performing.
So the point is construct the goals on the data that the agency has and not a survey where a large
percentage of the people really don't really have an idea of what's actually happening. Thank you very
much.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Mr. Bamber. There was another person?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Chair Guzman. Next, we have Joe Meyer.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Mr. Joe Meyer, you are recognized. Please state your name for the
record, and you may begin.
JOE MEYER: Thank you. My name is Joe Meyer. Thank you, Chair Guzman and the Committee for the
opportunity to speak. I would like to echo the comments about requesting that the short term goals be
based on more readily available and official data from RTD, as opposed to survey responses.
When we're talking about on time performance and service availability, that's something that's already
collected by the agency. That is known. That is defensible numbers. There's no question on it like there
would be with survey data. So I'd like to see the on time performance goal retooled to use actual
measurements of vehicle on time performance, actual measurements of service availability, and not
survey data.
Similarly, for safety and security, we have real data on number of security calls, metrics like boardings for
every security call. As Mr. Bamber mentioned, we can look at cleanliness. There's all sorts of different
hard data that can be used to get the same results of the system, rather than asking a very small fraction
of customers for their perception to base the GM/CEO's goals around.
One example that stands out to me is that this survey was conducted in April of this year. And looking at
the light rail ridership in particular during that month, there was a significantly lower number of riders than
in the previous year. So any sort of customer intercepts were missing people that had stopped riding the
system because they had had problems with either service availability, on time performance, or safety
and security, and their responses may not have been captured.
If we don't see boardings increase, which with where we are right now, we're seeing a year over year net
decline in boardings, but we do see survey responses coming back very positive. That tells me that the
people for whom the system is not working have stopped riding it, and we're not capturing that outcome in
survey results, but we will capture that outcome in boardings. So I'm pleased to see that there is ridership
goal, even though it does in some cases, it may feel like a cop out. It is a very real goal. That's are people
buying your product?
So if we have positive survey results but negative trends in ridership, I think that should absolutely be
captured in the goals. And that should tell us something. It should tell us we're missing some sort of
problem that's not being captured in the survey. And I encourage the Committee to dig into that. Thank
you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Are there any more hands raised, Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Chair Guzman, there are no further hands raised at this time.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Did we receive any emailed comments for today's meeting? I am only aware of one.

JACK KROLL: Correct. The one I believe you are referencing is from Greater Denver Transit, and hit on
many of the same topics you just heard from Mr. Meyer and Mr. Bamber on. Additionally, they did add a
section in that letter related to some proposed comparative or peer agencies.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. All right. Seeing no other people in queue and having the information
about submitted commentary, I will now close the public comment section.
We are on to discussion items. There are two discussion items on today's agenda, and we will plan to
spend around 45 minutes on each of the two discussions. The latter discussion around the 2025-2026
GM/CEO short term goals is one of the most important items this Board will tackle with our General
Manager CEO this year.
As such, I am going to ask that we stick to a strict timeline for our first conversation today. That may mean
we end up asking the Directors on this Committee and those attending to send follow up questions or
comments to the Board Office to coalesce in partner with Mr. McKay, and to respond after our meeting
today regarding the first conversation.
Please bear with me. And I do know that we do have a Director that is on a tight timeline today. So just be
aware of that and hold your questions until the end of the presentation, please. You can make note of
either the Board packet page number or the slide number in reference to any questions, and we will try to
get as many in as we can, but we do need to keep our time today. The General Manager/CEO also has a
hard stop and we need to respect that there is other work going on and Directors need to move on with
the day as well.
With that, our first item is for the 2025 Customer and Community Survey results and analysis. I would
invite John McKay, Chief of Staff, to present this item.
JOHN MCKAY: Good morning, Mr. Chair. Thank you very much. As you noted, the timeline for this is very
short. So we are going to get right into this and keep it to about 35 minutes. We've asked our consultant
partners with ETC Institute to condense the slide deck down a little bit. So without further ado, I'll ask
Aaron Hekele and Henry Danneberg to bring up the presentation and to go ahead and present.
AARON HEKELE: Sure, thanks, John. Chair, members of the Committee, and RTD leadership, good
morning. My name is Aaron Hekele. I'm Vice Present of Field Research here ETC Institute. And I'll be
presenting the results of the 2025 Community and Customer Survey.
So we've structured today's presentation to highlight the most meaningful insights. So I'll begin with the
community value survey where we'll take a look at public awareness and perceptions of RTD. From there,
I'll transition into the customer excellence surveys, which cover bus, rail, and paratransit services. So
along the way, we'll take a look at satisfaction trends, net promoter scores, benchmarks, and any key
drivers for improvement.
So all four surveys were conducted in the spring of 2025, with data collection taking place in April. We
use the same proven methodology as years pass to ensure consistency and comparability. The
community survey was mailed to a random sample of households across the Denver metro area, while
the customer surveys covering bus, rail, and paratransit were conducted through on board intercepts and
targeted outreach to active users. This consistent, structured approach gives us a reliable apples to
apples view of trends and a strong foundation for the insights that we'll present to you today.

So the community value survey was an important opportunity to hear from your general public, not just
your transit riders. We wanted to better understand how RTD is viewed in terms of value, awareness, and
support. This gives us a broader lens in an important context for how RTD is performing in the eyes of the
region as a whole.
The community survey was mailed to a random sample of households across the region. We aimed for
400 completions and received just over 700 or around 770, which is a great response rate. Gives us a
margin of error plus or minus 3.8%. And surveys were monitored to ensure balanced demographic
representation.
OK, so let's start with one of the most impressive metrics, quite honestly, is awareness. 99.5% of
respondents are aware of RTD. That's nearly universal name recognition. So RTD is clearly well known
and widely recognized throughout the region. While usage varies, this level of awareness really gives
RTD a strong platform to build future engagement.
So when we asked riders about their primary reason for using public transportation, the most common
response was, not surprisingly, commuting to and from work. That was followed by social and recreational
trips, then by errands, travel for school, and medical appointments. This breakdown that you're seeing
here really shows that RTD provides a vital service that supports people's daily routines, economic
opportunities, and access to essential destinations. And RTD is clearly meeting real, everyday needs
across the region.
We asked respondents what features would make them more likely to use RTD. The top response by a
wide margin was more frequent service selected by roughly 55% of survey participants. That was
followed by a desire for better on time performance and more reliable trips, and then by requests for more
routes that serve the places they need to go.
So, as we just discussed, respondents had clear ideas about what make RTD more appealing. More
frequent service, improved reliability, and expanded route coverage. These factors just don't affect
ridership. They also influence how people talk about RTD and whether they'd recommend it to others,
which brings us to what we call the net promoter score, a widely used measure of customer loyalty and
overall sentiment. It's based on a simple question. How likely are you to recommend RTD to a friend or
neighbor?
So responses really fall into three categories. You've got your promoters, those that rate a 9 or 10 on a 10
point scale, passives rate it as 7 or 8, and detractors 0 to 6. And the NPS is then calculated by subtracting
the percentage of detractors from the percentage of promoters. Scores can range from anywhere from a
negative 100 to plus 100, with anything above 0 being considered positive. And the higher the score is
reflecting stronger loyalty and public confidence.
So RTD's community net promoter score made a major leap in 2025, a significant increase over both
2023 and 2024. This is one of the most encouraging results in the entire survey, and it shows that RTD is
not just visible in the community, it's increasingly valued.
So what's especially impressive is that the NPS improvement comes from the general public, not just your
riders. That means perceptions of RTD are improving, even among those that may not use the service
regularly. It's a reflection of stronger brand recognition, greater community impact, and a growing belief
that RTD is delivering value across the region.

So when we compare this to national averages, RTD's community NPS performance is really leading the
way. In many regions, general population scores tend to fall flat or even negative. RTD, by contrast, is
trending solidly upward, proving that the agency's work is really resonating far beyond platforms and
transit stops.
So when we ask community members how valuable they believe RTD is to the region, the results were
overwhelmingly positive. Nearly 9 in 10, specifically 86%, rated RTD as either valuable or extremely
valuable. And it's clear from the data that the general community sees RTD as a tremendous asset to the
region, not just as a transit provider, but as a force that supports really economic opportunity, equity,
mobility, and overall quality of life. The strong value ratings reflect a shared belief that RTD is delivering
meaningful impact to the people it serves and to the Denver metro area as a whole.
All right, so as you can see from the next set of slides, the public's view of RTD value extends well
beyond transportation. The responses show extremely high levels of recognition for the many roles RTD
plays in supporting the region and the people it serves.
So we take a look at slide 13 here. Community members see RTD as critical to connecting people to jobs,
supporting seniors, and individuals with disabilities, and offering affordable and equitable mobility options.
That sense of value is rooted in the agency's ability to serve people who need transit the most, and it
reflects a strong commitment to accessibility.
Slide 14 here. But the appreciation really just doesn't stop there. RTD is also viewed as a leader in
environmental sustainability, regional connectivity, and access to health care, showing that the agency's
impact is far reaching and deeply embedded into the fabric of daily life.
Residents also see RTD as a contributor to the quality of life, helping people reach educational
opportunities, access recreation, and live in areas with more affordable housing. They are broad
community outcomes, and they highlight the fact that RTD is not just moving people, it's supporting the
livability and economic health of the entire region.
So on the next couple of slides, we're looking at favorability rating from the community. Respondents
were asked to rate their level of agreement with a range of statements related to RTD service, covering
topics such as safety, dependability, and professionalism. The percentages reflect many people agreed
or strongly agreed with each statement and the results are, again, mostly positive. This shows that RTD is
consistently delivering services the public views as reliable, respectful, and accessible.
For example, 90% of respondents agreed with the statement RTD buses are mechanically safe,
compared to just 55% nationwide. That's a powerful indication of confidence in the system's operation
and maintenance.
That said, one of the areas where RTD was rated slightly below the national average was on
trustworthiness. But that's really not unexpected. Trust is something that often takes longer to rebuild. The
encouraging part is that every other trend is moving in the right direction, which strongly suggests that
trust is on its way back. However, trust is just a process and RTD is clearly on the right path here.
So the next slide displays the results of the key driver analysis we conducted, which helps us understand
what matters the most to the community and where satisfaction or agreement is already strong. It works
by comparing how important a specific service feature is to respondents, and how satisfied or favorable

they feel about RTD's performance in that area. The more important the item and the higher satisfaction,
the more it drives overall perceptions of RTD's value.
In the 2025 community results, the top drivers were clear. It was providing access to employment
opportunities, reducing traffic congestion, offering affordable transportation options, serving people with
mobility challenges, and finally in providing a safe alternative to driving. These responses tell us the
community sees RTD's core mission as deeply connected to equity, access and quality of life. And the
good news is that RTD is performing strongly in these areas. So the agency is delivering on the things
that matter most to the people it serves.
So now let's transition to our customer excellence surveys. These were administered in the field real time
feedback from actual riders on buses, trains, and paratransit services. The total sample was over 1,800
responses from rail and bus customers proportionately collected across the system, which makes the
results both robust and representative.
The bus and rail services were collected between April 7 and April 14. Every route in line was sampled in
proportion to spring 2025 ridership. Our target was around 1,200 completing surveys. And as I already
mentioned, we collected over 1,800.
So before I get into the specific topic areas, we highlighted some top takeaways from the customer
excellence survey. First, RTD is performing at a very high level. Satisfaction scores across the board are
very high and increased. In fact, bus and commuter rail improved in all 19 areas rated on the survey.
Light rail improved in 16 of the 19 areas assessed on the survey. And on top of that, RTD's net promoter
score is up across all services, which is really quite remarkable.
So who exactly are your customers? So for bus and rail, most riders surveyed are between the ages of 18
and 39 years old and are predominantly from diverse racial and economic backgrounds. Notably, a large
portion of RTD ridership surveyed earns less than $50,000 annually. And this really underscores just how
essential RTD services are to those who rely on transit the most.
On paratransit, the demographics shift a bit. Not surprisingly, most users are older adults, and many
identify as individuals with lower incomes. This really reinforces RTD's unique and critical role in providing
mobility for people who may not have any other options. These aren't occasional riders. These are daily
lifelines, and the numbers confirm it.
What you're seeing here is around 71% of the bus riders and 59% of rail riders use the service at least
three times per week. More than 3/4 of bus users and 2/3 of rail users say they rely on RTD, and for
access a ride and access on demand users, the majority use the service for most of their trips, many for
medical needs. And this is reliable, essential travel and RTD is clearly delivering.
In terms of satisfaction levels, RTD's bus service is performing exceptionally well. In 2025, 76% of bus
riders reported being satisfied or very satisfied with service, which is well above the national average of
56%. That also represents a notable eight point increase from last year's result of 68%. It's clear that
customer perceptions of RTD's bus service are moving in the right direction.
Rail satisfaction scores are also showing strong gains. You're seeing here in 2025, 75% of rail riders said
they were satisfied or very satisfied with their experience, which again, is well above the national average.

That's a 12 point increase over 2024, when satisfaction was around 63%. Again, positive momentum
continues to build among your ridership there.
So the next set of slides displays current net promoter scores for both bus and rail services compared to
national averages and prior years results. Again, these NPS scores help us understand how likely riders
are to recommend RTD, which is a strong indicator of brand loyalty.
So this slide highlights, in my opinion, one of the most exciting findings in this year's survey results. So
RTD's composite NPS score, which combines results across bus, rail, and paratransit, jumped from 11 to
37 just over the past two years. That's a 26% gain, which is a substantial improvement in terms of NPS.
This likely means significantly more customers are more willing to recommend RTD to others, and that
speaks volumes about rising confidence in the system.
So zooming in on the bus customers, the NPS score was similar, increasing from 7 in 2023 to now a
score of 26. At 26, RTD certainly outpaces most peer agencies nationwide. The average nationwide is
roughly or negative 16.
In terms of rail customers, again, same story. The NPS score among all rail customers increased from 19
in 2023 to a new high of 31 in 2025, which is plus 34 compared to the national average for rail users.
And then lastly, we break out the results by rail type, commuter versus light rail, and you can see that the
NPS for light rail increased over the same two year period from negative 2 to now positive 14 and
commuter held steady at 47, which is extremely favorable.
In terms of comparing RTD's results to national averages, the scores are really outstanding. RTD is
exceeding benchmarks in key areas like personal safety, access, and availability of rider information. In
today's transit environment, that's no small feat. It shows that RTD is really not just keeping pace, it's
leading the way.
So on this slide, we see riders rated RTD, how they rated RTD on three key performance related items.
These measures speak directly to how well the system is delivering on its core promise, getting people to
where they need to go efficiently and reliably. So all three performance items were rated higher than the
national average by both bus and rail customers. The most significant difference came from bus riders.
RTD outperformed the national average by 17 percentage points when it comes to getting customers to
their destinations in a reasonable amount of time.
This slide here shifts focus to access related measures, how easily customers can reach and use RTD
services, both in terms of proximity and price charge. Again, we see strong performance across the
board, with both access items rated above the national average for both bus and rail users. The standout
result here came from rail riders. RTD's rail system was rated 25 percentage points higher than the
national average when it comes to having conveniently located stops and stations. That's really a
powerful signal that RTD's network is meeting people where they are and making it easier to choose
transit.
In terms of public safety and comfort, three items were assessed and RTD really outperformed the
national averages by wide margins on all three. Based on the data, RTD customers feel significantly safer
and more comfortable than transit riders across the US, whether it's really on board or while waiting.

These results really reflect a strong sense of security and a positive day to day experience from RTD
riders compared to riders using other peer systems.
Scores related to information and driver behavior were also higher than the national averages for both
bus and rail customers. The only exception was one item among rail riders, which is being notified about
service disruptions, which came in just slightly below the national average. But still across the board, RTD
is clearly outperforming peer agencies when it comes to keeping riders informed, and ensuring
professional, courteous interaction with their operators. And here you're seeing the ratings for driver
operator behavior. Again, all items rated on the survey are significantly higher than national averages.
So this slide here focuses on a single but powerful measure. Does RTD add value to the community? And
the answer from both bus and rail riders is a resounding yes. So 85% of bus customers and 87% of rail
customers agree that RTD adds value to the region compared to national averages of just 67% and 73%
respectively. That really means nearly 9 out of 10 RTD riders believe the system plays a meaningful role
in supporting the community, whether it's through access, sustainability, or economic RTD opportunity.
Really, it's clear RTD is seen as a vital part of the Denver metro area.
So in addition to comparing results to national benchmarks, it's just as important to look at how RTD's
performance is trending over time. So tracking progress year over year helps us understand whether
initiatives are having the intended impact. To that end, we conducted a trend analysis of all of the items
assessed on the survey, and the results are quite clear. RTD is definitely moving in the right direction.
Ratings among bus and commuter rail customers across the board increased, showing system wide
improvement for light rail. As I mentioned earlier, scores increased in 16 out of the 19 areas assessed,
signaling strong momentum there as well.
Similar to the community value survey, we also conducted key driver analysis for RTD's core service, bus,
light rail, and commuter rail. Again, the analysis helps us to understand which service attributes are most
closely tied to overall satisfaction in what matters most to your riders. So the next set of slides highlights
those results, showing the areas that are driving customer perceptions for each mode, and where RTD
has the greatest opportunities to improve or reinforce service excellence.
For bus riders, the top drivers were frequency, timeliness, and hours of operations. These are the levers
that directly impact rider satisfaction for bus riders. The story is pretty consistent when we look at light rail,
just like bus and commuter rail, frequency stands out as one of the most important drivers of satisfaction.
Riders also place a lot of weight on hours of operation, timely arrivals, travel time, and feeling safe on
board the train. And while satisfaction scores are already strong, zeroing in on these areas is what will
continue moving the rider experience in the right direction.
So for commuter rail, the top three drivers of satisfaction are frequency, the convenience of stop,
locations, and personal safety. These priorities are not surprising given the nature of commuter trips
where reliability, accessibility, and feeling secure are essential to the daily experience. So focusing on
these key areas will continue to strengthen satisfaction among commuter base.
Turning now to paratransit, our customer excellence survey reached 444 access a ride and access on
demand users, which is well above the statistical target. Responses were gathered via mail, text, and
email to ensure accessibility. The paratransit surveys were conducted between April 7 and April 23.
Surveys were distributed to eligible active riders with a 95% confidence level and a margin of error of plus

or minus 4.9%. The data is quite robust. These insights reflect the experience of individuals who depend
on RTD's paratransit services every day.
Satisfaction among paratransit riders is exceptionally high. Customers using both access a ride and
access on demand reported strong satisfaction across all key metrics. And you can see from this slide
that satisfaction grew significantly over the past year.
Taking a look at the net promoter score for both access a ride and access on demand, in 2023, the NPS
was 20. In 2024, it climbed to 59. That's a major increase in loyalty and satisfaction. The current score
remains very high at 54. The NPS for access on demand reached an impressive 81 in 2025, and it
continues to climb. We've conducted numerous paratransit surveys across the country, and this is by far
one of the highest NPS scores that I've ever seen for paratransit. So kudos to you all.
When we look at what matters most to access a ride riders, a few priorities consistently rise to the top. It's
price or fair charge for using this service, ease of scheduling, and feeling safely secured in the vehicle,
and also the ability to get where they need to go. So these are all high importance items. And the good
news is RTD is performing strongly across the board. And these remain really your core strengths.
However, there are two areas that represent real opportunities to boost satisfaction even further. Both
travel time and vehicles arriving within the scheduled pickup window are rated as highly important, but
shows slightly lower levels of satisfaction. And improving performance in these areas could have a big
impact on the overall rider experience.
For access on demand, we see a similar pattern of strengths. Riders continue to place high importance
on ease of scheduling, feeling safely secured in the vehicle, and the ability to go where they need to go.
And RTD is performing well in all of those areas. In this case, even travel time and vehicles arriving within
the scheduled pickup window are seen as strengths.
The only area that stood out as an opportunity for improvement was related to the price or fair charge for
using the service. While still rated fairly well, it's the one higher importance item where satisfaction lags
slightly. Taken together, both access on demand and access a ride show exceptionally strong results,
and RTD is delivering on what paratransit riders value most, which is reliability, safety, and accessibility.
OK, to wrap things up, looking at the big picture, the results tell a strong and consistent story. RTD
continues to trend upward and is really leading the way when it comes to rider satisfaction nationwide.
Customer satisfaction is trending upward across every mode. Bus and commuter rail improved in all 19
areas assessed on the survey, while light rail showed gains in 16 of the 19 areas surveyed. Compared to
national benchmarks, RTD is performing well above average and is actually setting the standard in most
cases.
RTD's composite net score climbed 24 points, reflecting strong rider sentiment system wide. And the one
consistent opportunity for further improvement is service frequency. But overall, riders are noticing the
progress. These results really reinforce that RTD is not only meeting expectations, but raising the bar.
And with that, I'd be happy to take any questions if you have any.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Mr. Hekele. Just for time's sake, y'all, we need to wrap this up in the
next four minutes. So ask your quick question and then anything further we'll follow up through email.
Director Larsen, I see your hand raised first. Please go ahead.

MATT LARSEN: Yeah, I'd just like to ask if we can get a list of the peer agencies that represent the
national average that's presented in this survey.
AARON HEKELE: Yeah, we can get you a list of the communities we surveyed as a part of the
nationwide survey. Absolutely.
MATT LARSEN: Great. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. Can we get a copy of the cross tabs for this survey? There's some
interesting numbers on the features that we could add that I'd like to see broken down by how often
people ride but as well as all the other metrics. So could we get the cross tabs for this?
AARON HEKELE: Yeah, we have a virtual dashboard that allows cross tabs by any variable on the
survey. We did not create static cross tab tabular tables, but we could certainly work with John to get a
cross tab report if you'd like.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. Really appreciate it.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Really interesting survey results, and I'm encouraged. Hate to be a wet
blanket, but with regard to paratransit, the key thing that struck me it was for all eligible riders. And the
biggest complaint I get from my district is the ineligibility when people try to apply due to their proximity to
a fixed route. And so yes, the people that have been approved for eligibility for access a ride are satisfied,
but I think there's a strong group of people that would be frustrated with the fact that they are denied
eligibility. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, thanks very much. Thanks, Mr. Hekele, if I'm saying that right. These
numbers look really good. I share some of the concern that the public commenters raised, which was I
went back to the Board briefing documents, and in all three areas, ridership is down, although in
commuter rail and bus it's not much. In light rail, it's down over 25% over 1 million, if I read that correctly,
if I'm reading the Board briefing documents, for the first four months. And that seems to me like it would
build in a bias for the people that are still there. Any comment on that?
AARON HEKELE: Potentially I'll have to take a look at that further. I do know that there were quite a few,
just anecdotally, from being out in the field, there were quite a few service disruptions. I think there's
some construction, those types of things, which might be reflected in ridership a bit. I don't want to speak
in things I don't really know. But that's something that I could take a look at, Director, for sure.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: General Manager CEO Johnson.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Committee Chair Guzman, and thank you, Director
Guissinger, for the question. You're absolutely right. During the course of the survey we took in April, we
were in the midst of having slow speed restrictions and doing other repairs relative to catenary wire,
restringing, and things of the like. And so as we look at the aspect of reliability, all of these aspects that
we're focusing on from a state of good repair vantage point would have residual impacts. But as we heard
from Mr. Hekele, as he presented going forward, this may, and I say may, increase the overall
perceptions, opinions, and attitudes towards RTD services from a positive aspect. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I can follow up later if you need to move on.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Vice Chair Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Thank you. Overall, really positive results. So great to see. My question is
around the safety perception. For light rail riders, it was 69% compared to commuter rail 82%. I was just
wondering if we had any thoughts or perceptions on why that might be.
AARON HEKELE: Yeah, that's something that we could take a look at further. Certainly that's an
interesting finding. And we could get you a further analysis on that. We could run some cross tabular data
and some more statistical analysis and try to pinpoint really what's driving that rating. So that's something
that we can take a look at and get back with you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: General Manager/CEO Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. Just for everyone's edification, it's important to note, pursuant to the
Federal Railroad Administration running commuter rail on an active railway, we do have to have a second
crew member. In our instance, we utilize a second crew member that is a Allied Security Officer who
actually has a weapon.
That's important to note, because on light rail, it's not a requirement under the Federal Transit
Administration to have a second crew member and we do fare checks. And so while you don't have
somebody riding the length of the route or the alignment, excuse me, with the various consist you have
people getting on periodically. And so from my experience, I would surmise that that is a critical element
in the perception, because there's somebody who is walking through the cars of the consist. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right. So I'm excited about getting positive feedback. There is clearly room for
work. And I think that is what we will pivot to now. Directors, as was stated in the beginning, should you
have questions or comments further, please email them to the Board Office. And we can compile those
questions and comments and make sure that we share them with the appropriate folks, mainly our
General Manager CEO. If it's anything in particular to the ETC Institute and their survey work, we will
make sure that we communicate with them and provide any feedback.
Taking quick notes, Mr. Kroll, please help me keep the request for information from this meeting aligned
so that we can do that work. Thank you so much, Mr. Hekele. I really appreciate you presenting this to us.
We are now going to move on to our second item. That is for the 2025-2026 General Manager CEO short
term goals.
Here again, I would like to ask all members to remain muted while General Manager CEO Johnson
presents the item, and we will have comments or questions from the committee afterwards as time allots.

We will be concluding this section at about 9:55 to allow time for transition that is required. And just a
heads up, I am aware of a conflict of time. So should the presentation end quickly, Director Buzek, heads
up, you will get to go first. Thank you so much. Miss Johnson, you are recognized.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Guzman, and thank you for the opportunity.
And following up on the Board's retreat that was held on Saturday, June 7, 2025, the Chair of the Board,
Julien Bouquet, facilitated and moderated discussion, and there were breakout groups relative to what
areas that this body thought were germane relative to having discussions to work in tandem to develop
short term, specific, measurable, attainable, realistic, time bound goals for 2026.
In light of that, I took that information, and keeping in mind what you just heard this morning relative to
ETC and the presentation around survey data and things of the like, put forward some proposed goals
that are in a working draft. I want to just state working draft. I did notice on package page 63 it was
inadvertently stated financial impact. It says there is no financial impact associated with this
recommended action. That is a typographical error discussion item as it's indicated.
With that as a backdrop, you can see on package page 61 that there are three working draft proposed
goals for the performance period that would basically cover the latter part of 2025. First short term goal
being customer experience and welcoming transit environment. Those two things are grouped together,
as it was the Board's desire. Keeping in mind that there are four strategic initiatives that have spawned
from our strategic plan, and more so the opinions, perceptions, and attitudes that were garnered through
our survey data that was collected last year.
In that vein, the first short term goal says that no later than October 2, 2026 increase overall customer
satisfaction by 5% for both RTD's fixed route bus service and fixed route rail service, which would
constitute 50% of the goal. Second part of it to increase favorable customer survey responses by 5% from
calendar year 2025 to calendar year 2026 in relation to survey questions pertaining to customers'
perceptions of feeling safe and secure aboard light rail vehicles.
Now, I'd be remiss if I didn't acknowledge there were commenters talking about survey data. But I think
what's important for all of us to understand is we deal with safety and security, that it's all about
perception. We can do everything that we want to do, but it's about perception and recognizing that the
individuals that are utilizing the system are those that are actually on the vehicles, the revenue vehicles
waiting at stops. That is the reason why I put this forward, leveraging survey data, because it's about the
perception of one's customer experience from those that are actually utilizing said system.
And so basically, the goal from my perspective aligns with the agency's efforts from a collective vantage
point to deliver high quality customer service and improve performance related to overall customer
satisfaction, as well as to promote a welcoming transit environment. As we clearly heard from Mr. Hekele
of ETC Institute, it's the whole notion behind promoting a system in the sense of leveraging the prospect
behind being a detractor, being neutral, or being a promoter. And this is in alignment with survey data.
For those that have been, I would say, following the outset of us creating a baseline and then moving
forward, the work that we have done as an agency feeds in to enhancing one's perception of their
experience in and around RTD and utilizing its services.
The second short term goal is based on ridership. Recognizing I use that term, but more or less we're
talking about transit utilization and boardings. And the short term goal says to increase system boardings

by 3% from the period commencing October 1 of 2025 and continuing through September 30 of 2026.
Once again, it's to improve performance metrics tied to community perceptions and the value that RTD
provides to the Denver metro region.
One thing that I want to share is as we talk about transit utilization, and we've had these conversations ad
nauseam, and I recognize our core business is based on people utilizing our system. What's interesting,
having had the opportunity to engage with colleagues that run Deutsche Bahn, which is a regional rail
service in Hamburg, Germany, and also their localized service that Hamburg government runs, it's really
interesting how that entity that has vast transit utilization doesn't focus on ridership.
Actually, they started a German pass. Basically anybody within the country of Germany basically does a
subscription service, so they're more focused on selling subscriptions. I equated it to being akin to
Amazon Prime, whereby you have people sign up, and then basically people may want to utilize the
system more going forward. So I just use that as an aside, just sort of amplifying the whole aspect behind
transit utilization and different strategies that are being employed to garner those perceptions about what
that may look like from a ridership aspect.
And then not to mention, in light of the GAO report that was done, being the Government Accountability
Office, that report came out probably last month, where RTD actually had the highest retention of
commuter rail boardings in the country relative to the commuter rail networks that were identified by GAO
at the request of the federal government.
Going on to short term goal three, relative to reliability, no later than October 1, 2026 to complete rail
reconstruction work within budget for the rail segment between the West Colfax Avenue and 7th Street
intersection and the Denver Convention Center, which is 50% of the goal, and then to increase by 5% the
percentage of fixed route bus and light rail customers who agree or strongly agree that transit vehicles
usually run on time, which is 50% of the goal.
Questions may be asked relative to why are we utilizing a major reconstruction project as it relates to
reliability? This gets back to the state of good repair and asset renewal, with that being the most aged
portion of our light rail network, now dating nearly 31 years old, is probably more than 31 years old
considering that the system opened for revenue service on October 7, 1994, and track had to be laid and
the OCS placed in and had to do various tests with certain amount of hours before it could open for
revenue service.
That's critically important when you think about the configuration of this rail network, with everything going
through, a large portion of our service going through the downtown core and going through the throat of
the DUS. That can't happen if we don't have our assets in a state of good repair to increase that
throughput. So that's my brief presentation. Committee Chair Guzman, I will yield the floor to you to
facilitate any discussion relative to what I have presented. Thank you very much for the opportunity.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: And thank you, Madam CEO. And we all appreciate the quick turnaround on this
from the time that we met. Director Buzek, please go ahead.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I appreciate you taking me first. And thank you, GM/CEO Johnson,
for the report. You talk a little bit about perception, and I think that's really important, especially when it
relates to the customer and community survey results. It's interesting how critics of the RTD often use the
customer community survey results as a weapon. When they're not so good, they wave them in your

face. But when they're good, they kind of want to back away from those. And maybe we should use
something else, because they're too good. But there you go.
With regard to the goals, I think goal number one and goal number three all feed into goal number two.
Because if you improve there, hopefully you're going to improve ridership. I continue to have and always
have had a problem of a goal of increasing ridership that has some kind of a number, a benchmark. I
know you have to have one.
But again, DRCOG tells us that Denver metro area ranks number three in the country for communities
where people have still not returned to work. And until RTD can mandate employers to send their people
back to the office, increasing ridership numbers is going to be a challenge. So that's a real problem when
you put hard numbers on something like that.
But other than that, I'm happy with these short term goals. And getting back to that ridership thing, we
have I think a current ridership increase short term goal, right? And notwithstanding that, this GM and
CEO went back to basics and put safety first and replaced rail on the light rail line, knowing that it would
have a negative impact on ridership, one of her short term goals, so that she probably wouldn't meet that.
But safety was first, and she prioritized that over reaching a goal, and I appreciate that. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Directors, this is your opportunity. Director Larsen, please go ahead.
MATT LARSEN: Yeah, I wonder with the first goal in terms of customer satisfaction, if there wouldn't be a
way to measure it outside of just our existing customers in terms of the welcoming transit environment
and safety. And I guess neither of the surveys to me seem like they're necessarily going to fully capture
that.
With the overall community survey, you have a lot of people who just haven't ridden in a long time. And
their view on the transit environment and the security, it just may not be informed by anything. And then
when you look at the people who are riding, they're a subset of people who obviously have decided that
the transit environment is for the most part good enough for them.
I was wondering if there would be a way to capture this information in a more objective way by finding out
what characteristics of a transit ride would make people feel secure and welcomed and then actually do
some kind of mystery rider or some kind of system like that to determine if those conditions are met on a
sample of the trains or buses.
I also had a question about the timing of the survey. I don't know. If this is an annual survey, these
surveys are annual. Is this timing that we saw this time surveyed in April with results in June, is that the
timing that we should expect going forward? It seems like that timing is kind of not great, not ideally
aligned with the performance period that we're looking at here. And I wonder if we could change that. I
also have comments on the other two goals, but I'll stop with goal one right now and I guess leave it for
others.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Committee Chair Guzman. And thank you, Director
Larsen, for your thoughtful questions. One thing that I wanted to address relative to your inquiry about

surveying, it's incredibly important to take note that as we go forward with surveying, it's intentional in
reference to the time of year that we utilize.
Because with transit ridership, it tends to be seasonal, i.e. where there could be a dip relative to the
summer and also around the winter, due to the fact that school is typically out of session and folks
traditionally take vacation or holidays. And so leveraging the April time frame is more or less ideal, or it
could be in alignment with the October time frame as well is a good time as well for the reasons that I just
outlined in my response. And I see Mr. McKay has his hand up. Committee Chair Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Mr. McKay.
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you very much. I just wanted to add, on top of GM/CEO's remarks, that the former
timing of the surveys was sort of disjointed a little bit. So we would do the employee surveys in April and
then follow up with the customer and community surveys toward the fall, which would, as GM/CEO
Johnson noted, we did capture the typical ridership of people during the school year.
We actually moved that earlier this year for the first time, so that we could capture this information so that
it could be used in developing the budget year over year. Because as we're taking in new budget
requests, we use the strategic initiatives and the strategic priorities to prioritize certain items so that the
higher they are on the ranking, it correlates to their importance on the strategic initiatives year over year.
So we did, like I said, coalesce in April of this year. We're thinking about doing it a little bit earlier in the
next year. In 2026, we'll move it a couple of weeks earlier in the cycle, so that we capture this just in time
for the Board's consideration in June to maybe align with the, again, with the budget development so that
these key drivers and very important things are noted at the time that the Board takes that into
consideration. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes, thank you, Mr. Chair. So I want to first off say I really loved the numbers. I
think we're really doing a good job making our existing customers happy with the service we're running.
In terms of the goals, I would like to see us move away from the surveys and move toward metrics over
which the GM/CEO has direct ability to influence. So for the first goal, I think that rather than asking, do
people feel safe? We should look at one of the primary measures of safety that we hear about, which is
drug use on the system, and look at the Transit Watch numbers that we get each month, and how many
and what percentage of our Transit Watch data is coming back with illicit drug use.
And I think that just going off a goal that says, we want you to reduce the percentage of Transit Watch
reports that are about illicit drug use is a good way that can't be directly-- that is a good metric for whether
or not we are succeeding in reducing that.
Second one, ridership is down, as was mentioned. I think that we really should be looking at ridership as
two components of that number. So you have the total ridership, which is really the number of service
hours that you run and the number of people who ride for every service hour that we run. And I know that
that's a metric that planning already looks at. It came up in our conversations with Jessie Carter.

Our GM/CEO has the ability directly to influence the number of service hours we run, and then the
number of people who ride per service hour is up to basically the customer. I think each of those should
be measured separately in our ridership goal. It should be broken down into those two components,
because the GM/CEO has specific power over one of them.
For the third one, there are a lot of ways to measure reliability. And I think that as we've looked, our
reliability numbers, our on time percentage numbers, one minute early, five minutes late, have been
getting better. We've been doing a good job this last year, and I've been really pleased to see that.
The issue that's come up in my conversations has been around dropped runs. It's been around places
where we just don't-- the bus doesn't come at all, the train doesn't come at all. And I'd like to see us
measure that third goal in terms of service availability, in terms of dropped runs, and specifically around
the high visibility dropped runs. The rail, the airport buses, the FF, and the commuter service. I think
those are the things where people really notice when we don't come.
And having a metric that's specifically targeted at those services would be a really good way of focusing
our efforts on the things where we've been getting a lot of flack this year for dropped service. So those
would be my comments. I'd love to get the GM/CEO's thoughts on those. I sent them to her this morning.
So if you wouldn't mind, I'd appreciate it.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Director. General Manager CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So a couple things. Just for clarification, I believe we're talking about canceled trips,
not dropped runs, so we're using the appropriate terminology. When something doesn't show up, that is a
trip that was scheduled. And further clarification, you indicated that I have auspices over revenue hours.
That's tied into the budget, of course, labor as we move forward. So I would say that we collectively have
a role in that, because if we don't have enough people power, I can't put those hours within the budget,
because we're not going to be able to deliver on them because it's more than just operators. So I just
wanted to share that for everybody's edification, because we do need to be intentional as we move
forward.
And then you cited, Secretary Nicholson, some key routes. And I was somewhat lost by what you were
saying relative. You mentioned the flat iron flyer and something else. Are you talking about carving out
specific routes in reference to this goal?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, I think that there are specific types of services where we have had issues
over the last year. And I think there are ones that tend to get specific amounts of visibility when we miss.
Airport rail, that kind of thing, as well as commuter and FF. And that's where I think it does make sense to
have a very specific, targeted short term goal that isn't meant to necessarily cover everything you do, but
the things where we think there needs to be the most improvement over the next year. So it's really trying
to focus on where are those areas where we really want you to hone in.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. Thank you. And I'm not trying to usurp. I just would say that as we look at the
trips, if we're talking about airport, we really don't have a lot of cancelled trips in light of revenue service
hours that we have there. But I don't want to debate that. But I just wanted to understand going forward.
Thank you so much, Committee Chair Guzman, for the opportunity to clarify.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Absolutely. Mr. McKay.
JOHN MCKAY: Just a note on Transit Watch utilization. Just to note that an individual using illicit
substances on a train. I'm a frequent light rail rider or light rail customer. And as I'm using the system, I do
use the Transit Watch app. As we increase Transit Watch utilization, a single person using illicit
substances on a train, that could mean three or four or five people are reporting that same individual
incident. So just there is a correlation between Transit Watch utilization downloads and reports. I just
don't want those two things to be conflated.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I appreciate you bringing that up. I was thinking the same thing. Director Guissinger,
your hand is raised.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. Yeah, these get into tricky areas. That's a good point that
Mr. McKay made that Transit Watch could be a number of people. But I'm not in a light rail area, and I am
still hearing people, as somebody who's a big fan, as I talked with Miss Johnson about this week, saying
the last three times he was on the light rail, he had to call a security number because somebody was
doing drugs on the train. So that's an important thing.
I am not convinced that the survey results capture what we need better than some sort of actual data.
And whether it's Transit Watch or overall calls or I don't know exactly how we do that. I am concerned that
ridership through April was down 6.2%, almost all, not all, but almost all on the light rail. And I don't
remember the timing for when we started the light rail maintenance and what it was like the first four
months of this year versus last year. I think that's a really good point that Miss Johnson raised. But I do
think that safety and security are important there.
Likewise, ridership. Do we start with a 3% goal? If we end the year where we are on this, where does the
maintenance fit into that? I just think looking a little more at what our actual situation on the light rail is
would be helpful. And my perceptions are important, but I think since where we have actual data, that's
important too and needs to be captured in the goals. Thanks.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Director Guissinger. For the record, Director Kathleen Chandler did join
us. I don't know what time you got here, but I just want to make sure that I recognize you. Thank you for
being with us. Chair Bouquet. We had the retreat, and we are coming back to this conversation. So I'm
going to invite you into the conversation at this point.
As we proceed forward, the request is that we as Directors, as I understand it, work together with our
General Manager CEO Johnson to bring forward a recommended action in July that will go to the Board
by the end of the month. Is that correct?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, that is what the current schedule is right now. So this will, in theory, be-- well,
not in theory. This will be a recommended action item for you guys with performance. And then we would
approve this as a full Board at the end of July is the hope with this.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK. So that said, Directors on this Committee, I really encourage you to try to set up
some time to discuss or email with our General Manager CEO about these goals directly and provide
feedback succinctly. And then this is the time to influence the changes, so that when this committee
makes a recommendation, it is the recommendation going to the Board so that we do not end up in a

situation where by the end of the July Board meeting, there are 30 amendments that are going to be
offered to these goals.
We need to get this work done now so that we can make a final recommendation from this Committee,
hopefully unanimously, to the Board that can be approved so we can move on. As was our commitment
to make sure that we are being efficient in these processes. I say that because I want to make sure that
we keep in mind this is a quick turnaround, and it requires participation from both sides to be able to get
there.
And I know the majority of us understand that, but we don't want to play games with any of this. This is
not a joke and we need to take it seriously. And the last thing we want is a showdown at the Board
meeting about these goals. We need to walk in there knowing how we are going to proceed for the sake
of our employee, our General Manager CEO, and for the sake of the public and the constituents that we
represent. Chair Bouquet, your hand is up. Go ahead.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah. Well, first off, music to my ears. Thank you for hitting on that, Committee
Chair. The whole idea, again, of this process of the retreat was, one, there's three main themes that are
identified. And I believe Miss Johnson did a great job of characterizing that into the goals themselves.
Based on the conversation, the comments I've already heard, there is feedback. What I think would be
more than appropriate would be sending that feedback as written documentation to Committee Chair
Guzman and GM/CEO Johnson, if you guys are both comfortable with that. Again, as the Committee
Chair has spoke, this should be pretty much finalized for your guys' next committee meeting at the
beginning of July.
And so feedback such as that that I'm hearing, it's like, oh, hey, we want x data or we want these hard
numbers here. If you could send that actual feedback to Committee Chair Guzman and GM/CEO
Johnson, that would be excellent, because that allows them to get some actual physical feedback on that.
And at the same time, I can't reiterate this enough, we shouldn't have it like we had it in January, where
there's significant amount of changes happening between that beginning of July Committee meeting,
a.k.a. the Performance Committee meeting, and then the end of the full Board meeting in July. That's just
not going to be an efficient process. So now is the time, as the Committee Chair had said. And do me a
favor, just send it via email to the Committee Chair and the GM/CEO Johnson, if the two of you are
comfortable with that.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I got the nod from General Manager/CEO Johnson. As Vice Chair Gutschenritter is
a leadership member of this Committee, certainly we will review this work as well with the General
Manager/CEO to bring forward the best possible recommendation for the committee. But I want to honor
that this is not work that is done alone, and we are working together, all of us, to get this done.
We have five minutes left. So I am going to call on Director Larsen first, whose hand is still raised.
Director Nicholson, you will follow up, but we will be ending this meeting on time for our General
Manager, just so that's clear. Go ahead, Director.
MATT LARSEN: Yeah. I guess I'll make a comment about goal two. And I guess I'm a little bit concerned
about the timeline that we're discussing to try to finalize this in July. I'm not sure or I wonder if we will
have enough time to understand why any particular number like 3% or anything else is really the right

number to target. I would like to understand what the trade offs would be with different budget allocations,
whether we could get a higher number, and if we could, what that would cost us in terms of trade offs and
other decisions.
And I mean, really, it's very hard for me to feel comfortable about wanting to finalize that number until
we've understood what the scenarios are out there for what other numbers could we get to if we did
something differently in the budget for the following year. I also want to say I agree with Director
Nicholson that I think for a reliability measure, for sure, we should be using service availability and on
time performance as the basis for that goal and not survey results, because that is data that we can
actually collect internally and collect on a regular basis.
And then lastly, just to reiterate on goal one, I think that if we really want to determine whether or we're
succeeding at that, Transit Watch, while useful data, has the shortcomings that John McKay mentioned,
which is that more users will create more reports regardless of the actual amount of activity. I think we
need some kind of inspection, proactive, going out there, and checking type of approach to really find out
if we are succeeding there or like mystery riders. But something that kind of takes it more from a periodic
sample based inspection framework, rather than relying on some kind of reactive data or survey results to
fully understand what's going on there. Thanks.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Mr. McKay.
JOHN MCKAY: Just briefly, thank you very much. I'm looking at the on time performance, the actual on
time performance, for bus, commuter rail, and light rail for the last year. This is on the performance
dashboard. And I'm seeing that especially for commuter rail, that we're well above the 90% mark in the
last month that was recorded here as 92%.
Looking at the survey data for 2025, that perception was much, much lower. So I'm pulling up the actual.
This is the survey results from this year. 71% of people thought that commuter rail was on time. So
there's a roughly 20% gap in perception versus actual on time performance. I just wanted to put that out
there for the Board's consideration, that we could have the most reliable system in the country here, but if
people don't perceive it as being on time, then they probably won't ride the system.
MATT LARSEN: It's also service availability and on time. I would just like to-MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Larsen. Y'all, we need to be following our decorum. Please make sure that
you are recognized before you speak. You put your hand down. You were not recognized. We need to
maintain order. Thank you.
Madam CEO, do you feel at this point you have sufficient feedback from the Directors on this Committee
to proceed forward with the conversation? We will certainly follow up with any emailed commentary and
have a discussion going forward. Is that OK? Is there anything specific that you might need?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, so I do have the feedback. It would be great if, in fact, as outlined by Chair
Bouquet, if this feedback could be summarized by the individuals that put it forward and have a copy to
me and you so nothing is lost in translation as we move forward. Because further to the point, from the
notes that I have taken, it seemed as if we have disparate viewpoints.

And I want to ensure, as I work with all of you, since this is a unilateral process-- not unilateral. I meant to
say maybe it seems that way right now. Bilateral process, that we have an opportunity to confer as we go
forward, and that we're not in a predicament where people are putting forward amendments, because I
want to ensure that we're rallying around the same thing.
So with that being said, it would be advantageous to get this in a written format. Because I know what I've
taken down. But we as people may filter certain information. So I would appreciate having it in a written
format as well. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, I appreciate that. I do want to point out at the beginning of the year,
there was conversation about whether the budget comes first or the goals come first. And should the
goals inform the budget and chicken and egg and chicken and egg. This year, the Board has elected to
try and get the goals done to inform the budget. And that is part of this process. The budget on the
Finance and Planning Committee is being worked on furiously by the agency, but this part will feed into it
in terms of total revenue, service hours, and availability of funds to do that.
The other piece of this is also going to be our people power. And whether we have operators, mechanics,
janitors, other folks to be able to do the work that we don't see, because the public really only sees the
operator driving the bus or the operator driving the train. We have maintenance of way workers that are
catenary wire specialists. We're still doing work on the tracks on the light rail. There are substructure,
infrastructure, rebuilds, all of the other things that we're doing, and it is a complex situation.
I would remind Directors to keep that in mind. It is not a simple numbers game from Finance on a budget
to the reality of service provided. There are many, many moving parts. And this is where we work with
and collaborate with, communicate with, and cooperate with each other and the General Manager/CEO to
provide the best way forward for the agency, one that does meet the need and the desire of the public to
have a world class transportation system that is funded and well funded into the future, and one that is
providing regular service on a regular basis that is safe and secure.
And so if we use those lenses to ensure that we do our work going forward, I think we can reach an
agreement and be able to move forward a final recommendation to the Board from this Committee. We
have a few weeks to do that. So let's put our heads together and get it done. Please follow up with an
email to myself and General Manager/CEO so we can begin that work and make sure that we come back
with a really great recommended action to take forward to the Board. That said, are there any other
matters to discuss before we adjourn? I do not see any hands raised at this time.
Directors that are not on this committee, thank you for participating. I look forward to getting your emails. I
will be reaching out to the Directors that did not make this meeting. But if you talk to anybody in the
meantime that is not here currently, please have them review the video so that they can be caught up on
everything that is here and we can get their information in as well. I appreciate your participation.
Our next meeting date is Monday, July 7. That is a little under 12 days from now, or maybe at 12 days
from now. It will be at 8:30 AM. Again, at that meeting, we are set to take action on the 2025-2026 short
term General Manager goals that we discussed today. We will be bringing a recommended action for the
Committee to review. And seeing no other discussion, our meeting is now adjourned at 9:48 AM. Thank
you very much. Have a good day.

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Submitted as Public Comment to the RTD Performance Committee Meeting, June 23rd, 2025.
June 20th, 2025
 ichael Guzman, RTD Performance Committee Chair
M
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Dear Chair Guzman,
Greater Denver Transit (GDT) writes regarding to the following three topics:
2025 Customer and Community Survey Results and Data Analysis
 DT notes the results from the 2025 Community Survey, carried out in April this year. GDT also notes that only
G
24% of the sample surveyed uses RTD services on a regular basis (more than once per month) meaning the
majority of respondents have little experience of what the current RTD customer and rider experience is
actually like. That said the overall conclusion of the survey is of little surprise; as frequency of service is the top
ask from RTDs users.
 hile there is undoubtedly value in conducting surveys, we respectfully remind directors and staff that the real
W
measure of how well the agency is meeting the needs of its customers is in the annual ridership figures. These
grew by an almost non-existent 0.1% in 2024 from 65.18M riders in 2023 to 65.23M riders in 2024.
 fter 4 months of 2025, the total RTD system ridership figure currently stands at 20.6M. Multiplying this by 3
A
gives a rudimentary prediction of what the annual ridership figure for 2025 is likely to be - this case it is 61.8M,
which would be a 5.2% decrease from 2024.
The Western Dozen - Adoption of an Official Metro Area Peer List for Benchmarking RTD
In order to contextualize the recent performance of RTD and inform on future operational and organizational
improvement, GDT urges the adoption of a consistent list of peer agencies for all benchmarking activities. We
propose a list of 12 metro areas, including Denver, which we refer to as The Western Dozen.
It is vital that any serious comparisons between the performance of RTD and other transit agencies be
executed with applicability and integrity, that requires a consistent structure based on operational similarities
that discourages any future urges to engineer an artificially favorable analysis. To achieve this, we urge that the
same set of peers be looked at across all metrics (if available) to avoid cherry picking and sandbagging toward
easier / favorable comparisons.
Peer List Methodology
 e selected from comparably-sized western US metro areas that do not benefit from significant amounts of
W
intact pre-WWII era transit infrastructure (mainly rail) that provides Northeastern US networks with significant
advantages that are exceptionally expensive and difficult to adapt / retrofit.
www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page1

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

 he set of 11 peer metros each operate a combination of street bus, highway coach, and light rail. Most
T
operate FRA-regulated commuter / regional rail as well. In urban areas where multiple agencies are
responsible for different modes, we amalgamated those peers together to create a comprehensive
metropolitan area-specific view. Each of these agencies (or predecessors that rebranded/consolidated) have
operated bus services for the past 50 years, and started building light rail between the late 1980s and 2000s,
with new rail coming into service at a time that overlapped with RTDs rail expansions. Each of these agencies
has some unique elements in terms of their climate, geography, or governance, but each has a lot more
similarities in terms of the challenges they face and the responsibilities they have in providing public mobility.
 TD is exceptional in many ways, but it is not so exceptional that it is beyond comparison. We believe that the
R
operations of RTD can be improved with existing resources, and looking to peer agencies that have made
more progress in terms of ridership recovery after the pandemic can provide a guiding light. Thus we propose
the list be constructed primarily according to peers that have the most operational and environmental
symmetries with RTD.
RTD Western Dozen Peers (In Alphabetical Order)
 . Austin - CapMetro
1
2. Dallas / Fort Worth - DART and Trinity Metro combined
3. Denver - Regional Transportation District (RTD)
4. Houston - Metro
5. Minneapolis / St. Paul - Metro Transit
6. Phoenix - Valley Metro
7. Portland - TriMet
8. Sacramento - SacRT
9. Salt Lake City - UTA
10. San Diego - MTS and NCTD combined
11. Seattle - Sound Transit and King County Metro combined
12. St. Louis - Metro Transit
2025-26 GM-CEO Short-term Goals
 DT would like to respectfully submit to the Performance Committee our position on the GM & CEO's
G
short-term goals for 2025-26.
1.

 ustomer Experience / Welcoming Transit Environment - Increase positive survey responses
C
relating to overall satisfaction (50%) and feeling safe and secure (50%)
 DT supports the overall aims of this goal. However, for the first part we request that the Directors devise
G
a way for this to be assessed using appropriate data the agency collects. Examples of this could include
records of inspections related to overall condition and cleanliness of transit vehicles, stations, facilities
and infrastructure.
 or the second part, we request that this is assessed using the actual transit safety data the agency
F
collects and is now mandated to publish in accordance with C.R.S. 32-9-166, which was created under
Senate Bill 25-161.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page2

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

2.

Ridership - Increase system wide boardings by 3%
 DT is pleased to see a ridership goal remain for the GM & CEO. As discussed in the community survey
G
results section, the latest figures indicate that the GM & CEO is currently not on-track to meet their
current 2024-25 goal of achieving total vehicle boardings of 69,562,000 during the period from October 1,
2024 and ending September 30th, 2025 even after adjusting the baseline down from 66,307,000
boardings.

3.

 eliability - Complete rail downtown reconstruction scope (50%) and positive survey responses
R
related to on-time performance by 5% (50%)
 DT believes that the first part of this goal is not appropriate for the expected caliber of the employee
G
being assessed and encourages the Board to devise a more suitable goal related to the overall state of
the agency's Capital Programs division.
 or the second part, we request that this is assessed using the actual on-time performance and reliability
F
data the agency collects and is now mandated to publish in accordance with C.R.S. 32-9-166, which was
created under Senate Bill 25-161.
Thanks for all you do,

James Flattum

Richard Bamber

Emma Griffin

Joe Meyer

CC:

 TD Board of Directors
R
Debra Johnson, RTD General Manager & CEO
Angel Pea, RTD Deputy CEO

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page3

