Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, February 24. 2009
at 5:30p.m. Page 1 of 4
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

February 24, 2009

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday February 24,
2009 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms T & D

Board
Members Present:

Board Member
Absent:
Staff Present:

Chair Kemp; Directors Bagley, Brohl, Busck, Christopher,
Cohen, Daly, James, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, O’Boyle,
Tayer and Tobiassen

Director Chacon
Cal Marsella, Bruce Abel, Marla Lien, Dave Genova, Paula
Perdue, Scott Reed, Phil Washington, Cal Shankster, Bill
VanMeter

Sherry Ellebracht, Daria Serna, Bill Sirois, Terry Howerter, Robert Merriman, Larry
Buter, John Tarbert, Sherry Ellebracht, Ryan Mulligan, Caitlin Magee

Others Present:

***
Call to Order:

Peter Hynes, Tom Coogan (Route Match), Rob Andresen (First
Transit), Rita Connerly, Gary Ulberg (First Transit), Jeff Lieb
(Denver Post)

Director Brohl called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

I. 2008 TOD Status Report
Bill Sirois made reference to his TOD report that was given to the Directors on
March 13, 2009. He provided a handout of the annual TOD Status report. A
copy of that handout is attached to the Study Session minutes located in the
Board office.
Some of the highlights from Bill Sirois report include:
 There is a definite impact of the economy on TOD development.
Tighter lending requirements are impacting on marginal projects
 TOD is well positioned when the market does recover

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, February 24. 2009
at 5:30p.m. Page 2 of 4


There are still a number of station areas planning in process especially
in Aurora.
 RTD will be taking a look at real estate market values in relation to
stations.
Directors Bagley and James who are both involved in real estate, shared some
anecdotal perspective on what is happening and that this is a good time for
R&D in preparation for the swing in the market conditions. Director Busck
added the real players are working land deals and putting things together in
anticipation of the market opening up.
II. Access-a-ride/Route Match
Director Brohl provided a high level perspective of what she sees as the issues
and the opportunity for the Board to set policy. She stated to the Board
members that they could determine how much detail they want to hear as
well as what kind of policy they want to set. She identified four areas of
focus for tonight’s discussion: (1) Overview of the process (2) Difference
between Route Match and Trapeze (3) Complaints (4) Drive time
She then turned it over to Bruce Abel who provided an in-depth discussion
around the balancing act RTD continuously strives for in meeting the ADA
requirements and providing quality access-a-ride service. He provided
handouts that identified the process they go through from the time a call is
initiated requesting service through trip completion. He shared the parameters
that are set in the Route Match software. He acknowledged that some of
these parameters were set a bit aggressively in the beginning but have been
modified and are more in line.
Cal Marsella summarized what he perceives to be the hot underlying issues
associated with Access-a-ride/route match:
 Circuitous Routing—Riders need to understand that this is a shared ride
services and not necessarily a point to-point service. In order for RTD
to do better root cause analysis, they need the rider to provide specific
information. This is also an issue of managing expectations
 Bad Data/Complaints not getting through—this needs to be better
understood in light of how the system works today. The user calls
into a customer service line who forwards the message to the accessa-ride center. There should be no expectation they will receive a
callback from this line.
 The number of calls are drastically down from where it has been. This
would give the indication that service has improved but there may still
be a few exceptions. This is why it is important to have the user
provide all the details possible surrounding the trip
Bruce Abel concluded that the goal is to provide more automated mobile data
computer and vehicle locator’s technology that will offer real time data
collection, driver whereabouts, driver direction assistance, improved will calls,
playback capabilities and better customer service.
For a copy of the handouts in its entirety, please refer to the Study Session
minutes located in the Board office.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, February 24. 2009
at 5:30p.m. Page 3 of 4
Question and Answers
Director Cohen: had questions related to the calculations for complaints. He
concluded based on the number of reservations that complaints are less than
1%. He also inquired about factors that would create anomalies. Cal
Marsella stated there could be a number of factors such as weather, bad
accident, operator lost, etc.
Director Martinez wanted to know if we verify the drop off points as being
within the boundary for fixed route service and the response was yes. He
stated that he sees the issue of how do we manage expectations perhaps
through a better disclosure system of posting information on decals within the
buses themselves. He thinks RTD needs to look into how to better manage
expectations and understanding this is a shared ride service and not an
access-a-cab.
Director McMullen shared that his office sometimes receives call intended for
RTD and wondered if when a person calls in are they given an identifier
number for tracking. Bruce Abel responded when they get to the access-aride center, they are assigned a contract number and Scott Reed indicated
that when they get to the call center if they stay on the call long enough, they
will receive a reference number.
Director James asked clarifying questions about the origin and destination as
well as the technology used for communications between the dispatcher and
the driver.
Director O’Boyle asked if it was possible to relay to the rider the maximum
allowable time for their trip. Staff responded it may be possible but not a
good idea for a number of reasons. It would create more problems than it
solves. Director O’Boyle also wanted to know what happens to a call in
process if the caller drops off. Scott Reed responded that action is not
completed. Scott Reed explained that an abandoned call is one where the
caller drops off before it is answered by the center.
Director Bagley asked for statistics on the people who come to the Board
meeting to complain. Bruce Abel explained that this information has been
provided to the Board members in a separate document.
Director Busck stated this was too much information and he hopes to not hear
it again. He feels the fundamental issue is a management problem and the
management needs to be getting a hold of this and working this directly with
the user.
Larry Buter responded they have initiated a steering committee and access-aride users have been asked to be a part of this committee.
Director Daly made reference to a document previously handled out by the
F&A committee on financial strategies and asked about the operating expense

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, February 24. 2009
at 5:30p.m. Page 4 of 4
per revenue hour as it pertained to the on-demand response. He noted that a
comparison with other agencies was quite remarkable in range and wanted to
know what do we associate these differences to. Cal Marsella responded it
could be how they have structured their program (i.e. labor costs, vehicles,
etc)
Director Tobiassen asked if he could do a ride along with access-a-ride? He
was asked to set this up with Larry Buter.
Director Tayer asked what was the goal for this change which he assumes to
be greater efficiency and how were staff measuring productivity
improvements. Bruce Abel responded that in the last six months, there has
been productivity improvements, ridership is up, the number of mileage is also
up which is something they are drilling down on, compliants are down or at
parity with what they were before the change. Overall there have been
improvements in cost savings, productivity and customer service.
Director Tayer responded he is not sure he would necessarily say the number
of complaints down equate to improved customer service and requested an
ongoing report on productivity and customer service improvements.
Larry Buter stated they have asked the call center to identify who the callers
are so RTD staff can call back and work on educating their riders.
Director Brohl summarized this whole discussion by saying it is time that we
need to do things differently. We need to look outside the box and look for
ways to better educate our customers and manage expectations. Example of
when a customer is waiting, get some information to them, the use of decals,
etc, and other ideas that will make this a more user friendly experience for our
customers.
III.

Next Steps: Budget Implications & Possibilities
Terry Howerter, CFO, provided a handout of base system budget implications
and possibilities. Cal Marsella emphasized these are scorch earth strategies
and absolutely worst case scenarios that they are not advocating at this time.
Board members were elated to receive such a concise list and thanked the
F&A team for being responsive to their request for information.

IV.

Other Matters
Cal Marsella shared the State Department of Labor had denied the union the
right to strike. RTD is reviewing its strategy for arbitration.
Phil Washington shared the DBE team would be presented on Channel 9 at
6:15 a.m. this Thursday, February 26.

V.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 8:30 p.m.

