1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Larry Hoy, District J

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
GM Oversight & Performance Management Committee
Tuesday, September 11, 2018
Board Conference Room
3:00 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120
Chaired by Jeff Walker

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Walker called the meeting to order at 3:01 p.m.
Committee members in attendance:

Committee Chair Walker, Committee Vice
Chair Bob Broom, Chair Tisdale, and
Directors Deadwyler (arrived late), Hoy,
Menten, and Mihalik

Other Board members present:

Directors Catlin (arrived late), Folska (arrived
late), Lubow, Williams (arrived late)

Others present:

General Manager Genova (left before the executive
session), Board Office Administrator John McKay

B. Motion to Move into Executive Session
Discussion Relative to Different or Additional Terms to Executive Employment
Agreement. CRS 24-6-402 (4) (e), determining positions relative to matters that may
be subject to negotiations, developing strategy for negotiations, and instructing
negotiators.

Motion:

Director Broom made the motion to move into
executive session.

Director Hoy seconded the motion.
Vote on
the Motion:

The motion passed with 6 in favor and 0 opposed.
Director Deadwyler was absent.
The committee adjourned to Executive Session at
3:08 p.m.
Following the adjournment of the Executive Session
at 4:53 p.m., the committee proceeded into Other
Matters.

C. Other Matters
Motion:

Pursuant to and consistent with the motion adopted
by the General Manager Oversight and Performance
Management Committee (Committee) on August 14,
2018, regarding a process for exploring possible
amendments to the Executive Employment
Agreement, which motion was reviewed and
discussed at length and in detail by the Board of
Directors at its August 21, 2018 meeting, Director
Hoy moved for the appointment of Committee Chair
Walker and Chair Tisdale to serve as negotiators for
the purposes of 1) Exploring with General Manager
potential amendments to the Executive Employment
Agreement with the General Manager, the terms of
which potential amendments would be subject to
the parameters discussed by the members of the
Committee and by other members of the Board
present during that day’s executive session, and 2)
Reporting back to the Committee regarding the
fruits of their discussions with the General Manager
for further consideration and possible action by the
Committee.
Director Broom seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion:

The motion passed with 4 in favor and 3 opposed
(Deadwyler, Menten, Mihalik).

D. Next Meeting Date - TBD
E. Adjourn
Committee Chair Walker adjourned the meeting at 5:03 p.m.
The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices

Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

