Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held Tuesday, August 14, 2007
Page 1 of 4
Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

August 14, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held
on Tuesday, August 14, 2007 at 5:00 p.m. in Rooms T & D

****
Committee
Members Present:

FasTracks Committee Chair Director Chacon, Chair Martinez, Daly,
Yamrick, Christopher, Ruchman, McMullen, Kinton, Brohl, Tayer

Member Absent:

Directors Busck, Elfenbein, Kemp, Pulliam, Quinlan

Staff Present:

Senior Staff: Cal Marsella, Lloyd Mack, David Genova, Marla Lien, Liz
Rao, Scott Reed, Phil Washington
Liz Telford, Henry Stopplecamp, Caitlin Magee, Teresa Sedmak, Jerry
Nery, James Starling, Susan Wood, Dave Shelley, Kevin Diviness,
Chris Quinn, Dennis Cole, Joe Smith, Jennifer Heisler, Bill Sirois, Mike
Turner, Bill Van Meter, Susan Cohen, Rick Clarke, Daria Serna, John
Shonsey, Pauletta Tonilas, Sherry Ellebracht, Nadine Lee

Others Present:

Brad Langner, Rick Nannenga, Joe Racosky, Larry Warner, Tim
Romer, Debra Perkins-Smith, Ed Schumm

Call to Order:

Director Chacon called the meeting to order at 5:06 p.m.

I. Updates
 FasTracks Financial Plan – Liz Rao introduced this item. The presentation is
available for viewing in the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting Minute
Notebook. Sales tax projected growth has been reduced. Total FasTracks
revenue decreased by $557 million through 2025. Capital costs have
increased resulting in the overall costs of the program going from $4.7 billion
to $6.2 billion. The original financial model has been scrubbed. The updated
financial plan will help close the gap in funding for FasTracks.
There are challenges in the FasTracks plan funding, Staff is designing
strategies to close the funding gap and have developed several P3
applications.
Substantial progress has been made. The updated Financial
Plan will be delivered to the Board at the September 11, 2007 Study Session
and then will be brought to the Board for approval at the September 25, 2007
Board Meeting.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on Tuesday, August 14, 2007
Page 2 of 4
Cal Marsella said that we won’t really know until Spring 2009 about how
much the P3 will save the District. The proposals must come in first.
Director Ruchman asked about the funding gap amount and strategies to close
the gap. Cal Marsella responded that this gets into assumptions about sales
tax revenue, debt structure. Tim Romer gave some more clarification. The
District is looking at Certificates of Participation (COPs) which are an efficient
tool for funding certain needs – vehicles, buses and other facilities. Also, the
District is looking at Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act
(TIFIA) loans and P3. There are direct and indirect benefits to using P3. If
you use the P3 in one corridor, you don’t have to use sales tax revenue on
that corridor.
Director Ruchman expressed concern about the agency being able to expand
in the future. Tim Romer talked about how the capital programs have been
looked at far into the future. The plan is built upon some assumed growth.
There is a cushion built into it. Sales tax bonds and COPs have “call in”
features so they can be paid off early.
Cal Marsella spoke about the sales tax revenue projections being downgraded
and it could go in the opposite direction.
The District is using very
conservative assumptions in the plan.
Director Ruchman, why would we want an RFQ versus a RFP? Cal Marsella
said that there will consortiums bidding on the P3. The RFQ level gives the
District a chance to weed out substandard teams.
Director Tayer asked for an analysis of what alternatives J.P./Goldman
considers and why they reject them. Tim Romer spoke about competitive
overlay and how you may not want to reveal all strategies at this time.
Director Christopher asked about Spring of 2009. Will the Board not make
any decisions before then? Tim Romer said a lot depends on the Record of
Decision (RODs). The District will not wait until all the RODs are received to
launch the bids.
Cal Marsella said that property must be in hand, right of
ways must be negotiated. Risk process costs dearly, everything must be done
for the P3 to be launched right into construction.
Director Daly asked if there would be more detail provided and Liz Rao said
that would happen at the annual FasTracks update.
Director Chacon asked about the Senate Bill 208 process. Is DRCOG the only
one that looks at the Financial Plan? Cal Marsella responded that FTA also
looks at the figures.
Director Brohl asked if there was a clause in the Union contract that might
cause problems regarding the DBFOM?
Cal Marsella responded that
Commuter Rail will be subject to the proposer. Nothing precludes Union
operation and nothing requires it. Under the P3, these would not be
considered RTD employees.
(Chairperson Chacon left at 5:56 p.m.)


North Metro Corridor (EIS) – (presentation) Liz Rao gave an update on the
process of choosing a locally preferred alternative. The presentation is
available for viewing in the FasTracks Monitoring Meeting Minute

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on Tuesday, August 14, 2007
Page 3 of 4
Notebook. DMU vs. EMU – operating cost, EMU is $2 million/year.
Capital costs – DMU is more cost efficient from a Capital Cost
perspective. Staff presented three different scenarios for the North Metro
corridor. DMU is less expensive under all three scenarios.
Director McMullen asked about the public reaction. Jim Starling responded
that public meetings have been well attended. The public is in favor of
EMU by about 80%.


Northwest Corridor (EIS) – Liz Rao gave a presentation on this agenda
item. The presentation is available for viewing in the FasTracks Monitoring
Committee Minute Meeting Notebook. Electrification for the Northwest
Rail Corridor appears to be infeasible due to the following issues from
Burlington Northern Santa Fe: Bridge Clearance issues, Right of way
impacts, cost challenges. Bridge Clearance – BNSF wants a catenary
height of 26 feet to run double stack freight trains and maintenance
equipment with adequate safety clearance. Standard catenary height is 23
feet; several major roadway bridges spanning the tracks do not meet this
clearance. In order to electrify the alignment, RTD must reconstruct these
bridges. The reconstruction costs were not included in the original corridor
budget. The cost for bridge reconstruction alone would be $405-565
million dollars. In general, our present right-of-way appears capable of
accommodating the construction of a three track, non-electrified mainline.
Overall, staff review indicates that if the corridor were electrified, such
expansion to a third track would no longer appear to be feasible within the
current physical limitation of the existing corridor.
John Tayer expressed concern that staff go back to BNSF and really
question their findings. Marla Lien spoke about how BNSF worked on this
response for over a month with repeated edits. The Board requested copies
of the letter from BNSF. Cal Marsella said these would be distributed in
the Friday, August 17, 2007 Board packet.
Director Tayer asked that the decision on the corridors not be rushed. The
decision on technology is scheduled to be made by the Board at the
October Board Meeting.
Director Brohl spoke about right of way and looking at ways to explain to
the public why we need to use BNSF’s right of way. A document on this
would provide additional assistance to board members in dealing with their
constituents.



General FasTracks Update – Cal Marsella walked through a detailed
presentation on the corridors and provided current status of the indicated
items:
A. West Corridor
B. DUS
C. East Corridor
D. Gold Line
E. US 36
F. I-225
G. Central Corridor Extension
H. Southeast Corridor Extension
I. Southwest Corridor Extension
J. TOD
Copies of the presentation are available for viewing in the FasTracks

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on Tuesday, August 14, 2007
Page 4 of 4
Monitoring Committee Meeting Minute Notebook.
(Director Christopher left at 7:00 p.m. and Director Tayer left at 7:10
p.m.)
II. Other Matters – Marla Lien mentioned that DBE committee will consider Small
Tier bonding on Thursday, August 16, 2007 and encouraged the Board to attend.
III. Adjournment
Director Yamrick made the motion to adjourn to an Executive Session. It was
seconded by Director McMullen. The meeting adjourned to an Executive Session
at 7:14 p.m.

