2020-11-12 GMO-GME
PEGGY CATLIN: It is. All right, we do have-- we have Chair Rivera Malpiede. We have
Director Guissinger, Director Menten, Director Buzek, Director Walker, Director Williams. Who
am I missing of the directors?
SHELLEY COOK: Cook?
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, Cook-- Director Cook, and myself. So we do have a quorum. And I see
another-- so Director Cook, yours is 24, right?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, that's correct.
PEGGY CATLIN: So then-BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Menten, I didn't hear her name, if you did-- if you did say it.
PEGGY CATLIN: I thought I did say it, but she's on two places. So we also have Barbara
McManus. We have General Manager CEO Debra Johnson. We have John McKay, and we have
Melanie Snyder on the phone. So I'd like to call the meeting to order at 8:03 AM on November
12. I hope you all had a good Veteran's Day yesterday.
So this is Debra Johnson's first meeting of the GMOC, so welcome. It's nice to have you join us.
We are getting started. A couple of the things that I wanted to-- well, first of all-NATALIE MENTEN: Madam Chair, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I see an SL who signed on, so I'm thinking-- I guess that's Director Lewis.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, she just [INTERPOSING VOICES].
NATALIE MENTEN: Just for the record.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Thank you, Director Menten.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, and I appreciate that. So now we have our full complement of our
Committee members. So welcome, everyone. On our agenda today, we're going to introduce
Debra and have her say a few words to the GMOC. Talk a little bit about the role of the GMOC
Committee.
We wanted to talk about-- there's 120-day performance agreement parameters that we put into
the contract with Debra Johnson. We included that in the packet, the contract language and just
how we're going to get started with that because it's many of our opinion that this needs to go

both ways, that we need to work together mutually to do that and the timeline moving forward to
get that done.
But I think we also want to hear-- there was some confusion ---oh, give me that-- Debra, you had
put together a great 120-day plan for what you wanted to accomplish in the first 20 days. That's
in parallel to what we're trying to accomplish in our discussions about how we move forward and
reach an agreement after 120 days for your performance parameters.
And this is something a little bit new for us. We haven't done it quite that way. And then we're
going to be talking about how the Board and the senior leadership Board retreats fit into that and
how we do our goal setting and how the goal setting can be tied into some of the performance
parameters for the agency as well as your performance parameters. So that's where we wanted to
get started. But first I'd like to turn it over to you all, just to introduce yourself to the Committee,
if you would like.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, so good morning, members of the Committee. As introduced, Debra
Johnson, your new General Manager CEO. And once again, I want to thank you for the
opportunity. Thanks for entrusting me to lead this dynamic organization. Having started
officially this past Monday, I've had an opportunity to spend quite a bit of time getting around
our facilities, writing our system, engaging with our customers as well as meeting stakeholders,
both elected officials as well as different city agency representatives.
And also that parallels nicely in reference to the 120-day guidelines that I put together relative to
what it is that I'd like to achieve, I've had the opportunity to host an all-hands meeting, have oneon-ones with various employees to basically hone in and assess their perceptions and attitudes
and opinions about the agency.
And they have been quite enlightening thus far. And I do believe we have ample opportunity
before us. I am excited about the opportunity. I recognize it's going to take a lot of time in
reference to doing that because I'm already on day-- what is this? Day four, and I think I've
already spent more than about 50 hours this week doing all those different things, recognizing
that it's going to take some time, and I have to be committed to doing that, as I said during the
course of my recruitment process. This is what I've done before, and it's yielded success.
So I want you all to recognize that what I put together is not trying to dictate what's going to be
done in relationship to all of us. That was me in the sense that I need to assess what needs to be
done, find commonalities and themes, and in turn I know that Tina Aragon, my Assistant, has
been coordinating with Barbara, setting up one-on-ones with all of you. I know they're on the
calendar.
And basically, what I'd like to do as well is ask you those same questions because I believe
during the course of this assessment, it gives me the opportunity to identify themes in reference
to what it is that we may need to work towards. And those are the elements that I want to share
with you, not as if it's an edict that that's how we're going, because in reference to my role, those
are things I believe, as the General Manager Chief Executive Officer, that I would need to

address for the betterment of the day-to-day operation of our organization. So with that, thank
you once again for the opportunity to greet all of you and be part of this discussion this morning.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Debra. I know you've really hit the ground running, and we most
definitely appreciate it. I think-- I just wanted to clarify that there are two different 120-day
timelines. One is the-- one is your effort that is great to see, and then the other one is our work in
the context of the contract that we negotiated with you. So the role of the GMOC is-- you're
aware of this Board.
We have a number of Committees. But one of them is the General Manager Oversight
Committee, and that's appointed by our Board Chair, Director Rivera-Malpiede. And we serve
for one year. And for this year only, we had a dual role and that was, first and foremost, to select
you for a permanent General Manager. That took more than 3/4 of the year, actually.
And so that was the first role. The second role then is to evaluate and develop performance
metrics for us to move forward in evaluating you. And those can be honed, definitely, as we go
forward. But that next 120-day push is where this Committee will devote its efforts. So that's
kind of our role as far as the GMOC.
It's currently one of the only Committee, other than some of those that are ad hoc, that is not a
Committee of the whole. But all Board members are invited to participate. And as we've seen
today, we have a couple of other Committee members who-- or Board members who have joined
in. And so I think I'd like to first open it up. And we did include attachments for everyone.
The Committee charter-- so Debra, that's more for your edification so you understand what it is
we were supposed to be doing. And then there was your 120-day transition plan for reference for
the Board. We have your General Manager contract that we executed and signed. And then
wanted to get started on some of the parameters for performance agreement.
And I think I would be interested, and I don't know about other directors, but I would be
interested in knowing what you believe in the agency is a good model for this type of thing, for
evaluating performance. And I know other directors have talked about this-- sorry, I'm rambling,
and I don't have my notes in front of me. But one of the things that some of us were concerned
about was that in the previous Executive Director, a lot of the metrics that we had may not have
been tied to the strategic goals and the outcomes.
And so some of us were trying to look at more of an outcome-based performance metric, as
opposed to an activity-based performance metric. So I know that there are a couple of other
directors, and please raise your hand if you have thoughts about this. But I know Director Lewis
and I had talked about it, Director Cook and I had talked about it. I've talked to many of you
about that.
So I think maybe what I'll do right now-- and pardon me for this rather unstructured meeting
format-- but I think I'll go through each of our directors and see what their thoughts are as we
move forward as we start to develop this framework for 120-day contract obligation. I'll start
with Chair Rivera-Malpiede. Chair, do you have any thoughts?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You know, I would like to wait until the end so I can hear what
the other directors have to say. I've been spending a lot of time with our new General Manager.
And so I think I'd like to hear it, if that's OK, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's quite all right. You might have to arm wrestle Director Menten for that
last spot, but-- sorry, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, Director Tisdale has joined, for the record. Director Tisdale, your
thoughts as we begin this process for our 120-day contractual obligation, which is now 116 days?
DOUG TISDALE: Right, thank you very much. I appreciate that. And good morning, Ms.
Johnson. It's good to see you, Debra.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Good morning. Good to see you.
DOUG TISDALE: Congratulations again. It's a delight to have you with us. I guess the one thing
that I do want to observe, and I'll be very brief on that, is that I think metrics are critically
important. It's always important that we have a clear understanding between the parties as to
what those metrics are actually measuring.
And one of the reasons that we do rely upon outcomes so much is that that is perhaps less
subjective than other measures that you might contemplate. So I just-- I recognize we can seem
crippled by metrics that just look at specific outcomes, but I also understand that ultimately, that
perhaps is the most fair way and the most just way of proceeding. So I'm anxious to hear what
other thoughts there are because, of course, I'm always ready to change my mind. Thank you
very much.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure. Welcome, Debra.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. I saw this morning that Gray was tweeting that he and Senator
Winter had an hour-long conversation with you. And I also heard separately that they were very
pleased. So that's a great start. I guess in terms of-- in addition to hearing Debra's thoughts on
performance metrics, I'd like to-- it's related, but a little bit different to hear thoughts on how we
set our goals because I'm not convinced we're doing it a very good way.
We go to these retreats, and we kind of put stuff up there, and they morph into our goals. And I
feel like there may be a more strategic way to go about that. So I'd like what your experience
with other places might be there. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Guissinger. I think we all are looking at ways to make
our process of goal-setting better. Director Menten, please.

NATALIE MENTEN: We're just asking for, it seems like, general comments. So I would agree
that in the past, we've used goals such as attend public meetings. There's been some things that
could be very blunt in the past. Some Board directors have expressed concern that if somebody is
just doing the job, just showing up, doing the job, that could lead into exceeding goals, be
presented as exceeding goals.
And that was-- that's come up throughout the time that I've been on the Board, so going back to
2013. So what we had to leave it at that. I'm more driven at this point to get into some specifics.
That's where I think we'll be able to make some more meaningful comments.
And I don't know where we start with that, taking a look at what the most recent set of goals was
and that we had-- and I don't know that we use our current because we are in this COVID
situation and that hope to God doesn't last forever. I hope to God. But, you know? So those are
my thoughts, I guess. I'm driven towards getting more of the specifics. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. So you and I did have a few conversations about
the goals, and I would love to see goals that were definitely more specific and goals that match
more closely with our resources. I think, to your point about the retreat we often go into, the
retreat with these lofty ideas, and we come out with goals that may or may not match the
resources that we have within the agency.
I'd love to see goals that are a bit more strategic, so building on a 1- to 2- to 5-year plan so that
we all know the direction for which we're going. And I think Debra has done a great job of
starting that out with her 120-day plan and move away from the less tactical things because I
think those might be better for our senior leadership team or even folks throughout the agency
unless we're a General Manager. But I'm happy to hear-- happy to hear what other folks have to
say.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Lewis. And I know Director Buzek has a number of
ideas. He has shared some of the frustrations that a couple of the rest of us have had about our
goal setting and evaluation in the past. So Director, Buzek, please.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And good morning, Debra, and welcome aboard. Great
to have you here finally.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, I think I said last week, I remember-- and I remember Director Lewis
and I having some conversations at our first Board retreat. And I was just amazed by looking at
the goals that had been previously set. And it was that kind of stuff where you show up to work,
and you've met your goals. There was nothing in there that was outcome-based or aspirational,
visionary, nothing like that.

And I understand we're constrained by budgets. But I think if you don't put those into a goalsetting scenario in some fashion, you tend to lose sight of them. So that's one thing-- that's kind
of the goal setting. Our retreats and things that we do, I'd like to see those restructured. And now
maybe this pandemic help is helpful in that regard. If we're going to be doing these on a Teams
meeting, maybe it doesn't restrict us to having a facilitator that's local. Maybe we reach out to
someone that can do it on this platform.
But as far as your stuff, yeah, outcome-based. And as Director Menten said, gosh, yeah, you
show up to 16 meetings. And boy, you check the box "meets or exceeds expectations," but
nothing has come out of going to those meetings. So what's the point? So yeah, I'm looking
forward to restructuring not only how we set your metrics and standards but how we set them for
the Board and our overall goals as well. And I'm sure you've got lots of great ideas to help us
there. And I'll leave it at that, thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Buzek. Director Walker and Director Tisdale, they were
heading up the GMOC Committee previously. And so they have some experience. Director
Walker and Director Menten will no longer be with this Committee starting the first of the year,
but we would appreciate your perspective. So Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Can you hear me OK?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah
JEFF WALKER: OK, great. Good morning, Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Good morning.
JEFF WALKER: So yeah, I was the Chair of the Committee, and what is it, '18, I believe it was.
So one of the-- the goal setting has always been a struggle for the Board. You have 15 of us, and
we all have to come to some kind of agreement. And I think the goals that we have set are a
result of that compromise that we've reached, whether by choice or by force. That's what we
have. That's the compromise we got to.
We tried-- in the last few years, with previous Board members, we tried to make the goals more
objective. So I can't remember what any of the goals were before, but they were very subjective.
And we had those documents, and we can get those for you if you want. But we tried to make
those more objective, if not results-oriented, then just something that could be counted instead of
something like, well, I think he didn't do a good job without being able to quantify why he-because it's always been a he before, no more.
So without being able to quantify or count the number of times that the previous CEO didn't
make it. So hopefully they're more objective now than they were, and I'm looking forward-- I
won't be around, but it'll be nice to know that you guys are working toward something-- toward
something that's more objective even. The tactical plan is what drives the budget. That's what the
CEO and the GM say-- this is how we're going to do it, and this is how much it's going to cost to

get to these goals that the Board has set. And also the tactical plan shows how that CEO will get
to the-- or at least try to achieve the goals.
So I think those are extremely important because we need those to develop the budget and to
make sure that the goals are met or to see why they didn't-- why they weren't met. Regarding the
not met, met, exceeds goals, the met is just a baseline, like at a minimum. This is what-- this is
why we brought you here, and this is what the Board says.
This is why we brought you here, this is what we want you to get done this year or this coming
year. So that's just the baseline. The exceeds means that the CEO did above and beyond, or the
team, I guess, did above and beyond, not [AUDIO OUT] and for whatever reason. The CEO GM
can explain that. But the met is just a baseline.
One of the other problems-- after this, I'll shut up. But one of the other problems that we ran into
often throughout the years is distinguishing between the outcomes that the CEO can control and
those that are beyond the CEO's control, like this pandemic. So no way in 2019 would we ever
hit any ridership goals. But that can be explained.
That's beyond the CEOs, that's beyond the agencies, that's been beyond every country in the
world's control, but we can explain why. So I wouldn't count this as a mark against that
performance measure, that goal. So we put an asterisk, and we explain it. But that struggle of,
well, the CEO didn't do this, the agency did this, the agency didn't-- he or she only went to five
meetings, but the staff went to the other 15, that's the struggle, separating the agency activities
and the CEO activities.
I don't know if that made any sense but that's something that you guys will have to deal with,
whoever's on this Committee next year. And that's what you'll need to expect, that struggle-expect that struggle and that conflict, among the Committee and among the whole Board. I hope
that helped.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Director Walker. Actually, we had looked with some of our after
resources at some other agencies and came up with a couple of other models that really looked at
a General Manager CEO evaluation that measured things more like leadership and even did
maybe some 360 reviews of SLT with the CEO and made it a little bit more interactive.
And so I know one of the ones that we came up with was the Pierce transit. And it was a lot
simpler than what we had put in place before. And what we had in place was very cumbersome
and had some of the drawbacks that Director Walker mentioned. But then we also did it to
ourselves. We set goals such as-- well, I'm going to use Director Benton's, transparency, one of
the number one things.
But transparency means different things to different people. Transparency in communication or
transparency in data. So we struggle with some of those as a Board with different definitions and
different-- what we believe were different successes. We also-- and I see Director Buzek's hand
raised. But another one we had was equity.

And different Board members had different definitions of what equity meant. Is it equity of
service? We still struggled with some of those. But in the broader sense, those goals took on a
number of different definitions, depending on the Director. So I think we really want to hone in a
little bit more on that. Before I go to Director Lewis and Director Menten, I have not yet given
Director Cook or Director Williams an opportunity to weigh in. So Director Cook, please.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks, Director [INTERPOSING VOICES]. Welcome, Debra. I'm looking
forward to meeting you so much. So one thing I would say is this cycle, this setting of goals and
performance standards and things like that, seems to me it'll be a different one because of
circumstances. So we face extraordinary challenges, not just sort of run-of-the-mill difficult
things that we were already looking at.
But with the pandemic, with likely continuing impacts on our ridership, with the financial
ramifications of all that, it seems to me that one thing that we ought to look to this process and
our retreat for is a way to get arms around and focus on some limited and important priorities. So
I just wanted to put that thought out there, that we-- I think if we use-- if we go the usual way
and set a number of metrics under clearly important areas, that we may not move in the
directions that we need to, at this point, to respond and to make sure that transit grows and does
well in regions.
So that's my thought. And I'm like everybody else who thinks it would be really good to hear
from you, Debra, about how you see this going. You've got such-- a lot of experience in multiple
agencies. You're-- somebody in the newspaper said you understood public governance. I'm so
interested in hearing your thoughts about all of this stuff. So with that, I'll close. Thanks, Peggy.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Cook. Director Williams, please.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Peggy. Good morning, Debra. Hi, welcome, all that stuff, what
everybody else said. We're really, really glad you're here. I am one of those people who had a
terrible time with the previous goals. I agree that they were unwieldy. And more than that, they
were in substantial or unsubstantial, whichever one is correct.
I am an executive Director of an organization, and I have goals, and I get graded on my goals.
And I have to report myself and my goals. And so I think I'd like to see us look at a little more of
them being similar to what happens in a business. There's lots of examples out there of goal
setting for leadership, not only a transit agency, but at other institutions where their leader has to
answer for certain things being improved. That's the idea. So I think when we go to do this, we
would be well off to look at the measurable, as Director Walker was speaking to, and realistic
goals. Thanks. That's all I have to say.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Williams. And you know what? I, for one, would be
interested in seeing what your evaluation criteria are just as an example. Director RiveraMalpiede, you wanted to go last.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Well, Debra, I don't need to tell you how thrilled I
am to have you here. And my time with you has just been extraordinary. I'm really grateful. And

I am so excited for this region and the leadership that you will be providing. It is very clear, and I
agree absolutely with the way that we have structured these retreats.
They're intense. They're a little bit cumbersome. There's a lot of different perspectives. And I
think that Director Catlin's absolutely right, just the difference in perspectives of equality and
equity and what does that mean. Is it geographic? Is it racial? Is it economic? I mean, I think
we're all struggling to try to make sure that we're serving the needs of the entire community.
And then this year in particular, we will be revisiting our union contract. And unlike any other
year in the world-- I can start saying that now-- we can start saying, what happens if the world
comes to a halt and there's a massive pandemic? So I think this is our opportunity to change
everything that we've always wanted to change.
And I agree that whatever goals we do, they should be-- we shouldn't have so many. We should
have a few that we feel like we can hone in on. So rather than saving the whole world, just
focusing on maybe three or four and then making sure that those are matched up with resources
that we can do in light of the pandemic and in light of the budget that we have, understanding
that it would be revisited, like Director Lewis had mentioned, in three to five years and as we-how we change it up.
But I think right now we're kind of the victim of our own circumstance in the tradition that had
been set in years prior, and now it's our time to be very strategic and direct and, I think, more
realistic. I think we live in a more realistic world than last year when we were in these retreats.
They're long. And it takes a lot of brainpower. And it's really hard to come up with specific goals
and objectives when you've been in a room for, I don't know, eight hours, and then you go to
another one and you add another group of people.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: There's got to be a more streamlined, strategic way to pull these
together so that we can be really fresh and thinking outside of the box, but really being specific
on what it is that we need to do as an organization, keeping in mind that there will be, what, five
new Board members at this retreat next year. So I kind of look at this as a great opportunity to
really kind of leave the old and start the new. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Rivera-Malpiede. Before I call on Director Menten for a
second bite of the apple, I just wanted to remind you all that if we wait until the retreat to set all
of these metrics and performance measures for Debra Johnson, that's probably too late. I think
what we need to do is really start looking at some of our strategic areas and some of the real
imminent things that are coming down the pike, as you mentioned Chair Rivera-Malpiede, that
this new negotiation with the union, one of the reasons that you, Debra, appealed to us so much
was your history there and your ability to negotiate.
And for me personally, I would hope that one of the metrics that we had or performance
measures that we had for you was a successful negotiation of the contract and with some of those
outcomes and that your leadership would be demonstrated in that negotiation. I think in the past,
some of those negotiations fell to senior leadership staff as opposed to the General Manager. But

I think it's really important that you, coming into this organization, be a real focal point in that
negotiation.
That's just one example of something that I would personally like to see. And others may have a
different perspective. I see several hands raised, and I know that we kind of throw in a lot of
stuff, seeing if it will stick, Debra. And I apologize because I do want to give you some
opportunity to maybe share your thoughts, having listened to us ramble on. But I know Director
Lewis, Director Menten, and Director Tisdale all had their hands up. Director Lewis, did you still
want to say something?
SHONTEL LEWIS: You know, I'll wait to hear from Debra.
PEGGY CATLIN: K, thank you, Director Lewis. Director Menten, please.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, thank you. I should have included it's the first time because it is, to
me, very important, and it just came to me afterwards. One of the challenges that I have seen
over the years is that when we get into a retreat or whether it's our technical retreat, or in this
case, it's going to need to really happen earlier to meet the 120-day timeline, we go into a room.
And we seem to happily slap up ideas on a whiteboard in this room.
And we don't know the price tag until we come out of the meeting and we say, we want to do
this, this, this, this, this. All right, and in this very moment, that would mean Heather and GM
would-- and SLT would go out and say, OK, what can we do? What do these things cost?
And then the time goes along, and the tactical plan comes back. And I can remember sitting with
Dave Genova with many of us in the room upstairs and said, I'd like to see a line item breakout
of these core goals, because we've got core goals, and then strategicals. What are the line item
costs for these things?
And Dave's response was, that's really impossible to break out at this point. And somewhere
along the line, especially considering the finances now-- I mean, this was in the past when things
were a little bit rosier. But at some point, and it's hopefully early on, it'd be just absolutely
beautiful if It could happen in the room where we're slapping that stuff up on the whiteboard.
That's probably impossible.
But we absolutely owe it to ourselves for staff time what we think we're going to get, what we
want, that wish list. And everyone [AUDIO OUT]. We were talking about which one-- I don't
know, I just said [AUDIO OUT] the comment, so kind of tying into this. So I just wanted to
share. That's been a concern also for a long time is, we just don't really know what are the dollar
amounts, yet [AUDIO OUT] people to spend hours and hours and hours and hours.
Well, this is what the Board wanted. Well, the Board needs to know what the cost is in an early
stage. I don't [AUDIO OUT].
PEGGY CATLIN: Tisdale and then [AUDIO OUT].

DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, I want to [AUDIO OUT] this discussion. It was very, very
difficult for me. I remember back in [AUDIO OUT]. The retreat that we're going to have in 2021
that we set the 2021 goals. It's the time that we set, the 2022 goals. We always look a year ahead.
And I think there is some sense that [AUDIO OUT] retreat is going to be too late and we
[AUDIO OUT]. That's right, it is too late. We need [AUDIO OUT] and some adjustment to the
2021 goals that we've established in 2020. That's right now. But the retreat is the time that we're
looking at the 2020 [AUDIO OUT]. And I think I may have gotten lost, and I just wanted to
clarify that point, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Tisdale. And I think we have to say that we were very
naive when we said that 2021 goals, and absolutely need to be adjusted, having spent nine-- eight
months in this pandemic. So I think that is really important going forward. I know Director
Walker [AUDIO OUT] wants to speak.
We have some opportunity right now, given some [AUDIO OUT] we can build a good team.
And because this organization function not only on the [AUDIO OUT] function, I think that's
[AUDIO OUT] priorities in terms of recruiting and [AUDIO OUT] develop this budget [AUDIO
OUT]. I know that-- I think we have almost a clean slate.
And I think that there's an opportunity to build a team and maybe look to [AUDIO OUT] more
efficient and meaningful. So you've got some [AUDIO OUT]. Director Lewis and then Director
Walker.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Because I really do want to hear from Debra. One of the [AUDIO OUT]
going to be incumbent upon the Board, and allows for Debra to decipher and cipher through, is
for us to define the terms equity as a Board because I think it might be unfair for us to not have
those terms defined and to add those into Debra's goals without Board consensus, so just wanted
to point that out.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Guissinger needs to leave at 9 o'clock.
And I had asked her to spell me in the event that I have a baby that wakes up that I'm watching.
So in the event that we go over 9 o'clock, and I have to mute my phone, I would appreciate it if
Chair Rivera-Malpiede take over instead, if you don't mind.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Absolutely.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, Director Guissinger asked me if we could go ahead and hear from-- prior
to having other directors speak. Is that OK with you, Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Sure, yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, and Director Menten, you still have your hand up. Did you want to say
something more after Debra speaks? No, I guess not. All right, Debra.

DEBRA JOHNSON: All right, well, thank you very much and for the earnest dialogue
surrounding this. And please know that I'm in alignment. I am a fervent believer that basically,
somebody in this capacity, we should be looking at outcomes, not activity-based type of
initiatives. Quite naturally, there'll be people in the organization for which have critical roles that
will do a myriad of things.
But coming up with some type of activity-based goal, and I heard talking about attending
meetings. OK, so I attend 10 meetings. And I just sit there and I don't engage with anybody.
What good does that do for us, right? So if we're trying to build a culture that is one in which we
are a prominent player, we are strategic in our endeavors relative to the betterment of the region,
and how I go about doing that is something in and of itself.
And I think looking at this position, it's important that we think of it as leadership competencies
in which I need to possess because I think it's more important for me to be a transformative
leader as opposed to a transactional leader.
And so when you think about transactions-- I do this, and you get that, what does that mean? I
need to transform what it is that we have. And in relationship to what I have set out doing in the
sense that engaging all with you, as well as employees, as well as customers, writing the system,
I need to draw a line in the sand to determine what that baseline is because right now we're
making assumptions about what that is.
When's the last time we had an APTA to peer review? You can have people on the team, be it
good, bad, or indifferent, saying we're doing A, B, and C. But in actuality, maybe it's X, Y, and
Z, because really, what is it? We need to have somebody that has that expertise look at it from a
different perspective and then discern, wow, you could be leveraging this better.
I went out to a couple of divisions, and I want to get too technical because this really isn't for the
Board per se, but looking at a screen saying that we have 58 red light violations, and I'm asking
the question, well, what's our goal? Oh, well, it's 50% more than we had last year. Well, what if
you had 120 last year?
And so basically, you're just going to based upon that. And so as I look at it holistically, it's us
having a dialogue about where it is that we need to be in holding me accountable for that. And in
relationship to what that is, I really am a believer as well that it should be, more or less,
engaging.
I don't object at all to having some type of review that involves stakeholders. Ask them what
their opinion is. It could be weighted because they don't know everything, but in relationship to
saying that we need to build a culture of engagement, well, let's ask a couple of people what their
opinions are around that, but then structure in such a way where it's substantive feedback.
And there could be different aspects without it being cumbersome. In reference to Director Kate
Williams' comment, in relationship to her being an Executive Director, I've sat on a Board
whereby I assess the CEO of a business improvement district and recognizing there is a lot of
things that he had to do in his capacity. It's important that we look at it holistically because if, in

fact, you're going to hold me accountable for on-time performance, and it's 98%, but we don't
have a schedule that basically meets the needs of our customers, that's basically an arbitrary goal.
So we have trains coming through a station, we have buses, but we're not meeting our time
points and picking up the people that need to get to where they need to go, then that has no use
for us. That's just something on a piece of paper. So I think it needs to be more involved. And
more so, it's looking at where we're going futuristically because I recognize that we could have
goals and there are some aspects that are written into the charter of the statute, but recognizing
that these are unprecedented times. And we need to step back.
So what's important to me, what I plan on doing is an employee engagement survey. Let's be
honest-- we're about to have a reduction in force. So recognizing is very important to me, that I
am engaging with employees. And what I will share is that we're marching down a path whereby
we were going to do layoffs a week before Thanksgiving.
I'm going to be open and honest with you all-- I stopped that, and we're adjusting the timeline,
because there's no way we're doing that without having had communication with employees. So
those are the types of things that are important when we think about us being people in this
organization that need to be in a place where they feel valued because I'm going to need their
support to achieve whatever goals it is that you set.
So I just want you all to take that in consideration. While I may be responsible for the day-to-day
administration, and you set the policy, and we work in tandem, it's very important that we are
aligned on the outcomes for the betterment of the organization holistically. So recognizing that I
think it's important that we take into effect leadership competencies, we take in values, because I
can do everything and be head and shoulders above the crowd.
But if I treat employees like they're gum on the bottom of my shoe, that really doesn't bode well
in the sense of being a transformative leader as well. So those are just my initial thoughts to give
you a broad brush approach about what it is. And I do think it's important as well when you are
talking about previous experiences, referencing, sitting in a room, I think it's understanding what
our core business is, how do we go about doing it, and what that means to different targeted
audiences.
And I too agree with the notion that there should be alignment amongst the Board of the
definitions, be it equity, be it ridership, be it customer satisfaction. What does that really mean?
Because customer satisfaction and customer service are two entirely different things, and they're
not interchangeable.
So I think that's important to take into consideration as well. So those are just the initial thoughts
that I had I'm happy to delve a little deeper, but am trying to be respectful of the time and want to
ensure that all members of this Board have an opportunity to opine on what their thoughts are
relative to the path forward, regarding these goal-setting discussions. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Debra. I appreciate your philosophies and your alignment with
what some of us are thinking and trying to get our arms around. What I would like to propose-- I

have cited a couple of things that I, just at first glance, think would be important for you. One of
them is the union negotiation. A second one is just looking at the organizational structure and
what makes sense, given this chance at a first look that we have, unfortunately, because of
COVID and the reduction.
But what makes sense for you, for your senior leadership team in the and something that works
for you, those are two focus areas that I personally believe. So what I'd like each of you to do as
directors is to prepare for next meeting and jot down two or three things that you would really
like to see as focus areas and where we can maybe move towards this 120-day agreement. I
would actually also encourage you to look at the contract to see what that entails.
And then Debra, if you could maybe put a little bit more meat on the bones that you just
described and maybe what that might look like so that we can start this discussion at the next
meeting. Director, does that seem like a good place to start for you all?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, that sounds-- that sounds great. My turn to speak?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, it is. Oh, did you have something else to say, Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, if it's OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: Please.
JEFF WALKER: OK, thanks. So Ms. Johnson, I think you hit the nail on the head when you
talked about the quality of actions, not necessarily the quantity. I think some of the-- when I first
got on the Board, there wasn't much to-- when I first got on Board, there wasn't much discussion
about the goals that we've set because I think that we're more quality-based.
Over time, it became more quantity-based which is why we tried to find some-- find some more
objective methods. But even then, one of my big things is we always had one that was like,
increased ridership without saying how we wanted that done. So we could cut fares to zero. That
would increase ridership, but it would cut 20% of the [AUDIO OUT].
So that's what this Board, where the next Board's going to need to work on is being very
targeted. I think it would help the Board identify the goals whether or not and-- [AUDIO OUT].
If not, why not? But to be very targeted-- increased ridership on underperforming routes, without
special incentives, things like that.
So like I said earlier, the goals, which are trying to capture the quality, one of the-- one of the
other problems with that is that not all of the Board members agreed on the value of the actions
or the value of the goals. So that's something else that you guys are going to have to overcome. I

have a day job. I've got to go make my money, so I apologize, Director Catlin. I'll catch up with
you later this afternoon, or you can call me when your kid's sleep. I'm free this afternoon. So-PEGGY CATLIN: He's asleep right now.
JEFF WALKER: Feel free to call me.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. Are you going to lose the forum if I leave?
PEGGY CATLIN: No.
JEFF WALKER: OK. All right, well, thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: We may lose one at nine. Debra, you have your hand up. Did you want to
respond?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, just one thing for certain I wanted to opine on, recognizing that you
stated, Chair Catlin, that there are opportunities in relationship to our organizational structure
and basically being able to bargain successfully with all the [INAUDIBLE] transit using 1001. I
do want to specify that the whole purpose of me doing this assessment is to build a highperforming team and recognizing that yes, the CFO plays a critical position to this organization,
but I'd be remiss to say that in the course of my past three days, I'm disheartened to see that
there's not an emphasis on people in relationship to the human resources aspect, organizational
development, and things of the like, recognizing that right now, that sort of buried under a
finance function.
And mixing people and money, I mean, that that's something in and of itself. So I just do want
you all to be aware of that I have already looked at that and think there needs to be a greater
emphasis-- I think they're equally important because basically, you can have all the money in the
world-- if we came into a windfall, we would still fail miserably because we wouldn't have
people in order to accomplish that and more so when I talk about the collective bargaining unit.
What we do holistically will help determine where we go. And sure, there's financial
implications, but it's all through communication and relationships in which we continue the ship.
And that's basically what I have been able to do in the past couple days in relationship to not just
going forward with something because things that happened in the past.
It's like looking through-- looking through a different lens, let me put it that way. And I know I'm
being a little cryptic, but I don't want to show my hand at this point because it's premature, and
I've been here for three days as I gather information. So I just wanted to really assure you that
yes, I have already deduced some elements around that. And it is critically important. So thank
you.

PEGGY CATLIN: Very well stated. Thank you, Debra. And I, for one, appreciate that, that you
have to have the human element in addition to the more clinical element of our operations. That
was very well put. Director Lewis, please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just-- one, I wanted to thank Debra for
reframing the way in which we talk about the agency and really focusing on the people and
focusing on the resource, the beautiful resource that we have and the people who have been
doing the work for the agency. And I thank you so much for that.
And I will just name in that reframing that I appreciate you sharing with us that you would stop
the layoffs before Thanksgiving. I'll speak for myself-- as an individual, I was not aware that that
day had been set. And so thank you about that. When you said that, I was like, oh my goodness,
the holidays, and just back to the human.
So I just want to just genuinely thank you for that as a Board member who had not been aware
that that had been the date that was decided that you had thought about the people and just that
decision. And so thank you for your leadership in that regard.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Lewis, and I completely agree that that's already turning
the tide of becoming a more humane-- or human organization. So thank you. So Director Lewis,
your hand is still up. And Debra, we can leave your hand up, but I'd like you to feel free to
respond whenever. I think the other person right now is Director Menten, please.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, I was speaking to the layoffs. I understand. I did have the timeline in
my head with what this meant with holidays. And I kind of feel that we have kind of dragged our
heels as a Board, since this discussion really started-- I can remember we got a memo in March
describing some of the tentative plans.
And this was more along the lines of the furloughs, but that's where we were trying to get
something out of the union as to an agreement with Furlough. And they would not open the door- open that door. And so as we move forward and you've put a pause on this, the next holiday
that's around the corner is Christmas, so I'm concerned that there's been a pause. So what are you
looking at on a timeline on making it-- following through with really what was a decision of the
Board?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, just to clarify the statement, because I don't want somebody to
think that I usurped the authority of the Board. And that's not what I was trying to convey. What
I was trying to convey in my statement is this-- that Director, excuse me, Chair Rivera-Malpiede
was present during the course of my all-hands meeting where a statement was said by several
employees that they have received no information. Whether that's true or not, I don't know.
And so in the vein that I pride myself on being highly communicative, no information had been
disseminated. And it was my understanding that on November 18, there were going to be some
notices that were being distributed. I [AUDIO OUT] shared with the senior leadership team
yesterday that I wanted a communications effort around that. It does not impact any cost savings

that were done from a budgetary standpoint, kicking in in January. It's about the notification
process or lack thereof that I am adjusting.
And so with that, basically, there'll be a myriad of different communication tactics that will be
outlined in relationship to that because we do have other aspects in addition to tenets of a CBA
that we have to adhere to. But my point is that I was being highly communicative with the parties
involved, recognizing that there was no impact to the overarching budgetary shortfall that we
were trying to address.
My concern was the lack of communication to employees, which will be adjusted because we
will still reap the cost savings in January. So I hope that clarifies my comments in relationship to
when I said putting a pause. My point is, giving somebody a notice without any context a week
before Thanksgiving could cause them angst. And there needs to be discussions around what
would happen and what we're affording employees. And well, that's what I've meant.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So yes, there was-- there was communication-- there was-PEGGY CATLIN: I'm sorry, I wanted to interrupt for a minute. It is 9 o'clock. We're going to
have people dropping off. So we are no longer going to have quorum. Just wanted to note that for
the record.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Madam Chair, if I could just for the point of clarification-- because we have
several more items on the agenda, do we then table them until our next meeting to take up again?
Because there will have to be a-- is there going to have to be votes on-- that's my only concern.
PEGGY CATLIN: You know, we have no action items on here. It was really a discussion to get
going. And I think even though we have items A through I, I being the attachments, we have
really talked a lot about the framework for this performance agreement, as well as the Board SLT
retreats and the timeline moving forward, beginning with a next meeting where I'd ask
everybody to bring a couple of their top priorities for Ms Johnson as well as Ms Johnson talking
about some of her key items that she would like.
I think we can move forward with that, and then we can talk about the timeline moving forward.
But as I apologize for this not being as structured as items A through I, but I think we've
encompassed all of them. OK, Ms. McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I just want to clarify-- you talked about the directors getting some
information for the meeting next week. Will that information be going to you and Director
Guissinger singer, or will it be coming to the Board Office to compile and distributed?
PEGGY CATLIN: I think-- my personal preference for clarification is that it go to the Board
Office, and the Board Office can distribute it, but I just wanted to have some things on paper that
we can use to discuss at next week's meeting.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK, I just wanted to streamline it as best possible. Thank you.

PEGGY CATLIN: Absolutely. I don't see anybody else's hand raised, except Barbara's. And we
are about to lose-- we've already lost Director Tisdale, even though he's not on the Committee.
We're about to meet Director Guissinger. The rest of the Committee is on [AUDIO OUT]. Is
everyone clear about the next steps going forward?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, so if you would, please, I think we've had some really good discussion.
And based on what Ms Johnson has shared with us about some of her objectives and her
leadership style going forward, I think we have a good place to start. Debra, would you like to
wrap up?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Madam Chair. And I just want to say, I
appreciate the opportunity to have this dialogue. I do have elements of the various sort of
outcomes that we've talked about. In recognizing that I am going through the due diligence
period as well, I want to just share that we are in the process, with the help of Barbara and Tina,
as I said earlier, of scheduling sessions with all of you because I want to ensure that I can
develop working relationships and great rapports with all of you because not only are you my
bosses, we both have the common goal of ensuring that we are providing a high level of quality
services to our constituents in the greater public as a whole and recognizing that as you get to
know me, I am very forthright in the sense of how I'll present myself and want you to know that
always, I am looking out for the betterment of this organization.
And I will ensure, as Chair Rivera-Malpiede can speak to, that I will keep people apprised and
don't want any surprises. But when it comes to the element of people in our organization, I just
think there is a way in which you treat people. And so hopefully I didn't mislead anyone here
virtually assembled in relationship to stopping layoffs. What I meant was the manner in which
we're going about the implementation of them. So thank you once again for the opportunity. I
greatly appreciate it.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, thank you Ms Johnson. And I think it's really wonderful that we have you
on Board where you can look at the agency with fresh eyes. And just because things have been
done one way does not mean you need to continue if there are ways that we can improve our
processes and [AUDIO OUT] agency.
So it's really nice to have. We enjoyed eight months with Mr. Ballard, and he was able to give us
some insight as well. And so now this is the next step going forward and really look forward to
your ideas and your thoughts about how to improve this agency and move forward. Any other
directors, final remarks before we adjourn? I don't see any hands.
NATALIE MENTEN: I have one question. Menten.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: It is part of the normal process to have a-- it's usually an annual audit
report on a General Manager's compensation and all of the costs. And it is noted in the Charter,

periodically obtaining external audit financial implications of changes affecting the interim
General Manager's contract were compacted. And since Paul has just left and Heather's getting
ready to leave, I just want to bring that to the Committee's attention that I think we should still be
doing that before it goes too long. So normally it's in the March or April timeline, but since we
have an interim, I don't know if that would be earlier.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Menten. Barbara, we can work on that, just to see what
makes sense for getting that done. I just want to make sure that we don't necessarily put a lot of
expense toward that effort since Paul is gone, and we want to move forward rather than look
back. Sorry, I'm being a little bit vague. But Barbara, can we just work on that and see what that
might look like?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Absolutely.
PEGGY CATLIN: At a fairly low cost. We've probably done it before. But you're right, that is in
our charter. Thank you, Director Menten. That's part of the mechanics that we have to go
through, and I think we're looking at more of a high level discussion here today. Any other
directors? And I'd like to respect people's time and adjourn. I think some of us have an executive
Committee meeting in a little while. So, OK, I don't see any other digital hands raised.
So I want to thank you all for starting this dialogue. And we will try to get an agenda out for next
Thursday in the next day or two. It is 11-- or no, it's 9:07. It's 9:07. And I'd like to actually have a
motion to adjourn this meeting.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved, Rivera-Malpiede.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Rivera-Malpiede. Is there a second?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Second, Director Lewis.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Lewis. And are there any objections to adjourning?
Seeing none, we are officially adjourned now at 9:07 AM. Thank you.

