Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on 9/09/08

-1Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

September 9, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee Meeting held on
September 9, 2008 in Rooms R, T and D
****

Board
Members Present:

Board
Members Absent:

Chair Bruce Daly, Directors Brohl, Busck, Christopher, Elfenbein, Kemp,
Kinton, McMullen, Martinez, Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman, Tayer and
Yamrick
Director Chacon.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jeff Becker, Larry Buter, Ron Dodsworth, Dave Genova, Bill
Holmes, Terry Howerter, Marla Lien, Brian Matthews, Tony McCauley,
Cal Marsella, Robert Merriman, Bill Porter, Scott Reed, Daria Serna, Cal
Shankster, Jim Sutton, Pat Seifert, Theresa Sabrsula, Teresa Sedmak,
John Tarbert, Greg Yates, Paula Perdue and Lisa Trujillo.

Others Present:

Kevin Flynn (Rocky Mountain News), Jeff Leib (The Denver Post), Rick
McNeal

Call to Order:

****
Chair Daly called the meeting to order at 5:31 pm.

AGENDA:
I. Recommended Action


January 2009 Service Changes
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager, Customer & Contracted Services, asked
that the board approve these proposals to they can be forwarded to public hearings.
Bill Porter, Manager, Service Planning/Scheduling handed out an updated board of
director’s report - the only changes were the additions of public hearings.
Bruce reiterated that the initial proposals are based on the boards direction of the
selection of option 2 – zero percent increase and zero percent decrease.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on 9/09/08

-2Please refer to the January 2009 Service Changes back-up for further details on routes.
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve moving the proposed January 11, 2009 Service Changes on to public
review and comment.
Motion:

Director Ruchman made the motion
to forward this item to the
September 16th Board Meeting
agenda.

Second:

Director
motion.

Vote On
Motion:
II.

Yamrick

seconded

the

The motion passed unanimously.

Fare Workshop
Bruce Abel wanted to take a few minutes to clarify what the recommendation is and
also elaborate on the FlexPass proposal. The staff recommendation is that there be a
minimum price and the price point be established based on the assumption that 50
people will be participating. RTD is not recommending that companies under 50 in size
be prohibited from participating. Please see the handout on FlexPass for specifics.
Dave Ruchman will be looking to the agenda this Friday to see that it be made really
clear what is being proposed to help clarify and help eliminate e-mails. There have been
discrepancies and therefore it is unclear.
Bruce Abel – will come back to the board at the end of the month with a series of
proposals that will have been taken into consideration from the input received through
public process.
Barb Brohl would like staff to gather information that we are receiving, look at it closely
and find out what the real questions are. She would like it to be made clear to the
public during the public hearing process. She asked if there is a different way to get
message across and also asked someone take the lead to respond to each individual to
let them know their input is valuable and we will be using it as input into the public
process.
Cal discussed a plan with the board which would normalize and establish guidelines for
the Eco Pass program. Bruce and staff will work up the numbers and present them to
the board in enough time to vote on the fares action item at the Special Board meeting
on September 30th.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on 9/09/08

-3Director Kinton would like to know how companies such as non-profits can band
together for a Master Profit.
III.

Light Rail Advertising
Bruce Abel handed out pictures and rates for light rail advertising. The examples are
from Portland and the transit advertising company is Lamar. This information was
requested from Director McMullen.

IV.

Presentation Regarding Bikes on Buses
Ron Dodsworth, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations, indicated that Mr. Alcott
was in last week with suggestions in regards to bikes on buses.
Greg Yates, Superintendent of Transportation handed out a summary of the brief history
of bicycle issues, policies and studies.
As ridership increases the demand for additional room for bikes on buses increases.
Some suggestions are to replace luggage racks on intercity buses with bike racks with
rollers, add bike racks to the back of buses and even convert the back of the artic buses
to bike trailers. The cycling community suggested identifying stops as super stops for
bicyclists. Greg mentioned that the outcome of the extensive study in 2001, the
concept of the three rail bike rack, was determined that there was a lot of operational
issues such as, difficult to load, safety concerns loading from street side, added dwell
time.
Greg will start meeting with staff to see what they can do to accommodate more bikes
on buses. John Tayer urged that Greg engage the user groups in a public forum to give
them have an opportunity for their input. Barbara Yamrick agreed with John Tayer in
getting the bike user groups engaged. Ron indicated that some systems do use three
bike racks, they are usually campus systems or rural systems. Director Mcmullen
suggested looking into the idea of hanging bikes on racks on light rail like they do in Salt
Lake City.

V.

Quarterly Reports – Contracted Services


Fixed Route This report was distributed at the meeting.



ADA
This report will be provided at next months meeting.



Special Services
This report was incorporated in the packet.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on 9/09/08

-4

Security
Lee has been attending Driver and Mechanic training and topic of fare evasion
seems to be an issue. Lee asked that security attend driver training and find out
what routes they are talking about and investigate to see if there is a problem.
Barbara Brohl requested a fare evasion report that provides the number of contacts
versus the total number of riders per period and how many evasions if we don’t
count contacts, for 100% fare sweeps, and what percent of evasions.

VI.

Other Matters –
No other matters were discussed.

VII.

Next Meeting Date
This next meeting of the Operations/Customer Service Committee will be Tuesday,
October 14th at 5:30 p.m.

VIII.

Adjournment
Hearing no objection, Chair Daly adjourned the meeting at 7:06 pm.

