Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on December 14, 2010
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Barbara McManus, Temporary Board Assistant

Date:

December 15, 2010

Subject:

Summary of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee held
December 14, 2010 in Rooms R, T & D

Board
Members Present:

Directors
Absent:
Staff Present:

Committee Chair Tayer, Directors; Bagley, Brohl, Busck, Christopher,
Cohen, Daly, James, McMullen, Malpiede, Martinez, O’Boyle, Pulliam,
and Tobiassen
Chair Kemp
Bruce Abel, Bill Bell, Eric Farrington ,Dave Genova, Mike Gil, Terry Howerter,
Austin Jenkins, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Brian Matthews, Doug
MacLeod, Paula Perdue, Trent Radcliff, Scott Reed, Teresa Sedmak, Daria
Serna, Dean Shaklee, John Stark, John Shonsey, John Tarbert, Phil

Washington and Greg Yates.
Others Present:

Eric Biga, Terry Bright, Steve Feinstein, Gary Forbes, Anita Gieger, Tom
Laake, Alan Lee, Stu Livensparger, Tom Peterson, Incoming Board member
Ken Riley

*******************************************************************
Call to Order:
Chair Tayer called the Financial Administration and Audit Committee meeting
to order at 5:30 p.m.

I.

Annual Report to the Board - Pension Plan
Terry Howerter introduced Terry Bright who made the presentation to the Board on “RTD
Salaried Employee’ Pension Trust”. In attendance also was Tom Laake, Plan Administrator
and Steve Weinstein - Trust Legal Council. Mr. Bright indicated that while the plan was
quite solvent, the Board may want to consider increasing the employer contribution rate.
For a copy of the presentation, please refer to the minutes located in the Board office.
Directors Brohl and Tayer thanked the team for the information to the Board. Director
Brohl asked about the percentages needed for the modeling and the term of solvency for
20 years. Terry Bright spoke to the overall solvency of the plan.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on December 14, 2010
Page 2 of 5

II.

Recommended Actions –
Director Tayer asked for a motion to move these three items forward as a group.
 Graphical Information Systems (GIS) Contractor
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to
award a second year (option year 1) for the amount not to exceed of $115,000 for
1250 hours of Graphical Information Systems (GIS) Consulting services. The contract
was awarded to Idea Integration following a competitive review of four submitted
proposals and candidate interviews. Idea Integration is a certified Environmental
Systems Research Institute’s (ESRI) Corporate Consultant. The contract is being
brought to the Board because it is a Personal Services contract per RTD Resolution No.
27, Series of 1985.
 Oracle Maintenance Renewal
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to
award a contract to Insight Public Sector in the amount of $1,027,769.16 for Oracle
License Update and Software Maintenance for approximately 18 months. Insight was
selected through the competitive bid process for this renewal.
 Senior IT Oracle Database Contractor
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to
award a second and final option year, for the amount not to exceed of $200,000, for
Senior IT Oracle Database services. The contract (28DH024) was originally awarded
January, 2009 to Sol-IT, an SBE/DBE firm, through the competitive bid process. The
contract allowed for an initial-year plus two (2) one-year options to renew based on
positive performance by the vendor. The contract is being brought to the Board
because it is a Personal Services contract per RTD Resolution No. 27, Series of 1985.

Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion
to move the three actions items
forward to the full Board for
approval on 12/21/10.

Second:

Director Christopher seconded the
motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motions PASSED Unanimously.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on December 14, 2010
Page 3 of 5

II.

DUSPA Working Capital
Terry Howerter spoke to the state of the DUSPA working capital budget and where we
stood on the collection and disbursement of the funds. He also mentioned we have grants
we have not yet drawn on. RTD and DUSPA are working on an agreement for payback of
the funds which will need to be approved.
Director O’Boyle asked for clarification of terms “Payable at RTD discretion”. Terry
Howerter confirmed this to mean “On Demand”. Grant Funds to DUSPA will pay RTD
back. Director Martinez asked when the payments were credited, where does the money
go back to? Terry Howerter confirmed it goes back to FasTracks.

III.

Annual Report to the Board – Investment Policy Review
Teresa Sedmak presented this report. On page 9 of the Board Report with current
Investment Policy which is conservative and follows state statutes closely. The Board is
to review at least once annually. It was last updated in April.
The appendix was inserted in error with Robert Merriman’s name included. This will be
corrected and does not need Board approval. No other change recommendations at this
time. Director Cohen asked who was the current Manager of Financial Reporting. Teresa
responded Doug McLeod.

IV.

Annual Report to the Board - Interest Rate Swaps
Teresa Sedmak presented this item. Chair Tayer asked if it has or will be looked at by an
outside third party to scrutinize the report. Sedmak answered that if there were a change
of statute they would take a look at outside consultant. Chair Tayer stated he thinks this is
valuable to have done.

V.

October 2010 Financial Status Report
Terry Howerter commented on the sales tax report and how the sales tax forecast was put
together. He shared that from October to October we have the first set of comparable
data for comparison 2009-2010. He asked the Board for consideration to use the 5.6%
for future projections in 2010. The Board provided a general concurrence.
Director Busck inquired about the audits for tax revenue and if RTD had one completed.
Terry Howerter responded that the state would not allow a private audit since the state
performs the audit. General Counsel Marla Lien added she met with legislators to get an
audit process put in place and the department of revenue was adamant in not changing
the current process.
Several Board members had questions/comments:
Director O’Boyle - What would we have to do to move the numbers given the EOY timing
Howerter responded we would need 8% decrease to get to the states projected 3.5%.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on December 14, 2010
Page 4 of 5

Director Bagley - Page 42 Operating expenses Salaries and Wages” variance. Terry
Howerter explained the budget was projected on a straight line basis and a day count is
used for the booking of the salaries.
Director Bagley – For the YTD, federal grants explain the revenue difference.
Terry Howerter explained that we include in this line item actual 158 versus 275 the
variance included operating grants, preventive maintenance and revenue from capital
projects. We have not drawn down on the grant monies; this will carry over to 2011 as
projects are completed.
Director Bagley - Investment income variance of 5 million dollars-- why was the yield so
low for 2010? Terry Howerter confirms the overall yield of the conservative investments
was very low.
Director Bagley - Pg 43 what is Other Operating Revenue?
Terry Howerter explained that other operating revenue includes parking at Union Station
and miscellaneous rents. Director Bagley asked for an explanation of the operating
expense variance for insurance line and utilities.
Marla Lien stated the projection was based on increase in insurance for completed projects
only a portion of this was realized but the increase will be seem in 2011 as projects are
completed. Less liability in needed in construction phase based on operations.
Director Bagley - Page 44 explain the actual versus actual plus forecast.
Terry Howerter explained the actual is monthly and the actual plus forecast uses the
actual plus the CLC forecast over time broken out monthly.
VI.

Third Quarter Performance Report
Terry Howerter referenced page 45 which indicate the goals not met:
 Goal 4.2, the District did not meet its goal for operator complaints per boarding.
 Goal 5.1, the District did not meet its goal for ADA on-time service
 Goal 6.2, the District did not meet its goal for increase in ridership
 Goal 6.3, the District did not meet its goal for EcoPass revenue
Several Directors had questions related to contractor’s performance and to what did staff
attribute these. What is the disparity in the numbers and what do we attribute this to?
Board members also pointed out some discrepancies in numbers which staff confirmed
was in error and will be corrected. Bruce Abel indicated they were drilling down on some
of the numbers and would provide an update.
Board members asked Bruce Abel to elaborate on the notations that our stroller policies,
and Title VI changes have increased the number of complaints.
Several other questions occurred around the breakout of the EcoPass and if this is valuable
to separate, Director Tayer and other Directors expressed it is helpful to continue this
breakout.
Questions were raised pertaining to ADA on-time performance and how it is determined. Is
the tracking of complaints cumulative or on an individual basis? Bruce Abel explained it is
tracked individually.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on December 14, 2010
Page 5 of 5

Director Tayer requested staff to keep track of and stay ahead of the complaints especially
strollers, Title 6 and Wheelchairs issues.

VIII.

IX.

Other Matters
Terry Howerter introduced two additions to his financial staff: Janette Scarpino and Libby
Cox.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 6:50 p.m.

