October 8, 2019
Planning Capital Programs and FasTracks Committee
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
JUDY LUBOW: Directors, it's time to sit down. You're going to miss the fun. I'm calling the
Tuesday, October 8, 2019 Planning Capital Programs and FasTracks Committee meeting to
order. My name is Judy Lubow and I'm in the Chair. Troy Whitmore is our capable Vice Chair.
We have a full agenda. So let's get started.
There's one recommended action and five updates. And what I'm going to do with the
recommended action is read the motion and then folks can make the motion. And this involves
the Modeling On Call Contract Amendment. It is recommended by the Planning Capital
Programs and FasTracks Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorized the General
Manager to execute all documents necessary to amend the contract with Cambridge Systematics
for on-call travel modeling services, to increase the contract, not to exceed amount, by
$1,300,000 to a total of $1,800,000.
Funding for 2019 work orders to be issued under this contract is included in the 2019 amended
expense budget in the specific projects for which the work orders will be issued. Funding for
future work orders would be included in the 2020 through 2025 Mid-Term Financial Plan in
future projects. This action addresses three of the General Manager's goals for 2019, namely
Core Goal three, Strong Financial Management, Task Goal three, Ensure Fiscal Sustainability,
and Task Goal four, Address Future Transportation Needs. Do I have a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. OK. OK. Can we have a start of a discussion, please?
BILL VAN METER: Chair Lubow and Board, this is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General
Manager of Planning. I'm joined here at the table by-- joining me at the table are Lee Cryer,
Planning Project Manager, and Brian Welch, Senior Manager of Planning Technical Services.
The information is laid out in your package. And we're happy to answer any questions that you
may have.
JUDY LUBOW: I don't see anybody in the queue. OK. Yeah, once, twice? OK. OK, then let's
have our vote. So the movement is Peggy Catlin and this second is Troy Whitmore. Could they
please vote once it gets up on the board.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We're waiting for Director Menten to get signed in. [LAUGHTER]

NATALIE MENTEN: I'm ready.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Can we start the vote, please? There we go. Waiting on Shontel Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No. It's there. It's just slow. [LAUGHTER]
JUDY LUBOW: There we go. OK. 14, yes. Zero no's. So it's unanimous. OK. That's it. That was
quick and easy. OK. We're going to start our updates. And the first one is the N Line Roadmap to
Completion.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: So, with that, good evening. Henry Stopplecamp, AGM Capital
Programs. With me is Chuck Culig. Chuck is the Project Manager for the N Line. And we're
going to move through this relatively quickly. You guys have seen the Board presentation, the
PowerPoint.
There's a lot of information on there. We put the information on there really as a takeaway, not
that we plan on going through line by line. A lot of things have happened on the N Line, making
a lot of progress. But there are some open items. And that's been a question, what are the open
times and where the next step.
So we're going to go through the first few slides relatively quick. And then it's really the last two
slides of the presentation that gives the map, the roadmap going forward, what activities need to
be done. And so I'm going to turn it over to Chuck. We're going to go through it, take questions.
And also, if you've got other questions that you want offline, feel free to either reach out to
myself or Chuck on that topic. Go ahead.
CHUCK CULIG: So like Henry said, I'm Chuck Culig. I'm the Project Manager for the N Line,
North Metro Rail Line Project, as we call it. So as we flip through our slides here, I know some
of them-- went too far already. So I'm going to just kind of run through the vast majority of the
project is complete. We're running trains. We're testing.
But here are some of the things that we're still working on at a lot of the stations. And even
though that they might seem complete, we still have some challenges that we're working through
with our contractor, some heaving concrete at the plaza, some ponding in the parking lots that we
need to address. So we're just working through those as we go down through the line from 124
down.
So the next one is 112 station. So this is just one of the stations that we're still, you know, vast
majority of the work's done, just finishing up some of the landscaping in the parking lot. Couple
of things at all of the stations as we go down the line and here at 104th, this is probably our
biggest parking garage with a lot of work elements that still need to get done there. So a lot of
effort to get the bus facility in and get the parking complete in this area.
But one of the things I just wanted to point out with this one and all of our parking areas is we do
have some challenges with ADA, especially right around the plaza areas where our bus areas
meet the platforms to go up. And you can see in the top photo there where that's the plaza area.

So we had to tear out a bunch of that concrete. Our contract had to tear out a bunch of that
concrete in that area because it had either heaved or it wasn't meeting our 2% cross sloped, our
maximum requirements for a lot of our areas in here.
So we were checking all that very closely with our contractor, our staff. And they're going out
there to make sure that all these areas are meeting the ADA requirements. And I know we just
had a big conversation about that. But we are checking all those areas, all slopes and ramps and
things. And if it doesn't meet them, they're tearing it out and doing it again.
So as we get through-- I'll just kind of flip through just some of these other slides that the other
stations that were-- they are all progressing to get done. And we're just putting on some of the
last finishing touches. But we are definitely checking to make sure that they meet all of our
requirements. And then here's our last one at the National Western Stock Show Station. And so
this one is right now just a walk up station. And we're working on that so we're just moving
forward.
Just still some miscellaneous civil work. And both civil and our systems work still has some
challenges out there as we get into the final punch list and completion of our final checks, make
sure all the non-conformances and things are completed in this area. And then, this slide and then
our last slide, like Henry said, this is kind of just where we're at, just a general overview of the
project of where we're at and how we can get through this process.
And really where we're at with the integrated testing is probably our biggest challenge to make
sure we get the trains running, get everything tested. And right now we're in-- and this slide
needs to be updated, actually. So where we said the PUC at the second train coming sign, we
actually did that last week with Pam Fischhaber from the PBC. She went out and witnessed to
make sure our second train signs were working.
So we are pushed past that and into the wireless FQT. And FQT stand for Field Qualification
Testing. So we're having trains out on the corridor. We're starting that wireless at grade crossing
process to make sure we get through all the at grade crossings are functioning the way that we
have designed and presented to both the FRA and the PBC. So we're getting through all that
information.
And as you can kind of see, that's an iterative process that we'll do some testing, take data back,
analyze it, tweak it down to make sure that we're hitting those warning times as consistently as
possible. So we're working through that process.
But each of those stages, as we get through there, we have to go and present our data and our
information back to the FRA and the PUC just to make sure that they're aware of where we are
on the project and how it's progressing to get into the next phases of testing. So our goal is to get
through all this effort and get it into multiple train testing, and then get it into our pre-revenue
service so we can turn it over to our operations group.
And the plan is and the goal is for our contractor to get in there in mid-November to get that
done, at least for the guide way, to get that done so our operation team could get in and start

training their operators and their other staff to get it done. But there still is quite a bit of work to
get through this process and get to that final stage and get our work completed.
And then this is our last commuter rail operation. And there is a typo on this slide. The total
union positions there on the left hand chart says six. It should be 63. It should match the right
hand column. So that's just a minor typo. So this is where our operations staff is currently with
their hiring and their positions on the-DAVE GENOVA: Can you go back one?
CHUCK CULIG: Go back one?
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah. Are you done?
CHUCK CULIG: No. Yeah. I'm done.
JUDY LUBOW: You want to speak?
DAVE GENOVA: I would, Madam Chair. Just to emphasize some of the things on this chart
now that Chuck's walked us through. So this is really going to be the tool that we're going to use
mainly to communicate with our stakeholders on. It represents three categories-- the integrated
testing, the civil electrical systems work, and the close out documentation. So three pathways
that all converge towards pre-revenue, and then eventually revenue service.
So green's complete. Yellow is ongoing. And white is yet to be done. But as Chuck pointed out,
since this was doing for the package last Wednesday, by the time we talk about it here,
sometimes it's not current. So the second train signal verification box is green and the wireless
FQT now is yellow because we just entered that today.
And this was also included in the elected official's report that I put out or the briefing on Friday.
And we'll use this as a good visual, much like we used similar charts and graphics when we did
public meetings with the University of Colorado A Line and the G Line to demonstrate to the
stakeholders that these are the major milestones that we have left, so that hopefully they can see
in a tangible way where we're at with the project.
And then as we're able to, we'll put timelines to these and as Chuck mentioned, the wireless
testing that we entered this week is critical. And then as we get into the multiple train testing,
that's the next really critical stage. And hopefully at that stage, we'll be able to start looking at
some certainty with how we're looking for opening time. But our intent is to use this well and to
be updating it very regularly so that not only you, but all of our stakeholders know exactly where
we are with the project.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Are you guys finished or would you like to add something?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: We are finished. We're open for questions, or blue screen, either
way.

JUDY LUBOW: All right. First up is Director Williams, please.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Good evening, gentlemen. I have a question.
When I was looking at this what struck me is that the average number of parking spaces at each
station. Average-- I mean, some have more and some have less-- is about 500 spots. And I don't
live up there. But I don't know there's 500 people up there. I don't know. But what's the average
number of parking spaces that our other commuter rail stations? Ballpark.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Well, each corridor is different based on the through the corr-- the
EIS process for the planning, there are plenty of people up there. Thornton and North Glen
already complaining that 124th is not big enough to handle it. And I see there's a hand on the
backside,
VINCE BUZEK: I'm up there.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Yes, OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: Just asking.
VINCE BUZEK: We've got 499 friends.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: So our park and rides go from the 140 to 1,000 spots. We've got
three major park and rides-- 40th and Airport, Wagon Road, and Mineral. Those three are the
largest ones we have. But it depends on the travel shed and also the number of stations in the
corridor. So light rails, a little bit different than commuter rail. So I really can't give you an
average per corridor. We can come up with some numbers. We can give you our park and ride
utilization report that shows exactly how many we've got per park and ride, if that would help.
KATE WILLIAMS: It just struck me. I'm not saying it's good or bad. I was asking. I'm not
criticizing anybody. I'm not saying nobody lives up there. I'm not saying anything that I didn't
say. I was just asking for the sake of information, because it looks to me like big numbers. And I
know that as we build, we're making accommodations that we didn't make earlier. We have some
other places where there's not a lot of parking. So I was just asking for information, if that's OK.
That's all. Well, good.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: Thank you. How many at grade crossings are there on the N Line, and how
many-- or, after the line opens for revenue service, will there be flaggers at each of these at grade
crossings for a period of time, or will you have sign off before you open for service?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Well, let me answer it. Chuck's ready to answer it, but I know the
answer. But I'll take the hit on this one. There's only six at grade crossings. Five fall under the
PUC. One's a private crossing at this time. But we're designing that fifth crossing for a public
crossing, so it will look the same. We did eliminate the Riverside crossing. So there was a
seventh crossing out there.

We do not plan on having flaggers out there. The preliminary data we're seeing is looking pretty
good on the crossings. The flaggers will be out there until we can certify to the PUC that they're
good to go. But we do not envision this happening for-- probably the next four to six weeks, we
should have all the flaggers off. We don't see this going into next year.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, who's up next?
NATALIE MENTEN: I took myself off.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, did you? OK.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. I don't see anyone else, except I have a question or two. I was intrigued by
the nonconformance reports and was wondering what they are and who pays to make them
conforming?
CHUCK CULIG: OK. So nonconformance reports is our Contractor's way of managing their
quality on their system. So if they do come up-- and it could be both ways. We can-- our staff
could identify something that is in nonconformance. We'd notify them in our-- we'd write a
nonconformance-- they write a nonconformance report.
And it is their responsibility to bring it up and meet our requirements of the contract. It is all
spelled out in the contract to our design criteria, and that's what they're-- they're obligated to
meet those requirements, and it's their responsibility to make sure it conforms. So if they have to
tear out all that concrete, it's their responsibility and their cost to tear it out and put it in and meet
our requirements
JUDY LUBOW: OK. OK, thank you very much. You answered my question. OK. Oh, there she
goes again. OK. One more question. Is that-- I do have concern about employment. I mean, we
have an issue with drivers as it is, and now we're going to be adding a whole bunch more. What
are our thoughts about mobilizing extra people?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Well, I'll answer the first part, but I think this really is a Allen Miller
or Michael Ford answer. But whether it's us or the Contractor, the same issue is going to be out
there. So we're doing everything we can to recruit. We do have a class of, I think, 8 or 10
Locomotive Engineers going on right now. But we're getting pretty good. Folks-- I mean, the
quality of individuals for the Supervisors is unbelievable. A lot of folks are moving into the
region to work on it. But as far as the Operators, that's really for Michael and Allen to cover.
ALLEN MILLER: Good evening. This is Allen Miller, Deputy Assistant General Manager for
Commuter Rail. So as Henry pointed out, we currently actually have a class of 12 working
through their certification for both Engineer and Conductor. Our Supervision staff-- excuse me,
I'm out of breath. We are attracting folks from around the country.
We just actually procured our Lead Dispatcher and our Lead Supervisor. Our Lead Supervisor
for Transportation-- he is coming from beltway in Chicago. Our Lead Dispatcher is actually

coming from SEPTA, and of late, CSX, Norfolk Southern in the East. We procured our General
Superintendent, as you may or may not well know, from CapMetro in Texas.
We have our Track Supervisor-- one internal promotion, which I'm always glad and excited to
say that we are grooming our internal folks as much as we are going outside. But then the other
gentleman who is the Senior Track Supervisor comes to us by way of Metrolink in California
with 32 years of experience.
Our internal promotions, among others, were Martha Bembry, who became our Senior Manager
for Safety, Security. But then we acquired Jean Haynes from New Jersey Transit, who is our
Safety Instructor. So we are seeing probably between-- I don't want to get a wrong number here-I would estimate that we're seeing approximately 20% to 25% internal promotions and internal
alignments, we're seeing about 50% of the alignment coming from around the country, and
another 25% coming from the Denver metro area.
So as an example to that, we have one position currently, our Environmental Specialist, that were
posted-- and we have 19 applicants from the Denver metro area that have applied for that
position-- all highly qualified-- in fact, making it very difficult for us to look through the 19
candidates and say, who do we select?
It's a good thing to have, but it's also time consuming. I would put out to you to say that our
biggest pain in this area is time to review applications, select candidates, set up interviews, and
basically go through the interviewing process to select the best and the brightest for commuter
rail.
So ultimately, we are in comfortable shape at this point. As I said previously, we expect to be at
62% staffing by the end of the year, 80% by mid-February, and fully staffed in order to go into
revenue service. I want to emphasize what-- if someone had raised this to me the last time I said
it-- about fully staffed, 100% staffed.
Fully staffed does not mean 100% staffed. It's impossible to maintain staffing at that level no
matter how good the times are, or how bad the times are. Fully staffed means that by the time we
hit revenue service, we will have sufficient staff to operate and maintain our performance
schedules, and keep things flowing fluidly, and provide the best service possible. Did that answer
everybody's question?
JUDY LUBOW: Well, yes. But it kind of begs the question, to me, can some of these people
then work on the rest of our system? I mean, we have trouble having Operators. But it seems like
for the N Line, that's not going to be a problem. And I'm wondering how that could be.
ALLEN MILLER: I would preface that by saying employment in this environment, Director
Lubow, is always a problem. The difference being is that as we hire staff from around the
country, we are aggressively pursuing, among other things, agencies that have commuter rail
staff that are either retracing or retiring, and we're pursuing those through commuter rail
environment.

The commuter rail environment is a bit different, let's say, than the light rail environment. Light
rail is in higher demand around the country right now than most of commuter rail staff. So we
are, as exampled with New Jersey Transit right now-- we have seen 17% retirement in their
numbers. And we take advantage of that.
We basically-- I reach out to contacts, as an example, that I have at New Jersey Transit, and I
give them the opportunity to apply here as senior staff. We have a number of our staff that do
that from their contacts. So our General Superintendent, as example, has reached out to
CapMetro to talk about staff that may be interested in coming. So we are aggressively pursuing
commuter rail around the country and staff that we wouldn't necessarily have that opportunity
without the attrition rates and the retirement rates that we're seeing within commuter rail.
So as an example, when you retire from commuter rail in most agencies around the country like
myself, you're in Railroad Retirement. And so when you reach your 25 years and your
mandatory retirement of 59 and 1/2, you can basically pursue other career opportunities for the
rest of your career. That solidifies your pension.
And then RTD becomes a very good prospect to come to work for with-- as an example-- with
Supervisors who may spend five or six years here with us and provide us with their knowledge
and input. They have a nice additional pension to add to theirselves as they go into their 65 year
period.
So those are, among other things-- what I try to do in any standup that I've ever done in my
career is to have a mixture of younger and more seasoned staff so that as the seasoned staff are
ready to retire out, you have a succession plan that allows these individuals with that five or 10
years-- you know they're going to leave-- to have younger people being groomed underneath of
them, let's say, with less experience. And we've been fairly successful so far in commuter rail
with this model.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. So it seems like commuter rail is a different fish than light rail.
ALLEN MILLER: It would be the same as comparing bus to light rail, Director Lubow. It's a
completely different environment. It's a completely different requirement. When you look at
light rail the way it's functioning under FTA, it has its own requirements for certification for
operators. But FRA federally regulates and licenses both our operators and our conductors. So
there's an entirely different environment with how folks function within commuter rail.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Well, thank you. Thank you. That's very thorough. OK, Director Menten,
please?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. So on that same thread with the employees, we're not having any
difficulties or temptations to harvest employees from DTP and create issues for them?
ALLEN MILLER: I would put this as I put it from the beginning. I represent both operations as
well as oversight for commuter rail. So the concession agreement with Denver Transit Partners, I

also oversee. It would be a tremendous disservice to the agency to cause any kind of detrimental
harm to that particular operating group.
Any harvesting, as you describe, if I were to commit to that, would devastate my other half of
my responsibility, which is oversight. So I am always cognizant when we see applicants come in
to not discount any Denver Transit employee that would apply, but to always look for the best
employee possible.
And to that end, we are not looking for a mass hiring of anybody. What we're trying to do is find
the best of the best. And it's in our interest, when looking through that hiring process, to, a,
protect RTD's interests first and foremost. That's my ultimate job as a representative of RTD. But
secondarily, that interest goes hand in hand with Denver Transit Partners as our partner for
commuter rail to ensure that they can operate and maintain the system to good industry practices
as well.
So to that end, we do not look specifically-- I've had opportunity, as an example, Director
Menten, to hire as many as-- I would look to the Signal Supervisors, which was a group of four. I
could have made all of four of those positions Denver Transit operating positions, because I had
over 10 applicants for that position from DTO, DTP.
However, the applicants that applied to us from around the country and internally were actually
more qualified, more in an environment of experience-- had more experience and background.
And we were able to culture that as a result. But where I have to limit myself, both through
federal law and, more importantly, the Colorado Peace Act, I cannot overlook any applicant that
comes to me. I have to look with a blind eye and say, who is the best applicant to pursue?
But having said that, we have done a very sensitive job, in my opinion, to ensure that we cause
little to no impact to both RTD and Denver Transit Partners as we pursue these positions. So
we've done it in a very thoughtful and slow process-- what seems slow to some people. To me,
it's going at about the pace I expect it. But we could have hired 28 Operators, as an example, in
one pool. We selectively knew that could cause damage to both RTD and DTP, so we've hired
them in an incremental process so that we would not impact that kind of a situation.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Then my next question will just go to-- somewhat related with
communications. And this example in this chart that you described will be one of the main
message points for stakeholders. Where will this be posted on our site? So, like, I Google search
RTD N Line.
And as you all-- well, I guess, the ones who've been around a while-- we had the other fast track
sites. The information got old. So now we've been building it at rtd-denver.com-- not, like, a
subpage. So where will these be? In our new newsroom, where would we direct people who have
questions?
DAVE GENOVA: I need to work through that with a communications team. So obviously, it
was part of our Board packet and on the Board portal, so it's available to everyone through the
Board portal. But we can also get it posted on the web as well, on our site.

NATALIE MENTEN: OK, thank you. That's all.
ALLEN MILLER: OK, thank you. Director Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair, for giving me a second opportunity. I was going to bring this
up later, but I think this pertains to what we've been talking about. In the paper this morning, The
Denver Post, there was an article about a headhunter firm that had just opening a business in
Denver. But they're going to concentrate on the oil and gas industry. And it's their job to find
people to work in an industry that's very short of workers, just like we are.
And we've had a situation, since I've been on this Board, where we have, like, 80 Bus Operators
that we're short and 50 Light Rail Operators that we're short. And you know, we're hiring more
people. But constantly, we have people retiring. And it just seems like we're running in place. I
don't know-- I'd like to explore hiring a headhunter to go look for Operators.
Maybe we can talk with Mountain State's employer to find out if there are any firms around that
might be willing to take this on, and if they did, what kind of a fee arrangement that we might
have with them-- you know, whether you gave them-- I don't know, just picking a number out of
the air, for each hire that they come up with, you give $5,000 to them or something like that. And
if they stayed for a certain period of time, they might get a bonus or something.
But right now, we're spending a fortune on overtime to cover all these people. And even worse
than the overtime cost is we're going to burn everybody out with this mandatory overtime that's
just gone on and on and on. And I think that's maybe driving some of the retirements that are
going on. People are getting burned out, and they decide, I can't hack this anymore, you know.
I'm going to go look for something else to do. So I'd like management to look into the feasibility
of hiring a headhunter firm.
And you know, it's not just us that are looking for Drivers. If you look around, whether it's the
Prime trucks you see now running around from Amazon, there's just all these people-- and even
the oil and gas industry-- that needs drivers. And so we're competing really hard in a very small
pool. And we're not succeeding. We've got to try something different. Thank you.
MICHAEL FORD: It's Michael Ford, COO. I'd just like to respond briefly. We are looking at
headhunters. We're looking at a firm right now that provides resources for Operators-- rail, bus,
Paratransit. And we've been in discussion with them about what we can do to work together.
There are some issues that we're still trying to work through to see if that's a possibility, and what
resources they may have available so we could help stem the tide or at least create a resource
pool to help us on a temporary basis until we can get back up to where we need to be.
So just want to reaffirm that we are working with a vendor right now, for lack of better words.
But there is a lot more that we need to get through in terms of our collective bargaining
agreement issues and some other things that we need to work out, and some of their requirements
as well. So we'll be continuing to pursue that and see where that leads us.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. And I want to say that I'm going to raise that issue again in other
matters because I think it's really a crisis in our face and we'll need to be part of the discussion.
OK, thank you. All right. Are there any other que-- oh, yes. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Just very quick. A few times on the G Line, the commuter rail G Line,
there's been mention of Supervisors being feathered in to take up slack when an Operator
couldn't make it or something. Do we have the ability to do that on our lines, both light rail and
commuter rail?
ALLEN MILLER: I will speak for commuter rail first. We have that ability now, in our
Memorandum of Understanding, that in a shortage situation, Street Supervisors could, in fact,
operate the system and keep it maintained. We have that same agreement even if we have a
shortage of Signal Maintainers. As an example, we have a problem at a crossing-- an emergency
at a crossing-- we have an agreement that the Signal Supervisors could respond to those types of
situations as well. So yes, to answer that question, supervision could take control if they have to.
SHELLEY COOK: Does it happen? Well, I guess we don't have experience yet. But I'll ask for
the light rail. Yeah, go ahead, Dave.
DAVE JENSEN: This is Dave Jensen, AGM Rail Operations. And the short answer is essentially
the same as Allen said. We can do it on a limited basis, but there's a CBA-- Collective
Bargaining Agreement-- conditions that we have to meet and make sure that we don't violate.
And it is being done.
SHELLEY COOK: How often? How often would you say that happens?
DAVE JENSEN: Well, I don't have that number.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
DAVE JENSEN: I would estimate that, probably, maybe on a weekly basis-- certainly not daily.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: It would be nice if we could be supplied that information.
DAVE JENSEN: I can get that for you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much. OK, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just quickly on the same topic, I understand what you're saying about
commuter rail being different and you going around the country and getting people. But I
wondered if we've done any recruiting or advertising around the country. Denver is a great place
to live-- not for commuter rail, but for buses and light rail. You know, Denver is a great place to
live, and other places don't have as strong an economy. Have we been looking to other places to
fill those slots at all?

ALLEN MILLER: I'll brief this with commuter rail again and just say that the processes that we
have in HR that we're using for commuter rail are the same that we use for both bus and light rail
divisions as well. We do post on Indeed. We post on a number of outside websites around the
country. We post in magazines, as an example, like Progressive Rail. So we do actually reach
around the country in the HR process-- not just in commuter rail, but throughout the agency.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Looks like that's the end of our comments and questions.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
JUDY LUBOW: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: This is about bus drivers. I was looking at the application, and in
the top, it says you do not need to have a CDL license, that you go through training. But then on
the bottom, it says RTD will show you where to-- give you a book to get yours CDL license. So
do we help them get a CDL license and pay for that, or do they do that?
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
FED WORTHEN So we are actually the largest CDL training organization in the state of
Colorado. We actually train our Operators. We provide them with materials. They go through
classroom instruction. They just have to have the ability to be able to get a permit to begin
operating with us.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, who else? All right. Looks like we're done with that. Thank you,
gentlemen, for all that information. But we are not done with our updates. State Highway 119
Bus Rapid Transit.
BILL VAN METER: Chair Lubow and Board, this is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General
Manager of Planning. Joining me now at the table is Chris Quinn, our Planning Project Manager
and the Project Manager for the State Highway 119 Bus Rapid Transit. And he's here to give you
a brief update, especially since we anticipate asking you for an action and endorsement of the
transit elements as part of that project at your next meeting in December. So Chris.
CHRIS QUINN: Good evening. We last provided an update to you-- I believe it was in the
spring. And so we just wanted to let you know where we are now and what our next steps will be
for the 119 BRT project. Just going through, I think you've seen these first couple of slides
before.

But what I do want to focus on is the improvements that have been recommended by our policy
committee, which include two components-- a transit element, and more of a transit supportive
element. And I'll focus on what those are in just a moment. So in general, the final
recommendations include a two-route BRT pattern somewhat similar to what's out there today
with the BOLT and the J services.
However, the J services, right now, only run during the peak period in the peak direction. This
would provide all day service in both directions. And then for the capital improvements, the
major improvement would be a BRT managed lane similar to US 36 that would be open to toll
paying users, HOVs, and of course, buses.
So again, going back to the two groups of improvements, the transit elements for the project
would be increased service, as I mentioned before-- so more than what's out there with the
existing BOLT and J-- improved local bus connections, as well as new and enhanced stations
along the corridor and off board fare collection, as well as easier loading and unloading.
As far as funding-- and this piece, I want to emphasize that's the reason it's on red in the slide-- is
RTD's commitment to the project via the mid-range financial plan is $30 million. Those dollars
are programmed for 2023. And in addition to that, there's approximately-- excuse me, not in
addition. In total, we have identified about 53 million in funding that includes funds through the
DRCOG TIP and anticipated funds from CDOT as well.
Then on the roadway side, or more of what we're calling the Transit Supportive Elements, those
include, obviously, the BRT managed lanes, a busway on Coffman Street in Longmont-Longmont's graciously offered to surrender a lane of parking in each direction, so that would run
from First Avenue to about Ninth-- a bikeway along the corridor, and then on the Boulder end,
business access and turn lanes, or what they're calling BAT lanes, similar to what's on Broadway
and Lincoln right out here in Denver.
So for the funding for the roadway elements, our expectation is that those would come from
other sources-- again, emphasizing that RTD's commitment to the corridor is the $30 million that
are identified in the Mid-Range Financial Plan. Thank you. We will continue to work with the
stakeholders to find additional funding, whether that's through grants or other opportunities.
And as far as our next steps, we're in the process right now of completing the environmental
documentation. We're working with both Federal Highway Administration and FTA for that.
We're hoping to get that completed within the next few weeks. Then we'll be coming back to the
Board, as Bill indicated, to request an endorsement of the transit elements.
And then as far as the next steps that are going on outside the RTD process, HPTE with CDOT is
just starting a toll and revenue study for the corridor, and that's expected to be completed in
spring of 2020. And that will provide information on what kind of total revenue could be
anticipated with toll lanes in the corridor. Then jumping quite a bit ahead, 2023 is when we
would have the RTD funds available for construction to start the RTD transit elements. So I'd be
happy to answer any questions.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. OK, can we see who is waiting to speak? Director Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chris. I appreciate the update on it. I think this really is a good
opportunity. The traffic and revenue study would indicate how much revenue could be generated
from toll operations. But that has not yet been factored into the 53 million. Is that correct?
CHRIS QUINN: Yeah, good point. That is correct.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
CHRIS QUINN: Yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: So there is some opportunity for additional funding-CHRIS QUINN: Exactly.
PEGGY CATLIN: --through that source.
CHRIS QUINN: Yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: I have a couple of questions. And one of them concerns the frequency of
mostly off peak. During the peak, it's very-- a lot of traffic so that we would really need a lot of
buses. But on the off peak, it doesn't have that many people. And I'm just wondering, how do
you know what the frequency is going to be depending on how many people actually are arriving
at the time?
CHRIS QUINN: Yeah. So our intent is-- in working with service planning-- that, even before the
capital improvements are completed, that we would start to fold in the existing BOLT and J
services into a new BRT type service. And one of the opportunities that will allow us is to start
gauging what the demand-- what, in fact, the demand will be. Obviously, we're not going to just
run buses if the demand isn't there. But as part of our vision plan, this is what we're at least-- this
is what our aspiration is-JUDY LUBOW: OK.
CHRIS QUINN: --for the full service-- for the corridor.
JUDY LUBOW: I see. OK. And similarly, about time being saved, the estimates of time being
saved at the start of the program-- it looks like we only have the money to do the queue jumps at
52. So the other changes that would-- at least on 119-- that would make things go quicker are not
going to be done. And I'm wondering how that impacts on the estimate of the time saved.

CHRIS QUINN: Yeah. So without any improvements in the corridor, the travel time from end to
end-- and that would be from the longest point to the longest point-- would be about 66 minutes.
Just having the queue jumps alone would save-- and I think I have it here. Give me a moment.
We would anticipate over 20 plus minutes saved with the queue jumps depending on how many
of them we were able to-- the big one being at State Highway 52. That's where we're seeing the
biggest delays. Then the next longest queue is occurring at 63rd. So if we were able to get those
in, we would be talking 20 minutes plus. If we get all of the signalized intersections in, then it's
28 minutes of savings.
JUDY LUBOW: That would be wonderful. Is there an assumption that we'll have that money by
startup time?
[LAUGHTER]
CHRIS QUINN: We're-JUDY LUBOW: Hoping.
CHRIS QUINN: You know, it's similar to US 36. Our hope is that we can start identifying these
funding sources and just keep cobbling-JUDY LUBOW: OK.
CHRIS QUINN: --cobbling them together and try to leverage it for more.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, all right. Thank you very much. OK, Director Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks, Chris. And thanks for answering my questions today. You
mentioned the anticipated funding from CDOT. Do you know the amount of that at this point?
CHRIS QUINN: Right now, we anticipate there is 9 million that they've identified in RPP funds,
which I believe stands for Regional Planning and Programming funds. And then we've also-- and
I didn't include this in the 53 million-- the Department of Transit and Rail has also indicated that
there could potentially be funds available for the corridor as well.
LYNN GUISSINGER: From CDOT's Department of Transit and Rail?
CHRIS QUINN: Correct, yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. And the idea is that RTD would work with the local governments
to file for build grant next year. Is that right? And I think there is currently-- the conversation is
ongoing with CDOT. So hopefully the money will start to cobble together. I think it's come
along well in the last year. Hopefully we can move it forward. Thanks so much.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. It doesn't look like there's anybody else. OK, thank you very much.
Appreciate it.
CHRIS QUINN: Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: We have three more updates. Take it away.
BILL VAN METER: Thank you, Chair Lubow and Board. Bill Van Meter, Assistant General
Manager of Planning. The next item is providing you with some additional information
pertaining to the draft FasTracks Initial Unfinished Corridors Report that was presented to you in
June.
We anticipated that would kick off kind of a continuing opportunity for dialogue with
stakeholders as well as amongst yourself and between staff and the Board. This is one kind of
piece furthering that puzzle. And specifically what you have here is a matrix with a couple dozen
different identified funding sources. They were spelled out in not much detail in the June report
that was provided to you. Now you have more detail.
So the format that you have in front of you has those couple dozen funding opportunities for
finishing the FasTracks unfinished corridors identified in that report that you received in June,
the option, a description regarding it, and identification of what authority, if any, is necessary,
whether RTD already has it, state, federal, and/or voter approval necessary, and then staff's
assessment as to the financial impact-- low, medium, to high-- of each one of the alternatives
identified in this matrix.
So we don't want to run through all 24 in the interest of time. Didn't prepare a formal
presentation. Got that information to you and anticipated a discussion or dialogue or feedback
and questions based on that information.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Do you have anything to say?
DAVE GENOVA: Yes. Thank you, Chair Lubow. So just to add on a little bit, we wanted to
flesh out a little bit more information for the Board to think about on these items, and just give
you some ideas on maybe the difficulty and the path towards achieving any one of these, and
then also some order of magnitude about, is it worth going after in terms of financial impact.
So really, at this point in time, we just want to provide this for you for information for you to be
looking through, thinking about, and then ask us questions. And then possibly, as you're able to
look through this, maybe the next discussion could be around, you know, are there items on here
that the Board would like us to pursue in greater detail or with greater energy?
JUDY LUBOW: OK.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much. Chair Tisdale.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I think it's important that we do take a
moment to acknowledge that staff did as we instructed them back in June-- give us the draft
initial FasTracks Unfinished Corridors Report. And we asked them to follow up on it. And I
know there were some concerns expressed by some Directors. Are they really following up on it,
or is this just something that's sitting on the shelf? So I think this is part of the evidence that they
really have, in fact, been following up on it.
I would note, relative to page 31-- packet page 31-- the last box where it says "stakeholder cash
contributions" financial impact would be low," I recognize that, but I've been telling a lot of
people the story of the SERE and the Southeast Rail Extension, and the fact that the contribution
by stakeholders was leveraged and created that opportunity to build the Southeast Rail Extension
25 years before it would have. And I'm trying to use that now as an argument with the Southwest
Rail Extension, the SWRE, to get the people there to understand the same thing. Thank you very
much, Madam Chair.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Cook, please.
SHELLEY COOK: Boy, that's a really good point that Chair Tisdale just made. And oftentimes,
once you've cobbled together-- as Mr. Quinn said-- cobbled together something, then it gains its
own-- you've got a good match, then, for the federal funding and so forth. So I think you're right.
You shouldn't discount that. A lot of these are items that-- not a lot. Some of them are items that
had come up in terms of asking our staff, with regard to the Mid-Term Financial Plan, for some
additional work, some additional exploration.
So this is good to have, because we intend-- Director Guissinger and I-- to make another round to
you to give you an idea of the input we've had, and then get your thoughts, too, if there are things
based upon the additional information. And then we hope to give you a list that says, here are
things that, at least in this sort of first look, are areas we'd like you to pursue first, or to begin
with. But that's good.
CHRIS QUINN: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Yep.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I agree. I think this is great. And it will work well with what we've been
asking the Board and working with Heather on in terms of other revenue sources to look at. And
I also agree with Chair Tisdale in terms of the stakeholder cash contributions. What we heard
from Mayor Millet tonight is that there are a lot of people working on money going to our local
partners.
And so I would echo what I believe Director Lubow was saying earlier. This is the time for us to
start looking-- and I think it's perfect with Reimagine RTD, because I think it probably will be
part of it. But looking at what we do to work together, how we're-- I know we're working

together with our local governments in many ways, but to really sort of think through how we
continue those partnerships and build them.
And just one other thing I would mention is the development impact fees. We don't have a way
to do that. But I know that Boulder, for some time-- and I think it was Director Rivera-Malpiede
that said that Denver started doing it now, as they have TDM plans. And when they have TDM
plans, they require the Developer to-- RTD is given a price, and RTD gives them a price.
And they require a Developer building big developments-- whatever size-- to set aside two years
of money for EcoPasses. And I think that's a really great program, because it gets people started
using the buses and the trains. And it's a source of income. So it's not a development impact fee,
but it sort of gets to the same idea. So another thing to look at.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director BROOM, please?
BOB BROOM: Thank you. You know, I'd like to point out this is really a daunting task that's in
front of us here. There's a number of ways listed on here to borrow money. And borrow money is
relatively easy. The hard part is paying it back. And that means you have to have an ongoing
revenue stream to pay it back.
And even if you got somebody-- you know, a major developer-- at the end of the line to pay for
the capital improvements, the operating costs, the 80% subsidy, you still have to have a revenue
source to cover that. And so it's not just looking at the capital costs that you have to cover on
these things.
You have to also look at the subsidy costs for operating the system. And I think that was one of
the fatal flaws that was in the original plan for FasTracks when it was put together. It just didn't
adequately account for what those ongoing costs were going to be to operate the system vis-a-vis
just the capital costs. That's my two cents worth. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much. I have a couple of comments. I feel that this matrix is a
great start. But I, for one, feel it needs a lot more work so that we can understand what it is. I
mean, if we're serious about funding these things, we need to take each of these options seriously
and flesh it out. What would it really look like? What kind of money are we thinking about? Do
we feel we would have any support from other stakeholders, et cetera?
And I would like to do that. And I'm thinking that maybe there should be an ad hoc group of
Board members, maybe from the areas of the unfunded corridors to get together with staff and
flesh out this thing so that it's not just skin and bones. I don't understand it enough to be able to
say to you, well, I think you should do this one. I would really like that more from you. I would
like that information more from the people who have experience with this.
So I just want to throw that out there, that I think maybe it would be nice to have a ad hoc
committee of people interested in raising money through this process and working with staff to
flesh this out. So that's one idea. And if that doesn't gain any traction, I can sit at your door and
we can do this for hours. But I can do it offline with you.

And that raises another concern that I have. It sure looks like, from the report that was done by
the Lone Tree mayor, that the idea of an initiative for transportation in 2020 is kind of not being
thought of anymore, but instead, promoting MPOs. And I think the prior idea of RTD being part
of an initiative was one of the major ideas that people were thinking of how to raise money. So if
that has gone by the Board, are there different ideas that are being promoted? And I don't know. I
don't know that, but I'd like to find that out from you.
DAVE GENOVA: OK. If I may just reply to a couple things. So we're happy to flesh out any
more of these in whatever detail the Board would like to see. I think what we were looking for is
just kind of an initial look at, from a policy perspective, which one of these might be attractive to
the Board and which ones may not be attractive to the Board, just because of the policy around it.
But I mean, we're happy to advance any one of them. So we're open to that. And this was really
just a first cut, and so to just give some preliminary information around that. Regarding the
initiatives for whether there's going to be something additional to what Mayor Millet described
tonight that the Metro Mayors are supporting, it will remain to be seen whether something comes
out of the state legislature.
I think by-- and I don't think Jennifer talked about it tonight, but we're not hearing that there's
going to be something. So I think the Metro Mayors now are working on the MPL model to kind
of fill that gap of bringing something forward for transportation funding. I'm not aware of any
other specific transportation funding initiatives that are happening or working. But I mean, we
stay engaged in all of those conversations to the point that-- so we're not only knowledgeable
about them, but how can we participate and be part of those?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I guess I would really like to hear an update periodically about the
status of these discussions, because I was surprised to hear, oh, we're probably not going to have
an initiative in 2020. And that was going to be one of the main ways we were going to get money
for this. So it's like, uh-oh. Maybe there are other discussions going on, which I hope. OK. OK,
thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So I'm going to ask about one of the specific issues, Bill.
BILL VAN METER: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: And this will be on page three of the document, or packet page 33. And
it's the one that is Fees for Traveling To and From Denver Airport. Why was that one
specifically included? This would be imposing a fee on vehicles traveling to and from Denver. I
don't-- it almost seems like a punitive tax.
BILL VAN METER: It is a captive market that has a number of various higher income travel
market targets. And as similar approach has been explored and looked at worldwide-- I'm not
sure of anything nationally, and I can't name you which properties. But because of that specific
type of market, we identified it in our long laundry list.
NATALIE MENTEN: You won't be surprised when I say, so we're going to target the suckers.

JUDY LUBOW: No.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. All right. With that-- it's like the lodging fees and the lodging tax,
and let's just hit up everybody-- but we don't think about-- oh, I'm going to go off for a sec. We
don't think about the person who's visiting their sick mother who's on her deathbed. And we don't
think about the family who wants to adopt and has been hit up with 80,000 in fees to adopt a kid,
and they've got to travel and travel.
So I'm not a big fan of those kind of things that we think that market-- anyway, I'll stop there.
But with these other ones, the best way to give feedback, for me, would be to sit down and just
originate the document out of the Board Office. And we add on one more column to the
spreadsheet. And each Director it has a little checkbox-- yes, no, maybe-- and get your feedback.
Otherwise, I'd sit here, and I'd go, no on anything federal, because we've got a huge, humongous
federal debt.
We should have the national debt clock over there on the wall so that we can all see it all day
long. You know, that would be my gift when I leave the RTD Board. I will be happy to round up
donations to put the national debt clock over there-- actually, two of them, so everybody can see
them-- maybe three.
So I'm going to say no on all the Fed stuff. Anything that's another tax-- no. So would that be the
easiest? I mean, we're going to have a long meeting if you really want feedback. You know we're
already tired. That we just have a column over here, and people can do a poll on this and say,
hell no, maybe, maybe yes.
DAVE GENOVA: I think that's-- something like that as some kind of a tool to get some
feedback-- let us give that some thought and-NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
DAVE GENOVA: I'll have to get back to the Board on that.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. That's my comment. Thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you. Looks like that topic is done, except-SHONTEL LEWIS: Just a quick question.
JUDY LUBOW: --Shontel Lewis. Sure.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm sorry. Thank you, Bill Van Meter, for your time today. I'm curious if
you had worked with the folks who were here today from the state, local, and federal level, as we
were looking at these?
BILL VAN METER: If we communicated with them?

SHONTEL LEWIS: If you would-- if had gotten their advice, recommendations, how you might
present this? What are-BILL VAN METER: Yeah.
SHONTEL LEWIS: --some things you should consider?
BILL VAN METER: Yeah. Not this specific matrix. But in the original version that was
included in the report to the Board in June, we solicited their ideas and input, and saw a number
of the items in here were discussed with and/or provided by our lobbyists, who you heard from
earlier this evening.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Great, thank you. And I'm not suggesting it as a next step, but maybe a step
as we figure out what this process looks like.
BILL VAN METER: Consulting with them as well.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
BILL VAN METER: Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. All right, moving right along. Next topic.
BILL VAN METER: All right. Another update. This is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General
Manager of Planning. And joining me right now is Carly Macias, a Senior Transportation
Planner and the Manager of our Quality of Life report. The presentation was included in your
package. Carly is going to skip over much of it, but she wants to highlight a few of the key
findings and items for you. And so Carly, this is your opportunity. Please take it away.
CARLY MACIAS: Thanks, Bill. So just as an overview, we do this report to the Board every
year. So there's an entire report that was in your packet, and I'd be happy to answer any questions
about any of those metrics. But I'll just be quick with the presentation tonight.
So the Quality of Life study started in 2006 with FasTracks. So the point of this study is to
evaluate how the progress of meeting the FasTracks program goals and how we're doing with
that process. So the goals are there-- balance transit needs with regional growth, increase transit
mode share, improve transportation options and choices.
So we looked at a lot of different metrics that kind of speak to these different goals, and I'm just
going to go through a couple of them. And just to add, we've added a few metrics this year. We
always like to add in new things when we have new data sources. And we heard you last year
that you wanted to see more metrics that spoke to the status of our full system.

So we attempted to add a few metrics that address that. And then we also included some metrics
from the Service Performance report that I believe you heard about a couple weeks ago. And
then it is our hope that some of this information could feed into the Reimagine RTD process.
But I'm actually going to skip over a couple of these. So I think this one is one of the most
interesting new metrics that we evaluated this year. So a lot of you may have heard, you know,
through the census data, typically, transit mode shares between 4% and 5%, which is pretty low.
But that's for all trips throughout the entire day.
And so I thought it'd be interesting to look at commute mode share, and looking at the peak
period. So this chart-- it's kind of a map. But each quarter has its own little pie chart. And it's
looking at the AM peak period. And for most of the corridors, it's coming into downtown
Denver, because that's where most people are going in the AM peak.
And you'll see two of our most successful corridors are the Southwest and Southeast corridors.
We're seeing about 20% of people traveling on those corridors are taking transit. So that means
75% on the Southeast corridor are driving on I-25, but-- oh, sorry. 80% are traveling on I-25. But
20% are taking the E, F, or H Lines, which is pretty amazing. That's a lot more than 4%.
So I think it's really important to put that in perspective, that these FasTracks lines and our Rapid
Transit lines are really serving the region when it's most important, when all of our roadways are
very congested and people need to get to work. So I think that this is a real success story.
So I'm going to go to this one next, which you may remember this one from last year. But I think
it's a really great metric to also speak to how transit compares to driving. And this, again, is
during the AM peak period coming into downtown, so similar to that corridor mode share metric.
And there's a lot going on in this chart, so I'll kind of describe it to you.
But this is transit and auto travel times into downtown Denver. And you'll notice it's into
downtown Denver specifically at 16th and California. We wanted them all to come to a central
point so that it was a fair evaluation. So that's why you'll see the University of Colorado A Line
has a travel time of 50 minutes, which is not the travel time from Den to Union Station. But we
wanted to look at it to the center of downtown. But the dark color on the bottom is the travel
time, and the lighter color on top is variability.
So this is a way of thinking about that, is if you need to get to a meeting at 8:00 AM in the
morning, that's essentially the time you would budget for yourself to make sure that you can
make it there on time. So if you were driving on, say, I-225, then you would maybe give yourself
an extra 20 minutes of driving time.
But just to focus on one of these corridors-- and oh, sorry. I'll mention that we put dashed boxes
around the transit travel times so you could see those first. And then right next to it is the auto
travel time. So I was going to highlight the Southeast corridor. We looked at the F Line and I-25.
So you can see that both travel times are about 38, 39 minutes. They're very comparable.

But when you look at taking the F Line, your variability is only two minutes, because this rail
line is operating in its own right of way. It's not competing with traffic. But if you're driving on I25, you're looking at 30 minutes of variability, which is a huge difference, especially when the
base travel time is about the same.
So I think this is a really important story to tell. Five of our seven Rapid Transit corridors are
very competitive with driving. And there's a lot less variability, because you don't have that
congestion that you're dealing with. So I can go into more detail about that if anyone has
questions, but I think I'm going to move on right now.
So I think I'm going to highlight this high frequency transit network. We looked at routes that
operate frequently all day long. So we considered any routes that have 15-minute headways or
lower. So you can see that 16% of the region's residents are served by this network, and 36% of
employees are served by the network, which is generally-- probably most of those are captured
within the major employment centers, so just downtown Denver, downtown Boulder, and DTC.
But this very small network, if you think about it, is serving a good number of people. And if we
were to include the peak services that only operate during the AM and PM peak, this network
would be a lot bigger. And we thought about adding that as a new metric next year.
So I think this is the last one I'm going to cover tonight. But I think we had some discussion
about park and ride use earlier. And RTD has over 30,000 parking spaces in our park and ride
system as a whole. And that's a lot of parking. And if you look at the average, it's about 65%
utilized.
But it really-- your experience as a customer, I think, vastly changes depending on what corridor
you're traveling on. So you can see the Central and Southwest corridors-- they're basically at
capacity. I think many people that use the Mineral Station and Littleton downtown know that
those stations get pretty full pretty early. But it's not the same across the board. So I think it's
important to not just consider averages, but really looking and seeing what corridors have that
capacity and which ones maybe, perhaps, need more.
But I think that's all, since it's pretty late tonight. But I'm happy to answer questions about
anything in the presentation or in the report. And I would also welcome your feedback on how
we could potentially share this information with our customers and the public.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much. Let's go to the comments.
SPEAKER 10: It's a great report.
JUDY LUBOW: There we go. Director Menten, please.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So packet page 63, "transit service rail service has increased from
3% to 7% of RTD service." That is just usage on our whole pie chart of, are they using bus, or
are they using transit? Doesn't really mean an increase in riders. It means a shift more to rail.
Would that be correct?

CARLY MACIAS: I'm sorry. Could you just repeat which metric you were speaking to?
NATALIE MENTEN: Packet page 63, which is titled "How Are We Doing," with a lot of
graphics.
SPEAKER 11: Three blue graphics.
JUDY LUBOW: So service has increased, not ridership. Service has increased.
NATALIE MENTEN: I think it's a shift more when rail comes in, whether it's light or commuter.
Bus goes away, and there's a shift to rail. And that's really what that's reflecting. I just want to
make sure I'm interpreting it properly-- correctly.
CARLY MACIAS: Yes. I apologize. Yes, it has become a greater portion of our service, because
we've opened more rail lines.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
CARLY MACIAS: It's not that it's increased in ridership 4%.
NATALIE MENTEN: Right, OK. Somebody, with an initial glance, may pick that. And I just
want to make sure in my head. Number two, population, which is a couple down on packet page
66. It's got, like, the heat chart with population density. Why is my brain telling me that RTD
service-- we all thought it was, like, over 3 million, 3.2, 3.5. But I see 2.92. Am I remembering
incorrectly?
CARLY MACIAS: So we got that number from the population that we report to NTD. I could
double check on that. But I'm pretty sure that's the most recent number.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I thought it was over 3. And then this entire document has "draft" on
it. When will it be finalized?
CARLY MACIAS: After we receive your feedback.
NATALIE MENTEN: Like, we might have corrections? I mean-CARLY MACIAS: Well-NATALIE MENTEN: --you're providing the data.
CARLY MACIAS: I think your point to the rail ridership and how it said that it had increased in
percent-- I think you made a great point, that that could be rephrased to be clearer.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. You know, if I see something else, I'll spot it. But those were the
initials. And I, myself, love it when we're looking at subsidies. But I kind of like to put the mall
ride both-- the fact that we don't get any revenue, but also we take the ridership out and get that

real picture in the metro could be the same. A real picture of just the revenue service. So that's
just my comment. That's it. Thanks.
CARLY MACIAS: Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I like the chart that you showed about how much time it takes
you either to drive or to take transit downtown. I think it can be more-- another meaningful chart
like this might be, what does it cost? I mean, one of the reasons you take transit downtown is to
avoid paying for a parking place. It might cost you $250, $300 a month. So could you compare
the cost of taking transit versus whatever the IRS says it takes per mile to drive a car, and the
parking, and add that in and compare that?
CARLY MACIAS: We actually did that. So there's a metric in the report that's cost of travel.
And just to read it off for you, it costs about $1.24 per mile to drive. And that's including all the
costs of time, the cost of parking, the cost of gas, and maintaining your car, whereas taking
transit is about $0.97 per mile. So we did that evaluation based on those factors that you
mentioned.
BOB BROOM: And it's in here?
CARLY MACIAS: Yes. It's in the full report.
BOB BROOM: On the full report.
CARLY MACIAS: Yes.
BOB BROOM: OK.
CARLY MACIAS: And that's in the back-- the packet as well.
JUDY LUBOW: Are you looking for it?
NATALIE MENTEN: Just ask which page.
BOB BROOM: That's all.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you very much. OK, Director Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I started to talk with Brian about this during our break, and looking at the
corridor commute mode share, it's page 44 in our packet. It says US 36 corridor-- it says that the
peak direction is Eastbound. And I think Brian said that's historical. That's the way it used to be.
It's clearly not anymore. I think we all know that. Is there a reason we're not changing it, and are
you keeping the data for the Westbound? Do have the-- this is 8% transit. Do you have that data
for the Westbound as well?

CARLY MACIAS: So to be honest, the US 36 corridor was most challenging for this metric,
because there's not a clear peak direction. So we considered both directions. And transit mode
share for Westbound into Boulder, I believe-- yes, into Boulder-- was 6.5%, which was close.
But the reason for that-- there's actually more transit riders going into Boulder, but there's a lot
more people driving into Boulder. So it represents a smaller percentage, but a higher number.
So we debated back and forth of which direction to show, because you're right. That is the
dominant direction. But as far as the higher transit mode share, it's actually in the other direction,
because there's fewer drivers going into Denver.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, Director Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I read both the summary and the report, and I thought it was very
well done. I thought the graphics were easy to read, and I thought it painted a great picture. So I
just wanted to compliment you on it. I thought that the full report was just incredibly valuable.
So just my compliments to you. I really got a lot out of it.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Cook, please.
SHELLEY COOK: I agree. It's just an excellent report chock full of information. I did want to
point out one thing in response to the point that Director Menten made. And it's on packet page
85. So this is a transit boardings at stations. I assume it's in the 2017/2018 time frame. And
you've got the dots scaled to the number of boardings per day at those stations.
And so I don't know if you intended to, but you included two pre-stations. You have Old Town
Arvada, which wasn't yet a train station, and the Ward Road Park and Ride. So you can see the
average weekday boardings there are the one little dot, 0 to 500, and the one slightly bigger dot,
500 to 1,000.
And yet, we know from the early ridership that were at 5,400 plus per day. And the station
activity indicates an increase. So I would argue that a good chunk of those are new riders. So it's
not just the bus riders shifting over to the train. I think we're seeing significant new because of
the rapid transit corridor. So-CARLY MACIAS: Yeah. I look forward to looking at that information in next year's report. We
try to have the annual data before we put it into this report. But I think you're right that it will be
quite a change.
SHELLEY COOK: It's great. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you. Chair Tisdale, please.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, sorry. May I ask one quick? Did the travel time to 16th and California
for the auto include parking and getting to that corner?

CARLY MACIAS: No, it didn't. We've tried to make this more comprehensive. But it ends up
getting more convoluted. So I've struggled to figure out-- I think someone brought up last year
that it's not the true travel time, because no one lives at Lincoln Station. But it's difficult to really
judge-- you know, I guess we could have a hypothetical where we chose somebody that was
within walking distance of the station, somebody who would have driven a couple miles, and
somebody who may have biked. But it kind of-- yeah, I think that the way that we've presented it
kind of gets to the core of the issue. But you're right. It doesn't include the cost of parking. It's
just the cost of driving.
SHELLEY COOK: Not the-- the time cost, the time it would add on to-CARLY MACIAS: So we looked at the cost of your time in that other metric and the parking
costs, but we didn't look at the time for parking. I guess it's tricky, because some people have
reserved spots. Some people have to look around. So there's definitely a lot-- it's a complex kind
of metric to look at. And we may have simplified it a little bit more than reality.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I just want to pile on here and say I
think it's an excellent report. I truly appreciate it, and I know all of the Directors do-- the detail,
the precision with which it is all presented. So congratulations to you on that. I have shared this
with some electeds and some city administrative officials. And they all said the same thing and
we want to receive copies of it. So thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: All right. Thank you. Director Menten, who's going to talk just a tiny bit.
NATALIE MENTEN: Tiny bit. Packet page 91, which is what Director Broom was referencing-cost of travel with comparison the cost to drive versus cost to take transit. Do you want to go into
it now or send me something later? But how did you calculate cost of time?
CARLY MACIAS: So we actually used the travel times from the previous metric so that travel
time variability-- that fed straight into the cost of travel. But I can follow up with you further on
that.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, I'm just wanting what you're pegging for hourly.
CARLY MACIAS: Sure. I can-NATALIE MENTEN: What is 60 minutes worth to somebody, or two hours, or three hours?
And I'm always really-- you know, I drive a beat up car. I really do. When they say it costs x
amount owning a car, and there's all these extra costs, I wonder, are they rating that with
somebody driving a Mercedes or driving that-- with somebody driving a '94 Metro? So I'm very
curious about that, because I've never really believed the numbers. So you could follow up with
me if you want to on those questions.

CARLY MACIAS: OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I'm done.
JUDY LUBOW: You're done, I know. But now Shontel Lewis.
[LAUGHTER]
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's not going to take long.
JUDY LUBOW: All right, go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: This is a beautiful report. I really appreciate it. Great information, and it is
really easy to read. One of the things that I noticed that's missing, as we think about Quality of
Life, is quality of life for our bus operators. And so I would like for us to think about how we
might explore that as we are presenting data in the future, especially as we're talking about a six
day mandate. All right. Yes, OK.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. OK. Well, one down, one to go. Thank you very much.
BILL VAN METER: So moving right along. As you noted, Chair Lubow and Board, we have
another update. This is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning. Bill Sirois,
Senior Manager of Transit Oriented Communities, is joining me now to provide for you a brief
update on Reimagine RTD. Bill.
BILL SIROIS: Again, thanks. This is Bill Sirois. I thought in the interest of this topic that I
would read through every slide-[LAUGHTER]
--all of the words on it, and just would-- no, just kidding. I will just highlight a couple of things,
just because of the fact that it is late. I am the last agenda item. And there's a lot of information in
there. We sent a lot of information out to you in between the last update we had at the end of
August and now.
So a little bit of two things I want to highlight, one being the guiding principles follow up. I think
with kind of the level of conversation that we had, we kind of stepped back from that a little bit
and said, you know, maybe let's not push that right now. And there's a lot of conversation about
prioritization, about expanding them. And I think that we felt that it would be good for the Board
to get more information to maybe make some of those-- have some of those additional
conversations in the future.
So that was one piece. The other piece is I just did want to highlight that I know that Pauletta
earlier talked a little bit about the Reimagine engagement process and some of the things that
we've been doing. I did want to point out that we sent out to you all, I believe Friday memo on
the 27th of September, a comprehensive overview of the whole engagement process, and

hopefully use that as a reference as we go forward. Because again, it is a very complex, multitiered process that we're incorporating for this process. So it will be a really interesting thing to
follow as we go along.
And just the last thing, I know that there's been a lot of interest in the advisory committee and the
technical working group. We do have, I think, a lot of those-- we have that identified now, and
again, looking for any input from the Board on that. A couple of kind of new pieces of
information regarding that.
We did get confirmation today from the city of Aurora that Councilwoman Angela Lawson will
be on the advisory committee as their rep. And then I believe the Board Office informed me that
Director Whitmore and Director Guissinger will be added to the list as well. I will be confirming
tomorrow Douglas County representatives when they go to their subregional forum tomorrow
afternoon.
So with that, I will open it up for questions that you may have about information in the
presentation, information that was sent out under the General Manager memo, or any other
information that you have or questions that you may have regarding the Reimagine process.
Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much. Apparently-- oh, one Board member. OK, who is it?
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's me.
JUDY LUBOW: Is it you?
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's me.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Director Lewis, please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Thank you, Chair. I just have one-- and I flagged this for some
Board members already, and I've spoken with General Manager Dave Genova about this. As
we're approaching the Reimagine RTD, one of the things that I don't know if we have clarity on
or an agreement on as a Board is how we're defining equity. And so I'm just going to keep
bringing that conversation up until we finally, as a Board, and as an agency, define what that
means. That's it.
JUDY LUBOW: Very good. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Lob that out there-JUDY LUBOW: Yes, she can. Very quickly. OK. Cool. All right, it looks like we're at the end of
our updates. Congratulations to all of us. Other matters?
BILL VAN METER: Chair Lubow--

JUDY LUBOW: Yeah.
BILL VAN METER: I have -JUDY LUBOW: Your boss has something, so let him go first -BILL VAN METER: Oh, you bet.
DAVE GENOVA: Let's have Bill go first.
JUDY LUBOW: OK.
BILL VAN METER: All right.
JUDY LUBOW: You first.
BILL VAN METER: This is Bill Van Meter. [LAUGHS] Introducing myself again is-- at this
hour-- OK. Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning. I just wanted to provide for
the Board a very brief update regarding what's going to be happening starting in April 2020 and
progressing for the next year and a half after that. And it is the redistricting process for the RTD
Board.
Just to give you an update on what we did 10 years ago, a little bit of an idea as to how it might
unfold this time around, and an idea regarding the schedule. So we are required-- RTD is
required-- by state statute to review your Director district boundaries following the release of
census information to ensure that your individual districts have similar population.
So on April 2020, this process starts when the decennial census starts. Actually, it begins for us,
and you, in earnest, in early 2021-- so a little over a year from now when we start getting the
track and block level data on population. At that point, in early 2021, we then can start the
process of identifying the current population based on the 2020 decennial census of each of your
districts and start looking at how redistricting might look and occur.
Last time-- oh, and I will note that if you have not, as a body, adopted a redistricting map by
March 15, 2022, the legislature will create that map for you. So that's why we anticipate starting
that process in early 2021 when the census data becomes available at a usable level for us, and
proceeding through that process starting at that juncture.
10 years ago-- and I think staff would be supportive if we went in a similar process this time
around-- a redistricting committee was formed. It was formed consisting of two Board members,
one who was term-limited and one who was a continuing Director. Staff provided consultant
assistance to that committee that looked at options for redistricting. Individual Board members
all had opportunities to provide input. Options were presented to the full Board and public, of
course. And we then went through and got an approval for redistricting.

Some of the things that we looked at-- were included-- Board members' home addresses and
making sure that we don't redistrict sitting Board members out unless you're term-limited, in
which case, then, we might have a little bit more latitude. So a number of variables like that
weigh into the process. So stay tuned. The process really starts with the decennial census in April
of next year. And for you, in earnest, in early 2021.
JUDY LUBOW: All right. Thank you very much. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I'll try to be brief on these two points.
First, relative to the Reimagine RTD, let me just affirm that the four members from the Board
that will serve on that committee starting as of 7:30 AM on Thursday morning at 1660 Lincoln
Street will be Peggy Catlin, and Angela Rivera-Malpiede, and Lynn Guissinger, and Troy
Whitmore.
And then next, relative to some financial issues, the Board Office has been requested by the
Chief Financial Officer to come up with significant savings-- I won't go through all the numbers
here-- significant savings relative to the overall budget for next year. The Board Office has,
through tremendous Herculean efforts, come up with a great deal of that savings. However, there
is still a shortfall that the Finance Department would like us to address.
And so the suggestion was made to me yesterday, which is why I bring it to you today-- I've
known about this for about 24 hours-- probably 30 hours now. And I want to share it with you
right away. And that is that a recommendation has been made that we do what this Board did in
2009 and in 2011. And that is to reduce the allowance for expenses for travel and the local
expense allowance.
I'm just giving you a heads up now that this will be coming forward in the next weeks-- six to
eight weeks-- as we do this. But I wanted to make sure you were aware of it. I discussed it with
Second Vice Chair Angela Rivera-Malpiede because the resolution in 2011 was signed by her.
So she remembers that and what it was like. And I just want to make sure that we're all aware of
it. We'll provide you with more information.
But start thinking about that now, because it is something that we're going to have to consider in
trying to balance this budget. We have many other hard discussions to have concerning the
budget, but this is one that directly impacts you in terms of your travel expenses and your local
expenses, and I wanted to give you a heads up now. It would only be for fiscal year 2020. It's not
trying to go back and do something retroactively now. That's all that I had, Madam Chair.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Is that same restriction going to apply to staff or only to Board
people?
DOUG TISDALE: That particular recommendation as to those expense allowances would apply
only to Board people. Interestingly enough, I have asked for information to see to what extent

have staff and other departments taken a haircut, and how much is the Board being asked to take
a haircut? And we are compiling that information now. This is just all within the last 30 hours.
KATE WILLIAMS: I get one more. One more quickie, and then we'll be done. When we go to
look at that reduction, which I'm game-- I'm all about-- and we looked at doing that in 2011, I'd
like to look what our personnel expenses were, what our SLT salaries were in a relative sense in
those days compared to what they are now. I'm not objecting at all. I just think that if we're going
to compare it to what we did then, then we should look all the way across the board about how
that works, since we are trying to be fiscally responsible.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, with your permission I'll respond. I do know that the Board
Office Executive Manager is looking to compile a lot of that information. But I think the General
Manager has a comment as well.
DAVE GENOVA: Yes. I don't have the exact figure in my head, and Heather's not with us
tonight. But I am meeting with her tomorrow on a budget update, and so I'll be going through a
lot of that detail with her tomorrow. But I believe we're looking to solve for about 40 million,
and we're doing that across all departments. So everybody's impacted across the entire
organization.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Just curious what the cost savings is.
JUDY LUBOW: Go for it.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Can you tell me?
DAVE GENOVA: The cost savings of?
KATE WILLIAMS: For what we're being asked to do.
DAVE GENOVA: At the Board Office?
JUDY LUBOW: $47,000.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And we're trying to-DAVE GENOVA: Solve for 40 million, approximately.
DOUG TISDALE: The expense allowance reduction would result in about $47,000, $48,000 of
saving in addition to the $150,000 that the Executive Manager has worked through the Board
Office budget to look for savings.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. OK, thank you very much, the General Manager.

DAVE GENOVA: Oh, you have another Board member.
JUDY LUBOW: I know. What do you want?
VINCE BUZEK: Did you recognize me? I'm not the General Manager, but you know.
JUDY LUBOW: Right.
KATE WILLIAMS: You could be-VINCE BUZEK: Yeah.
KATE WILLIAMS: --for now.
JUDY LUBOW: Go ahead.
VINCE BUZEK: I mean, I'm all in favor of symbolic reductions like this. But to the extent it
impacts our ability to reach out to constituents on the local side, I would be opposed to that.
Thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. OK. General Manager Genova, please.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you. I'll be very brief. I just wanted to let the Board know that late
yesterday, I received a letter from BNSF about modeling on the B Line for the peak service plan.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yay.
DAVE GENOVA: And so-- yes, it's progress.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, it is.
DAVE GENOVA: So it's not a cost estimate yet, but they did run various different models. And
we've really not had much of a chance to review it yet, but staff will be doing that. And then
we'll be inviting the BNSF into a larger dialogue about the modeling that they did. And then
we'll have some ideas on order of magnitude of cost. But then that'll be some of the next steps.
But we actually want to walk through their modeling with them so we can completely understand
it first. And we'll likely try to do that with the stakeholder group.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much. That's very good news. I think we're adjourned. Oh, no,
no, no, no. One more matter-- when we're meeting again. Oh, December 3. OK, now we're
adjourned. Thank you, everyone.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

