Dec 4 2018
Planning-Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
JUDY LUBOW: --and made available to the public via the Board's website. At RTD, safety is
our core value. I'd like to begin this meeting with a short safety briefing. It's not so short.
If we have a medical emergency and 911 needs to be called, I will ask our RTD General Counsel
to make that telephone call. Any medically trained individuals in the room are respectfully
requested to assist. If needed, an automatic emergency defibrillator-- AED-- is in a glass case
located just outside this room on the wall to the right.
In the event we must evacuate the building for fire or any other emergency, please calmly exit
out the door you came in at the back of the room, go up the stairs to the first floor, around the
security desk, and exit through the front door. Police and security officers will be there to direct
you to a safe meet-up area. Anyone needing special assistance in the event of an evacuation will
be assisted by RTD staff as necessary.
While RTD takes every precaution to ensure the security of its passengers, vehicles, and
facilities, the agency relies on both staff and the general public to be aware of and alert to any
suspicious or dangerous activity on buses and trains and around stations, stops, and platforms. As
such, I would encourage all RTD employees and patrons to download the RTD Transit Watch
app, which allows users to report suspicious or dangerous activity and communicate directly with
RTD transit security personnel on a real-time basis in the event of an emergency situation.
The Transit Watch app is available via Google Play and the Apple App Store. Thank you. OK.
We're going to start this meeting with the State of the District address. And it's going to be
started by General Manager Genova. Thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Chair Lubow. And welcome, everyone, this evening. This is our
annual State of the District that we do every December. We have a similar format this year as we
do every year where I'll cover some highlights, overall, and then some highlights department by
department.
And again, I will just hit highlights. I won't hit everything in the deck because it's a pretty
complete packet. You have a hard copy in front of you. And I also sent out the PDF earlier this
afternoon. So you will have that after tonight's meeting. So if you want to look through that in
any more detail and present any more questions or input to us, you definitely can.
So we have a full agenda, so I plan to move very, very swiftly tonight. The first thing I'd like to
do is just do a round of introductions. The people that you see seated around the table in front of
you are members of the Senior Leadership Team and the Executive Office. And since there's not
a microphone at every place, I will just quickly go around and introduce, starting over on the left.

Heather McKillop, our CFO, Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager of Capital
Programs, Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop, our Internal Auditor Manager, Rolf Asphaug, our General
Counsel, Zamy Silva, Senior Manager of Civil Rights, Dave Jensen, Assistant General Manager
at Rail Operation, Mike Meader, Chief Safety Officer and Assistant General Manager of Safety,
Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning, Jeff Worthen-- Fred Worthen-- I don't know
how I blew that, Fred.
Sorry. I had Jeff on my mind for some reason. There's not a Jeff at the table. Fred Worthen, our
Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations, Brian Iacono, our Senior Manager of Materials
Management, Nancy Mooney is an Executive Assistant in the Executive Office, Michael Ford,
our Chief Operating Officer, and Tina Aragon, an Executive Assistant in our Executive Office.
So you see the org chart in front of you. I think most Board Members are very familiar. We have
eight departments. And this is just the very high-level view of what the organization looks like,
beginning with the Board of Directors.
And then, of course, the Senior Leadership Team is highlighted in light blue. And then the
executive office team is in gray. And then, you can see that there is a dotted line from the
Manager of Internal Audit Reporting, also, to the Board of Directors.
I'll point out we have one team member that is not here tonight. That's Beverly Lindsay. And she
is our Employee Liaison. And you get to see her nephew on Sundays, scrambling-- oh, Bev.
Come up to the table, then-- squeeze you in. Just a trivia point. That's her nephew you see on the
Broncos team on Sundays.
DOUG TISDALE: A CU Buff.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah. That's true. Love to. Thank you for that. All right. Heather, next slide.
So I just want to begin covering some of the day-to-day. These are numbers that we often are not
talking about. They're often not out there. But we cover quite a scope of services and operations,
and these are numbers through the third quarter.
So a little over 1.8 million hours of bus operations-- 227,000 light rail, over 40,000 in commuter
rail. You can see the on-time performance of the bus network, about 86%. On-time performance
of the light rail a little over 91%, and then commuter rail, 97%.
And then, also, I just want to point out the service availability. And this is basically the service
that we put on the street versus the schedule. So in the bus case, 99.1% of what we schedule has
been delivered, 99.95% of light rail operation service scheduled is delivered, and 98.81% of
commuter rail operations. Let's move to the next slide, Heather.
So what do our customers say about RTD? So this is information based on market research from
2017 and 2018 surveys. And 84% of our customers rated RTD, on a five-point scale, either four
or five. And then, when we talk about quality, asking them about high-service quality, they
indicate that our overall quality is 4.2 based on a scale of one to five.

When we talk to them about trust and loyalty-- next slide-- 4.7 on a rating of one to five would
choose RTD again, and a score of 4.5 on a scale of one to five are likelihood to recommend RTD
to others, so continuing to get good marks from our customers. And if I don't mention later, as
part of our plan for 2019, we are going to be doing more customer surveys and more non-rider
surveys, beginning in 2019, than we've ever done before.
So for example, on customer service satisfaction surveys, our plan is to run those three times a
year instead of once every three years. And we'll schedule those to run about a month after we do
service changes.
So we'll be getting customer input before service changes through the public process, we'll put
the changes into place, and then we'll be doing customer surveys afterwards-- so three times a
year-- and then, also, with an emphasis, too, on working to get some non-rider information, as
well. Next slide, Heather.
So those were some good notes, some positive notes. But everybody knows we have our
challenges, as well. I'll begin with University of Colorado A Line and G Line. The main thing we
are underway with right now is a response to the Federal Railroad Administration letter that we
received in mid-November. We've had a variety of meetings with the Federal Railroad
Administration.
Last week, Chair Tisdale and myself met with a Deputy Administrator for the Federal Railroad
Administration in Washington DC. On Monday, we participated in about a three-hour call while
some of our contractor team was at headquarters meeting with the headquarter staff. And then,
just today, we spent about five to six hours-- Chair Tisdale and myself , Henry Stopplecamp, Joe
Christie-- with the DTP Board Chair and members of the DTP Leadership Team working
through the action plan that is due to the FRA on December 14.
And then, I also received a call from Ron Batory, who is the Administrator of the Federal
Railroad Administration, just late this afternoon, right around 4:30 to just talk about some of his
expectations. So a lot of activity going on there. And we'll have more on this later as we work
through the rest of the agenda items tonight.
Another big challenge is revenue service of the G Line. As the Board knows, you have the latest
information. Until we get this action plan submitted and it's approved by the FRA, we are still
working to optimize things on the G Line.
There's some good progress to report there. But the priority right now is to get this action plan
approved by the FRA and then, also, of course, towards revenue service of the G Line and quiet
zones on the A Line and the G Line.
A big challenge-- Denver Transit Partners, the claim that we have. And just to remind the Board,
that team of Denver Transit Partners consists from the organizations of Fluor International,
Balfour Beatty, John Laing, and Aberdeen.

The N Line schedule-- we are working to stand up our operations and also, at the same time, we
have our contractor, RRP-- Regional Rail Partners-- which is a joint venture between Graham
and Balfour Beatty that is working the design-build contract. And I think the Board is familiar
with some of the updates we've provided recently on that.
A continuing challenge is our bus and rail operator shortage. We've made some good strides this
year, largely because of some of the changes we made in the collective bargaining agreement in
terms of wages, in terms of quality of life issues, and then just in terms of just greater and greater
recruitment and retention efforts on behalf of the entire RTD team across all departments, really.
But we still have some mandated overtime, and we still have some dropped bus runs. But we're
continuing to try to improve on those. And those are challenges this year, and they'll remain
challenges for next year.
Of course, capital and operations and maintenance funding to complete FasTracks still remains a
challenge. We have four remaining corridors, so we don't want to lose sight of these. It's always
part of the plan.
And then a new category that I've added this year, and that's the future of sustainable-sustainable mobility. So lots and lots of talk nationally about different kinds of mobility options.
What does mobility look like? What is the future of public transit? Lots of different
organizations doing pilots, lots of technology.
We are into those discussions. We're doing things. We'll cover some of those things as the night
progresses. But I think the question is, what is going to be sustainable as we look at mobility and
transportation in the future?
All right. Moving on to departmental reviews. And again, I won't hit everything. I'll try to pick
the highlight of the highlight. And every year, it's very challenging as we ask the departments,
give us three accomplishments, three goals, and three challenges. And it's very hard to narrow
those down, as you well know.
So we'll try to just pick some select ones, beginning with Bus Operations. And of course, this is
headed up by our Chief Operations Officer, Michael Ford and then, under Assistant General
Manager of Bus Operations Fred Worthen. Some highlight accomplishments-- hired and trained
182 coach operators and 52 maintenance team professionals.
So we are in a positive delta in terms of we are bringing more people on than we are losing,
either through attrition or promotion or through retirement. We have a lot of coach operators
with 11 or more years of safe driving records.
We've had a lot of events-- this is important to point out-- a lot of events that were supported by
bus operations that were impacts to bus service throughout the District. Some of those were bus
bridges. We've listed at least 35 bus bridges to support the different kinds of disruptions we had
on the rail side. Most of those are related to ongoing maintenance of the rail system or tie-ins

with the new systems like Southeast Rail, North Metro, or the University of Colorado A Line and
G Line.
The other key thing I'll point out in accomplishments is the implementation of the changes
associated with the new Collective Bargaining Agreement, or CBA. There's been a lot of
challenges for us to be able to do that. I think the Board has heard me say before that all of the
service changes-- practically all of the service changes-- that we've done in 2018 are a result of
trying to balance out our human resources and meeting the new requirements that we have in the
Collective Bargaining Agreement, so a big goal to get that done, or a big accomplishment.
Goals. We're going to be working on the selection of contracted services vendors next year with
a couple of RFPs going out. We'll be looking at some new coaches to bring in. We're looking at
doing some unique things in new-hire mechanic and body shop technician training that will help
us in that recruitment area and, of course, implementing the restructured service network to
support the opening of the G Line.
Our challenges. One that's very impactful is the regional growth, the congestion and major
construction projects and their impacts on our ability to deliver service. We think this impacts
our on-time performance. It impacts trip time.
And then, of course, that's one of the things that we think is one of the contributing factors that is
impacting bus ridership is that longer trip time due mainly to congestion. And then, of course,
the other big area of challenge in here is just going to be meeting staffing needs within the bus
group.
So Rail Operations, again under Chief Operations Officer Michael Ford and Assistant General
Manager Dave Jensen. Major accomplishments-- I think the Board will recall that we hosted and
participated in the APTA International Rail Conference and Rodeo. This was a major
undertaking, especially the rodeo, by our Operations team and then, also, members of our
Communications team. But it was across the entire District. So you might see this mentioned
more than once tonight.
We closed out our ADA settlement. We continue to work on the retrofits of our light rail
vehicles. And we're starting to receive and commission, I think it's 29-- is it 29?-- 29 new light
rail vehicles. And of course, the new light rail vehicles are coming configured with the new ADA
layout.
Another big accomplishment was-- the Board may recall that we did a big state of good repair
project in the downtown loop that was very necessary and that was a big part of work. And there
was 10 days of bus bridging that we had to do around that. But again, it was necessary to keep
our system in a state of good repair.
So goals. We have a light rail extension that we're going to be opening next year. So that is the
Southeast Rail Extension. It's one of the goals for Rail Operations, to get all of the hiring and
commissioning and testing in order to open that line and then, also, to have our North Metro
Division Stand-up to be ready by fall. And then, of course, staffing on expansion of light rail

operations and looking at doing a greater effort on light rail quality control and technical support
very similar to what we do on the bus side.
Challenges. I'll hit them quickly. Staffing remains a big challenge across the board. And this, I
should say, in case I miss it later, this isn't just in the operations side. We're seeing this across the
entire District. We still get a large number of applicants for a variety of different jobs. But
finding the qualified applicants is becoming more and more challenging.
But the good news is we get a lot of applicants, so there's lots of interest in people coming to
RTD. The other big challenge in Rail Operations is moving more into an expanded operations
and maintenance environment while we're bridging the gap between our original system, opened
in 1994-- so 24 years old now-- bridging the gap between managing our old legacy-type systems
and our new systems.
Moving into Paratransit. This is, again, under Michael Ford, our Chief Operations Officer, and
Senior Manager Paul Hamilton and Manager Larry Buter, who you all know. A lot of
accomplishments happening in the realm of paratransit. A lot of them are towards working on
improvements, particularly around process. One is resolving paratransit eligibility timelines and
working with customers to get into our system. We've installed mobile data terminals, and we
awarded a new contract for the call center.
In terms of goals, a variety here, all aimed mainly at productivity. Again, we're still looking to
improve eligibility processes. And a very big part is to continue to engage members of the
disability community in discussions regarding all of our ADA services and requirements and to
eliminate any barriers to using Access-a-Ride services and even our fixed route services.
Challenges. Again, staffing-- I think we're seeing one predominant theme, certainly, throughout
the presentation-- improving our service delivery, and then also looking at expanded partnerships
with transportation network companies, non-emergency medical transportation, or taxi to
hopefully reduce demand for the RTD revenue vehicles and trying to find a good balance there
and a good mix of different kinds of services, all the while assuring that we meet our
accessibility requirements.
Service development-- and this is another area that's under the Chief Operations Officer Michael
Ford and Senior Manager Jeff Becker, and, of course, Jessie Carter, all people that are very
familiar to you as we work through our service adjustments several times a year. Lots of
accomplishments in this area. We really had to cull back on the number that we had. It was very
difficult to pick highlights.
But we've procured new scheduling and runcutting software. We've completed working with
cities to select transit priority corridors and specific treatments that we could use. We've
implemented priority treatments on Broadway-Lincoln and consolidated bus stops on six routes.
And we're working on implement a transit signal priority-- or completed-- on US 36 and East
Colfax Avenue.

Regarding goals, one of the main things here is to provide our customers a better understanding
of our system to navigate our various modes so that they can accomplish the trips that they want
to. We continue to work with public agencies to promote and implement transit priority and
shared riding.
Challenges. Lots of regulatory requirements-- ADA, Title VI equity, and other items. The new
collective bargaining agreement requirements, while we've done a lot this year, it's still
challenging for us to do all of those items-- build in those quality of life issues that we agreed to,
meet the new wages-- and do all of that within the available human resources, equipment
availability, and funding that we have.
And then, understanding and expectations regarded anticipated new forms of mobility. So I
touched a little bit on the future of sustainable mobility. And this is an area that we will continue
to work. There's always lots of questions. And we have things in place to address a lot of these
things.
OK. Shifting from operations into capital programs. And this is, of course, headed up by Henry
Stopplecamp, AGM of Capital Programs. And you can see the org chart there and also in the
packet. A number of accomplishments here.
The main one, I think, was the work that we've been able to do with City and County of Denver
and the Downtown stakeholders on developing solutions for the 16th Street Mall. I'll talk again
about that a little bit later in planning, as well. But in regards to the capital side, we've started the
design build process, or the partners have. That's being led by the City and County of Denver,
but we're highly involved.
There's been a number of state of good repair projects in the existing light rail corridors,
including that 10-day rehabilitation project I mentioned earlier, some bus system and facilities.
And a lot of these projects appear, as you know, in the approved 2017 Strategic Budget Plan.
We developed the plans for the 15L project. That project is out on the streets for bid right now.
And we finished the remodel of what we call the 711 Building. It's not a 7-Eleven market
building. 711 is its street address. And I'm happy to say that the Customer Care group just moved
into this new facility.
The Customer Care and Telephone Information Center-- brand new facility-- they moved in over
the weekend. And it's an incredible improvement. I don't know if you've ever been up to the
space where Customer Care and the TIC was located. But we had lots of people shoved in a
space where they were sharing workstations, sharing equipment. Now, they all have their
individual work spaces, individual equipment, and it's a great improvement for their working
environment.
The other group that's moved into a bay of that building is some of the Treasury functions. And
these are, I would say, non-revenue, non-cash handling functions of the Treasury Department-so equipment, ticket vending machines, and those kinds of things that they work on, and
maintaining parts there.

Goals for Capital Programs. Place the G Line in service and institute quiet zones on the
commuter rail lines-- top of mind in this group and in this department and for the organization.
We need to do some infrastructure that'll be required for our Stand-up in North Metro, another
high priority. Open the Southeast Rail Extension. This is the group that oversees the design-build
contract for that work. And then continue to implement state of good repair projects across the
District.
Challenges. Just addressing the variety of projects that we have in front of us; successfully work
with stakeholders to meet their expectations while we keep projects on schedule and within
budget; and then, of course, transitioning from predominantly what has been a large-scale capital
construction program to being able to finish the projects we have on hand; being able to react
nimbly to future projects as we identify new funding for those; and then also be able to support
our state of good repair program.
Communications. And this area, currently, we have a vacancy in the AGM. And that is under
recruitment, and we hope to have that position filled very shortly. We also have another Senior
Manager of Media that is vacant. We hope to have that filled very shortly, and then another
Senior Manager position that will be advertised shortly.
Lots of accomplishments, again, in Communications. Very challenging for us to be able to cull
these down. Again, you'll see a mention on the APTA International Rail Rodeo and Conference.
Lots of different projects that get communicated through the Communications Department with
the work of Public Relations and Marketing.
One was including the initiatives for the R Line outreach. Ridership is up about 11% on the R
Line, largely, I think, as a result of just promoting, promoting, promoting, and then also, as
people become more familiar with that service out in that location.
The new fare structure-- the Marketing team and Public Relations team will be the primary folks
developing all of those outreach materials, all of the advertising materials for that. Mobile
ticketing-- we've had recruitment campaigns and a number of others.
Two first place APTA AdWheels. I think the Board is used to seeing at least a couple of
AdWheel awards every year that are given nationally by APTA. Another exciting thing is done
with some of the work in Marketing-- but this is, really, a joint effort across Operations and
Service Planning, as well-- but refreshing and renaming the Call-n-Ride to FlexRide.
And we didn't do this without any input. We basically utilized customer-focused market research
as we embarked on what would be a good name for this service as we rename it and retool it. We
hosted 18 telephone town halls, including one in Spanish just recently. And we hope to do even
more of those next year.
We've had several great employee events, including the employee recognition event, the
employee awards event, Veterans Day event, and then, on Friday, we have the General Managers
Forum, which, I will be presenting to employees that are able to attend. And the Board, of

course, is invited. And that's on the two-week calendar, but another big event that's produced by
the Communications group.
Getting into goals, main thing for Communications for 2019-- develop and implement a
comprehensive strategic communications plan, release of a new rider alert system, and working
very hard and diligently to proactively and transparently communicate with stakeholders, media,
and other interested parties regarding RTD service programs and issues. We'll also continue to
assure that RTD's well-represented at all levels of government-- federal, state, and local-- and
we'll hear an update on the Government Relations Committee.
Building and putting out and celebrating and working the RTD's 50th anniversary campaign. So I
don't know-- we've maybe mentioned it a time or two-- but RTD's 50th anniversary is in 2019.
So we have an outline. And we are working on things to celebrate that as we get into the actual
anniversary point, which is in July. And then, I mentioned the conduct of customer service
surveys three times a year, plus the non-rider service.
Challenges around Communications. G and N Line messaging and time frame for opening. We
try to be as transparent as possible and share as much information as we know. Unfortunately,
sometimes we don't have the opening date, and that's what people want to know. Or they want to
know, when are we going to have quiet zones on the A Line? We don't know those dates yet. But
we share all of the information that we have.
Staying ahead with proactive and transparent communication to stakeholders and engaging
broader cross-sections of metropolitan area communities, including the non-rider. We want to be
able to get information from non-riders. What are their perceptions about the RTD system? What
are the barriers that they perceive? And then, how can we attack knocking down those barriers to
get more of our non-customers on the system?
Finance and Administration, headed up by Heather McKillop, our Chief Financial Officer. A lot
of good accomplishments, again, in this area. The first one I want to mention that we have talked
a little bit about but the successful negotiation of the collective bargaining agreement. So that
was, again, a effort that goes across all departments, but it's largely in Labor Relations where a
lot of the lifting occurs. But as I said, lots of folks involved in that.
And we did this before the expiration of the contract. So it's an accomplishment that occurred in
February. But sometimes we lose track of what just happened last month, let alone a few months
ago. So a huge accomplishment for us and, I think, a very successful accomplishment.
Successful adoption of the fare study recommendation. A lot of work went into this effort, as the
Board knows, to reach a point where we were able to have information for the Board of Directors
to adopt the fare structure and fares going forward into 2019.
And then, of course, a lot has been done with mobile ticketing, including the Ticket Wallet, the
three-hour multi-directional pass, and the monthly pass, are all on mobile ticketing as of now. So
we're a little ahead of the curve on what we're doing there.

Goals. Implementation of the low-income discount program by July 1, 2019. So a couple big
things that need to happen here. One is just standing up the eligibility program. And Heather and
her team are working with the state on doing that.
And then, we have some things under the Enterprise Resource Management Program, or ERP-where we're going to be looking to replace some of the Oracle modules with some other modules
around human resource tools-- expected by the end of next year. We'll be looking at sourcing and
procurement, vendor management model by the end of next year, and then inventory
management system also by the end of next year.
And then, we had a lot of interaction with this group with the IT systems and recruitment and
hiring in positions that we need to Stand up our North Metro project and get all of that work
done by December of 2019. Challenges in Finance and Administration-- providing our day-today transit service and maintaining our RTD assets in a state of good repair, and all of that in an
uncertain funding environment.
So I think the Board's familiar with our financial projections in terms of sales tax growth. And in
fact, we'll have some financial reporting tonight. And while sales taxes continue to grow, I would
say they're growing at more of a sustainable rate and not a expansion rate.
Staffing-- and this goes towards Human Resources-- and the HR group, along with our Legal.
Well, everybody's busy across the whole organization. But sometimes it's just amazing as you're
connecting with different people in different divisions and the load that we're putting on them to
support the functions that we need within the organization.
And this is one where TIP is not very visible is the Human Resources piece. But they are
incredibly busy helping us staff the organization with the quality candidates that we need. And
then, of course, another challenge in Finance is meeting our 1.2 times debt service coverage.
General Counsel, of course, headed up by Rolf Asphaug, and the General Counsel Department, a
couple different divisions within there. We're keeping the attorneys too busy for my pleasure.
We'd like to give you a little bit of a break over there. But we'll see how next year goes.
Legal Services accomplished quite a bit while managing, probably, the two biggest claims that
this organization has ever had. They were heavily involved in the CBA negotiations, as well,
managed many other legal matters, and then worked a lot on process improvement regarding
procedures to help us better manage risk and different things that they do over in the Legal
Department to keep us compliant and out of trouble.
Risk Management is part of the General Counsel group. And they worked with Accounts
Payable to establish a way to pay injured employees directly to their accounts rather than having
to get paper checks. And then, also, Information Governance and Management is part of the
General Counsel group. They've converted all of our management directives into management
procedures. We've put them into a format that is standardized.

This was something that's taken us a couple of years to do. They finished it up ahead of the
schedule that they put in for themselves. And it was really something necessary that we needed
to do to get our standard procedures down and then, also, to get a lot of things that weren't quite
written procedures, to get them down in writing.
Goals under General Counsel. Of course, in Legal Services, in addition to successfully resolving
legal issues and claims, they'll be working on rolling out a new practice management system and
eDiscovery review platform and other process improvements to help their efficiencies.
Risk Management is going to lead the way in starting a light duty program for those workers that
are out on an on-the-job injury so we can utilize them in a temporary role until they're back in
their permanent positions. And then, Information Governance and Management to work more
effectively with all of our departments in the document control and information management
piece.
Challenges. Probably the main one that Legal is tasked with and doing a lot of work is resolving
the Eagle claim and, at the same time, manage all other legal issues for RTD. Risk Management- continuing to move from manual data to more automated processes.
And in Information Governance, just helping us get better and better, continuous improvement
with document control, and doing something to manage our paper records at our records
retention facility, which is not an ideal facility. And so it needs some work or a different plan.
And we're working on that.
Let's step into Planning, of course headed up by Bill Van Meter, our Assistant General Manager
of Planning. Some good accomplishments in this department, as well. The Mobility Choice
Blueprint-- the draft is out and, I believe, was reviewed last week, Bill. And we're going to do an
update tonight. So we'll look forward to Bill and his team doing that.
16th Street Mall-- there's been a locally preferred alternative selected. And we obtained a Board
approval and agreement with Denver on RTD's share of our future capital and maintenance costs.
And I'll just remind everyone that we were able to negotiate with City and County of Denver a
cap on both the RTD capital contribution and the annual operations and maintenance that RTD
will contribute. So that was a very good milestone for us to hit.
And then, also, the generation of the FasTracks program overview. We put together an executive
summary document. FasTracks has been with us since 2004. And we wanted to try to capture as
much information in this document as we can so that we can very collaboratively and
transparently share that information with our stakeholders and anyone that might be interested.
A number of goals in the Planning group. Transportation Transformation-- of course, our
comprehensive plan. This is going to be a large area of the Planning group as we take on the
Comprehensive Operational Assessment beginning next year. We're working on the
requirements for the scope of work for the request for proposals that will be out soon.

Regional BRT feasibility and First and Last Mile projects-- completing these studies with
actionable recommendations. And, of course, in our Continuous Improvement and Innovation
group, expanding integration network teams across RTD to support employees and supervisors
in training and utilizing continuous improvement techniques.
Our challenges-- as with any of our preliminary engineering and other kinds of projects when
we're working on corridor-wide kinds of things, there's lots of expectations to manage. There's
lots of stakeholders involved. And the biggest one we have in works right now is State Highway
119 Bus Rapid Transit project. That preliminary engineering is underway, and the NEPA
process. Our challenges will be to complete that work and achieve stakeholder and Board
alignment on all the recommendations.
Similarly, as we embark on our Transportation Transformation and comprehensive plan,
managing our stakeholder expectations related to that, the 16th Street Mall, and BRT visibility,
and a few other items in Planning. And employee communications process-- this is an area when
we survey employees that they like to see improvements.
And we are working towards launching of an ongoing employee survey approach. So the Board
may recall that a number of years ago, we did a very comprehensive, very broad employee
survey. Our intent here is to be more of an ongoing process, gathering information more than
once a year and certainly more than a few times a year.
Moving to Safety, Security, and Asset Management, of course, under Mike Meader, our Chief
Safety Officer. A large number of accomplishments here, as well. The Public Transportation
Agency Safety Plan, that has been submitted to PUC. We're going to look at that again later
tonight with the Board of Directors and, hopefully, gain your approval so that we can then
submit that for the Commissioner's review and approval at the Public Utilities Commission.
We, once again, received the Department of Homeland Security Transportation Security
Administration Gold Standard Award baseline assessment. I believe this is the third time we
have received this. And this means we're scoring something over the 90 percentile-MIKE MEADER: 98%.
DAVE GENOVA: 98 percentile when they come out and do a assessment of all of our security
protocols and procedures. And I believe we're going to have them at a future meeting to present
that award to us. We've implemented high-visibility policing model for a bus. We've done some
work with our continuity of operations plan and mass notification system. And then, we
completed and submitted our Transit Asset Management Plan, which is a requirement under the
new FTA rules.
Getting into goals. Of course, the big issue here, or the big area, is going to be our continuing
compliance with new safety rules from the Federal Transit Administration, largely related to our
Transit Agency Safety Plan and implementation of that plan, implementation of training around
safety management systems, and those kinds of things.

We'll be putting out an RFP for contract security services. This is a very large and necessary
contract, so it's always a huge effort for us to develop this RFP and go through that and go
through that process. And there's always lots of interest in that contract. And they provide an
incredibly valuable service for us, not just security but working as ambassadors out on our
system.
We will be increasing law enforcement presence and security services throughout the District.
It's part of one of the Board-adopted strategic goals for 2019. And then, of course, working on
our 2019 asset management system roadmap towards ISO certification.
Challenges. Capture of data across multiple different kinds of databases so we can standardize
this for hazard management and liability and accident information; continuing our adoption of
Safety Management System-- SMS-- culture and safety; reporting feedback roles and
responsibilities. We're seeing an increase in security-related events in and around the RTD
system.
So while we continue to invest more in security, we are starting to see some changes in the data
that we collect. And so that is a concern and will continue to be a challenge for us. Because we
want the system to be safe and secure for our patrons, number one. And then, of course, staffing
again coming up within the Safety group.
So that goes through all of the formal RTD departments. I now want to talk a little bit about
some divisions that report directly into the Executive Office. And those functions are Civil
Rights, Materials Management, Internal Audit, and then Employee Liaison.
I'm going to talk about the Employee Liaison efforts because I don't have anything in the slide
deck, but I want to make sure the Board is aware of this. So Beverly Lindsay is in this role and
has been since this role was incepted.
And it reports directly to me. And really, Beverly's role and responsibility is to be available to
employees, to be their advocate, and to really be the eyes and ears for me and the rest of the
Senior Leadership Team on what is happening throughout the RTD District in terms of what the
employees are feeling, what are they saying, what are their issues, what are their concerns?
So Beverly gets involved in just getting a lot of conversations, a lot of listening, providing a lot
of advice and coaching to people on how to navigate things when they need to, and of course,
most importantly, advising me and briefing me and the Senior Leadership Team of the kinds of
things that she's seen happening within the organization. So it's an incredibly important role for
us.
We'll switch to Civil Rights, of course, headed up by Zamy Silva, our Senior Manager. And a
number of accomplishments here. One that I'll mention is the ADA office reviewed a large
number of construction projects-- over 72 construction projects-- as we've been moving through
those projects throughout the District to make sure that we're meeting the requirements in terms
of the design and construction of these projects.

We established the ADA Hero Awards through the Advisory Committee for People with
Disabilities. And I think we had our first round of awards. Was that just last month, Zamy? So
very well-received by that committee and that group.
Civil Rights division propelled a number of community partnerships. And then the EEO office
has been busy, as well, with revising investigative policies, kicking off a new EEO workplace
training that will continue into next year. And then, I should mention-- we don't even have it on
the slide-- but of course, we are meeting and exceeding our DBE and SBE goals.
And the FasTracks-- so you've heard me use a figure of $1 billion of the $5.6 billion of the
FasTracks investment has gone to DBEs, SBEs, minority-owned businesses, small businesses.
That number now is $1.2 billion, I believe, Zamy?
ZAMY SILVA: Over.
DAVE GENOVA: Over $1.2 billion. So that number continues to increase as this group's
program, which is incredibly, incredibly well-managed, continues to be a model for the country,
really. Goals in Civil Rights-- continue to monitor and manage ADA compliance, complete the
EEO workplace training for all RTD employees.
And by the way, we're doing this delivery in a classroom, face to face. We're not doing it through
computer modules or anything because we think it's important to touch every employee. So this
is a huge effort and a big effort that we're doing. And then another big thing we'll be doing in
2019 is completing the FTA triennial DBE goal and methodology process.
And this is where we evaluate our current DBE goal. I think the last goal has been around 24%,
Zamy? 24%. And so we'll evaluate based on the work we have coming up, the opportunity that
exists in the community, and a variety of different things.
And Zamy and her team, then, will put together a proposal to the FTA on if we're going to
change, if it's going to remain at 24%, if we're going to increase it or decrease it. And that's
always a very big effort. And I think the year before-- or not the year before but the time before-it was maybe around 21%-- 20%? Because we increased it a few-ZAMY SILVA: 19%.
DAVE GENOVA: It was 19%, went up to 24%. So we'll see where we go with this next
evaluation. But it's a huge effort. Civil Rights challenges. Again ADA compliance, working
through all of those-- and not just compliance but also expectations, so things that are, perhaps,
beyond compliance.
And then, of course, meeting new requirements through FTA. And then, also, with our division
workload, we are doing fewer of the really large-scale construction projects, and we're doing a
lot more of smaller construction projects and O&M projects. So from a compliance piece, there's
a lot more volume that has to be done in terms of auditing and compliance.

Moving on to Internal Audit accomplishments. So we've had a lot of good things happening here.
And this is Ann Marie's area, as you all know, our Manager of Internal Audit. This year, she has
secured some assistance through contract assistance.
I think that we had maybe mentioned the last time that Ann Marie did an update that our Senior
Auditor has retired. So we are recruiting for that position. We have some applicants. But we're
sorting through that, and that's in process.
Another thing that we did this year is that, instead of using some of the money that we had
budgeted for contracting employees, we want to actually bring in a full-time employee into the
audit group. And so we're, right now, recruiting for two audit positions to work with Ann Marie,
so where we previously had just one.
But Ann Marie's a little light right now with Kevin Parker's retirement. She does have some
contract assistants working with her. But we're working diligently to get those positions filled.
Goals for '19, of course, will be to complete the Annual Audit Plan for 2019, which the Board
will see next week at the Finance Administration and Audit Committee. Other goals is to secure
competent audit staff. I think out of some of the applicants we saw, we would like to maybe see a
little bit more qualifications than what we saw. So this is, I think, a very challenging area to find
qualified people with the right skill sets that we're looking for.
So that will be a challenge for us, as well as a goal. And then, of course, working with another
big part of Ann Marie's job is working with management to ensure that there's implementation of
agreed recommendations in the audit findings and reports that she does throughout the year.
Challenges will be finding the right staff, and then, again, just around resources is what I would
say in this particular area. So it's more than on my radar screen. Ann Marie's office is just one
down from me, so we're talking every day about how things are going. And I understand where
she is workload-wise, and we're going to get her the assistance that she needs and the resources
she needs.
Materials Management-- Brian Iacono, another group of unsung heroes, like I talked about the
HR folks, the Human Resources folks, that don't have much visibility. Brian and his team, I
think, are another group. Very interesting. Look at these numbers. 5,593 purchase orders or
contracts totaling over $95 million in 2018. Brian's group also does the auction of our surplus
and obsolete District property-- a little over $100,000 recovered.
And then, they also have the responsibility for the inventory and the stocking and ordering of all
the parts that are used across the entire District. And they maintain that very well. They achieved
0.96% stock-out level, which is better than their goal of 1.5%, so they continue to do a great job
there.
Goals for 2019-- continue to award and administer contracts to support the organization,
maintain the stock-out level, and then implementation of a new inventory forecasting software
and contract management software. So we're hoping to build some efficiencies.

Challenges. Maintaining the stock-out level, implementation of that software I just talked about,
and then, of course, this is the group that, day-to-day, monitors the cost of diesel fuel as we work
towards when we're going to lock in and at what price we're going to lock in. And they monitor
that every day and are following and reporting the trends. And I'll remind the Board we just
recently locked for the rest of this year and 2019, right? Yeah. So thanks to Brian and his team.
OK. We're just about done-- just a few more slides to get through. This is the Board of Directors
2019 Strategic Priorities, so just a quick reminder of what the Board adopted at the retreat in
March of 2018. Enhanced safety and security, address service and human capital, ensure fiscal
sustainability, address future transportation needs and methods, and ensure asset management
and state of good repair.
I talked about some challenges and priorities earlier. Some additional ones-- fiscal sustainability,
workforce, asset management, state of good repair, aging bus facilities, regulations, identifying
funding to complete FasTracks, getting the G Line open and getting quiet zones, and any other
kinds of things that I covered earlier, won't repeat.
As far as vision and convergence, where we're headed, we continue a huge effort towards safety
culture. We are positioned to lead the Transportation Transformation in this region to be the
regional mobility integrator. A lot of that work is going to happen through our Comprehensive
Operational Analysis and system optimization plan.
We are looking for that effort, which is probably going to last about a year and a half or so. It's
going to have a high degree of Board engagement and a high degree of public engagement,
community engagement. That will, hopefully, set our vision and plan for upcoming years as we
work through that with, of course, the Board of Directors.
Asset management, state of good repair, and fiscal sustainability-- we have to do these well. If
we don't do these well, we won't be doing anything at all. And this is an area of continued focus.
The general state of the District. I will just start by we have an incredible team of RTD
employees. And they get all the credit, all the recognition, across the entire District. It takes
every one of them to make it happen. And they do it, and they do it well every day.
We're a safe service. We're reliable. Our agency continues to perform at a high level, meeting
over 80% of our performance measures. We're operating within budget, largely on time, meeting
our goals. We continue to receive national recognition and awards.
We are uniquely positioned to lead regional mobility strategy. We're financially stable. Now,
we're managing competing priorities to do that. It's not easy. But we're doing it, and we're doing
it through the suggestions of the staff and, of course, the leadership of the Board.
We're a transparent, collaborative partner. Our stakeholders know what we know. We continue to
focus on continuous improvement in innovation, and we're positioned well to continue to meet
the goals and deliver service.

It was a little longer than I had hoped to get through. I appreciate the Board's patience and the
audience's patience. But I think it's important. It's a lot of information. And I think it's important
to go through it and to recognize, in one sitting, all of the various things that this District has
accomplished, and then also to point out the various challenges that we have and the things that
we need to improve on.
It's not all positive. We've got our work cut out for us. But overall, this agency is doing a great
job. And that's a testament to the people, the employees.
DOUG TISDALE: Hear, hear.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much for that exhaustive, and exhausting, review. Appreciate
it. There are several Board members who would like to speak. First off is Claudia Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Lubow. General Manager Genova, I want to thank you
very much for that high-level overview, and I'm glad it was high-level. It was excellent. And I
appreciate your enthusiasm, your passion, and your energy for this agency, your staff, your
Board of Directors, and all of your constituents. So thank you for that.
I had a couple of questions. I may have misunderstood you. Just recently, you were saying about
the strategic goals. And you mentioned that it was the Board that adopted the strategic goals at
this Board meeting, or our retreat in 2018. And I think you meant 2017. Is that right-- for 2018?
Because 2018 is for 2019.
DAVE GENOVA: That's correct Director Folska. The goals that I mentioned-- I could have been
more clear-- those were the 2019 strategic priorities that I just listed. There were five of them.
And they were the ones adopted at the 2018
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Right, that you're going to be looking forward to 2019.
DAVE GENOVA: Yes, that are for next year.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. I know it can be a little confusing for me. So two questions. And I
apologize for asking this because I feel like I, after all this time, should know it. And the more
that I've learned, the more confused I become.
So can you talk a little bit about the farebox revenue? I think we're always hovering about 20%,
22%. What is required by the state legislature for our farebox revenue percentage of our overall
budget?
DAVE GENOVA: I'm going to ask Heather to respond to that.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather McKillop. So the state farebox recovery-- they don't
exactly call it that term, but that's how we refer to it-- is a much different number and calculation
than the industry standard. And I believe the percentage comes out to be about 50%-something.
And we exceed that significantly.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: 50%?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. It's 51% or something. So to get to the exact numbers and where
we are, I can get that information and present that to the Board. But it's a much higher number
than the transit industry standard, which is right around 20%.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So did I just make up 30% by the state legislature required by the farebox
recovery?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I believe it's much higher than that, based on that calculation. It varies
by year. But it's a much higher calculation. But I can get you that exact number and the
calculation.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I think it would be good for everyone to get a handle on what that is
required. Because 50% seems-- I mean, I get that when we're hiring contractors versus in-house,
but just the farebox revenue-- OK. Thank you. I'll look forward to hearing from you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I'm not finished.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, sorry. Go ahead.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: This is my first question. Mr. Genova, the second question I thought that
was interesting you mentioned in your presentation was sustainability. And sustainability, in my
experience, is a very squirrelly kind of term. Nobody really has an excellent definition of it, and
it's different for every person of every industry, whatever they're doing.
Recently, the United Nations had an Intergovernmental Panel report on Climate Change. And
you might have heard about it. It's pretty much a doom and gloom scenario for the world's
population.
But in the report, it says that 24% of the greenhouse gases-- they call those GHGs-- 24% are
caused by fossil fuels like the carbons and the methane and that kind of thing. And so it's oil and
gas. And 14% is caused by transportation-- all forms of transportation.
What, if anything, have you started to consider about addressing sustainability in terms of maybe
moving from fossil fuels to fuel our fleets to 100% electric? And have you thought about the cost
of changing over, if at all? That's all. Thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you. So we do have a fairly large electric fleet on the Mall shuttle. The
Mall shuttle fleet-- 36 buses, which my current understanding is it's the largest subfleet of
electric buses at any transit agency in the country right now. Of course, that's subject to change
as more organizations get into electrification.

We are certainly looking at the trade-offs between operating diesel buses and electric buses and
all of the variety of different costs, so not only the cost of fuel and maintenance but then, also,
the cost of electricity and then the cost of facility upgrades and things. So it is certainly
something that we continue to analyze and look at as we look at the future of our bus fleet
replacements.
Right now, in our immediate procurements, we don't have any more electric procurements, I
don't think, that we're looking at. But we also have our eye on the VW settlement, where we're
hoping to get some of that funding to be able to go strictly towards electric buses.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you very much. Director Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have a question relating to safety-- employee safety.
In the last couple of years, there's been a lot of natural gas leaks, which have led to explosions
and fires. What kind of training do we give employees about evacuating buildings or recognizing
natural gas and those kinds of hazards?
DAVE GENOVA: I'll ask Mike Meader to respond.
MIKE MEADER: Sure. We actually do practice evacuations for any number of reasons. We've
had a couple of instances, actually, during the construction here around our building where
employees smelled something unusual. Typically, what we found was there wasn't any kind of
leak of natural gas or anything, but it was exhaust from large construction equipment that was
coming into the building.
So we do talk about that. We're establishing some more training classes, more training courses,
that we're going to provide to people who are generally more exposed to those kinds of things in
the maintenance departments and whatnot that we're going to be rolling out across the
organization.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
MIKE MEADER: Welcome.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Walker, please.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So last week, I heard a lot of good presentations. And that was, by far,
one of the best ones that I heard in the last week. So thanks for that presentation. I don't have any
questions, just a couple of comments. So I was glad to see that the challenges weren't hidden or
buried anywhere in the report, that they were upfront, and we acknowledge what needs to be
done and the hurdles that need to be overcome to get there.
The sustainable mobility-- what I'm picking up from the conference is-- I think I might have
mentioned this before-- is that I think it's, from various agencies, they're saying that we need-that they, that we-- as an industry need to focus on a few things and do them well. And those
where we might have trouble reaching that goal, then, we partner.

So there's no harm in having scooters all over the city if we learn how to work together-- or
electric vehicles, pickup and drop-off in various places-- if we learn how to work together so
we're not stumbling over each other. To that end, curb management. That wasn't specifically
identified as a challenge for bus stops, although I'm sure it's recognized easily.
I saw it today and last night on the way home. That's recognized in Blueprint Denver. Curb
management is specifically identified in there. And it's recognized, at least during discussion if
not in the print version, as an impediment to transit mobility.
So that's been recognized not only by this agency but by at least one outside entity in this region.
I'm sure there are others. I'm just familiar with Blueprint Denver because I happen to be on that
task force.
I think it's really important that we get to non-riders to find out their view of us, their interactions
with us, whether or not they ever intend to ride the system. It doesn't work for everybody in
every instance, and some in no instance at all. But it's still good to know their perception of us
and their views on how we can better fit together, just like with scooters and bikes and all the
other-- I just saw, like, 20 new Lime bikes around Denver today.
I think they just materialize out of thin air. Anyway, so I like what I'm hearing. It's what I'm
hearing around all of the country to the question about electrified vehicles.
I know that there are some utilities-- electric utilities around the country-- that are becoming
more involved in talking with transit agencies and other fleet operators about how they can better
assist in that program and implementing the rollout of electric vehicles. And that could be
infrastructure in the public domain, like in the right-of-way-- so distribution, transmission,
consulting on types of vehicles, at times of operation and times to recharge-- things like that.
So I know that that's a nationwide conversation that I hear from both of the lives that I get to live.
So it's exciting, what I've read and hear. And thank you for that presentation from you, Mr.
Genova, and all of the staff. Thanks. That's it.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you very much. Director Archuleta, please. Yes.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: How's it going, guys? It was a good-- it was a good presentation,
Dave. Maybe this is off the subject because I know we're going into executive session later on.
The FRA is going to pull a waiver or something. What exactly-- I mean, exactly-- do they want?
What is it that RTD or DPT is not doing correctly? What is that they're moaning and groaning
about is what I want to know?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, let me just give a couple responses, and then we'll really get into the
detail a little bit later. But the primary concern is that we were issued a long-term, or what some
call permanent-- five-year waiver, for the University of Colorado A Line and the B Line. And in
that waiver, we have certain requirements around the grade crossing activation time.

So let's say that number-- just be patient with me a second-- let's say it's 30 seconds. We're
supposed to be there either up to five seconds before that or up to 15 seconds after that. So we
call that a buffer time. The main issue that the FRA has concern about now is the percentage of
those activations that are falling outside of that buffer time.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: So you're talking about five seconds or six seconds. Is that what
they're talking about?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, it depends on the specific activation. But generally speaking, I can tell
you that probably over 90% of the activations fall within that buffer time. And the remainder
could mostly be explained by some kind of anomaly. But the FRA wants that number to be in the
high 90s. They don't want it to be at 90%.
So there's already been some improvements made since the FRA letter was issued that have
helped that percentage go up a little bit. But that's the predominant thing that the FRA wants to
see addressed.
And then, there were a few other items in the letter, general compliance issues. And a number of
them have already been addressed. And we will emphasize that in our response. But I'd like to
cover it in more detail later.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: No, I understand.
DAVE GENOVA: That's the main piece.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: But my question, so, what 10% of the time we're eight seconds, or is it
five? I mean, how late are we? They're threatening-- I read an article in the paper how, we're
going to shut the A Line down and la, la, la and sis-boom-ba. And I wonder, well, what exactly is
the parameter? Where does it fall? Is it we're 10 seconds? Is it 15 seconds?
DAVE GENOVA: There's a variety of numbers, depending on the circumstances. And again,
this gets into a lot of detail. And I'll provide some information later to the Board that you can see
it in terms of a graphic.
But when we plot the data, it looks very much like a bell curve. And then, we kind of have this
tail that goes outside of the longest activation when it goes outside of the buffer time. And so it's
very few that are a very long activation. Most of them are pretty close to the buffer time.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: Give me an example. How-- is it OK? Sorry. What is one of the worst
times it did? Was it 10 seconds? 20 seconds? 30?
DAVE GENOVA: I'll ask Henry to address that.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Well, if we take the-- this is Henry Stopplecamp-- if we take the
University of Colorado A Line, we've got 144 trips a day, 16 crossings. So you asked for the
worst time? A stop and proceed, for example-- train stops at the crossing, checks both ways, and

crosses the crossing. That one there, the gates could be down two, three minutes. So we've got
some long ones.
And you're right. There are some that are 16, 17 seconds outside of the program warning time.
So you've got some right there. But it does go out to a minute, two minutes, worst-case scenario.
So each crossing has a different set of data over the month. And so the FRA wants us to
demonstrate all the crossings and what they look like through that month.
So there are some that are just a few seconds over that 15. But that's why we've got the buffer. So
it goes back. How much is good? Is 10 OK? Is 11? 12? Draw the line at 15. So if it's 14, you're
good to go, 15, you're OK, 16, no. But that 16 goes 17, 18, 20, and it keeps getting bigger and
bigger.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: Oh. That was my question, and you answered it. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Sisk, please.
CHUCK SISK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just wanted to share something with you, having
been honored to be on this Board for six years. People ask me, what is the thing that you're most
proud of in terms of RTD? And I will tell you unequivocally, it's the staff and the 2,600
employees that constitute RTD.
I know you're representing them, but the faces are there on a daily basis. And that's the reason
why we get the responses that we do. It's the people that are there taking care of our constituents.
It's not the Board of Directors. At least it isn't I. Maybe the other 14 will take credit, but I can't
take any credit.
But truly, you all are great. And you're the people that make this organization. And that doesn't
mean to say we don't have a lot of challenges. And I think we have a lot of work to do.
But the fact is that we should thank our employees and make them understand that they are
appreciated. And I hear dealing with constituents. We need to do that, big time. But we also need
to make sure that our employees are appreciated on a regular basis and not taken for granted. So
thank you very much.
[ARCHULETA APPLAUDING]
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Chair Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I would like to echo the sentiments of
Chair Sisk. And I'm sure that Chair Anderson's probably signed up to say the same thing, too. It's
a great privilege to have a report like this.
I know you'll be sharing this with many of the staff and with the general public on Friday
morning. And I'll have a chance to say it again, but congratulations on a job well done. It's good
to end up this year looking at all of these accomplishments. And for every concern, problem,

issue that people think we have, the response is we absolutely have actions in place ready to
address each and all of them.
And the one thing that I do want to do-- and I know we'll be talking about it later-- but I am very,
very anxious to ensure that the public, and particularly any media, do understand whenever we
talk about the issues of the warning times at crossings, it is not that the crossings are unsafe. In
fact, what we're talking about is that the crossings are too safe.
The gates stay down too long. I don't want people to think when we talk about this 10 seconds,
does the train get there 10 seconds before the gate comes down, and that's the problem?
LORRAINE ANDERSON: (LAUGHING) Only once.
DOUG TISDALE: It's that the gates come down and stay down too long. And I fear that
sometimes we forget to say that. Thank you very much.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Anderson, please.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you. I certainly want to echo everything that Director Sisk has
said. I think one of the most wonderful parts of sitting here for eight years is listening to the
retirees talk about what a wonderful place this is to work.
And I have enjoyed working with everyone here, have not met a person that I didn't like. As just
a little bit of jab, 84% of people said that RTD was doing a great job. I jotted down the other
16% must be from Arvada.
[LAUGHTER]
Thank you, Dave, for a great report.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Director Anderson. I have a couple of comments to make myself.
Thank you for that discussion. One comment that I have has to do with the surveys. And I love
the idea that there's going to be more surveys.
What I would also suggest is that there be surveys of our stakeholders regularly, having the guts
to ask them, how are we doing? and for them to be specific. Because I hear it. I hear some of the
complaints. And I think it would be better if it came officially and it could be addressed
officially. I think that would be useful. So I would appreciate it if you guys would think about
doing that.
And the other thing is I really was listening to Director Folska's comments about the climate
change report. And there have been two really dramatic, hair-raising climate reports in the last
couple of months. One was the UN, and one was a 13-federal-agency report about the impacts of
climate change on the US. And the UN one was worldwide.

But they were both very dire. And the UN one said-- I don't know how they figured this one out- but they said we basically have 12 years before which things are going to be inescapable-inescapable, really bad problems.
And we've got to really change how we operate. And these are the top scientists in the world on
climate. And you might ask, well, what does that have to do with us? But the truth is it does have
to do with us.
Transportation is a big, big source of carbon dioxide and other emissions. So I would urge us, as
good global and American citizens, to think about those very dire reports, as well as thinking
about our children and our grandchildren's lives, and think of ways that, in our purchasing
decisions and in our operations, we could be part of the solution and not part of the problem. So I
just urge you to think like that. I would appreciate it.
I have another couple of questions. I know we talked about that we were getting some
improvement in the operators. And I was just wondering, have we seen a reduction in dropped
runs? Because that used to be a terrible problem, and I haven't heard that much about it lately.
DAVE GENOVA: Michael or Fred?
FRED WORTHEN: Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations. Yes, since July, we have
continuously seen numbers of around 99.4%, 99.5% service delivery. Earlier in the year, we
were dropping 2,000 to 3,000 trips a month. We are down well below 1,000 since the beginning
of the summer.
JUDY LUBOW: And how does that compare to times when we wouldn't consider that we had a
problem like this? What were the normal amounts of dropped runs before we had this problem?
FRED WORTHEN: I can't speak to the history of the agency itself. I only have seen numbers for
the last couple of years. But I can try and get that information for you.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you. And just one last thing. You mentioned something which was
very interesting to me-- a Spanish telephone town hall. And I was just wondering, how did that
go in terms of people listening? Do you know?
DAVE GENOVA: Director Lubow, I don't have the details on the numbers. But we'll get that
and put it out to the Board.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you very much. I appreciate it.
DAVE GENOVA: You're welcome.
JUDY LUBOW: That's it for me.
DOUG TISDALE: Did you check on the phone?

JUDY LUBOW: Oh, yes. Right. I'm wondering, are Directors Williams or Deadwyler on the
phone? Apparently not. OK. All right. Well, thank you all very much. We really appreciate all
the work that you've done, and I appreciate the discussion. So let's get into the body of the
Planning Committee meeting.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: We need a break.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, yeah. Right. You know, we have had quite a long time. Why don't we take
a five minute break? Thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. We're going to restart the meeting, the Planning/Capital Programs and
FasTracks Committee meeting. We have a whole bunch of recommended actions and votes, so
let's get started. What I'm going to do is read the motion first and then ask for a motion-- read the
recommended action first.
The first is approval of 2018 Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan-- PTASP. It is
recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs and FasTracks Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the 2018 Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan-- PTASP-- as required by
49 CFR part 674 State Safety Oversight Regulations. Do I have a motion?
PAUL SOLANO: So moved.
BOB BROOM: Second.
JUDY LUBOW: Was that Director Broom? Yes. OK. OK. Have staff talk about this, please.
MIKE MEADER: Thank you, Chair Lubow. This is Mike Meader, Chief Safety Officer. I
brought this before the Board last month as an update, bringing it back here as a recommended
action for approval. As I mentioned, the new rule making 49 CFR part 674, which is to say
safety oversight, which turns our System Safety Program Plan into a Safety Management System
Framework plan.
It also requires that the plan each year is approved by the Board of Directors. So we're bringing
this before you. It was in your packet, again, the information that we provided last month. So
we're here now as a recommended action to have you vote to approve that plan. And I'm happy
to take any questions you might have.
JUDY LUBOW: I don't see any speakers in the queue. Are there any questions from Board
members? Apparently not. It was that persuasive. Thank you. OK. Well, then, let's go to the vote.
The mover was Director Solano, and the second is Director Broom. Would everybody else vote,
please? Actually, Ken, have you voted? Larry, have you voted?
LARRY HOY: I'm working on it.

DOUG TISDALE: His screen's really acting up.
JUDY LUBOW: Natalie, do you want to come and vote, please? Director Archuleta is not at his
seat. OK. OK. OK. There it is. OK. Oooh. But it didn't do anything with Director Archuleta. OK,
so 12 yes. OK. So this motion passed.
OK. Let's go to the second recommended action. It's approval of 15L Route Improvements
contract. It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs and FasTracks Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to execute the contract for the 15L Route Improvements with Jalisco International, Inc.
in the dollar amount of $8,690,000 subject to evaluating the bid for being responsive and
responsible and Colorado DOT approval.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So moved.
JUDY LUBOW: Uh-uh-uh-uh. Not quite. Almost. Funding for this contract is included in the
2019 adopted budget for the Colfax Transit Improvements Project. Any changes to the contract
amount and performance will be made in compliance with the RTD Procurement Manual and
agreements governing the grant funds. This recommended action addresses the General
Managers' 2018 goal, core goal number one, successful delivery of transit services. Motion,
please.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So moved.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Second?
JEFF WALKER: Second.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you. OK. Would staff please talk about this?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Good evening. This is Henry Stopplecamp, AGM Capital Programs.
Since you give me a nice, long table, I brought the entire team up. So I'll have them introduce
themselves, and Ali will give a quick presentation.
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Chief Engineer.
ALI IMANSEPAHI: Ali Imansepahi, Project Manager.
BRIAN THYE: Brian Thye, Civil Engineer.
PAUL VON FAY: Paul Von Fay, Manager, Engineering Design.
ALI IMANSEPAHI: So this project 15L route improvements-DOUG TISDALE: On mic.

HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Microphone.
DOUG TISDALE: On mic.
ALI IMANSEPAHI: Sorry. The 15L Route Improvements Project, this is an overview of that
project. Like I said, I'm Ali Imansepahi, the Project Manager for this project. This is a grantfunded project. The lion's share of the grants is from FTA, followed by DRCOG, a FASTER
grant from CDOT, and then we have a Senate bill grant, as well as some local dollars to match
and fund this project.
It's an opportunity to improve the passenger experience along East Colfax, which has been sort
of the forgotten corridor the last 30 years or so. Really, no capital investment has been done there
by RTD. This has about 20,000-plus boarding per day between the 15 and 15L routes, so it rivals
some of our rail corridors, which is pretty significant.
This is a collaborative effort amongst RTD, CDOT, Denver, and Aurora. It was set up as a
design bid-build project, and most of the design was actually done in-house. We got some help
from the consultants, our on-call consultant, and it was successfully bid on September 17 of this
year.
We had the bid opening on November 13, pending, of course, the Board approval and CDOT's
approval. We can award the project before the end of the year and start construction in January
of '19.
So about the project itself, the elements of this project are 37 stops both in eastbound and
westbound directions within the cities of Denver and Aurora. It includes bus bulbs or curb
extensions. If you look at the graphic on the upper right corner, you will see what that looks like.
So the bus wouldn't have to dive down towards the curb to have the passengers get on and get
off. Instead, it stops in the traffic lane, so it's a safe transition for the passengers from the
sidewalk to the bus and vice versa.
There are going to be nine queue bypass lanes and five queue jump signals within the city of
Denver. And then one thing that is missing from the slides is transit signal priority. That's the
extension of green phase, so the bus can safely make it through the traffic signal.
So City of Denver was gracious enough to allow us to install this equipment within their traffic
signal cabinets. So we have this-- and it is, by the way, up and running-- and it saves about eight
to 10 seconds per intersection that is equipped with TSP.
We are also going to be installing concrete bus pads-- sidewalks that lead to these canopies that
I'm going to talk about in the next slide. We're going to have utilities improvements, mainly by
providing electric service to these canopies, fiber optics for communications, and storm inlets.
The bus shelters will have benches and trash receptacles, as well.

If you look at some of the existing stops, we have anywhere from one bench to a couple, three
benches to half concrete walls-- they're called half-back walls-- with the shelter on top of the
little, short concrete wall. And they've been pretty ignored over the years.
They are in kind of a dire shape to be replaced. They're beyond their useful life. And in most of
the area, most of the stops for 15L, there is no structure whatsoever. So this would be huge
enhancements to our patrons along East Colfax.
The shelter design, as you see in the graphics, they are very transparent, and they provide
weather protection. They are going to be lighted. Most of them would have security cameras.
And then, they will have a programmable information display system, which is basically a
monitor that shows the schedule.
And hopefully, one of these days soon, it's going to be real-time passenger information facing the
patrons inside the canopy with a lighted display map for advertising or any other RTD-related
issue facing out towards the street. And that pretty much does it. My team and I will be happy to
answer any questions you might have.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much. We do have several Directors in the queue. Director
Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair-- oops. Thank you, Chair Lubow. Thank you very
much. Can you remind me how many people travel on Colfax today-- 20,000?
ALI IMANSEPAHI: Over 20,000.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Over 20. So what will be the increase in capacity? What's your
expectation of how many people can you support when this is complete?
ALI IMANSEPAHI: There would be no increase in capacity, but there will be enhancement in
the travel time with the operational measures that we are going to be implementing, including the
transit signal priority.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And Denver has got an idea of adding a lot of money into transportation,
right? We hear about it all the time. How does this enhancement on Colfax support the activities
of Denver? And then, what is their financial contribution along with Aurora? You said there was
a local match money. I assume both Aurora and Denver are putting some cash into this?
ALI IMANSEPAHI: The City of Denver is extremely supportive of this project, actually. And
they look at this project as a stepping stone towards their Center-Running BRT that you've all
heard about on the news. And it's being talked about.
So they are very supportive to the point that they're actually helping out with the
communications part of it, which is the fiber optic line that I was referring to. They're going to
allow us to use their fiber optic line to communicate with our cameras and public information
displays.

So they look at it as a good PR further up and coming real BRT [AUDIO OUT]. In terms of local
match from the Denver side, they have a few hundred thousand dollars, but it's mostly in in-kind.
That's basically their staff time for implementation of the TSP technology that we were talking
about.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And what does TSP stand for?
ALI IMANSEPAHI: Transit signal priority.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh. OK. TSP.
ALI IMANSEPAHI: So it basically extends the green time for the bus to safely make it through
the traffic signal.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And is that the same type of match that Aurora is putting in?
ALI IMANSEPAHI: Aurora really hasn't put anything down, as far as I know.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. And then, our bus stops are often managed by a contractor, thirdparty. Are we going to be responsible for all of the maintenance of these bus stops?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: I'll take it. This is Henry Stopplecamp. Yes, RTD is responsible for
the maintenance of these bus stops. And it will go through pretty much the same contract
procedure we have right now.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And do we know what that cost will be?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: We do. I'd rather not give it to you right now because I'm probably
$1 or $2 off. But I'll get it to the Board by the end of this week.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. And finally, I'm really excited that these are going to be lit. I think
that's important. I think if we could do that throughout the District, that would be terrific. And
I'm wondering if you're considering using solar-powered lighting, or solar power for all your
electrical needs-- as part-- you know, that goes along with that sustainability idea.
ALI IMANSEPAHI: Yes. I totally agree with you. This one is going to be all electric. Basically,
they're going to be powered. However, they're going to be all lit with very efficient LED lighting.
Solar, we actually thought about it a lot. But we couldn't come up with a good design to come up
with this project. I don't think the canopy/roof area is large enough for a good, solid, robust, solar
alternative.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
ALI IMANSEPAHI: You're welcome.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think I read in here that the bus shelters were easily
relocated, or movable. Does that mean that on Halloween night, I can pull up in my pickup and
pick one up and put it in front of Lorraine's house?
[LAUGHTER]
ALI IMANSEPAHI: They won't be that easy to move. But we were pretty cognizant of the fact
to not put a lot of effort and spend a lot of money into foundation work. So they are designed
that, first of all, they are pretty modular. And then they could be just bolted right onto the
sidewalk and then removed pretty easily. So they could go to their next house.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: He'll need bolt cutters.
ALI IMANSEPAHI: Big ones.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Menten, please.
NATALIE MENTEN: With the changes on the sidewalks and the street, will those pieces of it be
maintenance that we have to take over, or will that be CDOT and Aurora and Denver?
ALI IMANSEPAHI: Immediate perimeter of the canopies, like today, with every other shelter
that we have, we will take care of it. Everything else, if it's in the sidewalk area, it's going to be
up to the business owner or the resident who is beside the canopy. Anything in the street would
be one of the jurisdictions'.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So the bus pads. And I'm mainly thinking the sidewalk and the curb
and the street-- those won't be ours?
ALI IMANSEPAHI: No.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Thank you. That's all.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Walker, please.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So I'll be supporting this because I live right off of Broadway. And I
saw the big improvements that the improvements on Broadway made to my travel time. And I
can't imagine what they would be like now if every stop, the bus had to get out of the travel lane
and then get back in. That project was done with ARRA, the-- what was the one in 2009?
ALI IMANSEPAHI: Oh, yeah. ARRA projects.
JEFF WALKER: Stimulus.
ALI IMANSEPAHI: Right.

JEFF WALKER: Stimulus money. And it's not exactly like this, but it's similar enough, like with
the bump bulbs out, to make crossing Broadway a lot easier. And like I said, it's not exactly like
this, but it's close enough where I will wholeheartedly support this. Because it'll make the lives
of people along Colfax-- after construction-- after construction, their lives will be a lot easier.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: After construction.
JEFF WALKER: So thanks for the presentation. Thanks.
ALI IMANSEPAHI: Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Hoy.
LARRY HOY: Thank you, Chair Lubow. So maybe I was asleep at the wheel here. This affects
Colfax. We have the 15 and 15L, and I see references to that here. But do all of those buses on
that route get the signal priority process?
ALI IMANSEPAHI: Yes.
LARRY HOY: I see. Yeses. So I must have been asleep at the-ALI IMANSEPAHI: In Denver.
LARRY HOY: Well, now you're getting to my next question. My next question is we heard a
little bit earlier that Aurora seems to be AWOL here. What, they don't want any of this?
ALI IMANSEPAHI: In terms of transit signal priority, what they told us was that their signal
system is wireless equipment, and some of the communication for TSP, or transit signal priority,
is via cellular. And they did not want to jeopardize any interference between the TSP signal to
their traffic signal operations. And they said, just back off. So we did.
LARRY HOY: Well, there's-ALI IMANSEPAHI: So that's really the gist of it.
LARRY HOY: --there's some insight. OK.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Could I add just one thing? The original project was through Denver.
But realizing that Colfax goes into Aurora-- East Metro-- we've added onto the project over time.
So originally, we were looking just at the Denver portion. Aurora wasn't too thrilled.
We've got them to embrace the project. There are some elements of the project that they still
have some reservations. We're hoping that we can turn them around as we go through. But there
are some challenges. And we're hoping that when they see what happens on the Denver leg, that
they may turn around and start extending it out.

LARRY HOY: And really, our operation will then become what it was when we get to the
Aurora border. I mean, it's really no improvement for their customers, essentially, right?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: We are doing shelters and bus bulbs. I think we've got a couple bus
bulbs in Aurora. But we don't have the transit priority.
LARRY HOY: So we actually, then, will be doing improvements in the city of Aurora, but they
haven't reciprocated with anything?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: We're doing improvements for our patrons.
LARRY HOY: Thank you. OK. All right. Just want everybody to remember that, OK? I'm going
away, but-- all right. Thank you. That's it.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Leave a note for Broom.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Director Hoy. Director Mihalik, please.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Chair Lubow. There's a comment that just precedes the list of
bidders and the amounts that they've bid. And it just says that the bidder evaluation has not been
completed yet. Is that still the case as of December 4?
ALI IMANSEPAHI: We have an apparent successful bidder, but they need to be vetted through
the Procurement Office and the Civil Rights Office. Once the legitimacy of all their paperwork is
known for sure, then we can move forward to award the contract.
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: And the Colorado Department of Transportation also has to
approve this because we have grant funding from them.
KEN MIHALIK: Sure. Would you call this a typical sequence of bidding, selecting?
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Very much so.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. OK. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh. Chair Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Relative to the security cameras it
indicates that most stops will include, can you define "most," please?
ALI IMANSEPAHI: Yes. All the ones in City of Denver, because they are going to be giving us
fiber optic to communicate to the cameras, plus the two stops in Aurora at R Line.
DOUG TISDALE: Other than that, the other stops in Aurora will not have security cameras?

ALI IMANSEPAHI: They will have cellular-- yeah, they will have cameras at three locations-Moline, Havana, and Peoria. Because talking to the law enforcement people, they identify those
as the higher crime areas than the rest.
We did the same thing with Denver, by the way, and not every single stop in Denver is going to
have security cameras. But most of them will. And the three in Aurora would be communicated
through cellular means.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you.
ALI IMANSEPAHI: It's not as robust as fiber. But it's better than nothing.
DOUG TISDALE: No, it's better than nothing. And it is something. And there is a reliance by
many of our customers on that security, knowing that there is a camera there that can observe
them.
Relative to the ads on the lighted map displays, is that going to be subject to our third-party
vendor contract that we have, relative to advertising? Or will we be able to run that advertising
and select what can go up there and how that's handled?
ALI IMANSEPAHI: That's one option. And we currently have-HENRY STOPPLECAMP: So we're-- Capital Programs-- we'll put the infrastructure in there. As
far as who's going to maintain the advertisement and all that has not been worked out.
So my gut feeling is it will go to the marketing folks. And it'll probably be under the same
contract. But we haven't gotten that far. We control it. We haven't given the rights away to
anybody at this time.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Appreciate that. And then, lastly, just in terms of the solar panels,
I know that there are signals, even things like the lights for school crossing and stuff, now have
really small solar panels that power that. So I hope we continue to explore-- not that we need to
do it now-- but that we continue to explore the opportunity to be able to install solar panels there,
to do it so as to avoid reliance upon-ALI IMANSEPAHI: Sure.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: So we look at that at all locations. One of the things, when you've
got a video display, it sucks the power. You've got to heat it and cool it. And so if it was just a
light, you've got a pretty good chance of doing it.
But with the cameras and the variable message boards and the PIDs, we don't have enough juice
right there at that location. But my team is constantly bringing, we got a solution. Can we do
this? Can we do that? And so we're constantly looking at that. And we will continue to.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Solano, please.
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you, Chairwoman Lubow. I'm just curious, on the improvements, you
state short-term opportunity to improve passenger experience. What is the long-term?
ALI IMANSEPAHI: The long-term is the City of Denver's Colfax Corridor Connections Project,
which is AKA the Center-Running BRT.
PAUL SOLANO: OK. I just wanted clarification. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I think I'm going to talk now. Because I believe Director Folska has
already spoken. So I just wanted to say that I really like this project for a whole variety of
reasons. It's going to help an awful lot of people. It's going to help some underserved people.
And we're getting nice grants. So that's terrific.
There are things that concern me, and it has nothing to do with the project. And that is that it's
going before finishing the rail. And that has nothing to do with you guys. But it has to do with a
prioritization that I find very concerning. Nonetheless, I've been going towards, well, I would
vote for it anyway. Because how can you say no to grants like this?
But I have a couple of more concerns, listening to your presentation. And one of them is logic. I
don't understand how improving speed and cutting time and improving the safety of the
accommodations and the convenience isn't going to increase ridership significantly. And I'm
wondering what people have to say about that.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: So we're not saying it will not increase ridership. We don't know
what the ridership is going to look like afterwards. And so this is to increase the travel time. And
yes, if travel time is increased, ridership should go up.
JUDY LUBOW: Decrease.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Decrease travel, ridership goes up.
JUDY LUBOW: Right.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: If you've got the feeling of security and everything else, you'll
probably see more riders. That was not part of our exercise to see what the ridership would do in
the future. And we'll look to Mr. Van Meter. But we believe the ridership will increase. But we
don't want to make a commitment upfront.
JUDY LUBOW: And I'd just like to respond to that. Because usually, when we look at routes,
we say, if you're going to cut the travel time and you're going to make it safer, we model it and
assume that the ridership's going up. And I think maybe, in this case, we weren't looking at that
issue. Is that what the explanation is?

JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: This is Jyotsna Vishwakarma. I wanted to explain what the
purpose and need originally was. So we started starting this route, several departments, I think,
somewhere in 2012-13 time frame. And what we defined as the purpose and need for the project
was to reduce passenger travel time; improve schedule reliability; facilitate security, stop
amenities, and efficient boarding for passengers; integrate transit stop facilities using contextsensitive design; and then maintain, enhance general and cross-street vehicular traffic.
So we had a consultant team look at how the street functioned, how the bus ran. And that was the
purpose and need originally established. And from the recommendations of that study, we looked
at how much time can be saved per run, how reliable the buses can be.
And there is great variability in how the bus travels. And the goal was to reduce that. And that
study did project an operational savings of $75,000 per year. Because we would, every year, the
study said, we put out one additional bus to make up for all the delays. So our original mandate
was not to look at ridership, at that time. We did expect other improvements to happen.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. I'm just relating to it. Because certainly, in the Northwest Rail area, we're
always looking at ridership, and we're always assuming, well, if you cut the time, or if you make
it more convenient, there'll be more people riding. But in this case, we just weren't looking at
that.
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: We were just not looking at it.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you. The other issue I have is is it common, when we put so much
money in for improvements like this, that we don't demand that the local jurisdictions give us
some equivalent help?
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: So the grants did have a local match. And Denver contributed inkind services, and they helped us in implementing transit signal priority. So the project is put
together using a variety of funding sources. And some of those did not come with a local match
requirement.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. OK. Thank you. All right. There are two more directors. Director Catlin,
please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Lubow. Ali, this is an interim solution on Colfax. And if
the City and County of Denver implement its vision of the Center Lane BRT, what will become
of the bulb-outs and some of the improvements that we're putting in right now? And I'm
assuming that the shelters are portable because you want to be able to use them elsewhere. But I
was just wondering, what about the other improvements? Are there any throwaway pieces?
ALI IMANSEPAHI: I would say, most likely, the curb extensions are going to be the throwaway
piece. Because with real estate that Center-Running BRT is going to require and with some of
the left turns staying in-- most of them are going to go away, but some of them are going to be
staying in-- the street is just not going to be wide enough. Nothing in Aurora would be removed.
But in Denver, probably.

HENRY STOPPLECAMP: And I'd like to point out that, as far as short-term versus long-term, I
do not believe Denver is fully funded at this point. And so even if they start today for the design,
it'd still be a few years out. So short-term, we do get several good years out of this improvement.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might-- thank you. I assumed that there would be several years of utility.
So it wouldn't just be a throwaway. Thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: All right. Director Folska, please.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Lubow I think that Director Catlin kind of hit a nerve
here. I think this is a really grand idea. Firstly, as Chair Lubow mentioned, one expects to
increase capacity. It's my understanding that, for the longest time, the Colfax corridor has been at
capacity-- I could be wrong-- and that that kind of has led into Denver's frustration with the lack
of increased capacity.
So my hope would have been that-- regardless if it's a grant or not, it's $8 million of somebody's
tax dollars. And it's coming from CDOT. It's coming from DRCOG. It's coming from the FTA
and local match money. And it's our time and our effort, too, as opposed to putting your time and
effort into finding grants for the Northwest Rail could be. So it's kind of a question of prioritizing
where our human capital is implemented and focused.
But what's really troubling to me is that we're going to go do this, and then, in some time-maybe in five years, let's say-- Denver just rips it all out and puts their BRT down the center.
And thanks RTD, bye-bye. And not to say that the improvement isn't necessary and would be
lovely and required.
But it seems like there's a lot of redundancy between what we're doing and this other jurisdiction
and even Aurora, for that matter. So I'm going to vote no tonight not because I don't appreciate it
but I'd like better answers. I don't appreciate putting our effort in and then ripping it out in five
years, knowing that right here, and also knowing we don't even expect or want to increase
capacity. We're just making improvements. Sorry.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Director Folska, this is Jyotsna Vishwakarma. And Denver has
the vision of a BLT project. They are not fully funded. They have some funding allocated to it.
They are just now beginning their own environmental process through the community.
We, at this point, do not know for sure what their project would look like. So it may very well be
that they do minor enhancements, or they get money from other funding resources to have a
much bigger project. But it's all up in the air at this point. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. It's been a while, but I sat on the Aurora City Council
when this project was first discussed. And I recall the main concern that came up was that if you

put the buses down the center of the street, you're going to end up taking away two driving lanes
off of Colfax. And that's a major state highway. It carries a lot of traffic. And it just wouldn't
work.
And there was also concern expressed in Aurora, a lot of this is strip commercial property all the
way down there. And they were concerned about losing parking, as well. So those were the
concerns that, as I recall, that Aurora had four or five years ago, when I sat in on those meetings.
Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Anderson, please.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you. I do believe this particular line, the 15L, carries more
passengers than any other bus line we have in our system. And it is always crowded. There are
always people on the street, waiting. And I think it makes it important for RTD to make some
improvements.
And even though this isn't in my city, I may have grandchildren that ride it from Lakewood,
perhaps. So I think this is a good thing. And who knows what will happen? The whole thing with
Denver has been up in the air for a long time.
So I will be supporting this just because these are RTD passengers. And we need to increase their
satisfaction with moving along this route. So thank you for your presentation.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Solano, please.
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you, Chair Lubow. Did I hear correctly that Colfax is a state highway
or state road?
ALI IMANSEPAHI: Yes. it's US 40. It's actually a federally designated highway.
PAUL SOLANO: OK. So does CDOT have a play in this?
ALI IMANSEPAHI: Yes, absolutely.
PAUL SOLANO: And what is their stake in this?
ALI IMANSEPAHI: We've been working with them all throughout the process. And in fact, the
FASTER grant is from CDOT. They have oversight on this project. And then, they also have to
approve our award process. That's the last hurdle for us.
PAUL SOLANO: OK.
ALI IMANSEPAHI: It's a state road. It's a US highway.
PAUL SOLANO: Are there any P3s? Will there be any P3s involved in this project?

ALI IMANSEPAHI: No.
PAUL SOLANO: OK. Thank you.
ALI IMANSEPAHI: Mm-hmm.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I'm going to interrupt and add another bit of questioning, if you
don't mind. Has anybody figured out how much the throwaway devices, or aspects, of this
contract would be worth?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: At this time, no. Because we do not know what City and County of
Denver will ultimately build. As Director Broom pointed out, taking two lanes down the center
gives up two travel lanes. There's a lot of pushback from that. Do we give up the parking?
There's a lot of pushback from the communities.
So the vision is center-running-- take the lanes out, drop down the general purpose lanes. Will
that happen? We don't know. If it does happen, yes, the bus bulbs in some of those locations will
go away. The shelters, the cameras, a lot of the infrastructure that we can pick up and move out,
we'll move out. But until we have a final design that's approved, we do not know what is
throwaway and what is keep.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. And is it correct to say that we have no idea if they're going to even
do anything the way they were planning because it has so much pushback?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: That is correct. With any project, it's starting the environmental
process. And it's conceptual at this point. And what will it look like? How long will it take them
to get there? We don't know. So we're going forward, serving our patrons. And that's our mission
right now.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you. I have another question, and that is the question of addressing
overcrowding that apparently is a big problem on that route. And I'm just wondering if, instead
of spending $8 million on these improvements, which would increase speed but that doesn't seem
to be the problem in getting ridership, that it might not be better to spend the money just putting
more buses on. I know that sounds simplistic. But is the problem that we don't have enough
service?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: That may be another issue we have with the corridor. But the
purpose and need, as Jyotsna pointed out, dealt with those handful of areas that we're looking at.
The over crowdedness, certain times of the day, yes.
Do we increase our service? That's more of a operational question. And at this time, I don't have
a good answer. I'm going to look over to Dave or Bill Van Meter that may have a better answer.
But as of right now, our goal is to clean up the corridor we have right now that's been left alone
for the last 30 years. And the biggest thing that's out there is safety. So if we get an inviting
corridor that people feel more comfortable at, the safety element goes up drastically.

JUDY LUBOW: But we maybe could not handle more people if we don't have more service.
BILL VAN METER: May I make an attempt? This is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General
Manager, Planning. So part of the answer goes to the fact that these are capital funds. They're
available only for capital investments. So they would be precluded from our use for increasing
service or operations and maintenance on that side.
But also by improving the reliability of runtime, as well as the speed, we'll be able to provide
more consistent service. And in that case, if and when ridership does improve because of these
enhancements, we can revisit potential service provision in the future. And that service would be
more reliable.
One of the tough problems that we have on Colfax right now is that demand and the level of our
service. It's hard to maintain good, consistent headways and consistent service. The reliability
improvements that will come with this will allow, one, more reliable-- which will help, in and of
itself, address some of the overcrowding-- and also, potentially, give us the capability, with some
operational savings, as were mentioned earlier, for increasing service-- balanced, of course, with
other equity and service provision issues that the Board always has to consider each run board.
JUDY LUBOW: All right. Thank you. Director Hoy.
LARRY HOY: Well, thank you very much. I'll make this quick. It's more of a comment to
everybody in the room. If you've never ridden the 15-- and it was Director Anderson that made
me think about this, how busy it is and stuff-- if you've never ridden on the 15, treat yourself and
go ride the 15.
For most of the people in this room, it's a free trip, and it's like going to Epcot Center or the
United Nations or-- everybody's on that bus. It's really fascinating. Anyway, that's all I wanted to
say.
BOB BROOM: You're going to have to be able to speak Auroran.
JUDY LUBOW: Well, thank you very much. Now, Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Madam Chair, I think it might be better to, instead of looking at those
improvements as throwaway improvements, I think it might be better to view those as temporary
improvements, or potentially temporary improvements. And along that corridor, I think any
improvement for any amount of time is an improvement.
Like I said, I live off of Colfax, and they had a suicide turn lane-- a center turn lane in the
middle-- that might be replaced by the Colfax BRT, if and when. But the bump-outs-- so now I
have a 10-foot or 20-foot shorter walk from curb to curb. At a corner, it's a vast safety
improvement, and my comfort level is improved when I cross the street going home.
And also, some of those improvements, like has been stated, some of those might survive any
other improvements, any additional improvements, that might come along with the BRT. So

Denver, when we passed the bond back in last year, there was money for the capital
improvements but not for the bus, not for any operational improvements, so no rolling stock.
We don't know what that will look like yet. There have been a bunch of ideas. We don't know
what will survive. But I would encourage all to support this. Because Denver is supporting us inkind, if nothing else, through the implementation or installation of the fiber optics, which greatly
improves the communication, which a lot of our customers are asking for-- I want to know when
the bus is, where it's going to be, how long it's going to be.
So even if these are just temporary improvements, they are improvements, and they can lead to
other types of improvements, directly through this or as offshoots of this in the project that
Denver has in the works. So I would encourage all of us here to support this project. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much. Well, looks like that's it for the queue of questions. Why
don't we go to a vote? And I believe the movers is Director Folska, and the second is Director
Walker.
DOUG TISDALE: Folsom-- love her prison.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
[LAUGHING]
SPEAKER: I think you got to hold it, is what it was saying.
[LAUGHTER]
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
JUDY LUBOW: This passed 11 to 1, and the one was Director Folska. Thank you very much.
Let's move on from this. OK. The next item is approval of contract extension and increase for
Jacobs Engineering for FasTracks program support consulting services.
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs and FasTracks Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a contract amendment to Jacobs
Engineering for program support consulting services for FasTracks to extend the contract
completion date from December 31, 2019 to December 31, 2020 and to increase the contract notto-exceed amount by $1,200,000 to a total of $192,623,336.
Funding for this contract is included in the 2019 adopted budget for the FasTracks Capital
Program in the specific projects where program support, consulting support, would be utilized.
This recommended action addresses General Manager's 2018 goal, core goal number one,
successful delivery of transit services. Do I have a motion?
BOB BROOM: Move for approval.

JUDY LUBOW: A second? I'm sorry, who was that? You? OK. All right. Thank you. Staff?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: So I'll make this quick. This is Henry Stopplecamp again. This is one
we were hoping we wouldn't have to come back to the Board. We were hoping everything would
be completed. But there are some key members of the Jacobs staff that are still working on our
projects. And I'll just point one out.
Michael Millage is a Jacobs employee. He is the lead on the Gold Line, working for Joe Christie.
He's been on the project for about five years in that role. We're almost ready to get into the
opening and then the final close-out. To lose him right now, for example, and train somebody
else and bring them up to speed, we'd lose all the institutional knowledge.
So what we're asking for is an add-on of about $1.2 million to carry a few key people through the
final completion, the potential claims, and close-out of the project. With that being said, if an
individual does leave, we will not backfill it with another Jacobs employee. We'll bring
somebody else on to do that role.
So what we're trying to do is retain the head knowledge, the institutional knowledge, of these
individuals to help us speed up the process of closing out the projects and any claims coming up
in the future. So that's why we're looking for the $1.2 million.
And on the second page, it covers some of the key elements. And along with the individuals
working the project, we are still finishing off some of the survey work. Jacobs has done all the
survey from the very beginning of the implementation of FasTracks to today's date.
So they're finishing off the survey, still got a little bit left over on the 225, for example, property
acquisition on a few pieces that we're turning over to the City of Aurora, and that kind of stuff.
So we're looking at an extension for one more year at this time, up through 2020.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. There is one speaker in the queue. And that's Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. I'll just give a heads-up. On the next three items, I will be a no-vote
because North Metro Line is included in those pieces of work. And Henry, you and I, of course,
are meeting later this week. But at this moment in time, because I don't have all the answers that
I need, any contract with the North Line, I would be a no vote on at this moment. Thank you.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: And I'd just like to point out one thing. This is for a completion of
construction, not the Stand-up of North Metro.
NATALIE MENTEN: It's got North Metro. I'm-- you understand. OK. Thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Director Anderson, please.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you. I have had the pleasure of working with Michael
Millage. And he is a very valuable person on the project and knows everything that is going on.

So I would hate to lose him right at this particular time. So I will be a yes vote so that we can
finish this project and close it out and move on.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I have a question. Does any of the money include money related to
any of the legal disputes that we're involved with?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: If we need the individuals to testify or prepare documentation, yes.
But this is not a legal contract. So this is not for legal support. But if I need Mike Millage, for
example, to gather documents up on the Gold Line in a dispute with Denver Transit Partners, it
would cover his time for that, yes.
JUDY LUBOW: And is that something that, that amount of money that we pay him, we would
ask in the lawsuit against Denver Transit Partners?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Any cost we accumulate in defending RTD would be in the
counterclaim with whoever we have the dispute with, yes.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. All right. Thank you. All right. I see nobody else in the queue. So it's time
for a vote. The mover is Director Broom, and the second is Director Anderson.
[LAUGHTER]
Here we go. Come on, Ken. There we go. OK. This has passed 11 to 1. And Director Menten is
the no vote. All right. Thank you very much.
The next recommended action is the approval of increased contract authorization to Front Range
Systems Consultants-- FRSC-- for FasTracks system engineering consultant services. It is
recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs and FasTracks Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a contract amendment to FRSC to extend
the contract completion date from December 31, 2018 to December 31, 2019 and increase the
total contract amount by $1,743,739 for a total contract authorization of $72, 726,498.
Funding for this scope is included in the 2019 adopted budget for the FasTracks Capital Program
in the specific projects where FRSC support would be utilized. This recommended action
addresses the General Manager's 2018 goal, core goal number one, successful delivery of transit
services. Is there a motion?
PAUL SOLANO: So moved.
JUDY LUBOW: A second?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Second.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Staff, please. Thank you.

HENRY STOPPLECAMP: OK. Once again, Henry Stopplecamp. Very similar to the previous
one, we've got FRSC key members that have been on the project for a long time.
So one of the individuals is Jeff Whiteman. And I think some of you guys have sat through some
of the presentations that-- Jeff specializes in the system's components, the at-grade crossings, the
wireless crossings, and he provides support to RTD staff since we only have three systems
individuals on staff-- an extension of staff for us to go through and finish off implementation of
the corridors and also any future disputes or current disputes.
So working on the letter, for example, for the FRA, Jeff and his team is doing some other
research and doing some backup for us on that project, as we speak right now. So on the first
page, it lists several of the projects that have been done.
But going forward, the two big ones, the SERE project-- we're just about there. So we've got a
couple individuals from Front Range finishing off that project. So we want them to close out
their portion. And then, North Metro, on the implementation of the wireless crossing, and also on
the University of Colorado A Line, B Line, G Line.
JUDY LUBOW: All right. Thank you. Are there any questions or comments from the Board?
Doesn't look like it. OK. Well, let's go for a vote, then. The mover's Director Solano, and the
second is Director Folska.
[LAUGHTER]
Come on, Larry.
LARRY HOY: It'll happen. I've tapped. I've pressed. I've held. I've wiggled it.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. This motion passed 11 to 1. And the one no vote is Director Menten. All
right. Thank you. Our last recommended action-- yay-- authorization for acquisition of property
for the North Metro Maintenance Facility.
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs and FasTracks Committee that the Board of
Directors pass the attached property acquisition resolution certifying certain properties as
necessary for the North Metro Maintenance Facility and authorize staff to proceed with all
requisite legal process under state eminent domain law. This recommended action addresses the
General Manager's 2018 goal, task goal number one, successful delivery of transit services. OK.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: So moved.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. And a seconder, please? All right. Thank you. Henry.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: And once again, Henry Stopplecamp, Capital Program. So with me,
I've got Susan Altes, Senior Manager, Real Property, and Phil Lidov, Manager, Real Property,
and Paul Von Fay back up. Paul is the design lead, and Susan and Phil are the right-of-way folks.
So I'm going to turn it over to Susan for the presentation.

SUSAN ALTES: Just very quickly, when RTD's decision to self-perform the North Metro
Commuter Rail Line operations and maintenance, it was determined that there would have to be
maintenance of way and operational facilities to support that. And as a part of the operations,
RTD will be using the third bay of the 711 building, which you heard about earlier this evening,
for part of the operations.
And we would intend to build a permanent maintenance of way facility to be located on the
properties identified on the right-of-way maps in your packet. The acquisition would require four
properties, as shown on the maps that were attached. So we're happy to answer any questions
you may have on the acquisition.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much. Director Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. Is this property currently developed? And if it is,
what is it being used for?
SUSAN ALTES: There's four individual ownerships. It is industrial in an industrial area. One of
the properties is a business that we will have to relocate as part of the acquisition process. They
provide the signs for "construction ahead," "this lane closed"-- that kind of thing. So they have
all kinds of signs and trucks and that type of thing on the property.
BOB BROOM: Thank you. This is really a funny-shaped parcel, or the parcels are funny-shaped.
It looks like you're going to end up with a lot of the land that can't be used because it's too
narrow.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Well, actually, on the land, if you look, you can see the outline of the
facility. One of our biggest challenges, wherever we do any of our property acquisition, is
drainage. So some of this narrow area is going to be turned into water detention/retention areas.
So every piece of this property that we're looking at, we will be utilizing.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Mihalik, please.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. The property that is the northernmost, highlighted
in, I guess it's a yellowish color, is the portion that's to be acquired? Is it just that wedge up top,
or is it the entire parcel?
SUSAN ALTES: That would be a partial take.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. I actually spoke with this owner earlier today. And I couldn't get ahold of
any of the other ones. They had some-- well, I just wasn't able to locate any contact information
quickly. But this gentleman I did speak with. He mentioned, among a couple of things, that this
carving out of his property-- and this isn't a right-of-way, this is a acquisition, is that correct?
OK.

SUSAN ALTES: Yes.
KEN MIHALIK: That it would drop, that it would reduce his property size below the two acres
that is required for his particular zoning that he has. Do you know anything about that?
SUSAN ALTES: Until we have certification from the Board that the properties are deemed
needed for a public purpose, we are unable to do a lot of the due diligence that will be done in
order to come up with a just compensation that is required to be paid under the Uniform
Acquisition and Relocation Policies Act. So at such time as the properties are certified by the
Board, we would then send these property owners official notification that the property is needed
for a public purpose.
We would, under State of Colorado law, allow them to get an appraisal of their property at that
agency's cost. We would have an appraisal done. And we would have discussions related to that
acquisition.
So those types of things that you're talking about would be addressed in the appraisal. And if the
property were impacted in such a manner by a partial take that it made the rest of the property
unusable, then we are required by law to acquire the entire property.
KEN MIHALIK: If I may.
JUDY LUBOW: Please.
KEN MIHALIK: Was this parcel the one business that you were talking about that had potential
relocation needs? Or was it-- I know there's a concrete business, as well.
SUSAN ALTES: There is a landscape business here. And there are several businesses. And they
would all be entitled to relocation.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Was there any-SUSAN ALTES: But we haven't been able to do our total due diligence-KEN MIHALIK: Understood.
SUSAN ALTES: --to know exactly what is operating on the property.
KEN MIHALIK: Understood. I'm trying to do my due diligence, as well. Was there any
consideration given to the area across the street? I'm told it's just-SUSAN ALTES: Across the tracks?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Yes. So let's talk about that. One of the biggest things we've got,
there's an antenna farm on the other side of the tracks. So we have looked at several locations.

And based on road access, based on drainage, based on the square footage we need, this is the
best location for us.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Well, I know that there's some concern about the operations of the North
Metro Line. And for that reason, until some of that has been addressed, I'm going to be a no on
this, as well. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: All right. Thank you. Chair Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. As someone who-- excuse me-- in a
former life had to deal with the laws of eminent domain and such takings, I understand and
appreciate the fact that you come to the Board. Because the Board does have to make its
determination that the property is, in fact, necessary for our use. And based upon that, a whole
host of protections are triggered relative to landowners in connection with this process.
And I think it's, generally speaking, a very fair process. So I do appreciate the fact that you come
before us. Our determination of necessity is, of necessity, really, based upon what staff
represents to us, that, in your opinion and belief, formed reasonably with expertise in the area,
these parcels are, in fact, necessary for us to proceed. Is that correct?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: That is correct. I'm looking at the design manager down there. We
have gone through several locations and rated those various locations. And this came out as the
top pick for RTD.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I'm prepared to rely upon that and will be a yes vote.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Sisk, please.
CHUCK SISK: Thank you very much, Chairperson. Susan and Henry, I certainly understand the
point that Chair Tisdale has made, and I've had a little bit of experience in eminent domain. And
I must tell you, I don't like eminent domain. Let's start with that.
And I think there's a way to deliver this message. And what concerns me is I'm not hearing you
say you've already been out to talk to the individual owners. And you're saying you can't. I think
you can. What disturbs me is the way the message is being sent.
This is why I think it puts us in a bad position in terms of the fact that we're going to send a
letter. How impersonal is that, that we're going to take your property and send a letter? And I've
heard people that have had property taken from RTD under condemnation tell me they don't
object, in many ways, to the condemnation. They object to the fact that RTD uses a
sledgehammer to try to extract that.
And I think that's a perception. And perception becomes reality. So I understand why we're
having to do this. I really do. But I would just really hope that the message could be delivered
rather than just sending your registered mail to it.

SUSAN ALTES: We do do that. We meet with them personally.
CHUCK SISK: You've met them, then?
SUSAN ALTES: We have not yet. We will meet with them.
CHUCK SISK: Well, correct me if I'm wrong. I heard you say you would send a letter.
SUSAN ALTES: We also will meet with them directly. The letter is a requirement under
Colorado State law.
CHUCK SISK: I get that. It's a requirement. But as long as I understand you're going to meet
with them and talk to them-SUSAN ALTES: And we have had initial contact with them, just to let them know this was
going to be heard tonight.
CHUCK SISK: OK. So you've actually spoken to each of the landowners, then?
SUSAN ALTES: Yes. We sent them a letter saying we have this project. Your property may be
impacted. So then, after there is a determination of need by the Board, we would have further
conversations.
CHUCK SISK: May I just-- may I ask one more-- because I'm confused. I'm hearing you say you
spoke to him. Then I'm hearing you say you sent a letter.
SUSAN ALTES: We did send a letter, and we did speak with them, also.
CHUCK SISK: You spoke with each owner?
SUSAN ALTES: We spoke with the two that we could get ahold of.
CHUCK SISK: OK. All right. Thank you very much.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Mihalik, are you up again? No? OK. All right. That's it for
the speakers in the queue. So let's go to a vote. And the mover is Director Anderson and the
second is Director Catlin.
LARRY HOY: Chair?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes?
LARRY HOY: I'll be voting in just a moment here, OK?
[LAUGHTER]

[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
JUDY LUBOW: I don't know. She can.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
OK. The second is Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: We're trying.
CHUCK SISK: She's trying.
DOUG TISDALE: Trying? OK.
[LAUGHING]
JUDY LUBOW: Here we go. All right. Everybody else can vote. Thank you.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
Natalie?
DOUG TISDALE: She's trying. She's trying. I'm watching her. She's trying.
JUDY LUBOW: Hey. Natalie is the only one left.
DOUG TISDALE: Press and hold.
JUDY LUBOW: There we go. All right. Here we go. This passed 9 to 3. And the three people
voting against it are Directors Menten, Mihalik, and Sisk. Thank you. That's it for the
recommended action and the votes. Thank god. That's as much as we can handle, I think. OK.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
DOUG TISDALE: Let's do the update first
JUDY LUBOW: I know. Do we need a break now? OK. All right. Let's go to the Mobility
Choice Blueprint, which is our update.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
OK. Well.
BILL VAN METER: I think I heard my cue. Excuse me. Bill Van Meter, Assistant General
Manager of Planning, once again. I think I heard my cue there. I'll be very brief.

I'm joined here by Brian Welch, who has been updating the Board at frequent intervals
throughout this year on the progress of Mobility Choice Blueprint. He's here once again-- Brian
Welch, Senior Manager of Planning Technical Services. He's trying to pull up the PowerPoint.
Spoiler alert-- we're not going to take you all through all 20-some slides. He will be presenting a
very quick overcap and review of where we are in the Mobility Choice Blueprint and the
materials that you've seen previously. Brian.
BRIAN WELCH: Thank you. Good evening, members of the Board. I'll limit my presentation to
no more than 25 minutes-- no, no.
[LAUGHTER]
What I wanted to do, what we wanted to do this evening, from a staff perspective, is follow up
on what we discussed at your October 30 study session. You brought up some very specific
items that you wanted us to follow up on. And the material that you have in your packet tonight
addresses those. And I'll just summarize what they were.
There were a couple things, in particular, that you emphasized. You wanted us to adjust some of
the language on some of the tactical actions that are included in the Blueprint. And our
consultant team has done that. We've got one member of the team out in the audience who stuck
it out for us tonight-- Chris Primus from HDR. Thank you for being here.
In addition, you also made some specific comments about tactical actions that you wanted us to
ensure that RTD was listed as a supporter. Director Walker, you mentioned curb management,
and we have made that edit. So those are all now included in the materials that have been
provided to you for review.
And then the other thing, a number of Directors pointed out that you wanted a little bit more
information on some of the outcomes that would result from the initiation of these actions. And
we also included that. So you'll see there's a couple slides in the back of the material that give
you some of the examples of outcomes that would result from these tactical actions within the
2030 time frame.
Now, I'll just mention to you that for every one of these tactical actions, there will be a more
explicit linkage. So you can say, well, for example, why would we want to electrify a fleet? Why
would that be a tactical action RTD is interested in? There will be some very specific measurable
results in 2030 that would result from that. So that's what we refer to as an outcome.
So what I wanted to do tonight is just give you an opportunity, if there's anything that you saw
among the language of the tactical actions, the support, or the outcomes-- and we even showed
you, also, the scenarios that they're going to look at to display what some of the alternative
futures could be. Please bring those up.
The schedule, right now, for the Mobility Choice Blueprint is they are working now to put
together the final Blueprint, as well as the supporting documents that will go along with that. But

we want to make sure this evening that, for these particular items, that you share with us
anything that you want us to relay that will go, then, into the final work products.
So that's the end of my presentation. And like I say, we do have slides here that we can pull up
anything in particular if you so choose. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Director Folska, please.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Lubow. Thank you very much. There are just two
things I think that are important if you haven't already done so. Firstly, I think it's important to
get real engagement and participation from people like Atlantis or CCDC. Have they been
engaged with you all along?
BRIAN WELCH: Yes, they have been, in fact, engaged all along through our ambassador
program. So we did hear. And those types of input has been reflected in the language of the
Blueprint, yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Are they at the table? I mean, I think it's more important to have them at
the table than as an ambassador.
BRIAN WELCH: Well, the extent to which they directly influenced the language of the tactical
actions and the manner in which the report was prepared, they were essentially, yes, at the table
as much as anybody who was guiding the Blueprint that will eventually be completed. That's
correct.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So they're part of the core team?
BRIAN WELCH: Essentially, yes. They're just as important to the preparation of the document
as the staff and the elected appointed officials, definitely.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So they're not part of the core team?
BRIAN WELCH: Well, the team consists of the project management team, which we're a part
of, the Mobility Choice Board, and then, the ambassadors. But they're all considered to be all
part of the same team to put the document together.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. Because it's really important that they're there at the beginning of the
conversation, as opposed to at the end and not part of the original planning.
BRIAN WELCH: Yeah. They were initiated at the very beginning of the effort and have been
involved throughout the year on this project.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: That's excellent. Thank you. And again, I'd like you to maybe, if you write
this down-- Intergovernmental Panel Report on Climate Change-- and you can look it up online.
It's brilliant work. And I really hope that you guys can start embracing that and using it as you go
along and you move forward.

So electric, electric, electric, solar, solar, solar-- alternative things, to really see how it could be
integrated. Like, no more Styrofoam cups in the building. It's not just the actual transportation
piece. It's every single thing that we do. Thank you.
BRIAN WELCH: That's correct. One of the underlying themes is this notion that technology, as
we move into the future, it will be connected and automated and shared and electric. So that's
definitely a current that runs through. And there's some very strong statements-- some very
ambitious statements-- about electrification, in particular, and related actions that would come
under the rubric of sustainability and resiliency.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah. Because we can't wait till 2030. If we wait till then, it's goodbye
planet Earth. That's all. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Hoy.
LARRY HOY: Thank you very much. You have a slide in here about develop a universal
mobility app for trip planning and payment. And then you bullet point public RTD E-470,
private Lyft or a V-cycle. That's an interesting concept that all of these people are going to use
the same mobility app. You're going to have Uber using the same app that Lyft is that RTD is?
BRIAN WELCH: The notion here is that if there is to be a agency that would take the lead on
pulling many of these services together in a smartphone app, why not RTD? We believe that we
are essential to the traveling public in terms of the connections that many people make using
those other modes.
So since we already are moving in the direction of having an account-based ticketing system,
why not allow those same other providers to share the same space with us, and that we would, in
fact, act as the integrator? So you could put together a trip on our app that, perhaps, included
some of these other "mobility as a service" types of options.
And we think there's no reason that we shouldn't be considered to be the lead. We don't
necessarily want that to not be focused on our transit services.
LARRY HOY: So that's a perfect answer because I kind of agree with everything you said. So is
wasn't a challenge. I've always thought that somehow, some way, somebody ought to be able to
sit at their home and push a few buttons, and maybe Uber takes them to the park and ride, and
they pay one bill. And somehow, the money gets sorted out.
I mean, I think that concept is something that ought to be here today. But I think it's easier to
write on a slide than to deploy. But I would encourage it. Thank you. i just want to make sure
you-BRIAN WELCH: And just to follow up on that, APTA has a vision that you could use, similar to
Uber and Lyft, which is the same app all over the United States. Think if you could use any
transit system in the United States with the same app.

LARRY HOY: Well, and if I can-- may I? Director Folska has often said, wouldn't it be nice to
have Uber pick you up and take you to the train that takes you to the airport, and end up in
Hawaii? And you do that with one button. And I think there's some truth to that. That would be
cool.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather. I just want to add that we're actually already working
on this. So I think I've mentioned before, we're working with CDOT on Bustang. I met today
with CDOT, again, to pull in, and had a conversation with E-470 the other day.
So I'm not sure it will be just one app. But it can be multiple apps that you can access any of
these services on and pay it. So whatever your favorite app happens to be might be one option, or
it could be one app for the state of Colorado or something like that.
But we're already having those conversations. We're working on integrating with Bustang right
now. And we are working with Uber right now, also, [AUDIO OUT] on a shared app there. So
it's already in process.
So the biggest thing is how do you share the money? So we haven't gotten to those conversations
yet. So we're taking the first step of having apps within apps, and everybody gets their own
money. And what we're looking for is what is that back office provider so that, similar to a credit
card clearinghouse or things like that-- also what they use in tolls, clearinghouses and tolls-- so
who's going to be that back office?
Probably not going to be a government entity. Doesn't mean we can't lead the effort. So it's
already ongoing, and we're making some significant progress.
LARRY HOY: Well, thank you. That was an interesting answer.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Lubow. And Heather, thanks for that. Because you and I
were involved with some of those interoperability discussions between E-470 and CDOT. And
so there is a model out there that works. I guess, speaking to the slide that Director Hoy
mentioned, I appreciated that. But I also think that the regional mobility data platform ought to
also include E-470 and Northwest Parkway.
BILL VAN METER: OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Menten, please.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. Compared to the update that was at the RTC last week, this one
doesn't have the chart on it. Do you know the chart that I'm speaking of that has the tactical
options? Why is that not part of this one?

BRIAN WELCH: It was sequencing in terms of the availability of material for the packet. And
what we wanted to focus on tonight, Director mentioned, was just more of the RTD-specific
tactical actions where we're the initiator or the supporter rather than that longer list.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Well, you asked if there were things that any Board Directors are
uncomfortable with, right, in the plan? One of the items I'm uncomfortable with is that the
document that lists all of the tactical plans laid out in that chart includes a road usage charge.
And I think very limited public outreach has been done on that. So if I were to, say, tonight not
speak up, then what would hold true is, oh, it must have been fine because they didn't speak up.
So I'm speaking up.
I'm also concerned about the incentives unless we have more details. And I've spoken about
some other things in the past. But I just wanted to make sure I especially go on record with the
road usage charge, which in the bare info-- limited information available at Colorado Department
of Transportation-- states it would eliminate the fuel tax.
But I think that's just speaking to Colorado. So that would still leave the feds. And that gets into
a gray area. So there. I spoke my piece. I've got some things I'm uncomfortable with in this
document, still. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Director Menten. We wouldn't want you to be uncomfortable.
Director Mihalik, please.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. And if this is the time to speak up, I'll do that.
There's one line in here-- and I'm glad it's in here-- but it says "to establish security standards for
maintaining privacy and data anonymity." but I think it goes beyond just standards. It's really the
overarching relationship between these providers, these back-end providers, and the consumer.
This really shouldn't be-- although I'm sure it will, just looking at how other things are treated-but into some mass surveillance, data mining opportunity. And so it's really, again, more about
the relationship between the transportation providers, all these back-end support providers, and
then the consumer.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I have a couple of comments myself. One of them concerns "shared
mobility develop incentives to improve TNC operations." And in relation to that, I was looking
at a Streetsblog article, 11/7/2-18, with the title "Uber and Lyft Carrying More Trips Than Light
Rail in Seattle."
And I'm sure this is something that the people on the Mobility Choice were concerned with, the
idea that there has to be some effective regulation to make sure that transit isn't discouraged and
isn't held back from doing its job of moving the most amount of people. So I would just urge
caution with that.

And the other slide that I had some concern about is-- or just something that was confusing to
me-- "shared mobility partner with private sector to provide transportation in mobilitychallenged communities." And I think that's wonderful. And I've been pushing that for years.
But there is a financial stability issue of how do you make it work? And I'm just wondering what
has been thought of that would make it effective. And if you have thought of something, let me
know. Because I want it in my area. OK. That's it for me. And I think there is nobody else in the
queue. Natalie, do you have any other?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, I do.
JUDY LUBOW: OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: I just want to follow up with what Director Mihalik, I think, said, and that
is one of the other pieces is requiring car manufacturers to open up the tracking, which is going
to then communicate with what I understand is already pieces of equipment located around the
state. Now, a lot of people carry a phone and don't mind getting instructions on Google Maps.
But just because they're taking that option doesn't mean it should also be forced on them. So I'll
agree 100% that there will be some concerns about that. So thanks for letting me include the part
I forgot.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you. I think that's it. Gentlemen, thank you very much for the
presentation. OK. Moving right along. We're at Other Matters. No.
NATALIE MENTEN: Well, there's this-DOUG TISDALE: No.
[GAVEL STRIKES]
JUDY LUBOW: Excuse me? What? Anyway. I have another matter. Does anybody else have
another matter they want to deal with? OK. The other matter that I want to talk about concerns
the paper that RTD sent to the Colorado Governor's transition team, and it's called RTD
Background Paper. And I commented to Dave Genova already about this.
But there's a discussion about FasTracks. And there is not a discussion about all the work that's
being done on the peak service plan and the attempt to finish, or at least move forward, on the
Northwest Rail. And I'm just very concerned that the Governor needs to know about it. And not
to mention it is a big drop, as far as I'm concerned.
And I think it indicates, to me, this feeling of, well, the money's not easily had, so we say we just
don't have the money. And I think that's kind of backwards. I'd rather that we say we're really
looking for it. And I would urge that in the future. Thank you. Director Tisdale.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just very briefly, relative to the
communications with the Governor-elect, I want you to know that we have had-- and I have had- a number of conversations with the Governor-elect over the course of the past year and a half,
actually, but as recently as several weeks ago, addressing the very issues that you're talking
about. So he is, I submit, very familiar with the issues that have caused the concern and how
we're attempting to address that.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much. And thank you. I appreciate that. But I still keep the
concern that I would hope that in the future, as we summarize to important elected officials
what's going on with FasTracks, that we mention what we're doing to move forward to complete
it. Thank you.
OK. Is there-- OK. That's it for Other Matters. The next meeting date-- yay, we reached that
point-- is February 5, 2019. And we're adjourned. So that's wonderful. A five-minute break.
Thank you. 8:35. Woo!

