Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 12, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 1 of 6
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of
Directors

Date:

May 12, 2011

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 12
2011 at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room
***
st
Board Members Present:
1 Vice-Chair Tayer, 2nd Vice-Chair Cohen,
Secretary Malpiede, Treasurer Bagley
Subject:

I.

Other Board Members
Present:

Directors Deadwyler, Daly, O’Boyle

Board Member Absent:
Others Present:

Chair Kemp
Paula Perdue, General Manager Washington,
Sherry Ellebracht

Call to Order:

Chair Pro-Tem Tayer called the meeting to order
at 12:05 p.m.

Recommended Action
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to enter into an agreement (for state
legislative liaison services) with Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs
(BMPA) to exercise a one-year option (July 1, 2011 through June 30, 2012)
to extend Contract No. 17-DX-001, at a cost of $104,000, pursuant to the
Contract Award agreement.
Motion:
Director Bagley made the
motion to approve the state
legislative liaison services
contract.
Director Malpiede seconded
the motion.
Discussion:

Director Bagley commented
he has worked with
Jennifer with state
legislators including Frank
McNulty and he has been

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 12, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 2 of 6
impressed with her work.
Director Malpiede added
that she is very impressed
with her work also.
Director Daly commented
that Brandeberry-McKenna
is much respected
throughout the Chambers.
Vote on
the Motion:
II.

The Motion PASSED.

May Board Meeting Review
General Manager Washington asked if there were any questions pertaining to
the unanimous consent. There were none so he proceeded to the
recommended action item on the West Corridor station naming. There was
no change to the agenda.
Motion:
Director Malpiede made the motion to
approve the May Board meeting agenda.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.
Discussion:

Director Cohen shared that both he and
Director Anderson have been copied on
numerous email’s pertaining to the
naming for the Jefferson County
Government Center-Golden. He has
received overwhelming responses from
residents in Golden favoring adding the
name Golden to this station. At this
time, there does not appear to be
consensus between the Jefferson County
Commissioners and the City of Golden
regarding a name for the station. Brenda
Tierney, PI Manager for West Corridor
has communicated that if there is a name
change later, they will incur the cost for
the changes.
Director Daly commented that RTD is a
regional transportation center. It seems
prudent that for people outside this
district, visitors, etc who may not be
familiar with the Jefferson County
Government Center, to add the name of
the City (Golden) which does have name
recognition, would be good.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 12, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 3 of 6
Vote on
the Motion:


The Motion PASSED.

Unanimous Consent

Request for approval of RTD 2010 Annual Report to DRCOG on
FasTracks
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors approve submittal of the RTD 2010
Annual Report on FasTracks to DRCOG. This report summarizes
the changes to the FasTracks Plan, including financing and
alignment, that have been approved by the Board in 2010.
These changes are included and referenced in the Annual Report.


Amendment of Special Transit ADA Paratransit Services contract
(17-DH-028) for the Provision of “Federal Heights Call-n-Ride”
Demand Response Services
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager or his designee, to amend the existing ADA paratransit
services contract with Special Transit (17-DH-028) for the
provision of the “Federal Heights Call-n-Ride” services. This
contract amendment will be for the duration of the existing
contract. The cost shall not exceed $184,875. This cost
includes an estimate for fuel which will be treated as a pass
through expense. The service is scheduled to begin January 2,
2012 and run through the end of the current ADA Paratransit
Services contract, December 31, 2012.



Amendment of MV Transit ADA paratransit Services contract
(17- DH-007) for the provision of “Belleview Call-n-Ride”
Demand Response Services
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager or his designee, to amend the existing ADA paratransit
services contract with MV Transit (17-DH-007) for the provision
of the “Belleview Call-n-Ride” services. This contract amendment
will be for the duration of the existing contract. The cost shall
not exceed $261,375. This cost includes an estimate for fuel
which will be treated as a pass through expense. The service is
scheduled to begin January 2, 2012 and run through the end of
the current ADA Paratransit Services contract, December 31,
2012.



2010 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to
Governance
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors accept and enter into the
record the District’s audited financial reports relating to the year

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 12, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 4 of 6
ended December 31, 2010 as prepared by Staff and audited by
the District's independent auditor, Bondi & Co. LLC.


Records Analyst and Document Control Services Contract-CenTec
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to
award Cen-Tec a contract to provide records analyst and
document control services, for the amount not to exceed of
$300,000. The proposed action also requests authorization to
execute a budget transfer from capital project 10307 task 90
to expense budget code 01.3305.53012.0000.0000 in the
amount of $180,000 and another into
01.3307.53012.0000.0000 in the amount of $101,951. RTD
policy requires Board authorization of this transfer.



Booz Allen Hamilton, Business Process Work Order Contract,
Increase of Contract Value not-to-exceed
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors authorizes the General
Manager to execute all documents necessary to increase the
contract value not-to-exceed limit for an existing contract with
Booz Allen Hamilton for Business Process Services (Contract
10DJ001). This contract was originally awarded in 2010 to Booz
Allen Hamilton through the competitive bid process. The contract
allowed for an initial-year plus four (4) one-year options to be
renewed based on positive performance by the vendor. The
proposed action increases the current contract not-to-exceed limit
of $450,000 by $1,000,000 to a new total contract not-toexceed limit of $1,450,000.



State Legislative Liaison Services
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an
agreement (for state legislative liaison services) with
Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BMPA) to exercise a oneyear option (July 1, 2011 through June 30, 2012) to extend
Contract No. 17-DX-001, at a cost of $104,000, pursuant to the
Contract Award agreement.

 RTD Station and Facility Naming Policy
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the Board of Directors adopt this station and facility naming
policy, which updates a policy adopted by the Board in December
2003.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 12, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 5 of 6


August 2011 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors approve moving the
proposed August 2011 Service Changes (Attachment A) on to
public review and comment.

 Recommended Action


Station Names on West Corridor
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the Board of Directors accept and approve final station names for
West Corridor (Knox Station, Perry Station, Sheridan Station,
Lamar Station, Garrison Station, Oak Station, Federal
Center Station, and Red Rocks College Station) including revisions
to the names of three stations: Federal•Decatur Station changing
to Decatur•Federal Station; Wadsworth Station changing to
Lakewood•Wadsworth Station; and Jefferson
County Government Center Station changing to Jefferson County
Government Center•Golden Station.

III. Straw Proposal for Bus Passes Distribution
Director Deadwyler passed out copies of her straw proposal and shared with
the committee the results of her findings including a polling that was done
with other transit properties. She also proposed a set of criteria and how the
process could be administered. The Committee members applauded Director
Deadwyler for her efforts and had a very interactive discussion on this issue.
More extensive discussion with the Board and staff is needed. Chair Pro Tem
Tayer will discuss with the Chair on next steps.
IV. Update on HB 1211
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Manager, shared that the HB 1211
passed through the House and Senate with the proposal for 2 times the
federal per diem. It also included a sentence exempting special districts
created under Title 32 from this bill. RTD was created through Title 32.7 and
is not expected to be affected. This action still needs to be signed by the
Governor before becoming a Bill.
V. GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee Update
Director Bagley shared the results are in from the 1Q, 2011 survey monkey
online survey. 80% of the Board completed the survey. The next meeting is
May 24 where the sub-working groups will report out on their
recommendations for benchmarking and the compensation philosophy model.
Director Cohen inquired what action could the GM Oversight Committee take
to obtain 100% participation on the survey. Director Bagley stated that he
had Paula to send out several reminders including reminders that he has sent
out personally. Hopefully the full Board will understand the importance of this
survey and will participate fully in this Board approved process.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 12, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 6 of 6
VI. Other Matters
 Director Bagley shared from a letter from the Highlands Ranch
Department requesting permission to park free at the RTD park and ride
for public facilities usage. This park-n-ride is not fully utilized so a GMR
has been issued to staff for a review of this request. A copy of the letter
was given to Phil Washington.
 Director Daly shared that an error had been made on the website and
posting pertaining to the Aspen Park route. Service planning has
corrected this error and no changes are being made to this route.
 Director Tayer shared that former Director Dick McLean had passed
away. No further details are known but the Board office will work with
the Chair to determine the appropriate acknowledgement from the Board.
VII. Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 1:15 p.m.

