2022-07-26
Board Meeting
VINCE BUZEK: OK, it's 7:40 PM. I will now call the Tuesday, July 26 Regular Board Meeting to order.
And it is 7:41.
Are we recording?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Cool. Sounds good. I'm going to respectfully, once again, ask everybody to remain
muted unless you're recognized to speak.
And as you know the meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely, in the interest of
public health, safety, and welfare. The official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom,
and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the
meeting, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Visit RTD-Denver.com.
And a live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
You know the Civility Statement. I read it once. I'm not going to read it again.
Next is the Pledge of Allegiance. Who's doing that? I can't remember. I asked somebody to do that.
Director Guissinger is waving her hand. She's eager to do it. Director Guissinger, can you please lead us
in the Pledge of Allegiance.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right.
[PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE]

VINCE BUZEK: I'll get a metronome next time. But thank you very much.
Director Williams, you're going to read the Land Acknowledgment, if you please. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd be happy to do that, Chair Buzek.
The RTD Board of Directors acknowledges that the land on which our buses and trains operate is the
traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and other contemporary Tribal nations that are
historically tied to these lands. We honor our Indigenous elders, who have traveled, inhabited, and
stewarded these mountains, hills, and plains throughout generations.
May this acknowledgment demonstrate a commitment to working to dismantle the ongoing legacies of
inequity of the Native and all historically oppressed peoples. We recognize their current and future
contributions in the District as we move forward.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Williams, for that.

Ms. McManus, would you please call the roll?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. Thank you.
Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm still here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Buzek.
Thank you.
You're muted, Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: With 15 present and 0 absent, we do have a quorum.
Next is Retiree Awards. There are no Retiree Awards for this evening. Third quarter Retiree Awards will
be announced at the September Board of Directors Meeting.
Next is Public Participation. It's open to anyone who would like to address the Board. If you wish to speak
and have not already done so, please raise your virtual hand or press star-9 on your phone. Staff will
unmute you when it is your turn to speak.
If you are dialed in, press star-6 to toggle your mute settings. Please bear in mind that by participating in
this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be recorded, then your comments will have to
be submitted in writing.
If any speaker has documentation or reference materials for the Board, or if any member of the public
would like to submit written comments, please email those materials to the Board Office at
RTD.BoardOffice@RTD-Denver.com.
During this time, the Board will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may contact speakers
following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow-up. Speakers should begin
their remarks by stating their names. And they will have up to three minutes to provide their comments.
Ms. McManus, has anyone raised their hands?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I see no hands raised.
VINCE BUZEK: All right. And did we have any email comments received for this meeting?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No, we did not.
VINCE BUZEK: Seeing no participants in the queue, we're going to close the Public Participation period
at this time and move on to External Entities Reports.
We have the Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee, the APAC, Report. And it will be presented
by Tex Elam. Mr. Elam, the floor is yours. And thank you for staying with us.

TEX ELAM: A pleasure. My report will be much shorter because Mr. Ford covered so much of the
material in his presentation. But even some of those things I need to mention, because he was talking
about financial and I will be talking about operational.
RTD has changed its scheduling software provider, from RouteMatch to 2 Ride, to try and improve the
quality of the customer service, with a better system, providing better productivity.
The Uber Pilot Project, the only comment I make is that it is now the Access-on-Demand Program. Mr.
Ford covered most of the material relating to it, and so my observation simply is that it is so successful.
And one of the reasons that it was passed over slightly it is important in that, if you're using that service,
you make your phone call to an Uber driver, and the connection is complete.
In our regular service, what happens is you have to make your reservation at least a day ahead because
of the complexity of combining and coordinating service. This, of course, is terribly attractive to those of
us who use it. And so it is not only popular, but I expect that this will become a very important operation
for RTD.
Next, a service called Subscription Service has now been reinstated. It had to be canceled, as many did,
during the COVID situation. The service is intended for those who travel at least three days a week to the
same location on the same day and time. By providing this service, we remove the need for people to call
in every day for the same route, and we remove the necessity for the people in the center to have to deal
with it.
Staff has updated the reconfiguration process, and therefore those people who are on permanent
disabling condition will do a less vigorous reappraisal every several years because of the obviousness of
their condition. It'll be after a person has been associated with the situation for about seven years. So it's
just an announcement.
The August Zero Fare for Better Air, of course, will affect the people in Access-a-Ride. However, it's
important to note-- which is why I mention it-- that the people who are using Uber and Access-a-Cab will
be relieved of the $2 to $5 fee that usually is picked up by RTD but not relieved of the remainder of the
fare, which is being provided by a third party.
And the application for vendors for the new services contracts-- as you know, the new contracts will go
into effect now on January 1 and so they have to be in-- the vendors have to provide them by August the
10th.
And then just a last announcement, which is that the RTD has extended its appreciation for the
commitment and contributions of we five who are leaving our post because our terms will expire on
August 31. They are Annie Pineda, Brian Novak, Jennifer Fires from Rocky Mountain Human Services,
Merv Martin, and me, Tex Elam.
RTD has reviewed 20 applications for new APAC members. New member terms will start on September 1
and end on August 31, 2025. And an observation, which is, although these are fixed dates, life
considerably changes that as time goes on. For instance, I'm on a one-year term. I'm finishing the term of
a person who left after two years of service.
The way it's structured, any of us who take up the role of a person who leaves in the first or second year
are limited to that term provided. Mr. Chairman and Board, it's been my honor and pleasure to make

these presentations to you and, as a matter of fact, to serve RTD in various roles for the last 20 years.
Thank you very much.
VINCE BUZEK: Mr. Elam, thank you for your report, and thank you for your service. Thanks also to Ann,
Brian, Jennifer, and Merv, for their service as well. We can't do it without you.
Are there any questions or comments for Mr. Elam?
Seeing none, thank you, Mr. Elam. Thanks for sticking around. And thanks for all your service to RTD.
Next is the Advisory Committee for People with Disabilities, ACPD, Report and the Citizens Advisory
Committee, CAC, Report. But these will be presented in September. I just want to make note that last
Wednesday, the 20th of July, the CAC held an in-person meeting for the first time in some time, I
suppose, at the Denver Chamber of Commerce.
First Vice Chair Guissinger, myself, Director Bouquet, Director Tisdale, and Director Williams virtually
were present at that meeting. Were there any other Directors there? I'm not sure. It was great turnout
from RTD. GM/CEO Johnson was there. Brandon Figliolino, from our Communications Department, was
there. Catalyst, our new local Government Relations crew, was there as well. We had a great discussion.
And I encourage any members of the Board, in the future, to attend any of the CAC meetings in person
when they're held.
So that being said, I'm going to move on to the Audit Ad Hoc Committee Report. Director Catlin, please
share with us your report, if any.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair.
We had a kickoff meeting with our consultant for internal audit function, RubinBrown, on the 18th, just a
little over a week ago. And we were introduced to the Internal Audit Team. Each of the members
described their roles. They have a really broad representation of different areas that they can provide to
RTD audit expertise.
They did emphasize that their work was going to be collaborative and not prescriptive. And I think that
reassured me a great deal, that we can really work through some of these issues together. We did refer
back to the IIA definition of internal audit function. And I think that's a pretty good guiding definition for us
to operate.
They did suggest some Audit Committee composition, and we had discussion around that. And we
actually asked them to come back to us and provide some different options, with pros and cons. So we
gave them a little bit of homework.
I also would like to acknowledge that Directors Guissinger and Tisdale participated in that initial kickoff
meeting. So thank you very much for that. And I believe all Directors did receive the packet information.
The team came back yesterday, on the 25th, and they did present three different options for Committee
composition, audit team composition, and they presented pros and cons of each. And we had a pretty
robust discussion of each of the options. It ranged from the very basic, what we're doing now, which is the
Ad Hoc Audit Committee, and continuing that on, to a much more leaner and mostly external committee
of three members.

And then the third option they presented was kind of a hybrid. And that was a hybrid of two Board
members for a two-year term each, and then outside expertise of three Audit Committee members. And I
think that we reached a consensus that we would eventually like to move toward option three, but then it
might take some interim steps to get there.
So we did ask them to come back to us and provide some attributes and position descriptions for the
external expertise that we were seeking. And first and foremost, we wanted to get a person with financial
expertise on there. So they're going to be bringing back a list of attributes for candidates as well as a
process for soliciting some of these candidates.
They're targeting the end of October to have an Audit Committee in place. But in the meantime, they
would like to refresh the risk assessment that they had presented to us a number of months ago. And that
being said, they wanted to not only refresh that risk assessment, but they would like to survey all of the
Board members and, if desired, have two-on-one meetings with them, to really get clarification on what
each Board member sees as the risks.
And also refreshing it, because perhaps staff has changed over, and some of the risks may not be as
pronounced. So they will be reaching out to you very shortly. And I look forward to having you participate
to the extent possible.
There will be Board action required on a number of these things. We'll be working on a charter as we
move towards developing the new Audit Committee. And also the selection of the committee will require
Board approval as we anticipate doing those things as we move through these activities in September.
So with that, it's a rather lengthy report. We will be meeting again in two weeks to discuss some of the
attributes of the external Audit Committee members that we may bring on board.
I'd like to ask either Director Davidson or Director Dishell if they have anything to add on the statement?
VINCE BUZEK: Director Davidson, go ahead.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, thank you very much, Committee Chair Catlin and Chair Buzek.
Yeah, I just would echo-- please keep an eye out for the solicitation of feedback on being surveyed for
risk assessment. I think this is the opportunity we need to move pretty quickly to get the Board's input on
the risk universe. So keep an eye out for that. I'm excited that we're at a place where we can get
everyone's involvement here.
And I just wanted to say thank you very much to Director Catlin. I'm very happy with the direction we're
moving right now. I think we're making really good progress. And thank you very much to our staff for
pushing hard on making this happen.
Doug MacLeod has been very helpful in keeping this organized and moving. And of course, Miss
Johnson, thank you for the sense of urgency around this issue and moving this forward.
And lastly, I would just emphasize, recognizing that we do have August where we will not be meeting as a
Board of Directors, and that October is the time frame to really move forward with our Audit Committee
recruitment efforts, we're going to have to be taking some action in September.

So please, if there's any questions that anyone has here-- recognizing that we'll have to move with some
urgency-- feel free to reach out to any of us on the Ad Hoc Committee for clarification questions on any of
the actions that are coming. I'm certainly happy to fill in any gaps and help catch folks up ahead of those
forthcoming actions. So thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Davidson.
Yeah, September is going to be a busy month. And out of respect for planned time off and others for our
staff, we want to try and be very respectful and minimize the activities that we have in August. So we will
be having a meeting August 8. But I think moving forward in August, we'll try and minimize that.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, thanks so much. And I know nothing catches headlines like audits. But it is so
critical. And a number of the issues and challenges that we talk about here as a Board, and end up in
some of those more contentious places, I think could have been mitigated through a stronger internal
audit. So I'm very excited about this.
And I will just read the definition that roots us in what internal audit is, which is, for the IIA, the Institute of
Internal Auditors, it is an independent, objective assurance and consulting activity designed to add value
and improve an organization's operations. It helps an organization accomplish its objectives by bringing a
systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk management control
and government processes.
So as a Board, it is really critical. I know it isn't the most exciting. Please don't hesitate to reach out,
because September is going to be really busy, with a lot of exciting things to help. Not only will we think
about those future more idealistic plans, but also, on our end-- on the back end-- what are we doing to
help mitigate risk, be intelligent about our spending, so that we can achieve those goals? And it's all sort
of interrelated.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments.
Second Vice Chair Catlin, does that conclude your report?
PEGGY CATLIN: That does, Mr. Chair. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Thanks to you, Director Davidson and Director Dishell, for your work on the
Committee.
Next is the Tabor Ad Hoc Committee Report. Directors Cook and Broom, do you have anything you would
like to report at this time?
BOB BROOM: Nothing new from this end. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Cook, anything?
SHELLEY COOK: Right, we didn't meet this month. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for that.

Next is the Finance and Planning Committee Report. Committee Chair Davidson, do you have anything
you would like to report?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'll keep it very brief, because the bulk of the recommended
actions are not on the Unanimous Consent Agenda this evening.
We met on July 12. We did not have any public comment or information from external entities. We did
have three recommended actions. The first was with regards to the 2014-A Certificates of Participation
refinancing. We did have a robust discussion around this. I'm very, very much appreciative to our staff,
Mr. Doug MacLeod, Mr. Brenden Morgan, and augmented by Mr. Michael Newman, who is here this
evening as well. I think we'll be hearing more on that. Quite a bit to look at and consider there.
A number of us were interested in not having that on the Unanimous Consent Agenda simply so we can
make sure that gets the full Board look and a full explanation this evening.
We also had a recommended action regarding the General Election Day 2022 Zero Fare and Ballot Drop
Box Deployment Partnership. Again, that is not on the Unanimous Consent Agenda, so we'll be hearing
more about that this evening. We did get a presentation from our Government Relations Officer Michael
Davies as well as the financial implications presented by Mr. Doug MacLeod, where we learned a little bit
about the cost and how that was calculated. I think we'll hear more this evening.
And then, finally, on the Unanimous Consent Agenda-- I think the only one-- we did move forward with
our contract Amendment for the Platte Boiler Project, to increase the budget there.
I should have noted that on the Certificates of Participation refinancing, that passed committee with 7
Yes, 0 no. The General Election Day Zero Fare passed the committee with 5 Yes and 2 No. And the
contract amendment that's on the Unanimous Consent did pass 7 to 0 for the boiler replacement.
And then we did have one discussion item. We did hear from the team, from Mr. Doug MacLeod, about
our Mid-term Financial Plan, for 2023 to 2028, some helpful context and some teasers of things to come. I
certainly would welcome my colleagues here to go and listen to that discussion. If you want to grab that
video and skip to that portion, I think there's some really nice highlights of what's coming.
So thank you, Mr. Chair. That concludes my report.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Davidson.
Next is the Operations and Safety Committee Report. Committee Chair Rosenthal, do you have anything
you'd like to report?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: No, I do not, Mr. Chair. We were slated to meet on July 13. We did not hold our
meeting. So all those agenda items were heard today. And so that is it.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks very much.
Performance Committee, Committee Chair Lewis, do you have anything you'd like to report?
SHONTEL LEWIS: [AUDIO OUT]
VINCE BUZEK: Director Lewis, your video is frozen and your audio is coming in and out.

SHONTEL LEWIS: [AUDIO OUT]
VINCE BUZEK: I still can't hear you. I'm going to turn, if it's OK, to your-- oh, are you there? I can see you
moving now. She's alive.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm here. But Director Dishell can answer it-VINCE BUZEK: OK.
SHONTEL LEWIS: --if you can't hear me. I'm so sorry.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Director Dishell, would you like to-BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks, Director Lewis and thanks Chair Buzek.
The Performance Committee met on July 13, at 1:30 PM. We held a brief meeting in which we discussed
the evaluation of Board performance. Because while we are charged with managing the General
Manager and CEO's performance, it's important that we also look inwards, as Board performance can
have a direct impact on the GM and CEO's ability to do her job.
We had a variety of different comments from folks. Director Rivera-Malpiede, who is not on the
Committee, was in attendance. And I believe there may have been one or two other folks who are on the
Committee in attendance.
If Director Whitmore and any of the other committee members have anything to add, please feel free. I
think it's something to continue to think through. It's a thorny issue, especially if elected, where the
ultimate accountability lies with the voters.
Our next meeting is September 14, 2022. And I will yield to any fellow Committee members who want to
chime in. And if none, then I'll yield back to the Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Secretary Sloan, go ahead.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes, a good report, Director Dishell. But I would like to note that one thing came out
of the discussion was the close relationship between the Ad Hoc Audit Committee and the idea of an
internal evaluation of the Board members. And that was one reason it was put aside for further
discussion.
And I think from Director Catlin's report tonight, you can see how it is something that will be coming up
with the internal audit function as it goes forward.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for those comments. Anybody else?
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Director Sloan. Because I sit on both committees, I could see providing
that link for everyone. But yes, the Board audit acknowledges, the Board is one of the larger risks for the
agency, it seemed appropriate to funnel it through that channel. So I yield.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Director Lewis, anything further?
Great. Thanks for the report.

Next is the Approval of Board Meeting Minutes and Committee Reports. The Board and Committee
Minutes were included in the Board packet. Are there any corrections from the Directors?
Unless there is an objection to considering these minutes all at the same time, may I please have a
motion to approve the Minutes for the following meetings-- June 28, 2022 Board Meeting; July 12, 2022
Finance and Planning Committee; July 13, 2022 Performance Committee; and July 21, 2022 Executive
Committee? Do I have a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: So moved. Tisdale.
VINCE BUZEK: Tisdale. And a second?
JULIEN BOUQUET: I second.
KATE WILLIAMS: Williams, second.
VINCE BUZEK: I see Bouquet. So I've got Tisdale as the movement, and Bouquet as the second. Any
further discussion on the motion to approve?
Are there any No votes?
Seeing none, this passes is 15 to 0.
Next is the Chair's Report. I'll start out with the-- and Director Dishell touched on this-- the press
conference coming up on Thursday, 10:30 AM, the Denver Union Station, near Track 6. So any members
of the Board that can be there-- I know some people have conflicts. I appreciate that. Any members of the
Board that can be there-- a large Board presence would certainly be appreciated.
We're going to have Senator Faith Winter, Representative Matt Gray; Bud Starker, Metro Mayor's Caucus
Chair and the Wheat Ridge Mayor; Doug Rex; Dr. Cox, Executive Director; Dominique Gomez from the
Colorado Energy Office-- she's the Deputy Director; Lance Longenbohn from the ATU 1001.
And then we're going to have the big kickoff and launch of Fare Free-- I'm sorry. Did I say Fare Free,
GM/CEO Johnson? I'm sorry. Zero Fare for Better Air.
So that's coming up on Thursday. So be there or be square.
A couple of things. First of all, just a gentle reminder. Now that we have switched to the smaller
committees, it's really imperative that we try to attend our committee meetings when we can. And when
we cannot, please give as much notice as possible to our Board staff, who can make whatever
arrangements might be necessary to accommodate absences.
I know I'm traveling in August and September, and I let the Board office know in February. So really, let
the Board office know these things. It's really important that we do that.
A couple of other things. The Ad Hoc Zero Emission Vehicle Committee is meeting. You guys have your
first meeting scheduled. I'm excited to hear what comes out of that.
Kicking off this Saturday is the APTA Transit Board Member Conference, and it's also the Transit Board
Administrator Conference, in beautiful downtown Salt Lake City, Utah. I know a number of Directors will

be attending. Our very own Director Doug Tisdale is the Chair of the APTA Transit Board Members
Committee and has really taken charge of organizing this entire conference. And it will prove to be a
tremendous success.
I will be on a panel on August 1, presenting. The topic is Our security challenges and what we're doing to
address those.
And it was also alluded to earlier that in August, there is no Board meetings, no standing committee
meetings. This gives staff time to regroup. And a lot of them probably are taking some time off, too. So be
cognizant and respectful of that as you make demands on our Board office staff and other staff members.
So keep that in mind.
The Executive Committee meeting was held last week. The big discussion item was something that's
coming up later. And that is the amendment to the delegation of authority. And I'm going to give everyone
a preview. I'm going to be moving to postpone it. So anyway, it's a preview. Stay tuned.
And that's all I have at this time. Next is the General Manager's Report. General Manager Johnson, would
you please share with us your report?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very kindly, Mr. Chairman. And good evening once again to you and
all the Board members and to those that are virtually assembled. As introduced, I am Debra Johnson, the
General Manager and CEO.
This evening, I will share with you the following information centered around our strategic priorities;
speaking to community value, I will briefly discuss staff efforts to prepare for RTD's Zero Fare for Better
Air initiative, which commences in less than one week; Agency efforts to coordinate with external entities
on low- and no-emission bus technology implementation; further, I will share information regarding
speaking engagements and other external meetings in which I have participated on behalf of the Agency.
As relates to employee ownership, I will touch upon the Agency's ongoing COVID-19 pandemic
responses. And lastly, regarding financial success, I will share a long anticipated update regarding the
Agency's credit risk premium associated with the 2010 Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement
Financing loan for the Denver Union Station Project.
Zero Air for Better Air has been referenced a lot this evening, so I wanted to provide just some updates as
to where we are in ensuring this comes to fruition. RTD's application for Zero Fare for Better Air has been
accepted by the Colorado Energy Office. The award to the agency is $8,680,000, which is approximately
$150,000 less than RTD's request, as the Energy Office data customer survey is not an eligible expense.
I know the Chair commented on this, but I'd be remiss in stating that, as a Government Relations
discussion item last week, we talked in the course of the Executive Committee, it was my intent to have
the Agency incur the survey expense. However, at this juncture, contingent upon what happens in
reference to your deliberations this evening, that leveraging a survey may not be feasible, contingent
upon the Board's consideration and adoption of the amendment to the delegation of authority, as there is
not adequate time for the Board to review and consider the surveying methodology prior to Zero Fare for
Better Air, which launches on Monday, August 1st.
Staff is actively working with the Colorado Energy Office to complete a statement of work agreement that
will facilitate the reimbursement of the eligible fares and expenses. And as noted previously, we know this

launches on Monday. And as you have heard from the Chair, that I as well as most of you all and staff
and other stakeholders will participate in a media event.
And it's also a community-based event to educate and inform a myriad of audiences on how to utilize the
system, adherence to our code of conduct, ensuring that there is an understanding or expectation is that
the general public will treat our stellar employees with kindness and respect. And also of course,
leveraging the opportunity to recruit employees for the Regional Transportation District.
As it relates to efforts regarding low- and no-bus emissions technology, during the recent study session
revolving around that subject, on June 7, I noted that staff would be engaging with the Colorado Clean
Transit Enterprise Board of Directors regarding RTD's experience implementing and operating low- and
no-emission buses.
Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations Fred Worthen presented to this group on July 13. The
Clean Transit Enterprise, which is housed within the Colorado Department of Transportation, was created
by S.B. 21-260, and is charged with distributing funding through grants to support transitioning transit to
low- and no-emission bus technology throughout the state. As a national leader in this space with respect
to implementation of zero emission bus operations, it's important for RTD to actively participate in the
Clean Transit Enterprise's activities.
We've heard about APTA this evening. I would like to share, on Wednesday, June 29, I, as a member of
the APTA Awards Committee, traveled to Chicago for the day to participate in deliberations to determine
the honorees for this year's APTA Awards. Those individuals and agencies who receive APTA Awards
are outstanding role models of excellence, leadership, and innovation, whose accomplishments have
greatly advanced public transportation, demonstrating APTA's core values of leadership, integrity,
excellence, diversity, inclusiveness, fairness, equity, teamwork, professionalism, and accountability. The
honorees will be recognized during the Awards Luncheon that will take place at the TRANSFORM Annual
Conference in Seattle, Washington, October 9 through the 12th.
From July 9 through July 11, I attended the 51st National Meeting and Training Conference, hosted by
the Conference of Minority Transportation Officials, held in Fort Lauderdale. On Saturday, July 9, I
participated on a panel, which highlighted how transit investment increased at a time customers were not
using agency services, reinforcing the theme that ridership is not the sole metric of success, and moving
forward into how leading organizations rely upon looking at measuring value over volume.
On Sunday, July 10, I participated in a CEO Summit, whereby my peers and I discussed issues that
impact the role of the CEO, as well as hurdles, internal as well as external, that may hinder our optimal
performance.
On Thursday, July 14, I, along with our Government Relations Officer Michael Davies, met with the
Region 8 Director of the US Department of Health and Human Services and staff. In keeping with the
department's mission to enhance the health and well-being of all Americans, the purpose of this meeting
was to explore how RTD and HHS could connect and address the impact of current behavioral and
mental health issues within and on public transit.
HHS reaffirmed this is a national crisis and one which is not indigenous to RTD. Thus, I committed to
leveraging the Federal Transit Administration Region 8 into the discussion. And in turn, the HHS Director
is connecting our staff with those at the state level to further the conversation.

Thank you to Director Sloan for making the introduction to the HHS Director and for thinking outside the
box with respect to addressing the societal challenges confronting not just our agency but all agencies
where we could be a leader in this forefront.
That same day, I was invited to participate on a panel, hosted by the American Institute of Architects, to
discuss the effect of public policy on urban design, particularly with respect to Denver Union Station. I
was joined on the panel by our very own architect Ignacio Correa-Ortiz, as well as Ken Schroeppel, the
University of Colorado-Denver's Director of Urban Design, and Andrew Iltis, Director of Economic
Development at the Downtown Denver Partnership.
Last Tuesday, on July 9, I attended the Black Community Partnership Lunch, sponsored by 9 News,
which was a gathering of thought leaders across a multitude of industries. The event was part of the
Station's ongoing Nine Lessons Campaign. And the discussion centered upon attracting and retaining
employees of color to the Denver Metro area. I had the opportunity to share challenges I have
experienced, having relocated to the Metro Denver area after having lived and worked in more diverse
and inclusive communities and agencies across the country.
I was able to provide recommendations and strategies to emphasize the B in belonging, as actions
resonate more than words, and offer examples of how I cope with feeling isolated in an environment in
which most people in similar roles do not look like me.
And on a more personal note, I am humbled to announce that this past Thursday, July 20, I was inducted
into the International Women's Forum of Colorado. The IWF is an organization whose mission is
catalyzing community to advance and accelerate economic opportunities for Colorado women and their
families. And I am proud to be considered one of its newest members.
Ongoing COVID 19 Pandemic Responses. So as we all know, Colorado and the nation continue to feel
the impacts of the BA.5 COVID-19 subvariant, which health experts say is the most contagious COVID-19
strain yet identified, and which accounts for the majority of the cases identified in the United States. As of
Friday, July 22, Colorado has experienced a 35% increase in COVID-19 cases over the prior two weeks.
And most of the eight counties within RTD Service Area remain in the Medium Level of community
transmissibility, according to the Centers for Disease Control.
On a more positive note, studies have found that the Omicron variant and its subvariants produced less
severe illnesses than previous strains, resulting in fewer hospitalizations and a shorter duration of
symptoms. Current protocols regarding masking, building capacity limitations, and other health protocols
remain unchanged. And the leadership team and I continue to monitor health data and state and federal
health and safety guidance.
And last, but certainly not least, as the Board members learned yesterday, I am immensely pleased to
announce that as of Monday, July 25, the Agency's Finance staff finally received a payment from the US
Treasury for the Agency's credit risk premium for the 2010 Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement
Financing Loan for the Denver Union Station Project. The transfer was in the amount of $30.6 million,
$1.7 million of which is derived from interest.
Moreover, I contacted the Mayor's staff yesterday-- being the Denver Mayor, Mayor Hancock-- to apprise
him further the conversation with the city regarding Denver Union Station enhancements to sustain a
welcome transit environment. Doug MacLeod, our CFO, is in contact with Denver's acting CFO on this
matter.

Thank you. Because I know this preceded me. Thanks to all of you, our federal legislative advocates, who
I believe are on the call listening in, and specifically RTD's congressional delegation. But I have to call out
Representative Perlmutter for his doggedness in this critically important fiscal matter.
So with that, Mr. Chair, I conclude my remarks, and would invite any questions or comments at this time.
So thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. And congratulations on a number of fronts. That was a great report.
Anybody have any questions for GM/CEO Johnson?
Director Lewis, go right ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Can you hear me? Is it working now? Oh, nice. Good. OK. So thank you so much
for that report. It was excellent and it was thorough.
I have to tell you, I just have a genuine appreciation for you and your ability to tell your story and to speak
your truth about your experiences. And more specifically, it resonates with me, with you talking about
being in spaces where you are often the only person that looks like you. And I know how difficult-- as a
Black woman, I know how difficult that can be.
And I just really appreciate you continuing to show up authentically as your whole self. Because I know
how much easier it is to navigate these spaces that are intentionally not designed for women like us, to
really try to assimilate and fit in. And so thank you.
And I just had to say, that really resonated with me, maybe because I'm at Harvard.
[LAUGHTER]
VINCE BUZEK: What a show-off.
[LAUGHTER]
Thank you for those kinds words.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you so much, Director Lewis. I believe it's incumbent upon me to show up and
speak up. So when I was invited to participate, I thought it's important to stand in my truth and
acknowledge that. Because it is different. I'm the only leader in this space, the only intermodal transit
agency in the entire state. And as you all know, I've been in areas where there's been at least 25. So I
have different colleagues that I could just basically hop on some mode of transport and access.
So I appreciate that. That's why it's great to have the different forums in which I could participate-- and
with COMPTO and WTS, and a myriad of different audiences. So thank you very kindly.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for that.
And next up, with her master's degree from Harvard Kennedy School, we have Director Cook.

SHELLEY COOK: Well I'd echo those comments, to the extent I can relate. I really appreciate what you
do and how you represent and your openness in talking with people, and so forth. So anyway, just
echoing, as I can, Director Lewis's remarks.
I had a quick question. What's the latest on the e-bike policy? We were thinking that was going to come
out during the month.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Director Cook, first, for your comments recognizing me
standing in my truth. And as it relates to the e-bike, a couple of things that are happening.
Quite naturally, we are very interested in putting this to rest, to provide some clear-cut guidance. Where
we stand now is that I have asked the team to do some cross-pollination. A couple of things.
We have two-position bike racks on the front of our buses currently. We don't have three-position bike
racks, and they're not as new. So we have to ensure that, basically, there's an understanding with our
frontline operators, who will be using their discretion to make decisions about what will be allowed
onboard versus what will be allowed on the front of the bike. We have to ensure that we have adequate
training for them, because we have to minimize risk and exposure.
So that meeting is taking place on August 3, in relationship to ensuring that our Manager of Safety and
the Environment, who serves as our Chief Safety Officer, is fine with that as we go forward. Because
there's an array of different e-bikes. So there's a lot of different nuances that need to be addressed as
opposed to just saying blatantly, yes, they can come on board. We welcome that. But we have to do our
due diligence with mitigating risk.
SHELLEY COOK: So you think sometime after that orientation period? I'm just trying to respond to folks
who want to know when likely they'll have a change in the policy.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. So first and foremost, what I'm stating is that we have an internal meeting to
mitigate the risk impacts that came up when the various departments came together. So with that as the
backdrop, we have to ensure that we train our operators accordingly. Because we don't want them to be
placed in a precarious position. So I'm thinking probably the end of the month. I can't say with certainty,
but I can sure double back and provide you with some written correspondence to better manage the
expectations when there could be a change.
SHELLEY COOK: Sounds good. Thank you so much.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Cook. Anybody else?
Seeing none, thanks again, GM/CEO Johnson, for the report.
Next up is our Unanimous Consent Agenda. And there's one item on the consent agenda listed as item
XIV, as action A. That item is the 2022 Contract Amendment for the Plant Boiler Project.
Now, if anyone has a change to or questions about this item, just let me know, and we will pull it from the
Unanimous Consent Agenda for consideration under Recommended Action.
Seeing none, I need a motion to approve the Consent Agenda.

PEGGY CATLIN: I move.
BOB BROOM: I move approval.
VINCE BUZEK: I have Catlin as the movement and Broom as the second.
Are there any No votes on this matter?
Seeing none, that passes 15 to 0.
Now we're going to move on to Recommended Action Items. There are three Recommended Actions on
the agenda tonight, listed as items IV, Actions B, as in boy, through D, as in David.
The first Recommended Action is Series 2014-A Certificates of Participation Refinancing. And I'm going
to be looking for a motion for the Board of Directors to adopt the attached resolution Number Blank (The
Bond Resolution) Series of 2022, authorizing the issuance of the bonds (FasTracks Project) Series 2022A and 2022-B. Do we have a motion?
ERIK DAVIDSON: So moved, Director Davidson.
VINCE BUZEK: Davidson movement.
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: Second is Whitmore.
Before we go into discussion, we're going to have a staff presentation, please.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. This is Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer.
So I'd just like to give a summary of this item. The Board packet includes some more details. But
essentially, backing up in time, we had come to the Board-- staff had come to the Board in March of 2022
with the 2014 COPs, Certificates of Participation. Having a call date approaching in 2024, there was an
opportunity to look at refinancing those Certificates of Participation to generate interest savings.
Those Certificates of Participation were originally issued in the amount of $440 million, which was
borrowed from investors. That money was used to build the N Line. But because they're Certificates of
Participation, it was a lease financing-type of loan, in which the funding is supported by the
collateralization, in effect, of the N Line infrastructure itself.
In March, what we had proposed to the Board was refinancing those Certificates of Participation with
FasTracks bonds. The reason being, we would refinance with bonds as opposed to new Certificates of
Participation, as it generated additional interest savings. At the time, it indicated savings of approximately
$120 million over a period of time-- over the remaining 22 years that that refinancing would take place.
Since that time, we did discuss in March with the Board that we would come back in July with a proposal,
having gathered some input from the Board from that meeting, and also doing additional research. So
during that time what we did is Finance staff reached out to the Board-approved underwriting pool of 12
firms and asked for their best refinancing idea for these COPs.

And I should mention, by the way, you've heard a lot in the news about interest rates going up. That's true
for short-term interest rates. And generally, what we're concerned with on the debt side is-longer term
interest rates. While those have been very volatile lately, they still have remained attractive in terms of
refinancing these COPs. So the opportunity still exists.
We received nine proposals back from the underwriting firms and looked at those nine proposals. There
were a couple that had the same basic proposal. We found the best deal would be to do the refinancing
with bonds. However, rather than going to market and selling those bonds on the open market, we're
proposing to do a direct placement with two banks. Those two banks, by direct placing these bonds with
those banks, it would avoid additional charges of approximately $2 and 1/2 million that would be incurred
in underwriting fees had we just gone out to the market. So there is savings generated there by going this
route.
In addition to the proposal of direct placement, we're also proposing issuing Cinderella bonds, as
described in the Board Item. What Cinderella bonds are are we would have to first issue taxable bonds,
which we would pay a higher interest rate on until the call date. Then those Cinderella bonds convert to
tax exempt at the call date. And the banks would accept those same Cinderella bonds or tax-exempt
bonds in place of the taxable bonds. The reason being is the IRS does not allow advance refunding with
tax-exempt debt before a call date.
So we thought that was a fairly unique proposal in terms of what we had seen so far, but it's a very
commonly used practice here in Colorado as well as many other places.
Another item to point out with this refinancing would be that it would still use up the remaining FasTracks
bonding capacity. So the voters, in 2004, authorized RTD to issue a certain amount of debt under
FasTracks. We are approaching the expiration date of that bonding capacity, which bond counsel has
advised us that they're not in favor of giving us a positive opinion on the issuance of tax-exempt debt past
20 years. So that would occur in 2024.
Knowing that that's approaching, and with long-term interest rates still remaining low, we would like to
take advantage of this refinancing opportunity by utilizing the remainder of that FasTracks bonding
capacity of $350 million.
I would also like to mention that, even though we would use the remainder of that FasTracks bonding
capacity, by completing this transaction, it actually releases the collateralized infrastructure on the N Line
to be available for future Certificates of Participation issuance in the event that there are additional
projects identified by RTD that we would like to finance.
So it's really replacing the FasTracks bonding capacity with availability of additional COP capacity. So
we're not really relinquishing anything in terms of our ability to borrow in the future, pending the ability to
pay it back.
What this new refinancing would result in is, under current circumstances, as opposed to $120 million in
interest savings, it would generate $294 million in interest savings, all to the benefit of FasTracks. A
caveat to that is it requires an additional investment by RTD of approximately $95 million.
That $95 million is not a net additional cost to RTD. It's simply advance paying some of the Certificates of
Participation off early that the banks were not interested in purchasing through this bond refinancing. So
essentially, it would be similar to paying additional principal towards your mortgage. You're going to have

to pay that anyway over time-- so the $95 million RTD would have paid over the next 22 years. Instead
we're going to pay that upfront and avoid paying interest on it for the remainder of the 22 years. That's
what generates most of the additional savings, realizing $294 million in savings. Which averages
approximately $13 million in interest savings per year over 22 years.
So it's a very beneficial refinancing transaction in terms of our financial success, especially because it
affects FasTracks. And there's also an additional use of funding that was already tied up in these
Certificates of Participation. Certificates of Participation require that you have a debt service reserve set
aside. There's approximately $35 million that we've had sitting in a trust account for several years.
That money is there for the Certificate of Participation holders, to guarantee that an interest and principal
payment will be met in the event RTD fails to pay. So that funding will be freed up. It'll be used to apply
towards this refinancing and lower the additional debt needed.
And I think that is a quick summary. And I do have Brenden Morgan, Senior Manager of Debt and
Investments, as well as Mike Newman, Senior Managing Director from RTD's municipal advisor firm,
Hilltop Securities, to answer questions, Mr. Chair. So we'd be happy to entertain any questions that the
Board may have at this point
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for that summary. I really do appreciate it. And also thanks for the
comprehensive presentation at the Finance and Planning Committee meeting and the really great
discussion that was had by Directors present there.
So with that being said, I'll ask if there are any Directors who have any comments or questions?
Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Mr. MacLeod, for reviewing all of that. I
just continue to be impressed by the opportunity this presents. I think it's a win-win-win.
You did touch briefly on the potential changes in interest rates. Long-term hasn't moved as far as short.
We did talk about that a little bit at the Finance Planning. Where do you sit right now-- or anyone from the
team? Do you feel any differently about the risk we face-- any more risk that we face-- to this lowering in
value between now and when we might be able to execute on the opportunity, if approved, than you did
several weeks ago at the Finance Meeting?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you for the question, Director Davidson.
I'd like to ask Mike Newman to comment on that. And if you also could, Mike, mention the rate lock
potential.
MICHAEL NEWMAN: Sure. As Doug mentioned, this transaction would be completed with two banks
selected by RTD as opposed to going to the public markets. Among the things that allows for is speed of
execution. There's not a long marketing period to find investors. There are no rating agencies involved.
The banks involved are affiliated with underwriters in the RTD underwriting pool. So that allowed them to
move very quickly. When they responded with their ideas, they could also respond with preliminary
approvals to do the financing.

Since the receipt of those ideas, and having been mandated to move forward, subject to Board approval,
those banks have credit approval and are in a position, subject to documentation, to execute the
transaction. Documents are moving forward. There's a call tomorrow to discuss them actually. And I
would expect, by middle of August, we'll be in a position to execute, if that's the will of the Board and
management finds interest rates attractive.
As Doug mentioned, there's something called a rate lock. And it's by virtue of dealing with two direct
investors you can agree-- essentially tomorrow, if the Board chooses to approve the financing, RTD can
enter into a contract today to lock the interest rates in, and deliver the bonds approximately two to three
weeks later. And there is no cost for that forward premium. What it does do is it allows RTD to remove the
interest rate risk that it faces until it executes the transaction.
And one of the things-- with Director Davidson's permission, and just to supplement Doug's remarks,
which I completely agree with-- one of the things that was discussed in great detail is RTD has a number
of projects it's always considering to complete. By doing this refinancing, and from a legal perspective, it's
actually an acquisition of an asset by RTD, because the assets are owned by Asset Acquisition. So it's
actually a new money financing by RTD to acquire the assets.
And as Doug said, it frees up assets that can be sold in leaseback, with AAA, later in time. But what it
also does today-- assuming the savings are realized-- is it increases our RTD's ability to incur debt in
future to finance capital expenditures. By the savings Doug referenced-- I think it was 300 million-- what
that does is that money is available in future to pay interest on other debt for other capital projects.
And FasTracks and the different projects within it are not completed, but using the Tabor capacity to
enhance savings here does not preclude construction of any projects. RTD, led by Doug and Brenden,
have proven to the nation the ability to issue Certificates of Participation to build a rail line.
These Certificates of Participation that we are talking about refinancing for savings were issued at the
time to build Metro North-- now the N Line. Now they're being refinanced for savings.
So the refinancing itself does not preclude any additional rail lines, and actually creates additional
capacity to afford debt to build those rail lines both from an interest perspective-- and as Doug mentioned
and pointed out, and if I could reemphasize-- that is being paid early. So debt is being reduced. And there
is interest savings on the debt that's being reissued to pay off outstanding debt.
So these steps don't preclude any additional major capital projects by RTD, but rather enhance the ability
of the organization to afford the capital necessary to construct them.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Thank you very much, Mr. MacLeod and Mr. Newman. And Mr. Newman, thank
you for elaborating on that. One of my other questions is going to be asking to bring that portion of the
discussion to the team here.
I think that this next question, if I may, Mr. Chair, will just be very quick because I think I know the answer- Mr. MacLeod, or Mr. Newman or Mr. Morgan, have any of the numbers substantially changed in terms of
expected net present value, in terms of the costs? And have there been any material changes in terms of
risks or potential issues identified since the Finance Committee meeting?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Director Davidson. And again, I'd ask Mike to comment on that. I know
you've run some numbers more recently, Mike, and could you comment?

MICHAEL NEWMAN: Sure. The first part of that question I'd like to address, and I think it's the most
important is the risk question. Because when you talk about rewards, you have to put it in the context of
the risk. The risks have not changed. And as Doug outlined, these bonds would vary-- taxable interest
rate and convert to a tax-exempt interest rate.
The risk is whether or not that interest rate converts and is lowered or it does not. There are two actions
required to achieve the lower interest rate. The first is a receipt of a bond counsel opinion that the bonds,
as of such a date, would be tax exempt. The second requirement is the administrative filing of a form,
titled 8038(g)-- I believe it would be-- and that is filed every time RTD does a financing. It's administerial.
The real risk in this case is the ability of Butler Snow, as bond counsel to RTD, to provide a tax-exempt
opinion. The project-- the N Line-- was financed with Certificates of Participation, which bear a tax-exempt
rate of interest today. So that tax analysis has already been completed and been in place for a number of
years. There has been no change in the factors that go into that tax opinion, which puts everybody in a
feeling of, this is not a huge risk.
The risk that remains is obviously if there's a fundamental change in tax law. And I truly do mean
fundamental. There is no private use. There is no private benefit. It is of benefit to the general public. So
that risk is viewed as very low. Butler Snow has been involved throughout. Their Tax Department has
been involved. And they have raised no concerns with this. They do note the requirement for it. And all
compliance with legal requirements, such as additional bonds test, Tabor limitation, limitations pursuant to
the Concession Agreement, are being analyzed on the basis if that conversion does not occur. So that
there will not be an issue.
Obviously, if the change does not occur, RTD doesn't realize the savings. But there would be no breach
of voter authorization, no breach of concession agreements, et cetera. All of that is being worked through
and is being updated, again, based on revised terms from the bank, which are more favorable to RTD.
One of the questions Director Davidson asked was interest rates. When we did our last analysis-- we
have two banks that were dealing with, Bank of America and City National Bank. Bank of America is
taking more debt than City National. But City National is taking the bonds for a longer term to maturity.
And we got those rates. We updated the savings, which Doug shared with you. Literally, within a few
days, I spoke with City National. They agreed they could reduce at that time their interest rate by 8 basis
points.
Markets have improved. Exactly where they are today relative to the Finance Committee, I would say it is
not a material change. But if I had to place a wager, I would say rates are the same or better in RTD's
favor than they were then. Among other things, the fact that City National has found an ability to lower
their cost to RTD.
ERIK DAVIDSON: That all makes great sense. And thank you very much, Mr. Newman, for the thorough
answer. And thank you, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for the questions and the discussion.
Director Broom, go right ahead.
BOB BROOM: I thank the Chair.
Is the rate lock-- is that incorporated into the resolution that we'll be acting upon tonight?

MICHAEL NEWMAN: I believe the answer is yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Mr. MacLeod, you're muted.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Go ahead, Mike.
MICHAEL NEWMAN: I believe the answer is yes. And Aimee is with us, as RTD Counsel, but I believe
the rate lock is authorized as well. One of the questions that RTD will need to consider-- when you enter
into a rate lock, if you fail to close the financing when scheduled pursuant to the rate lock, there's a
payment due.
So with the short window between-- if the Board approves the financing between today and execution,
approximately the 18th of August, one of the questions is, is it worth the risk to execute the rate lock, or is
RTD better served to let that interest rate float and avoid the rate lock and possibly realize better or worse
interest rates? And a decision hasn't been reached. We've been focused on the terms with the bank
generally, to make sure they're acceptable to RTD.
BOB BROOM: So then that kind of begs the question, what is the cost of the rate lock?
MICHAEL NEWMAN: There is no cost to the rate lock in terms of-- normally, when you talk about cost of
a rate lock, there is an incremental addition to the interest rate. That's where your cost of a rate lock
shows up. But because of the short time between execution of the rate lock and closing, both banks have
said there would be no incremental cost to the rate lock.
The potential cost to RTD would be if it did not close on the financing as anticipated.
BOB BROOM: Well, then, that's the question. What is the dollar amount that we'd have to write a check
for if we walk, or if the markets fell apart in the next day or so?
MICHAEL NEWMAN: The cost is difficult to estimate because it's a function of how much interest rates
move, unfortunately. If rates decline, then there would be likely no cost. Because the banks can redeploy
their funds at no cost and actually realize a gain.
We will be running sensitivities, Director Broom, to try and assess that number.
BOB BROOM: OK, thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Broom.
Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Chair.
Just a quick clarifying question, which is, if we do not close on time-- quote, unquote, on time-- and I'm
assuming that the usual carve-out is about whose fault it is and whatnot, and closing conditions-- but if we
do not close on time, would the amount owed be applicable to the loan fees if we later closed 10 days
after closing, 30 days after closing? Or is that effectively money lost?
MICHAEL NEWMAN: I apologize, Director. Are you referring to the cost of the professionals or in the
context of a rate lock?

BOBBY DISHELL: So I guess what I'm asking is-- so typically the bank is going to charge a certain
number of fees for us to go through this transaction. And there are times in which a rate lock fee is
applicable. And I know here it's not a rate lock fee, but it's sort of a failure to timely close fee, for lack of a
better term. If we still close-- closing is slated for September 1, we do the rate lock, and it's $100. If we
close on September 15, is that $100 applied towards the loan fees we would otherwise-- or the other fees
we owe in connection with this transaction? Or is that $100 effectively lost?
MICHAEL NEWMAN: You would only pay that $100 if you fail to close pursuant to the terms of the rate
lock. If you closed in accordance with the rate lock, there's no fee due. It's actually a penalty or breakage
cost-- is what it's referred to-- because you broke that transaction. And I think, if I may, one of the topics
we discussed with the Finance Committee, and is germane to this discussion, is, what if rates move
between today and execution of a rate lock or execution of the transaction? What happens?
All of the professionals that work on this on behalf of our RTD work on a contingent basis. So if the
transaction doesn't close, the banks do not get paid. The professionals do not get paid. The only
exception might be the lawyers to the bank. But if rates move, the documents that have been created still
have value and can be dusted off when rates come back down, to a point that it makes sense to execute.
And I see Aimee, and she's got her hand up-- and I'll defer to her on the rate lock-- but she and I have
discussed the issues, or the potential costs associated with the rate lock, especially in light of the fact that
it is such a short window between if the Board approves this today and when we expect to execute. And
it's worth bearing in mind, that time frame is no different than if RTD was going to market with a bond
issue and did not have the ability to execute a rate lock. That is a benefit of the form of financing dealing
with the banks.
But Aimee, if I can defer to you.
AIMEE BECKWITH: So this is Aimee Beckwith, Senior Associate General Counsel. Going back to
Director Broom's question about approving the form of rate lock agreement. That's in Section 5 of the
Resolution, page 39 of your packet. There's half a dozen documents that are included in the Board
package that are approved as to form by the Board, and the rate lock agreement is one of those.
And I just want to point out that, in a regular bond issue, we have a form of bond purchase agreement
with a number of outs for the underwriter if the deal doesn't close. And it's a similar case with a little bit
more risk in the term of a rate lock agreement, because there is a potential of payment.
But I think the advice from Michael Newman and also from discussions with the banks, it seems like that
risk is relatively low if we lock the rate close to the Board approval and get the closing in place as soon as
possible. And because we have the forms of documents in good shape, I guess I don't see a large risk for
that taking place. But I wanted to ask Brenden and Doug to speak on that as well.
MICHAEL NEWMAN: And Doug and Brenden, if it's helpful, when the rate lock was first offered to RTD,
my advice-- and I believe with Aimee's support-- was don't execute a rate lock at that time because you
don't have the ability to execute the transaction. The decision on the ability to execute belongs to the
Board and is vested in the Board. If the Board chooses to approve this, then it becomes an assessment
simply of the risk of achieving closing. And I expect we will close and we'll have an even better idea after
a conference call tomorrow.

And assuming everyone on the call from RTD feels the legal documents are now very close, the risk of
failing to close becomes small, and we just have to set a realistic closing date that we can easily achieve.
And I would like to point out, Aimee spoke eloquently and informed, because she and Ms. Steiner have
been intimately involved working with Doug, Brenden and myself-- the reference has been to Finance,
because it's a financial matter. But whether you do bonds or direct placement, when you borrow money,
the legal terms are extremely important. And I want to recognize their contribution as well as outside
counsel.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Dishell. Have your questions been answered?
Excellent. Thanks very much.
Any further discussion, questions, or comments?
Great. Seeing none, we'll move to the vote. And before I do, thanks again, Mr. MacLeod and your team,
for the great work on this.
Are there any No votes on this matter?
And Director Broom, you've got your hand raised.
Great. Any No votes on this matter?
Seeing none, that passes unanimously, 15 to 0.
The second recommended action is regarding the General Election Day 2022 Zero Fare and Ballot Drop
Box Deployment Partnerships. I'm looking for a motion for the Board of Directors to authorize-- I'm sorry,
Director Rosenthal, did you have something?
OK. I'm looking for a motion for the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her
designee, to implement zero fares on October 28, 2022, which is National Vote Early Day, and November
8, 2022, General Election Day.
Do I have a motion?
JULIEN BOUQUET: So moved, Bouquet.
VINCE BUZEK: Do I have a second?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: Second, Rivera-Malpiede.
And do we have any staff presentation?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If you would like one, sir, we can. It's straightforward in reference to supporting the
efforts for zero fare on a very critical day, to get out the vote and for people to exercise their constitutional
right. If there's any other questions, Mr. Davison now will be happy to address.

VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. We've talked about this a lot, so why don't we just go right to questions and
comments. And I see Director Rosenthal with your hand raised. Please, go right ahead.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I appreciate everybody's work on this.
As I've expressed before when this proposal came up, I do have concerns about the usefulness of the
proposal. And then, of course, as we do with every proposal we have before the Board, we have to weigh
so many different factors, so many different-- we have so many different options.
And so my sense is that we have approximately, out of 2.9 million votes in 2020, approximately 78,000
were in person, or 2.7%. So that means that people are really exercising their right to vote by mail and not
with in-person. And when I look at the costs that's been associated with it, it's about $600,000. And I think
it's more with other factors, but $600,000 in fare revenue loss.
We have to say, what do we hear from our constituents on? I've never heard from my constituents on this
issue. I hear from my constituents a lot, and I hear the community a lot, on the fact that we don't have
enough drivers, we don't have enough security. And recently, we saw articles in the media-- we don't
have enough shelters. We don't have enough benches. And I think $600,000 buys a lot of benches and
shelters and incentives for more drivers and for more people to work in security.
So I think, if you weigh factors on the usefulness of actually trying to get out the vote versus long term
helping out the mission of RTD, I think that this proposal does not meet that. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments.
Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Chair. I'm just going to be offering comments.
I spoke earlier this year with CEO/GM Johnson regarding this, and how many other transit agencies, as I
listed way earlier on in this year, already implement this measure. I do want to remind everyone that I'm
viewing it as a pilot program. This isn't a commitment for the future for us to offer free rides on Election
Day and Vote Early Day. I hope we do. I hope this ultimately is a success.
I do want to thank staff for all the time that they dedicated to it. I also want to thank Director Lewis, who
originally put forward a action item back in 2020 for the 2020 General Election Item, which really inspired
my pursuit and other Directors' pursuits and staff pursuit into this recommended action item.
I just view this as a huge, huge, huge opportunity for us to build community value. It was mentioned
earlier during this meeting about how significant it is to get everyone on board. And from my
understanding, and from folks all around in the local municipalities, everyone seems to be on board.
If we are able as an agency-- and I've said this several times-- if we're able just to get rid of one barrier,
one barrier for someone, someone who can't afford the ride to go and vote, that is huge. That is huge as
an agency. And I really hope we do take this step forward.
And that's the end of my comments. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Bouquet.

Director Dishell, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Thank you. I also want to thank Director Lewis for her work in this, and Director
Bouquet for pushing this forward.
I've heard several times-- and it came up in the committee too-- about folks talking about the $600,000.
And no, that could be a bus shelter, or that could be this, or that could be that. And it's shocking that when
we're not talking about voting rights for the disenfranchised, those arguments don't seem to come up
when we're talking about extensive studies, when we're talking about approvals for extensions of
contracts, when we're talking about cost overruns instead of going back to the contractor and asking them
to eat the cost. But when we're talking about voting-- someone's right and ability to vote-- all of a sudden
we're very cost conscious. I just would push those of you who have those concerns to reflect on that.
I also think it's, again, our obligation is to act in the best interests of the Agency and the strategic priorities
that we raise. And those are community value, customer excellence, employee ownership, and financial
success. I think this really strongly speaks to community value.
I often actually, each Election Day, hear about and question why RTD doesn't provide free transit, like
almost every other major city in the country. But for us, again, it's an opportunity to deliver great service
for folks. It's an opportunity for our employees to feel proud that they work for an agency who values the
right to vote.
And financial success, I think that's up to the people to decide. But I would say, if you're looking at the
four factors in our strategic priorities, and three weigh in favor and one is questionably not, it's pretty
straightforward from that perspective. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Dishell.
Director Lewis, are you good?
OK, great. Great. Any further discussion? Any questions or comments?
Ms. McManus, I'm going to ask you to call the roll.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you.
Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.

SHELLEY COOK: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: I'm a Yes. That vote passes, 10 to 5. Thanks for the discussion. Thanks for everybody's
hard work on this as well.
The final recommended action has to do with the Amended and Restated Delegation of Authority and
Competitive Selection. And after consultation with General Counsel Melanie Snyder, I have learned that I
can make the motion I'm going to make without having to make the original motion and then amend it. So
here's what's going on.

As many of you know, the background for this-- ensuring that the Board has a say in what truly are policy
decisions. The Executive Committee and others, including Director Tisdale, worked pretty hard on
amending the delegation of contractual authority to really ensure that specific contracts, from legislative
assistance to security personnel and so forth, were for items of special interest to the Board and would
come before the Board, notwithstanding the delegation of contractual authority.
With further and ongoing discussion with our GM/CEO and with our General Counsel, it's become fairly
clear that the amended delegation, as drafted, may have unintended consequences. And as GM/CEO
Johnson alluded to in her report, we would be unable to do the really necessary surveying and polling
during and after Zero Fare Days. And that would be a terrible unintended consequence.
So I am going to make a motion to postpone this action item to the October 25 Board Meeting, so that we
can continue to work with GM/CEO Johnson and General Counsel Snyder to refine the language of the
amended delegation to ensure, to the best of our abilities, that there are no unintended consequences.
That is my motion, and I would like a second.
DOUG TISDALE: Second, Tisdale.
VINCE BUZEK: Second Tisdale.
Any further discussion from anyone?
Seeing none, are there any No votes on this matter?
Seeing none, this matter will be postponed until the October 25, 2022 Board Meeting. Thanks for all of
that. Thanks for everybody's hard work on this as well.
Next is Report of Director Activities. Would any of our Directors like to report on their activities for the
month of July?
Director Lewis, I demand that you report on your activity in the month of July. [LAUGHS]
Anyway, we'll hear more about that, I'm sure.
Director Tisdale, go right ahead.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. You already gave an excellent report relative to
the Transit Board Members Conference in Salt Lake. So I just wanted to incorporate that and reference
that discussion and thank all of you who can be there for being there. It's an exceptional opportunity to
connect greater with APTA. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. And I think we've got a fairly good contingent. Raise your hand if you're going.
Great. Any other Board members with a report?
Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I was actually just going to take the opportunity to congratulate Director RiveraMalpiede on her prestigious award, being one of the most powerful women in Colorado.

No, I'm still not giving you my report yet, but I'll give it to you. I promise, Director.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, sounds good. And thanks for that recognition of our past Chair and Director Angie
Rivera-Malpiede, who was recognized as one of the 25 most powerful women in the state of Colorado, by
the Colorado Women's Chamber, I believe.
We all knew that, but it's nice to have the recognition as well.
Director Williams, go right ahead.
KATE WILLIAMS: I just want to report on the fact that we took two tours of local public officials through
the bus concourse on Denver Union Station so that they could get a firsthand look at what we are
proposing to do with some of the money that we just got back. And it was very well received. They had
some really great questions. We had representatives from a variety of departments at RTD. And we all
learned a lot, including me, who ran the tour.
So if any of the rest of you would like to invite some of your constituents to do that, we have worked out-Director Rivera-Malpiede has worked out-- a format, and you can have a bunch of information. And I think
that people will learn a lot. So I'm just recommending it. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for doing that.
Any other Directors have a report?
Great. Seeing none, are there any other matters to come before the Board of Directors?
Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In the vein of asking if we can get some further
information about this at some point in the future, I'd like to address the MyRide cards. Some of you don't
remember this because you haven't been on the Board that long, but it used to be that the Directors
received an unlimited number of passes that they could distribute to constituents, to agencies with which
they were involved that used RTD and so forth.
In 2017, we restricted that process and reduced it to a number certain. And I forget-- it was like 120 or
150 or something like that-- passes for the year that we could do. Then, when we introduced the MyRide
card, we stopped distributing paper passes and instead went to the MyRide cards.
Now, of course, we are phasing out the MyRide cards and going to account-based ticketing. And so my
question is, what do we do now? The benefit, obviously, of this was very, very strong, positive community
support for RTD, and good relations with a lot of people with whom we do business.
So the question is, is that mechanic gone forever, or will it be replaced by something else? And as I say, I
don't need an answer tonight, but I would like it put into some kind of memorandum or other report to us
so that we have an idea as to how that will be handled.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that. Ms. Johnson, I'll let you go ahead.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Oh, thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Director Tisdale.
What I was going to say-- because I've heard about this practice, and I don't know too much about it
collectively, but what I will say is that, from the vantage point of what I'm hearing, that's a policy decision
because we're talking about fare. And if you're going to grant fare opportunities, it gets back to what we
just discussed, right, in reference to Zero Fare for a General election and Zero Fare.
So what I was looking for, as opposed to a memorandum, that would be something this Board would
need to take up and decide if in fact you all are going to basically provide zero fares for a certain
population, and how would that be accounted for for reconciliation purposes? Because we have to ensure
that we account for that.
Mr. MacLeod, are you there? There you are-- in reference to what we are required to do as an agency
regarding fare revenue. And that's why we take policy actions as it relates to you all setting the policy. So
do you have anything further to add to that, or correct me if I misspoke?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, General Manager Johnson. The only thing I was going to add is just to
clarify that, although the old smart card card-based system is going away, we will have smart cards
available under the new account-based ticketing program, and they will still be branded as MyRide. It's
just the back end system is being replaced to an account-based system from a card-based system.
So thank you for the opportunity, General Manager Johnson.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for that. And Director Tisdale, it sounds like it will be a different media that
can be used. So that would be great.
Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thanks, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to say that I really appreciate our team here at
RTD. This is a tough job. And I'm just reflecting not just at this meeting but both meetings this evening-some of the things we talked about-- tough trade-offs with system optimization, facing a fairly
unprecedented risk of losing our bonding capacity, and leveraging that to find creative ways to generate
substantial savings for this Agency in the face of having been fairly over-leveraged, and just a lot of big
stuff here. And it's a lot of work. And here, a lot of members of the team have been working all day and
are here at 9:18.
So I'm excited that we'll have a little bit of a break for everybody in August. I'm sorry for those that are
involved in the Ad Hoc Audit Committee that will be having some meetings. But just really wanted to say I
really appreciate this whole team throughout the whole organization. It's tough work, and it's important
work, especially right now. So thanks, to all of you. And please, have a wonderful August.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks a lot.
Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks. I'll keep my remarks brief.
In response to Director Tisdale's comments, I would be remiss if I didn't express that I have some
concerns around the practice of Directors having discretion over giving out free fare, to be completely
candid. I also requested, when we were offered the paper fare tickets, I did request them. And in the spirit

of transparency, I gave them to organizations that provide services to Afghan refugees who have
resettled in our state.
That said, Director Tisdale, I'm happy to work with you on a policy that may be equitable towards
Directors collectively deciding how to direct free fare. Because I think it's important. It's an important tool
that the Board has to help generate community partnerships. But without the proper oversight, I think we
risk running afoul of various federal regulations and obligations as well as appearances of impropriety.
And so I would welcome the opportunity to work with you on that. And we can connect offline, because it's
9:20. That's all.
VINCE BUZEK: Sounds good. I don't see anybody else's hands raised, so I will entertain a motion to
adjourn.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
DOUG TISDALE: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, so Williams, and a lot of seconds. So I saw Director Lewis's light light up first, so I'm
guessing that was her.
So any No votes on adjourning?
No. We're done at 9:20 PM. Thanks for the meeting. Thanks for the discussion. And take care,
everybody. Bye.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, everyone.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you.

