Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee held on November 10, 2009
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Analyst

Date:

November 10, 2009

Subject:

Revised Summary of the Operations and Customer Services Committee meeting held on
November 10, 2009 at 5:30 p.m. in the R, T & D room

********
Board
Members Present:
Directors
Absent:

Chair Brohl, Vice-Chair Chacon, Directors Bagley, Busck, Christopher, Cohen, Daly,
James, Kemp, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen
Directors Martinez and Pulliam

Staff Present:

Phil Washington, Bruce Abel, Tony McCaulay, Daria Serna, Cal Shankster, Mike Gil
Carolyn Conover, Martha Hecox, Brian Matthews, Rick Clarke, John Shonsey, Bill
Holmes, Teresa Sedmak, Todd Nikkel, Robert Merriman, Brian Iacono, David
Genova, Tony McCaulay, Paula Perdue, Caitlin Magee, John Tarbert, Cal Shankster,
John Dawson, Larry Buter, Susan Cohen

Others Present:

Jeff Leib

*************************************************************************
Call to Order: Chair Brohl called the Operations and Customer Services Committee meeting to order at
5:46 p.m.
I.

Recommended Actions
a. Light Rail Vehicle Exterior Advertising – Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager, Customer
and Contracted Services said that based on the Board direction, staff sat down with Lamar
to see what parameters could be agreed upon to move forward with light rail vehicle
advertising. Tony McCaulay, Senior Manager of Marketing gave an overview of the
parameters of the contract. There will be no advertising on the front and rear cabs of the
trains. There will not be clashing ads on the same train. No more than 60 light rail
vehicles would have full sides. The ads cannot cover our vehicle numbers, logos, or
markings. If any ads do cover those, they must replace them on top of the ads. No more
than 10% of any window would be covered. Photos were distributed showing the four
types of advertising that will be allowed. A copy of these photos is available in the
Operations and Customer Services Committee meeting minute notebook.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee held on November 10, 2009
Page 2 of 5
Mr. Abel said the guarantee of 3.3 million over three years is unchanged. Lamar did not
feel these parameters would negatively impact their ability to meet the guarantee. The
only change is to the cost share above the guarantee of a change from 70% to 60%.
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Interim
General Manager or his designee be authorized to add exterior light rail vehicle advertising
to the contract with Lamar Advertising of Denver previously approved at the October
2009 Board Meeting. This addition to the contract would increase the revenue to RTD by
either: 1) a minimum guarantee of $500,000 in 2010, $1.2 million in 2011 and $1.6
million in 2012 or 2) sixty percent of net sales, whichever is greater.
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made a motion to forward
this item to the November 17, 2009 Board
meeting agenda.

Second:

Director Chacon seconded the motion.

Discussion: Director Christopher felt this was a reasonable compromise and commended
staff and Lamar for this compromise. This sentiment was echoed by Director James who
said that with the possibility of future service cuts he likes the idea of having revenue
services that could prevent some of all of it. Director Chacon commended staff for their
work on the compromise and this sentiment was echoed by Directors Busck and Tayer.
Director Kemp stressed maintenance of the vehicles with wrapped ads and wants to make
sure that vehicles are monitored so they stay looking nice and clean. Mr. McCaulay stated
that this had been discussed with Lamar and let them know that staff will be watching
this closely.
Director O’Boyle said he still doesn’t like the idea. We have a corporate identity that is
very well received throughout the system. The amount of money in exchange for what
some might call “visual pollution” is not a fair trade. Reputation takes a lifetime to achieve
but only an instance to destroy. He will not support the action.
Director McMullen felt this action wasn’t going far enough. He would like to know how
much we lost by not taking a full wrap option on the trains. We do not have the luxury of
turning down money.
Director Bagley said that this provides revenue the District needs and appreciates staff’s
work.
Committee Chair Brohl stressed that this revenue is needed and are we really willing to
forgo services in your District in order to not have advertising on these trains? This is the
question here. We have so many conversations about cutting service and we have had no
choice and now we have a choice.
Vote on Motion:

The motion passed 11-2 (Chair Brohl,
Vice-Chair Chacon, Directors Bagley,
Busck, Christopher, Cohen, Daly, James,
Kemp, Tayer, Tobiassen voted for the
action and Directors McMullen and

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee held on November 10, 2009
Page 3 of 5
O’Boyle voted against). This item will go
to the Recommended Action portion of
the Board agenda.
b. Access-a-Cab Program Funding Increase – Bruce Abel introduced this action item. This
action is a funding transfer. Last year, the subsidy for access-a-Cab was increased in an
attempt to decrease costs in the access-a-Ride program. This has been very successful,
year to date the access-a-cab program has seen nearly a 50% increase in ridership.
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the Interim General Manager to increase the purchase orders for
access-a-Cab service with Colorado Cab and Metro Taxi by $132,000 and $268,000
respectively. This will result in purchase order totals for 2009 of $432,000 for Colorado
Cab and $568,000 for Metro Taxi.
Motion:

Director Tayer made a motion to forward this
item to the November 17, 2009 Board meeting
agenda.

Second:

Director McMullen seconded the motion.

Discussion: Director O’Boyle brought up the 2010 budget and wanted to know why the
budget for access-a-Ride was going to increase when we are doing this transfer. Mr. Abel
said this was a transfer from access-a-Ride to access-a-Cab in 2009.
Director Chacon said this feels like privatization. Mr. Abel pointed out some of the
differences between access-a-Ride and access-a-Cab.
Access-a-Cab provides the
customer with a same day trip while access-a-Ride requires booking at least a day in
advance. access-a-Cab has a much lower subsidy per passenger. The customer is able to
choose the cab company that they want. At this time, Colorado Cab and Metro taxi are
the two companies they can choose from.
Director McMullen said that he supports this action. He said that in regards to
privatization, this really helps as the cab drivers are local and it keeps the money here.
Director Tobiassen had a list of questions that he sent to Mr. Abel as one of his
constituents has concerns with access-a-Cab and wanted those reviewed. Mr. Abel
responded that RTD pays a portion of the customer’s fare and we do not have the kind of
control over the access-a-Cab program as we do over access-a-Ride. Larry Buter, Manager
of Paratransit Services said that one of the issues raised was pertaining to tips.
Passengers on access-a-Ride do not tip the driver. The structure of an access-a-Cab
payment works like this: the first $2 is paid by the passenger and then RTD covers the
next $12 and the passenger pays anything over that. The first $2 is built in as a tip.
The other issues were around sensitivity training for cab drivers. Training for cab drivers is
not the same as a paratransit operator. It is very difficult for quality control. RTD staff
does follow up with a percentage of passengers on a daily basis. Mr. Buter stated that if
constituents have issues with access-a-Cab please have them contact him.
Vote on Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee held on November 10, 2009
Page 4 of 5
II.

Quarterly Reports – Mr. Abel asked if there were questions on any of the reports.
a. Contracted Fixed Route Service – Director Tayer was concerned about the operator
complaints per boarding and wanted to know what we are doing to rectify that. Carolyn
Conover shared that there will be a meeting this month with the contractors and their
operations and training personnel to focus on the causes of these complaints and what
they can do to fix it. Also, that an audit process is going to be initiated to see if there are
repeated offenders among the operators and follow up on complaints. Director Tayer
would like to have an update on this process.
Director Daly wanted to know the turnover rate at the contractors. Mr. Abel stated that
turnover is lower than it has been due to the economic situation. He wanted to know if
turnover might be connected to the amount of complaints. Ms. Conover shared that just
from the complaints she has reviewed it seems to be that the contracted operators are
having a hard time with the fare enforcement policy and the new stroller policy. She is
also going to set up some refresher training for their trainers to make sure a consistent
message is going out to their operators.
b. access-a-Ride- Director O’Boyle wanted to know about the productivity figure – do we
have a target productivity number that we aspire to? He noticed that it is consistently
dropping from 2008 to 2009. He noted that in 2008 there were a lot of complaints
regarding the access-a-Ride service but the productivity number was much higher. Is there
any correlation between the two? Mr. Abel responded that one of the objectives of the
new Route Match system was to increase productivity through the use of technology.
Service quality went down when productivity went up after the Route Match
implementation so they relaxed the productivity objectives to improve service. Staff is
working to improve that. Director O’Boyle wanted to know if it would be worthwhile to set
an objective for this number and said he would speak with Mr. Abel privately about this.
Mr. Washington said if you can’t measure it you can’t manage it so staff will be looking at
this.
c. 2009 3rd Quarter Special Services Report – There were no questions on this report.
d. 3rd Quarter Security Statistics & Fare Inspection Summary – John Tarbert reviewed the
summary. He talked about measures that officers are taking when there is a high number
of evasions at a station.
John Tarbert shared that Street Supervisors have been trained in fare enforcement so that
they may also write warning and citations. They are now able to issue citations in Denver,
Arapahoe, Douglas, Adams, Broomfield, and Jefferson Counties.
Directors McMullen and Tayer would like to see what it would take to increase the citation
fee and explore some way to recoup costs of enforcement.

III.

Smart media Technologies System procurement Update/Electronic Registering Farebox System
Procurement Update – Mr. Abel gave a brief update on the procurement process. Proposals
have been reviewed since July 2009. The District received two proposals for the Smartcard
and two proposals for the fareboxes. The smartcard procurement is very complex and staff is
doing several reviews to attempt to get all the kinks out of the system. Staff is expecting
revised proposals back at the beginning of December.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee held on November 10, 2009
Page 5 of 5
Mr. Abel said the staff envisions a test market for the smart card starting in Boulder as the
Boulder garage is pretty much self contained and it will be easy to track the data.
Director Kemp said that this procurement process is taking too long. We need to get this
moving and he would like to see a schedule estimate.
Director Tobiassen would like priority placed the management of transfers under the smart
card implementation.
IV.

Next Meeting Date – The next meeting date of the Operations & Customer Services
Committee will be December 8, 2009.

V.

Other Matters – There were no other matters discussed.

VI.

Adjourn to Financial Administration Committee – Hearing no objection, Chair Brohl adjourned
the Operations & Customer Services Committee at 7:08 p.m.

