1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, November 11, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Gary Lasater

A. Call to Order
Committee Vice Chair Lasater called the meeting to order at 8:19 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Absent
Kent Bagley
Director, District H
Present

Arrived
8:22 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

8:26 PM
8:21 PM

Claudia Folska

Director, District E

Present

8:23 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater

Committee Chair
Director, District A
Committee Vice-Chair

Absent
Present
Present

8:20 PM
8:19 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

8:21 PM

Natalie Menten
Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Chuck Sisk

Director, District M
Director, District C
Director, District O

Present
Absent
Present

8:25 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

8:20 PM

Tom Tobiassen

Director, District F

Present

8:19 PM

8:20 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

8:18 PM

Directors Anderson, Hoy and Rivera-Malpiede were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Mike Barnes, Bob Brown, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen,
Chuck Culig, John Dawson, Kevin Diviness, John Elias, Sherry
Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, Anthony Forrester, David Genova, Terry
Howerter, Tina Jaquez, Austin Jenkins, Jim Kelley, Erin Klaas, Marla
Lien, Doug MacLeod, Barbara McManus, Vivian Morales, Paula
Perdue, Pranaya Shrestha, Bill Sirois, Walt Stringer, Stan Szabelak,
Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Brian Welch

Others Present:

Michelle Brier, C.J. Czupor, Mike Dino, Tina Francone, Joni Goheen,
Doug Gragg, Sherman Hamilton, Dale Honor, Kevin O’Neill, Joe
Racosky, Tim Ryan, Roger Sherman, Marta Sipeki, Tim Stokes, Joe
Triplett, Jin Tsuchiya, Monte Whaley, Hugh Wilson

B. Citizen Advisory Committee (CAC) Update
Hugh Wilson, Co-Chair of the CAC, told the Board that the October meeting was
held at the FasTracks offices. The Committee was updated on the following items:
 Central rail line extension project, by Andy Mutz, Project Manager for
Engineering
 North Metro Project, by Brenda Tierney, Project Manager for Planning
 Transit Oriented Communities (TOC), by Bill Sirois, Manager for TOC and
Planning Coordination.
Hugh Wilson thanked staff for the updates. He considered the meeting very
informative.
Hugh Wilson encouraged the Directors to attend the CAC Quarterly Meeting on
December 10th. He said the CAC values interaction with the Directors to discuss
the status of all the FasTracks projects.

C. Recommended Actions

• Approval of Eleventh Year (2015) Contract Amendment to Jacobs
Engineering for FasTracks Program Support Consulting Services
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the eleventh
year contract amendment to Jacobs Engineering, in the amount of
$17,861,430 for Program Support Services Consulting for FasTracks for
the year 2015.
Funds for the award are contained in the 2015
Recommended Budget for the FasTracks capital program in the specific
projects where PSC support would be utilized.

Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the November 25,
2014 Board meeting.
Director Solano seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Rick Clarke, Assistant General Manager for Capital Programs,
reminded the Board that all four (4) Recommended Actions
come to the Board annually as contract negotiations for scope
and cost are finalized.
Pranaya Shrestha, Senior Manager for Program Management,
added that Jacobs Engineering provides specialized services
that RTD does not have in house. He said that Jacobs has
come under budget all eleven (11) years that they have been
contracted by RTD. For 2014, Jacobs is estimated to be $1.5
million under budget. Pranaya Shrestha noted that Jacobs
Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) percentage is
19.5%, above the contractual 7%.
Rick Clarke added that Brian Middleton, Executive Project
Manager for Jacobs Engineering, could not attend the meeting
due to illness.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
SECONDER: Paul Solano, Director, District K
AYES: Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Lorraine Anderson, Larry Hoy, Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Committee Vice Chair Lasater declared the motion PASSED UNANIMOUSLY.

• Approval of Eleventh Year (2015) Contract Amendment to Delcan for
FasTracks Quality Management Consultant Services
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the Eleventh
year Contract Amendment for Delcan in the amount of $1,700,000 for
Quality Management Consulting Services for FasTracks for the year 2015.
Funds for the amendment are contained in the 2015 RTD FasTracks Budget.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the November 25, 2014
Board meeting.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Kevin Diviness, Director of Quality Assurance, told the
Directors that the Delcan contract runs parallel to the Jacobs
Engineering contract. Delcan has exceeded the DBE
contractual goal of 5%, averaging 8.3%. He said that Delcan
has committed to a 12.3% DBE goal for 2015. He recognized
Tim Stokes, Senior Project Manager at Delcan, among those in
attendance.
Director Bagley expressed his excitement over approving
contracts for Jacob Engineering, Delcan, and Kumar and
Associates, Inc. He said RTD has great review of records and
account monitoring under these companies. He is convinced
that the auditing is done appropriately. He thanked all three
companies.
Director Menten asked if Delcan’s quality control oversight
included the oversight of the Jersey bridge. Kevin Diviness
explained that the quality control lies on the contractors as
they are responsible for checking their own work. Delcan and
other firms give RTD the tools for review and oversight. Rick
Clarke, Assistant General Manager for Capital Programs, added
that staff will give an Eagle P3 project update to the Board in
December. This update will include the Jersey bridge.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Lorraine Anderson, Larry Hoy, Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Committee Vice Chair Lasater declared the motion PASSED UNANIMOUSLY.

• Approval of 2015 Contract Amendment to Kumar and Associates, Inc. for
the RTD Construction Materials Testing and Inspection Services Contract
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the 2015
Contract Amendment for Kumar and Associates, thereby exercising the
second of five (5) one-year options and extending the contract term through
December 31, 2015.
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the November 25,
2014 Board meeting.

Director Folska seconded the motion.
Discussion:

Kevin Diviness, Director of Quality Assurance, told the
Directors that the renewal for Kumar and Associates, Inc. is
the second of five (5) one (1) year options after an original five
(5) year contract that ended in 2013. This extension will last
until December 31, 2015. Kevin Diviness told the Board that
Kumar and Associates is a certified DBE.
Director Daly asked for Tim Ryan, OVT Program Manager at
Kumar and Associates, Inc., to be recognized as he was in
attendance.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Lorraine Anderson, Larry Hoy, Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Committee Vice Chair Lasater declared the motion PASSED UNANIMOUSLY.

• 2015 FasTracks Public Information Consultant Contract Award
It is Recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the third
one-year option to the Virtegic Group Incorporated as the FasTracks
Public Information, Communications and Public Outreach Consultant,
extending the period of performance through 2015. The scope of work is
negotiated annually between RTD and the Virtegic Consultant Staff, and
awarded annually by the RTD Board of Directors at the discretion of RTD.
This contract amendment is for an amount not to exceed $686,009.60 for
the year 2015. Funds for the award are contained in the 2015
Recommended Budget for the FasTracks program.
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the November 25,
2014 Board meeting.
Director Solano seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Pauletta Tonilas, Sr. Manager for Public Relations and Public
Information, explained that the Virtegic Group Incorporated
(Virtegic) contract was set up as a one (1) year contract with
four (4) one (1) year option. This would be the third year.
She explained that the staff of four (4) full time and three (3)
part time employees is designed to work seamlessly with RTD.

She introduced the team composed of Sherman Hamilton, Joni
Goheen, Michelle Brier, Marta Sipeki, Z. J. Czupor, and Dale
Honor. Dave Mitchell was unable to attend. Pauletta Tonilas
said that the contract includes an option for extra support in
2016 if RTD staff determines it will be needed during the
scheduled openings and special event planning. Virtegic is a
Small Business Enterprise (SBE).
Director Tobiassen said that I-225 is his highest priority as it is
in the peak of construction. He works very closely with the
Virtegic team. He was surprised to find out some of the
contractors were not RTD employees. He said the Virtegic are
great folks working on a great, incredibly complex project.
Director Deadwyler said that her experience with Virtegic is
different from that of Director Tobiassen. She mentioned that
Virtegic has limited access to people. She noted that she is
not happy with some of the decisions or the mistakes that
have been made. She added that she could not vote to award
another $500,000 plus to this organization.
Director Solano said that his experience with Virtegic has
always been positive. They have always been available to
explain the projects. He noted they are always present at
meetings. He said that he would vote yes.
Chair Sisk noted that he read through the contract and is very
satisfied. He considers the Virtegic working seamlessly with
the RTD staff a great strategy. He said his questions have
been addressed.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [9 TO 3]
MOVER:
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
SECONDER: Paul Solano, Director, District K
AYES: Bagley, Daly, James, Lasater, Lubow, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen,
Walker
NAYS: Barbara Deadwyler, Claudia Folska, Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Lorraine Anderson, Larry Hoy, Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Committee Vice Chair Lasater declared the motion PASSED.

D. Updates

• Aurora Line / I-225 Rail Construction Update
Chris Hinton, I-225 Deputy Project Manager for Construction, reviewed the
presentation included in the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting
packet for November 11, 2014. The presentation included pictorial
construction updates as well as a safety video. The video was produced in
conjunction with the City of Aurora and shown on Channel 8.
Rick Clarke, Assistant General Manager for Capital Programs, mentioned that
FasTracks has a tremendous safety record exceeding the industry averages
by a wide margin. FasTracks insurance has issued rebates due to the safety
record. He also pointed out that Chris Hinton is an example of opportunities
given to people on FasTracks. Rick Clarke said that Chris Hinton started as
a T-REX Construction Engineer, worked on the West Corridor, was an Eagle
Project Quality Manager, and now is the I-225 Deputy Project Manager for
Construction.
Rick Clarke made reference to Director Tobiassen’s previous comments on
the complexity of the I-225 project. He said that there have been many
challenges, both contractual and those that come with building infrastructure
in urban areas. He noted that Aurora Water is planning on betterments to
their system while construction is ongoing. This, Rick Clarke said, is good
for the community though it does present complications to RTD’s project.
Staff still predicts opening the I-225 Rail line in the second half of 2016.
Director Deadwyler thanked staff for the safety video. She said that she
appreciates the construction crew’s work under inclement weather. She
encourages her constituents to honk and say hi to the construction workers
thanking them for their work.
Director Deadwyler told staff about the difficulty she experienced due to the
closings at E. Exposition Ave. and S. Sable Blvd. She said that the signage
and the detours were not clearly marked when she was trying to access the
Kaiser Permanente facility. She noted that signage was better last week.
However, she found it frustrating because she could not find any alerts
regarding the closings. She asked staff to give better communications about
closings in the future, especially when it involves high traffic areas such as a
medical facility. Rick Clarke replied that he would look into the released
communication pertaining to that closing.
Director Tobiassen commended the RTD staff and Kiewit for their work on
such a complex project. He also commended the City of Aurora and their

staff for their partnership with RTD. He stated that the City of Aurora does
not have additional staff or resources yet they are doing a lot to connect
with RTD work. He specifically thanked Aurora Public Works, Aurora Parks
and Open Spaces, Aurora Water, Channel 8, and the residents and HOAs.
He also thanked RTD and City of Aurora staff for reaching out and
communicating with local business. Rick Clarke confirmed staff
communicates with the City of Aurora and/or the heads of the different
public entities on a daily basis.

E. Other Matters
Director Bagley asked Dave Genova, Assistant General Manager for Safety,
Security and Facilities, who was acting for General Manager Phil Washington, to
provide the Board at a later time with an update of the Real Property Pilot Program.
Director Bagley told the Directors he did a Denver Union Station (DUS) presentation
at the Denver Country Club. The presentation was well received. Of the ninety
(90) women in attendance, about three quarters (3/4) had already visited DUS and
the others were planning on forming groups to go visit.

F. Next Meeting Date - December 2, 2014
G. Adjourn
Committee Vice Chair Gary Lasater adjourned the meeting at 9:05 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

