1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
December 15, 2016 at 1:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
Chair Tobiassen called the meeting to order at 1:02 p.m.
Committee members in attendance:

Chair Tobiassen, 1st Vice-Chair
Hoy, 2nd Vice-Chair Deadwyler via
phone, Secretary Solano,
Treasurer Francone

Others Present:

Director Bagley, Director Menten via
phone, General Manager Genova, John
McKay, Barbara McManus, Tai-Shrae
Parish

II.

December Board Meeting Agenda Review and Recognition of outgoing Directors
Chair Tobiassen noted that there are no retirees for the month of December.
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager to the Board, indicated that the Director
Recognition will go under the retiree section, and they will be done first.
Chair Tobiassen stated that there was a large unanimous consent agenda and he
was impressed. He asked if there were any comments or questions.
Director Hoy indicated that he would be out of town for the Board meeting.
Motion:

Director Hoy made the motion to approve
the December 20, 2016 Board Agenda.
Director Francone seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 5 in favor
(Deadwyler, Francone, Hoy, Solano,
Tobiassen) and 0 opposed
IV.

Board Office Organizational Structure
Chair Tobiassen explained that the Board adopted the updated bylaws in November,
and within those revisions there was a change to the Board Office management
structure so that the Executive manager of the Board Office will report to a staff
member AGM instead of the Chair of the Board. He said that this will provide
organizational structure and a link to the organization. He noted that generally,
things will stay the way that they currently are.
Barbara McManus added that her performance appraisal will now be completed
inside the current system.
Chair Tobiassen stated that the Executive Committee and Board Chair will still have
input on the overall role of this position. He said it is up to the Executive
Committee to decide who the Executive Manager of the Board will report to.
General Manager Genova indicated that there are two departments that may be a
good fit: Finance and Administration or Legal.
General Manager Genova noted the he, along with the Board Chair, have discussed
various departments such as Finance and Administration, or Legal as possible
options. He stated that both would be a good fit for various reasons, and both of
the department heads are capable leaders. He added that both been approached on
this topic and are willing and able.
Director Deadwyler remarked that she has a concern with the Executive Manager of
the Board reporting to another entity within the organization. She said that it will
remove the confidentiality of the Board Office staff.
Barbara McManus commented that the Board Office would still report to the Board
and the Chair, but in the interest of continuity of how everyone else within RTD is
being managed, the Executive Manager of the Board will be placed under one of the
current AGM’s. She said the only item that would be different and impacted, is
how her end of year review is done.
Chair Tobiassen said the Executive Manager’s relationship with the Board is similar
to that of General Counsel. He stated that they work for the Board and must
maintain confidentiality.

Director Deadwyler stated that the Board needs someone to represent the best
interests of the Board.
Barbara McManus explained that her support of the Board and confidentially
requirements will not change. She said the only noticeable change will be at the
end of the year, when her performance evaluation is completed. She stated that
the designated manager, to be chosen by the Executive Committee, will be part of
the performance evaluation process with the Board Chair and Executive Committee.
Director Deadwyler stated with this change she fears that Barbara will not be able
to represent the Board to the best of her ability.
Chair Tobiassen indicated that this change is in the bylaws now, as the revision
was approved by the Board last month.
Barbara McManus asked the Chair to expand on why he thought this organizational
change was appropriate.
Chair Tobiassen said the risk is that the Board would be liable for certain actions,
whereas this change to the organizational structure puts some degree of separation
between the Board and Staff, and vice versa. He noted that this would provide a
layer of separation.
Director Hoy added that it will also prevent the singular Chairman of the Board from
changing pay scales and similar such actions. He noted that in the past the
Executive Manager to the Board reported to the Chair, and the Chair had enough
authority, without a proper review, to arbitrarily increase the salary or benefits of
the position without the rest of the Board’s input.
Chair Tobiassen added that the Chair could also fire that individual for any reason,
which would put the Chair and the Board at risk.
Director Hoy remarked that this sets up a much needed process but the
organizational change is not intended to change the Board staff’s relationship to the
Board.
General Manager Genova noted all RTD employees are under the same set of
procedures and processes as well.

Director Francone indicated that she had some of the same hesitations as Director
Deadwyler with respect to confidentiality. She said that having General Counsel be
in charge would add an extra layer of confidentially. She said that the Board needs
to make sure the Board Office has a clear chain of command, and has the same
opportunities the rest of the agency does with raises and or disciplinary actions.
She noted that this is not intended to get between the Board and the Board office,
but rather to establish a clearer line. She added that it will insulate the Board
Office should the Chair fire the Executive Manager. She noted that she will be
concerned if Barbara reports directly to General Manager Genova, as that would be
a conflict of interest.
Director Deadwyler stated her concern is for the best interests of the Board. She
said now the line between the General Manager and Finance, or General Counsel
would be blurred.
Chair Tobiassen commented that in the event there was a legal action in the Board
Office, if Rolf as General Counsel were to be the direct report, he would have to
take the whole department out of the legal loop to address that complaint because
of the direct conflict of interest.
Director Francone said if there were ever an issue, the complainant is going to hire
outside counsel.
Barbara McManus indicated that to her, it is important that whomever is chosen
will be working with the Chair and Executive Committee for her performance
evaluation and the Board Office staff. She noted that it should be a department
that works closely with the Board Office, and said her preference would be Legal.
She explained that the exposure of what goes on in this office is clear, and that the
Board Office and Legal work more closely together.
Director Hoy commented that dual reporting is challenging and can be a difficult
task.
Barbara McManus indicated that she does not view it as a conflict and does not
anticipate any challenges. She said there was so much going on this year that the
Chair does not have any agency background to properly make a decision. She
noted that some of the questions Chair asked were answered by snippets of the big
picture. She stated that it is impossible for the Board to know all of the detail,
management directives, and procedures, and that the Chair was very challenged by
that this year.

Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel, entered the meeting.
Rolf Asphaug noted that he shared with Chair Tobiassen and Director Francone his
concerns about the evaluation process. He said if there is an issue that potentially
arises to a legal claim, internal counsel would be conflicted out. He indicated that
whichever position is chosen, he would anticipate that the entire Board would be
asked how the Board Staff is performing.
Barbara McManus said it is the purview of the Board to hire outside counsel for
anything and the Board Office has the budget for that. She added that if a
situation should arise that Rolf mentioned, the Board is covered.
Chair Tobiassen reminded the committee that the matter was not a voting matter at
this time and had received all of the comments that he needed. He said that he
would move forward in a day or so with his decision.
V.

Review and Approval of 2017 Calendar
Barbara McManus indicated that the 2017 Board Meeting Calendar has been
provided to Senior Leadership and discussed. She stated that all of the holidays,
conferences, and meetings are on the calendar as well as five finance workshops.
She asked for the Directors to provide their comments by the end of the week if
anything needed to be changed or corrected.
Director Francone asked if a Board Meeting could be changed if there were a
conflict.
Barbara McManus said it would depend on the meeting schedule.
General Manager Genova indicated that staff could prepare for Tuesday and
Thursday meetings if there are critical timings or issues.

VI.

Other Matters
Director Bagley asked the General Manager to provide an update on the video
recording of all meetings by the Board.
General Manager Genova said that staff is gathering pricing now and the preffered
option is to add a module onto MinuteTraq that would attach the video recordings
to the agenda and presentations. He said that adding video recording is not cost
prohibitive, and this will be done in conjunction with RTD’s security group as they
are doing the camera instillation and wiring. He added that staff is trying to

determine whether an employee will run the system or if that task will be
outsourced.
Barbara McManus added that the infrastructure was evaluated last week. She said
that she would have a better timeline tomorrow, but currently staff is moving this
project along very efficiently.
Director Deadwyler asked how much the system will cost.
Barbara McManus indicated that she would have a better idea after her meeting
tomorrow, but the hardware and software from MinuteTraq is close to $20,000
and that would be a yearly hosting fee.
Director Bagley indicated that he has been on the General Manager Oversight
Committee for several years, and he suggested that the committee continue to
have seven members, and that the Board Chair continue to serve on that
Committee.
Director Francone added that the Board Chair is uniquely positioned because they
have almost day to day communication with the General Manager. She noted that
the Board Chair has a unique perspective to share with the General Manager
Oversight Committee, and the odd number will help break any tie.
Director Bagley asked that in the future, the Board members make more of an effort
to say why they want to attend a conference, and what they plan to learn. He
stated that these are not social functions and the Board should bring something
educational back from these conferences.
Chair Tobiassen thanked the General Manager and staff for the A Line Technical
Update. He said that he learned a lot and the session was very informative. He
suggested that the General Manager host a class like that for the Board at least
once a month.
Chair Tobiassen added that this is his last Executive Committee meeting and he
thanked the committee for all of their hard work and the help that they provided.
He also thanked Barbara McManus and the Board Office staff for their efforts in
supporting the Board.
VII.

Adjourn
Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 2:15 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

