Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 9, 2012

Pago 1 of 14
Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Ana Salcido (Temporary)

Date:

October 11, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on
October 9, 2012 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Tobiassen, Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley,
Cohen, Daly, Gore, Hoy, James, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, and Walker.
Director Malpiede arrived late.

Board Members
Absent:

Director Deadwyler

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jeff Becker, L. Skip Brown, Jessie Carter, Susan Cohen,
Carolyn Conover, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Mike Gil, Terry
Howerter, Brian Iacono, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Barbara
McManus, Tony McCaulay, Doug MacLeod, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed,
Jannette Scarpino, Daria Serna, John Shonsey, John Tarbert, Mark
Carlen, John Elias, Eric Miller, Eric Farrington

Others Present:

Stan Gronek, Dr. William Gross, Kathy Maher, Brett Painter, Cheryl
Wallace
****

Call to Order:

I.

Committee Chair Tobiassen called the Operations & Customer Services
Committee Meeting to order at 6:16 p.m.

Recommended Actions
 January 2013 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the January 2013 Service Change package as revised
and summarized in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost increase of
approximately $802,500 and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his
designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators
whose service is impacted by these changes.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 9, 2012

Pago 2 of 14
Motion:

Director Tayer made the motion
to move this item to the
October 23rd Board Meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Jessie Carter provided a summary of the input received at the
public meetings. Jessie reported that they held 7 public meetings
with 34 participants from the public. The two proposals receiving
the most feedback were the route changes at Longmont and the
proposal to discontinue service at the 29th and Welton station. At
this point there were favorable results from these meetings with
the public understanding what is being proposed and why. Jessie
stated that staff is expecting a letter from the Curtis Park
Neighborhood association supporting the change at 29th and
Walton. Jessie also explained that the proposal to reverse the loop
on route 204 has been rescinded because it would operate better
in inclement weather in its current condition.
Director O’Boyle asked if there are any impacts created by the
FasTracks project on these changes and if so, are there FasTracks
funds funding those changes. Jessie Carter responded that there
is construction on the East Corridor that will impact Route 44 with
a long term detour; 40th avenue will be closed down in a large
section. Jessie stated that because of the detour there have been
some changes made prior to the proposed change.
Director O’Boyle asked if FasTracks funds were paying for the
detour. Bruce Abel answered that there is no specified service
that the 1% FasTracks support goes towards. It is essentially a
transfer of money in support of the Base System. There is a
portion in the budget that supports unscheduled fixed route bus
service hours. When detours happen that is where the funding
comes from.
Director O’Boyle asked for dollar amount of the 1% from
FasTracks for the 2013 budget. Staff stated the amount could be
provided during the 2013 Budget Presentation.
Director Hoy mentioned that last winter when they were doing the
reconfiguration of the rail around Denver Union Station and
connecting tracks, the bus operation had to support the rail
operation. He had talked to Terry Howerter about taking FasTracks
funds to pay for the services. According to Bruce Abel these are
two related but different issues. In the FasTracks proposal there is
a provision for funding 1% per year in rubber tire service. He
believes Director Hoy is talking about a specific FasTracks project

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 9, 2012

Pago 3 of 14
that had a direct cost for bus operations associated with it so
FasTracks should cover that cost.
Director Daly mentioned that when the City of Longmont did a
transit study they went to a consultant company. He wanted to
know if it is a common practice that they would not consult with
RTD staff. Jessie Carter explained Longmont did consult with the
staff. RTD was involved from the onset but the City wanted an
independent transit study.
Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 13 members
in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Cohen,
Daly, Gore, Hoy, James, Kemp,
McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen
and Walker) and 0 against. Director
Deadwyler was absent and Director
Malpiede arrived late.
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared
the motion PASSED unanimously.



West Corridor Service Plan – April 2013
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Service Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the West Corridor Service Plan package as revised
and summarized in Attachment A and, further, to authorize the General manager
or his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private
operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
Motion:

Director Cohen made the motion to
move this item to the October 23rd
Board meeting.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel mentioned that they have revised the service plan since
the last time the board reviewed it. He introduced Eric Miller who
is in the West Corridor Service Planning Team. Bruce stated that
as the Board may recall, the West Corridor Service Plan has been
reviewed at a Study Session and an Operations Committee
meeting. He explained that staff has made some adjustments in
order to address some of the concerns presented by the Board.
Bruce explained that staff had addressed the concerns regarding
the lack of access to local commercial centers such as Applewood
Village by predictable, reliable services. The lack of access to both
Wheat Ridge High School on 32nd and Lakewood High School at
Kipling, and the lack of reliable and predictable access to NREL
(National Renewable Energy Laboratory). The conversation focused

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 9, 2012

Pago 4 of 14
on the northwest portion of the service area, west of Wadsworth
and north of Alameda. Bruce stated that not only were those
areas of concern reviewed but staff also reviewed the plan in its
entirety.
Bruce stated the initial analysis proposed the termination of route
32 west of Wadsworth – the new proposal will continue to run
route 32 west of Wadsworth at the Applewood Village mirroring
its existing fixed route service. He explained this change will
provide service to the high schools and access to the Applewood
shopping center.
Bruce shared that in the original proposal, route 28 would
terminate west of Wadsworth. The revised proposal includes
route 28 heading south at Wadsworth and implementation of
Route 26 (new) that would connect Applewood Village to
Wadsworth, thus replicating the portion of route 28 that is
removed.
Bruce stated that the original proposal truncated route 20 west of
Wadsworth – the new proposal continues route 20 with its service
west to NREL.
Bruce explained that the Applewood and Wide Acres Call-n-Rides
are no longer being implemented. He explained that these
resources will now be used to support the fixed route service
changes.
Bruce shared that the original proposal truncated route 9 which
provides service for the high rise for elderly and disabled to
Downtown. He stated that the new proposal continues route 9
out as far west as Wadsworth so it continues to serve the high
rise. Bruce explained that this change was brought about by the
public comment process.
Bruce stated that other than those changes the plan is essentially
as previously discussed with the Board. He explained that in the
Southwest portion of the service area, the proposed Call-n-Rides
continue to exist, the productive fixed routes have been re-named
or re-numbered, and the non-productive are being replaced by the
call-n-Rides.
Bruce explained that the Light Rail schedule will have service to
Jefferson County every 15 minutes supplemented by service every
7.5 minutes to the Federal Center.
Director Daly asked the staff to explain the reasoning behind the
7.5 minute headway on the West corridor. He stated that it was a
more aggressive headway in prior plans. Bruce Abel explained that

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 9, 2012

Pago 5 of 14
there were previous conversations with the headway being more
robust at 5 minutes which would mean 12 trains an hour with 2
cars per train. He shared that a peer group analysis had been
headed by David Genova and Austin Jenkins that lead staff to
reconsider the original conversations.
Bruce Abel explained that moving to 7.5 minute headway, instead
of every third train going to Jefferson County; every second train
goes to Jefferson County. From a customer service perspective it
makes it easier for the customer to understand which is the long
and short train. Bruce shared that with five minute headways the
network is constantly running at capacity while 7.5 minute
headways allow the system to function to a more realistic level of
service.
Bruce explained that with 8 trains operating per hour instead of 12
the cost is reduced by $1.5–$2 million per year in operating cost.
In terms of safety, it also reduces the number of at grade
crossings.
Director Anderson commented that based on the map, it appeared
that five Access-a-Ride customers will be affected by the changes.
She believes that five seemed like a small number of people but
asked staff to work with them. Bruce Abel shared that this is one
of the positive benefits of the fixed route changes; staff has been
able to minimize the number of people affected. Bruce confirmed
that staff is trying to work with the effected individuals on a one
on one basis to look for ways to mitigate the impact and help them
understand how they can take advantage of the system.
Director Cohen recognized the efforts the staff has put in taking
into consideration the input from the community. It shows that the
agency is responsive, sympathetic and understanding of various
issues facing his District. He also recognized that the staff
considered that users are not always going Downtown and that
there are mass transit needs within the Districts. He fully supports
the plan, recognizing that it is a work in progress. Director Cohen
thanked Bruce Abel and the entire team for the work that had been
put into this plan.
Director O’Boyle asked what precipitated the change on the C Line
schedule from 10th & Osage to now be at Evans Station. Jessie
Carter explained that this was simply a way to take advantage of a
train that is already in service. It is service improvement that does
not cost much.
Director Daly also recognized the staff for their efforts in
incorporating the Boards’ concerns into the plan and appreciates
their flexibility.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 9, 2012

Pago 6 of 14

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 13 members
in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Cohen,
Daly, Gore, Hoy, James, Kemp,
McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen
and Walker) and 0 against. Director
Deadwyler was absent and Director
Malpiede arrived late.
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared
the motion PASSED unanimously.



Free Rides for members of the Military
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer services Committee that free
rides on RTD for active duty members of the United States Military should be
extended from the presently approved date of December 31, 2012 to December
31, 2013. Utilization has been minimal to date and this extension will have
minimal impact on RTD.
Motion:

Chair Kemp made the motion to move
the item to the October 23 Board
meeting.
Director O’Boyle seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Chair Kemp mentioned that he met with the Veterans group at the
VFW where all military branches were present. He stated that the
Veterans appreciate the support RTD shows for the military; this
initiative was met with great appreciation by all the Veterans
groups that were present. Chair Kemp believes this truly shows
that the community cares for the service they provide day in and
day out. He thanked the Board any support they might give this
proposal. He mentioned that Mr. Bernie Rogoff will be at the
Board meeting on October 23 to once again thank the Board for
their support of the Military.
Director O’Boyle shared that he has established a relationship with
the local military recruiting station in Lone Tree. He relayed to the
Board that they have also expressed appreciation to RTD for
providing this service to Active Duty Military members of the
United States Armed Forces.
Director Hoy asked if everybody in the military knows that they
have the right to travel for free. Director Tobiassen confirmed that
flyers are handed out. Director Tobiassen stated that he often
hears from the troops at Buckley Air Force Base and they very
much appreciate this as well.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 9, 2012

Pago 7 of 14

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 13 members
in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Cohen,
Daly, Gore, Hoy, James, Kemp,
McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen
and Walker) and 0 against. Director
Deadwyler was absent and Director
Malpiede arrived late.

Committee Chair Tobiassen declared
the motion PASSED unanimously.


Budget Transfer from Technical Services Contract to the Smart Card project
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorizes a budget of $450,000 from Technical
Services Contracts to the Retail Point of Sale (RPOS) portion of the SmartCard
(SMT) project.
Motion:
Director Tayer made the motion to
move this item to the October 23,
2012 Board meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the
motion.
Discussion:

Bruce Abel began by explaining that this item is really a
housekeeping item. He stated that as the Board may recall, at last
month’s meeting they awarded the contract for the purchase of
the retail point of sale machines for the Smart Card project to
allow customer to purchase and/or reload their Smart Cards out of
our retail network which currently consists of King Soopers and
Safeway. He explained that during last month’s agenda topic the
express authorization to execute the fund transfer was not
included.
Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 13 members
in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Cohen,
Daly, Gore, Hoy, James, Kemp,
McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen
and Walker) and 0 against. Director
Deadwyler was absent and Director
Malpiede arrived late.
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared
the motion PASSED unanimously.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 9, 2012

Pago 8 of 14


Corporate Sponsorship Program Contract Award
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
General Manager or his designee by authorized to enter into a contract with IMG
Consulting for the development and implementation of a corporate sponsorship
program, to include naming rights and other sponsorship opportunities for RTD
assets.
Motion:

Director Bagley made a motion to
move this item forward to the October
23, 2012 Board meeting.
Director Cohen seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Scott Reed informed the Board that staff put out an RFP and
received four strong proposals in response. He explained that
there was an evaluation committee considering four main areas:
project approach, corporate sponsorship experience, personnel
qualifications and the preliminary revenue proposal based on
commission. He stated that the evaluation team was unanimous
in recommending the selection of IMG Consulting.
Director Daly asked if the naming rights discussed were just for
stations. Scott Reed answered that one of the things IMG will be
doing is coming up with an inventory of what they think would be
targets for potential naming. He stated it could be entire lines,
stations, facilities, just about anything. He explained that each
component will go through an evaluation process and if a
contractor is interested, each one of the components will come
back to the Board for approval.
Chair Kemp mentioned that he has reviewed this and has received
comments from some of the groups. He expressed that he is very
pleased and supportive of how our Purchasing Department
continues to stay on task. He believes once again the staff has
done a stellar job in making sure that not only is the technical side
reviewed but it is reviewed totally separate from the cost aspect.
He thanked Scott and the purchasing group for a great job.
Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 13 members
in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Cohen,
Daly, Gore, Hoy, James, Kemp,
McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen
and Walker) and 0 against. Director
Deadwyler was absent and Director
Malpiede arrived late.
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared
the motion PASSED unanimously.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 9, 2012

Pago 9 of 14



On-Vehicle Advertising Contract Amendment and Exercising of Option Years
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
General Manager or his designee be authorized to amend the current contract for
the sale and installation of on-vehicle advertising with Lamar Transit Advertising
and to exercise the two year option component of the contract, consistent with
the terms and amendments outlined in this action item.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to
move this item forward to October 23
Board meeting.
Director Gore seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Scott Reed informed the Board that the action presented tonight is
to amend the contract minimums for both the bus and rail
components of our advertising contract. He stated that because
there have been service cut backs since the contract was
executed, there are fewer buses in service and therefore less
advertising space available. The fleet available for ad sales is 17%
less than anticipated. Scott explained that Lamar approached RTD
about amending the contract minimums since RTD violated the
terms agreed to on the bus side.
Scott Reed explained that on the light rail side there is the opposite
scenario. He stated that there are 172 light rail vehicles in service
which gives a temporary spare ratio of 77%. He said once the
West rail line is in service these vehicles will no longer be
considered as spare but currently we are diluting ability for ads to
be viewed by the public. He explained that Lamar is having a
difficult time selling the advertising space because it is not as
valuable of a product. He stated that staff agrees with Lamar that
the contract minimum should be reduced for this year but not
2013 because once the West Rail Line opens the spare ratio will
decrease.
Scott Reed stated that a third component of this action is the light
rail wraps; the Board approved a pilot program having fully
wrapped trains with on vehicle surveys. Scott explained that
during the time this program has been in place, about 1 year, 160
passengers responded to the survey with 85% positive feedback.
He also explained that there was a mixed response from the 15%
who provided negative feedback. He stated some people had an
issue looking through the windows that have a screen. He
believes this does not have much of an impact on riders as all
stops are announced both visually and orally.
Scott Reed explained the fourth component of this action was the
cap on the number of vehicles that could have advertising on the

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 9, 2012

Pago 10 of 14
outside, which is currently 60 vehicles. He stated that Lamar
believes they can sell beyond that cap once the West Rail Line is
open. Scott said they are asking that the cap be removed to allow
Lamar to sell as much advertising space as possible.
Tony McCaulay pointed out that this action would also exercise
the two year extend option through 2014.
Director Tayer asked what would be the cost benefit of the fully
wrapped trains and allowing them to use all the vehicles. Tony
McCaulay responded that based on discussions with Lamar the
estimate is $500,000 per year.
Director O’Boyle stated that he still does not like the advertising on
the trains. He stated the projected revenue is such a small fraction
of our total operating revenue. He believes the projection of our
image as providing reliable, clean service is enhanced by more than
that amount by not having advertising on the vehicles. Director
O’Boyle stated that when we do the promotional work, we always
use the clean, white RTD trains because of the image we want to
project. He understands that during the depths of the recession
we needed to look for income from every source so we agreed to
use our vehicles as billboards; however, the money appears to be
diminishing. He will not support this action item on the basis that
he prefers the light rail vehicles to be unblemished.
Director Daly asked Tony McCaulay to inform the committee on
how Marketing did at the APTA AdWheel Awards. Tony stated
that the RTD Marketing Department won two first place awards at
the competition.
Director Gore asked how long a wrap will last or how long a
contract will run. Tony McCauley stated that because of the
production cost of about $8 thousand per side, a contract typically
will not be shorter than 3 months. He explained that most
contracts are between 6 and 12 months.
Director Hoy asked how the survey about the wrapped vehicles
was carried out. Tony McCaulay responded that passengers could
do it through the URL with a code that was displayed in the ad.
He reiterated that 160 people responded and 26 did not like the ad
for various reasons: some found it difficult to look outside, some
thought it made the trains appear junky. Tony stated that most of
the feedback was positive. He shared that the most surprising
response was that people said that because Denver is such a
sunny city, having the screen on the window made it more
comfortable to ride.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 9, 2012

Pago 11 of 14
Director Hoy also asked for clarification on the cap removal. Tony
McCaulay said the current contract states that the advertiser can
have up to 10% of available window space; removing that would
allow them to get more creative with their design. He explained
the 60 vehicle cap requirement was on half sides and this will take
that away. Tony stated another reason why people did not like it
was because they could not see inside. He expressed staff’s goal
is to have at least one car per train not wrapped.
Director Tayer asked how staff would respond to Board policy that
would put in place the staff goal of having one car be unwrapped.
Tony McCaulay said they would make the change to the final
Board Report to incorporate this goal. He thought that maybe this
would be better presented not as a number but 2/3 of the vehicles.
Scott Reed stated that he would like to discuss the new policy
with Austin Jenkins.
Director Anderson commented that she likes the wrapped trains.
She feels they are fun and generating excitement within the City.
She stated that the Board should not forget they do give RTD a
little more money and we are always trying to balance the budget.
She also expressed that she does not know if a cap is even
necessary because she does not think we would sell all of the
space.
Austin Jenkins expressed that his team is supportive but explained
it is a complex issue; they add and cut cars all day long. He
explained that the idea of keeping an unwrapped car on every train
all day long is much more complicated and needs to be taken into
consideration.
Director O’Boyle suggested that as an alternative we have all our
windows tinted. He believes this would solve the problem of the
cars being too sunny inside. He reiterated that having these
wrapped ads from other corporations does not add to RTD’s
branding efforts.
Director Walker asked if there is any way to tell if boarding
becomes more difficult with wrapped vehicles because people
cannot see in the car. He thinks that when you are trying to board
you are always looking for that open spot and this makes it more
difficult. Tony McCaulay expressed that he does not know if it
slows down boarding time. He stated that staff would look at that
before the Board meeting.
Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 12 members
in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Cohen,
Daly, Gore, Hoy, James, Kemp,

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 9, 2012

Pago 12 of 14
McMullen, Tayer, Tobiassen and
Walker) and 1 against (O’Boyle).
Director Deadwyler was absent and
Director Malpiede arrived late.
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared
the motion PASSED unanimously.
II. Updates
 Alcohol Advertising Policy (Lien/Reed) (No back up)
Marla Lien provided background on the issue. She stated that RTD had a policy
in place prohibiting alcohol advertising which was changed in order to allow local
restaurants along the 16th Street Mall to advertise. She explained that RTD has
created a designated public forum on its vehicles for advertising. Marla went on
to explain that to exclude a certain type of advertising we need a compelling
government interest with a narrowly tailored regulation if we want to restrict
types of advertising.
Marla stated that some transit agencies have restricted alcohol advertising just
like cigarettes. She explained that because alcohol is a regulated substance and
cannot be sold to minors, we may be able to articulate a standard ban to alcohol
advertising. She stressed that in creating a ban it would be a ban for all alcohol
advertising.
Scott Reed shared that our current on-vehicle advertising contract does allow the
advertising of alcohol. He stated that this is a good source of revenue for RTD.
He explained that Lamar estimates the revenue is about $500,000 specifically
for the sale of alcohol advertising including restaurants that do sell alcohol.
Director Tayer mentioned that the reason why he brought this issue up is
because he has received a number of emails from citizens that are concerned
with RTD having vehicles fully wrapped with alcohol advertisements going
through the CU campus. He wanted to know what the restrictions and
implications would be for changing this policy. Scott Reed mentioned that he
had talked to CU personnel about this and they did look at the number of buses
that would travel through campus and found that the number is probably one per
day that were advertising alcohol.
Director O’Boyle stated that he has also received comments about alcohol
advertising. He expressed that consistent with his earlier opinion, he would
advocate for no alcohol advertising. He believes the Board should have
restrictions on alcohol, tobacco, marijuana, and dating services advertisements.
He reiterated that we should strive to maintain a corporate image.
Director Bagley asked if there is any research nationally about how other
agencies have dealt with these issues. Scott Reed clarified that we do not have
marijuana advertising on our vehicles. Tony McCaulay stated that each agency
has different rules and regulations about what they allow and do not allow in
terms of advertising on their vehicles. He explained that we have 5 types of ads

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 9, 2012

Pago 13 of 14
that are not allowed: the ad cannot be false, misleading or deceptive; it cannot
be related to illegal activities; it cannot be obscene; if it is related to a
commercially available product it has to say “This ad paid for by”; and we do not
allow tobacco advertising as there is a federal mandate prohibiting outdoor
advertising for tobacco products.
Director Daly asked why this was brought to the Committee as it is not an action
item. Marla Lien explained that they were responding to Director Tayer’s inquiry.
III. Smart Card Project Status Update (Googins)
IV. Radio-CAD/AVL Project Status Update (Farrington)
Bruce Abel stated that Gary Googins was currently working with ACS doing the
integration testing for the driver control unit to integrate the new CAD/AVL
system so Eric Farrington would be combining the Smart Card and RadioCAD/AVL updates.
Director Bagley asked if we are on schedule. Eric Farrington stated that it
appears we will meet the deadline but the installation is behind schedule. He
explained that Xerox is working on a plan on how they are going to get back on
schedule and it should be provided to RTD this week. Bruce Abel shared that
during the APTA conference he met with the Senior VP for Xerox and had a very
explicit conversation about the need for the Smart Card installation to be
completed by October 31.
V. Other Matters
Director James shared that today was the celebration of the 30th anniversary of
the 16th Street Mall. He thought they had a wonderful celebration with Senator
Mark Udall, Mayor Hancock and many others present. He stated that he learned
a couple of things about the mall, one of which was that the idea for a mall like
this was first conceive in 1963 by Downtown Denver Inc. Director James
acknowledged RTD’s partnership with the City and County of Denver and
Downtown Denver Partnership. He stated that they have been working with us
to obtain an $8 million grant with $2 million in matching funds to assist with
renovations. Director James explained that the overall budget is about $60
million so the grant is a fairly small dent but still a step in the right direction.
Director Daly asked if there were any veteran Mall Shuttle Operators present at
the celebration. Scott Reed mentioned that there was coverage by 9 News. He
stated that they rode with some of the senior operators.
Director James informed the Board that the Denver City Council passed a
proclamation recognizing a special day for this anniversary and the Mayor read it
at the celebration.
Director Walker shared that he attended the Presidential Debate and talked to
people about how they got around. He stated that everyone was very impressed
with the ease of mobility and lack of congestion. He recognized our Security
Team for the great job they did and for everyone that coordinated the many
political events using our busses and drivers. Dave Genova recognized the RTD

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 9, 2012

Pago 14 of 14
family of employees that made the day so successful. He stated that the team
delivered excellent service as we always strive to do.
VI. Next Meeting Date - November 20, 2012
VII.Adjourn
Committee Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 7:34 p.m.

