Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Civil Rights Committee
Tuesday, October 20, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Civil Rights Committee
Chaired by Jeff Walker

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Walker called the meeting to order at 5:34 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta

Director, District L
Director, District C

Present
Present

5:15 PM
5:30 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Present
Present

5:16 PM
5:14 PM

Claudia Folska

Director, District E

Present

5:10 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy
Bill James

Director, District N
Director, District J
Director, District A

Present
Present
Present

5:18 PM
5:18 PM
5:28 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Present

5:16 PM

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District I
Director, District M

Absent
Present

5:31 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:30 PM

Paul Solano

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

5:02 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Committee Chair

Present
Present

5:34 PM
5:16 PM

Director Lubow was absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jessie Carter, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Heather
Copp, Martell Dyles, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Adrina Gibson,
Doug Gragg, Kim Heldman, Tina Jaquez, Jessica Keegan, Erin Klaas,
Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Naté Malone, Tony McCaulay, Barbara
McManus, Judy McMurphy, Vivian Morales, Ed Neuberg, Paula
Perdue, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Zamy Silva, Henry
Stopplecamp, Monika Treipl-Hamke, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna
Vishwakarma

Others Present:

Mayra Gonzáles, Sherman Hamilton, Eugene Howard, Brian
Lewandowski, Randall Lovegrove, Robert McNown, Peter Mills, Scott
Ramming, Pedro Ramos, Karen Strum, Joe Triplett, Carolina Van
Horn, Gary Van Dorn, Daniela Villareal, Dace West, Bob Wilson,
Richard Wobbekind

B. Recommended Actions
No recommended actions were presented.

C. Updates

• Civil Rights Committee Update
Zamy Silva, Senior Manager for Civil Rights, informed the Directors that the
update will focus on the Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) office. She
introduced James Cook, Manager for EEO, who reviewed the EEO
presentation as included in the Civil Rights Committee agenda packet for
October 20, 2015. The presentation included highlights, trainings and
outreach which include a video training, and the office’s three year plan.
Director Tobiassen asked staff how many complaints the EEO office receives
on an annual basis. James Cook replied that the number varies and it is
reported to the Senior Leadership Team and the General Manager. He added
that there have been fewer complaints this year due in part to outreach to
management in identifying and dealing with issues.
Director Francone expressed her interest in watching the training video.
James Cook replied that the video will be made available as soon as it is
finalized. The final details include closed captioning and logistics on
employees acknowledging completion of the training.

Director Folska expressed that she would be interested in historical data
regarding EEO complaints in the form of a chart or something similar. She
also expressed her interest in the video as well as participating in the
training. Zamy Silva said that a report could be put together while keeping
in mind that there is a lot of information that cannot be shared. She added
that the video will be made available to the Directors as soon as it is
finalized, which will be ADA and Title VI compliant.
Director Deadwyler said that most video trainings have a question and
answer section at the end. She wondered if this video would be similar.
James Cook stated yes but those are the details staff is still finalizing.
Director Deadwyler asked what would happen if the participants get the
questions wrong. James Cook answered that staff is still working on the
logistics and is hoping to have the video training running by the first of the
year. So far the plan is that an employee will not get credit for the class if
they do no pass the test. Zamy Silva added that the hope is that the
training will be done annually to ensure that everyone understands EEO and
how to apply it in the work place.
Director Menten wondered as to the length of the video. James Cook
replied that the video for management would be 90 minutes and the one for
frontline employees will be 45 to 60 minutes.
Committee Chair Walker said that he has done similar video trainings at
different jobs. If the participants do not answer the questions correctly they
would have to take the test again. He noted that the number of complaints
has dropped because of training management on how to identify and handle
situations.

D. Other Matters
Director Bagley reported to the Directors on his attendance at the 2015 APTA
Annual Meeting. He said that his purpose in attending this conference was to learn
more about transit from the General Sessions. He met with some of RTD’s suppliers
and other people in the industry. He added that as RTD gets more involved in
Transit Oriented Development and Transit Oriented Communities (TOD/TOC), it is
important for the Directors to attend conferences such as the ones held by APTA
and Rail~Volution.
He added that the breakout sessions he attended included topics such as how to
reduce new development impacts on transportation networks, planning transit for
TOC, transit and land use decision making, and Bus Rapid Transit operations. One
particularly interesting discussion centered on integrated mobility and
transformative technology, creating a greater rider experience, using the cloud to
connect mobility options for customers, providing Wi-Fi, enhancing choices for

riders, how people will move in 5 years, and real time departure boards. He said
that a number of the sessions were presented by private sector companies.
He highlighted a presentation by Nadine Lee, Engineer Project Manager for US-36
and Northwest Rail Line, on Collaborative Mobility Projects, a project she has been
working on as part of the Leadership APTA Program. Another presentation he
highlighted was Ken Gronbach’s Charting the Course through Demographic Change.
Ken Gronbach noted in his presentation that we are in a sweet spot for public
transportation due to Millennials wanting to forego cars and Boomers with more
time for special events. Other topics discussed included demographics and public
transportation, the effects of sociographics on transit demand, Millennials and
mobility in the Southwest, trends in rider demographics and preferences, gaining
insight into ridership, and redefining public transit benefits for future generations.
Director Bagley pointed out that it is important for the Directors to learn about the
topics discussed – technology, demographics, TOC – from other sources outside
RTD. This is the kind of opportunity that can be attained by attending these types
of conferences. He mentioned that Directors James, Walker and he will be
attending Rail ~Volution at the end of the month and will have a report on that
conference to the Directors. Director Bagley added that each Director has a budget
of $6,000 for travel paid for by the public, for a total of $90,000. He believes that
Directors should be required to present a report after attending a conference. He
will continue to promote conference attendance and reports to the Board as long as
he is on the Board. Director Bagley added that he is working on getting copies of
the APTA Annual Meeting sessions presentations.
Director Menten wondered if the reports to the Board were already a recommended
action. Director Bagley replied that they are not at the moment.
Director Francone recommended the Directors search the Transit Cooperative
Research Program’s website for transit reading materials. They are available free of
charge and include a variety of topics. She informed the Directors she learned
about this resource during the APTA Annual Meeting.

E. Next Meeting Date - December 8, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Walker adjourned the meeting at 5:52 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices

Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

