Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Monday, March 5, 2012
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Nate’ Malone, Senior Executive Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

March 5, 2012

Subject:

Summary of FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on March 5, 2012 at 5:30
p.m. in RTD Room
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Cohen; Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley,
Daly, Hoy, James, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen, Deadwyler,
Malpiede, Williams and Walker

Board Members
Absent:
Staff Present:

Susan Altes, Lacy Bell, Michelle Brier, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Lee
Cryer, James Czupor, Jeet Desai, Kevin Diviness, Shannon Duty,
Sherry Ellebracht, John Ewy, David Genova, Tina Jaquez, Austin
Jenkins, Jeff Kay, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod, Barbara
McManus, Anthony Menendez, Carla Perez, Paula Perdue, Trent
Ratcliff, Scott Reed, Teresa Sedmak, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Marta
Sipeki, Julie Skeen, Karen Stanley, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert,
Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van Meter, Del Walker, Phil Washington, Susan
Wood, Brian Welch, and Mikki Wilder

Others Present:

Mac Callison - City of Aurora, Mayor Bob Muckle - Louisville, Matt
Jones, State Representative - Boulder, Mayor Pro-Tem Gabe Santos –
Longmont, Debra Williams, Trustee – Superior, Matt Alexander, John
Aguilar, Debra Baskett, Garrett Baum, Andrew Berkeland, Andy Buck,
Don Bufford, Steve Cook, Alixandra Feeley, Anthony Gargoc, Phil
Greenwald, Sherman Hamilton, Pete Hankuszky, Connie Johnson, Eric
Kahneit, Daryl Kinton, Jeff Leib, David Lewis, Lance Lewis, David
Longanecker, Brian McGuire, Mark Meredith, Dave Migoya, John
Ordelheide, Aric Otzelberger, Jim Paulmeno, Gene Putman, Helen
Richardson, Bill Roettker, Alex Rubin, Paul Ryan, Gary Shea, Roger
Sherman, Jeanne Shreve, Alvertis Simmons, Ira Schreiber, Jim Souby,
Lynda Spangler, Kevin Standbridge, Barb Stephens, Les Stephens,
John Valepdo, Walter Weart, Scot Weeks, Desiree Westlund, Bob
Wilson, Spike Wofford
****

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Monday, March 5, 2012
Page 2

Call to Order

Committee Chair Cohen called the meeting to order at 5:32 p.m.

Committee Chair Cohen indicated they would change the order of the agenda to
allow staff to provide the recommendation followed by the public hearing process.
I.

Staff Presentation on Northwest Rails Options
General Manager Phil Washington begins thanking all the elected officials,
municipalities, stakeholders and staff who participated in this listening period. This
has been a very productive time for all. He also thanked the Board of Directors for
authorizing staff to do this analysis and indicated that the recommendation tonight is
a staff recommendation. He believes this to be a regional decision, a good
recommendation that came from all who gave input, and is outlined in great detail in
the Board of Directors report which will be discussed this evening.
General Manager Washington asked Rick Clarke to provide a short overview
regarding Burlington Northern Railroad that will be followed by the presentation. Rick
indicated that RTD started negotiations in 2005 and by 2010 had successfully
reached an agreement in regards to all the rail lines currently under construction. The
RTD negotiating team of Marla Lien, Henry Stopplecamp and John Shonsey has had
major success dealing with the railroads. It has only been in the last couple of years
when the railroads have become profitable and experienced constraints in their
capacities coupled with safety concerns, that we have experienced the kind of
challenges that we face today. This experience is not unique to RTD but across the
country.
General Manager Washington also noted that RTD has enlisted the support of
internal and external experts to help in the negotiation process.
General Manager Washington emphasized that with Board approval, only one option
will be submitted to DRCOG. He also indicated that the language specific would go
to a plan amendment to FasTracks.
General Manager Washington walked carefully through the presentation of the 2012
APE Staff Recommendation – Northwest Corridor, hitting on several key points listed
below:
 Key Plan is to go forward with our ultimate vision of building rail to
Longmont. He believes that a great job was done in letting the public know of
the plans and progress. The RTD Board of Directors does not have the
authority to unilaterally change the use of the tax and debt authorized for the
FasTracks Plan that was approved by the voters in 2004. If the board
chooses to proceed with sales and use tax election in 2012, an amended plan
will be referenced as part of the ballot question, noting that approval of the
ballot measure will include approval of the plan amendment. If the ballot fails,
the 2004 plan will remain unchanged.
 Approval of an option for the NW Corridor will allow staff to include these
assumptions in the 2012 financial plan that will then be submitted to DRCOG
for review as part of the SB 208 process.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Monday, March 5, 2012
Page 3










Based on staff discussions and formal responses of our stakeholders group,
there is no consensus from our stakeholders around any of the three options.
These are proposed starting points for decisions. That being said, RTD staff
has identified a new, hybrid option with incorporates input from the
community and elements from the other options. There were over 800
comments of input from the community.
In regards to the FasTracks guiding principles, staff relied heavily on these
principles to develop tonight’s recommendation by ensuring every step
contributes to the full vision, and focused money available to the greatest
good, The General Manager’s personal favorite was spending public money
wisely, maximizing outside funding before going to taxpayers and deliver key
investments in all corridors. These guidelines were presented over one and a
half to two years ago.
General Manager Washington shared that there will be no schedule or cost
impacts to any other partially-funded corridor projects. This recommendation
allows completing the NW Rail line incrementally from Church Ranch to
Longmont as rail becomes more cost effective and funding becomes available
from the original 0.4% FasTracks sales tax.
A combination of an incremental segment of DMU commuter rail in the NW
Corridor area during the period of 2020-2022 and up to 80 miles of BRT by
2020 will provide comprehensive, cost effective mobility improvements for
the region.
The Extension of the NW Rail Line from DUS to the Church Ranch Station will
provide approximately 12 of the 41 miles of commuter rail for the NW
Corridor which is about 30% of the complete length. The $894.6 million for
expanded BRT in the Northwest Corridor area by 2020 are in addition to the
$82 million remaining for the US 36 BRT project by 2015.

General Manager Washington asked Bill VanMeter to speak on the operational
challenges for BRT routes destined to and from DUS. Bill spoke to the bi-directional
challenges between Pecos and US 36 and how extending the rail to Church Ranch
will help to address this issue.
General Manager Washington indicated that the cost of the long-term operation and
maintenance of this option would likely be lower than for the complete Northwest
Rail line to Longmont. RTD would commit to converting these O&M savings into a
capital funding commitment to help complete the rail extension to Church Ranch.
RTD is working with BNSF to explore the opportunities and costs for this extension,
analyzing alternatives that would provide between 15 to 30 minute peak period rail
service frequencies. Based on conservative estimates of cost, it is currently
anticipated that funding would be available to complete the rail extension during the
period of 2020-2022 and we are very confident that we will have the ability to
complete within that time.
General Manager Washington shared that the idea is to build out rail segments as
cost become more effective and as funds become available. Staff will bring to the
board a separate report annually asking the board to make a determination if it is
cost effective to proceed in segments or as a whole and if it is feasible financially
instead of assigning a proposed date of completion; this way it allows RTD to
continue moving forward to building all the way to Longmont. The beauty of it is,
nothing is wasted, and it’s the natural sort of conversion that goes with converting

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Monday, March 5, 2012
Page 4
by converting the BRT stations currently being used into rail stations.
General Manager Washington summarized the discussion by stating the Hybrid plan
phasing rail segments baby miles by 2020 will not delay any of the other projects.
We believe that we have presented the best plan; it’s financially feasible, fiscally
prudent, adheres to FasTracks guiding principles and there will be no impact on the
other scheduled plans currently under development.
For a complete copy of this presentation please refer to the FasTracks Minutes
located in the minutes' notebook in the Board office.
II.

Public Comments on Northwest Rail Options
 Debra Williams, Town of Superior Trustee and DRCOG Board Member, stated
that RTD should implement FasTracks as originally promised in 2004. She also
believes that the ballot language is important and the entire region (i.e. corridors,
elected officials, etc) should have input to this ballot language.


Mayor Bob Muckle of Louisville thanked RTD for their heroic efforts in light of the
new information. He indicated however that he sees this as an issue of fairness.
Rail was promised to the voters in 2004 and he expects the rail to be built. The
city of Louisville is a little unique in the sense that there is a rail corridor going
through the historic Louisville and the road infrastructure cannot accommodate
BRT. He also indicated that the yearly analysis of the budget would be
problematic to build plans around. There needs to be some element of certainty.



Mayor Pro-Tem Gabe Santos of Longmont expressed that the NW corridor is part
of the Region as it pertains to RTD and feels that the promises given in 2004
have been broken. The community of Longmont has been a good team player
and has waited patiently for the promise while RTD has failed to keep its
promise. This issue is very divisive and has created an element of distrust. The
new option presented tonight is a shell game in that there are no guarantees. The
Longmont Council recently approved option 2 but the proposal tonight is not
worth the paper it is written on.



State Representative Matt Jones, representing Louisville, Lafayette and S.
Longmont expressed that when the promise was made in 2004, all the corridors
were of equal footing. He was excited about the promise then but now it
appears other regions are receiving their promises but not the Northwest
Corridor. This is divisive to the community. He strongly suggests that we do
option 2. Option 4 presented tonight will not work and cannot possibly pass. He
recommends that everyone band together to deliver as promised.



Ira Schreiber, formerly with Colorado Rail, spoke of both his advocation and
vocation of looking at major transit systems across the country and even across
Europe. He stated the BRT as presented is a fraud. He urged RTD to look at real
BRT such as in LA to see what may be delivered. He strongly recommends a relook at the proposal.



Barb Stephens from Arvada indicated she has been an ECOPass user since 1960
and supported the RTD vote in 2004. This region needs attractive rapid transit

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Monday, March 5, 2012
Page 5
system. We need to move forward with rail and consider different options for
routes including possible eminent domain to create more direct routes.


Connie Johnson, Broomfield, expressed that they had envisioned transit similar to
the SE corridor.



Gary Shea, Westminster, indicated that he represents the Westminster
Progressive Homes and has created a petition website. He urged RTD to build out
FasTracks as originally planned and vowed to keep the website and comments
active. RTD has lost its credibility and the people will not pass another tax
increase.



Jim Souby with the Colorado Rail Passenger Association spoke to his credentials
and expressed support for the original FasTracks Plan. He indicated there are a
number of benefits of NW rail being a part of the larger system that has not been
discussed. RTD has just focused on the cost component. Some of the benefits
that a comprehensive system brings include impact to GNP, citizens pay 20%
less in transportation costs, reinvestment back into the system, rail can expand
capacity with little impact to footprints, etc. CDOT and RTD need to combine
efforts to negotiate with the railroad.



Dan Bufford, Broomfield, compared his experience in Atlanta. He expressed
concern about the cost of the plan and feels that by using six sigma processes,
up to $1.5B of cost can be shaved off and improvements in construction costs
can be realized.



David Longanecker, WICKEY president requested that RTD move forward with
the original plans. He stated his company purchased a facility in line with the rail
with the expectation that business would grow and it would provide jobs for
those that would have to travel from further distances.



Alvertis Simmons referenced all the broken promises and urged RTD to give the
people what they promised including the opportunities for jobs in the African
American community.

III.

CAC Update
David Lewis provided an update from the Citizen’s Advisory Committee (CAC). He
referenced a letter that CAC had delivered to the Board in which they recommended
that RTD deliver FasTracks as promised in 2004. They expressed the belief that true
BRT is difficult to achieve. Option 1 is most viable.

IV.

Board Comments
Chair Kemp thanked staff for their recommendation but stated that in light of this
new proposal and after hearing the feedback from the public, he feels that the Board
and the stakeholders need time to process and digest the hybrid option. He proposed
that the special Board meeting scheduled for March 8 is cancelled allowing time for
further vetting of this proposal. During the March 20th FasTracks meeting, the Board
will reconsider the Northwest option along with the APE recommendation. A final
decision will be made at the Board regular meeting on March 27th.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Monday, March 5, 2012
Page 6
He asked for feedback from the rest of the Board regarding this matter.
Several of the Directors concurred to cancelling the March 8th special Board meeting.
Director Anderson indicated she would submit her questions offline and would
request a short written summary. Director Williams indicated that we are making
progress and that it is important that we get to the stakeholders as soon as possible
for their feedback on this proposed hybrid solution. We need time to vet and to
build consensus in the North area.
Director McMullen re-emphasized that the 2004 plan is still scheduled to go forward.
He represents the SE corridor but his constituents are very supportive of full
FasTracks buildout. He is encouraged by what he heard tonight.
Director Hoy thanked staff for the Hybrid solution but indicated time is needed to
process the full proposal. He is in favor of the delay of the meeting until March 20th.
Chair Kemp summed up the next steps as follows:
 At the FasTracks Committee meeting on March 20, there will be two
action items: The first will be the recommendation for the Northwest
option. Staff will present only one recommendation. The second will be
the APE approval which will need to incorporate the Northwest Rail Option
approved by the Board.
 On March 27 at the regular Board meeting, the Board will vote on the
APE.
V. Next Meeting Date –
The next meeting is scheduled for March 20, 2012.
VI.

Adjourn to Planning & Development Committee Meeting
The meeting adjourned at 7:15 p.m. to the Planning and Development Committee.

