RTD Operations & Customer Service Committee
11-10-20
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. The Operations and Customer Service Committee will now come to
order. We are convened as of 5:30 PM Mountain Standard Time. I think we're off of the Daylight Time. I
would respectfully ask that everyone connected to this call to please mute your phones and set your
ringers to silent. Finally, please note that under the current circumstances, the official meetings of the
RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare.
During this time, meetings will be primarily audio recorded. The audio recording, along with the unofficial
minutes of the meeting, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. You can visit rtddenver.com and scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to the Board of Directors page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceedings, I ask that you please announce your name and wait for me to call on you before
proceeding to speak. Speaking out of turn only add confusion to the record and to the proceedings.
Please note that during the approximate appropriate time during our discussion and voting process later
on this evening, I will call on each Director in turn, so please know that your time to speak will come. And
if you can, hold your comments until that time.
At RTD, safety is our core value. I'd like to begin this meeting with a short safety briefing. Although
recently much has been said and published about the risk of COVID transmission on public
transportation, there is very little contact tracing evidence that points to transmissions on buses, trains, or
airplanes. The discussion takes place because COVID transmission is linked to close contact in large
gatherings.
That said, overall ridership is down across the board, so getting on a crowded vehicle is far less likely
than in the past. According to the Associated Press, there have been no significant outbreaks of COVID,
defined as more than two affected people from different households traced to the same event, linked to
transit systems. In fact, Japan has not linked a single outbreak to their crowded commuter rail system
since the pandemic began.
So don't be afraid to ride public transportation. And when you do, please follow these guidelines to ensure
a safe trip for you and for others. Wear a face covering while waiting for your bus or train and while riding.
Public health orders locally require that you do that. Anecdotally, we are seeing high face covering use by
passengers on most trips here at RTD. Other agencies are reporting that upwards of 80% to 90% of
passengers are wearing face coverings on their systems, so it seems like the message is getting out
everywhere.
Maintain social distancing of at least six feet, as much as you can. The CDC says that if you can avoid
situations where you are in close contact with someone from outside of your household, your chance of
contracting COVID is very low. And remember that wearing a face covering does not replace the need for
social distancing. You should be doing both.
Travel during non-peak hours or skip more crowded buses, if that's possible for you. Avoid touching high
touch surfaces as much as possible. According to the CDC, the likelihood of getting COVID from touching

a surface is much lower than through respiration. And RTD does continue to deep clean our vehicles
every day.
Wash your hands for 20 seconds with soap before you leave your house or office, and wash them again
as soon as you arrive at your destinations. Carry hand sanitizer with you to use in between those hand
washings. If you are feeling sick or have any COVID symptoms, stay home and seek medical attention.
With the significant rise of COVID cases locally over the last three to four weeks, it's important that we are
all even more vigilant about doing the things that we need to do to keep ourselves and others safe. Thank
you.
At this time, I'd like to take a break from our standard routine and welcome our new General Manager,
Debra Johnson. She is joining us on her first committee meeting tonight, on her second day with RTD.
We are very glad to have her and we welcome her to this meeting.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, you're there. Hi. You're welcome.
We have one recommended action on the agenda for this committee this evening. The first
recommended action is the construction award for IFB 320FB-02, which is the Platte roof replacement.
It's recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her designee, to award a contract to Flynn Companies in the
amount not to exceed $3,015,642 million for the Platte roof replacement project. Funding for this contract
is included in the 2020 amended budget. This recommended action speaks to the following General
Manager's 2020 goal, core goal number one, successful delivery of transit service.
Do we have a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: So moved, Tisdale.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second, Rivera-Malpiede.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Thank you, Chair. I believe that we have some staff to
speak to this. Mr. Ford?
RICHARD ROST: This is Richard Rost. Sorry. Henry, are you there?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: I am. But let Mr. Ford go.
MICHAEL FORD: Madam Chair, I was just going to turn it over to Henry for him to give any other
comments you would like.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Ford. Mr. Stopplecamp, the floor is yours.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Thank you, Chairwoman. And Board members, real quick, you've got an action
in front of you. This is the Platte roof. We've got a 75, 25 grant from the FTA for a roof replacement.
We've put it out on the street for an IFP. And we had, as you see, six folks, or firms, bid the project. And
we are recommending that we award to the Flynn Companies.
The roof is about 25 years, 26 years old. And we need to go ahead and replace it. This is the Platte
facility. Houses the operators, mechanics, and most of the indoor parking down at the Platte facility. So
that's what we're asking for.
But I would also like to share one more thing that it came in within the budget that we were anticipating
and within the grant. And FTA has reached out to us and said, you know, you did not get grant money for
East Metro, who also needs a roof replaced. And they asked us to look into using the remaining $1.6
million on that project.

So we're coming to the Board right now to ask for the $3 million for Flynn Companies. But hopefully we'll
be able to come back to the Board in the near future with a request to spend the additional funds that the
FTA has provided to us on a portion of the East Metro garage.
So with that, I do have Richard Rost and Robin McIntosh on the phone, if we've got additional questions
that I can't answer. But I'd like to open it up for questions at this time.
BOB BROOM: Madam Chair? Madam Chair?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, sir. Yeah, I'm here, Director Broom. I'm sorry. I'll go through the Directors in
alphabetic order. Thank you Mr. Stopplecamp. I had been merely talking away and forgotten to unmute.
Director Broom, the floor is yours.
BOB BROOM: Thank you very much. Do we take a look at installing solar panels when we do re-roofing
projects?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Yes, we do look at alternative energy, solar panels. We also look at the life and
the return. On this particular one, it did not pan out. And the last solar project we used on a roof didn't pan
out either. So we did look at it, but it was not a feasible project at this time.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Broom. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No questions or comments. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No questions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: No questions, Madam Chair. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Henry, I'm so glad that you're able to finish this. It's high
time and I'm looking forward to getting the East Metro roof completed as well. Thank you very much.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: And just for the record, East Metro will not be completed. We're looking at the
ends and doing what we can. That roof is about a $6 million project and we only have 1.6. So we're
working on the ends that are occupied.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Awesome. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Folska. Thank you, Mr. Stopplecamp, for that clarification. Director
Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I have no questions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You are welcome. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I actually do have a few questions. The first one I'd like,
Henry, if you can talk more about the feasibility for the solar powered panels. You said that you had
looked at solar panels on two other projects and it wasn't feasible. And I'm just curious as to what barriers
you might have run into.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: So on the solar panels, we've had solar panels on our roofs in the past. And
we've never reached the payback for the investment. Now realizing that we do have grant money, but
we're looking at this as taxpayers' funding. So the return is anywhere between 20 and 30 years. And so
on these projects, we have not looked at them. We've looked at them on smaller projects. We did look
down at the Lincoln parking structure, if we put the infrastructure in there so we can put them on at a later

date. But right now, with the rebates and all that, we're still not getting enough of a refund to pay back in
the life of the asset.
SHONTEL LEWIS: All right. Thank you. That's helpful. And you also, in the packet you mentioned that
this exceeds the six years of the useful life. And I'm curious what, if you know off the top of your head,
what that means, what that number might be for East Metro.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Well, that that's six years beyond the 20 years. So the roof's gone about 25
years. East Metro, around the same time frame. We evaluated both the roofs to compare which one
needed to be done first. And due to the condition of the roof, that's where we went with the Platte facility.
East Metro also needs a roof. And with the $1.6 million, we believe we can cover the ends with the
operators and mechanics. And we will continue looking for other funds to take care of the roof over the
buses.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, that's too bad. Thank you. I appreciate that, Mr. Stopplecamp.
And then the final question, I have a question and then one comment. It mentions that there's a 10% DBE
goal for this project. This might be a question for Zamy, and if she's not on the line, I'm happy to take it
offline. But I was curious as to how you all reached the 10% DBE goal.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: I will ask Richard Rost, who is the project Manager, who worked with Zamy. I
don't know if Zamy's on the phone. But Richard, would you like to address that issue?
RICHARD ROST: Yeah. I don't-- I forget what sub it is, but it's a subcontracting opportunity. So I can
certainly get back to you on which sub or supplier it is.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thank you. And then the final comment, it's kind of a question and comment, Mr.
Stopplecamp. It makes me think about the deferred project list that you all provide for us occasionally.
And talking about not only this project but East Metro, I'm curious as to when you all might bring back to
the Board all of those projects that might be delayed due to funding. Because I think it's important when
we talk about asset management.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: So as far as the delayed projects, we can put that back on the list. I don't recall
the last time. But most of that's done by the Finance department and Asset Management. But we can get
that list floated out there again.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. I appreciate it. That's all I have. Thank you, Madam Chair.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Heather. Thank you, Director Lewis. Go ahead, Heather.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I was just going to point out, the list of projects that are being deferred from 2021
out into the future is listed in the mid-term financial plan that we're going to discuss later in the packet.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Heather. I was hoping to get the-- is that-- you said that's for 2020-2021,
but I was wondering if there was a more comprehensive list of projects that you all might have been
deferring that might not come before the Board.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, that is the list from the Asset Management Plan. And I'll point that out when I
get to that part later this evening.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
MELANIE SNYDER: And Madam Chair, this is Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. If we can just note for
the record that we can tell from the call-in information that all Directors are present and accounted for.

KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Melanie. Thank you. I'm sorry, that's my bad that we had agreed that you were
going to call roll at the beginning of the meeting. That's new in committee meetings, and I'm not new. So
thank you for that correction to the record.
OK. Director Lubow, I think you would be next.
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah, I'm good. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Judy. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: No questions or comments.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Henry. No questions or comments.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Chair. No questions, one comment. And that is, thank you for
sharing the information with us, Henry, about the FTA's collaboration with us relative to the East Metro
roof and using those funds there. Good news. Thank you. That's all, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: No questions or comments. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Henry, just one clarifying question. It seems like the
addition of solar to older buildings that weren't designed to utilize all of the square footage is a cost factor
that kind of extends the payback. And I was wondering if that is the case on the older buildings, where we
just don't have the ability to cover as much surface area due to obstacles and construction constraints.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: That is one of the issues. It's also the loading factors. These roofs were not
designed to have additional loads. So we match the snow loads and we try to make sure we stay within
the code. Also, all the conduit and the improvements we need to do, and then tying into the power. So
when you look at a retrofit versus a new construction, there's a big additional cost that goes with it. But
our team, Richard's team pushes solar and alternative power. And it's a challenge for me to stop them
from doing it. I mean, they look at it. They do an assessment. They want to go with it. But sometimes it
just doesn't pan out. And this is one of those. And for those reasons and others, it's one reason we don't
do it.
ROBIN MCINTOSH: Henry, this is Robert McIntosh.
TROY WHITMORE: Oh, go ahead, Robert.
ROBIN MCINTOSH: No, I just wanted to add to what Henry was saying that we do, and I think it's a
matter of record, have PV panels at East Metro. That was done during the rebates that were offered
several years ago. And so I just want to let you know that we do have photovoltaic panels up at East
Metro.
TROY WHITMORE: And is it safe to assume that on new buildings, we design for that possibility that
allows the quicker payback and more loading and more surface coverage? Is that correct?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: That is correct. So-ROBIN MCINTOSH: Well, it really comes down-- yeah, I was going to say, it really comes down to the
price per kilowatt hour. And that is determined upon the rebates at the time. And right now, that's why the
payback is so large, as Henry mentioned. When we had a period of paybacks or rebates at the time, it
really made it economical for us to go that route. But that's no longer the case right now.
TROY WHITMORE: OK, thanks for the info.

HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Along with that-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Yep.
KATE WILLIAMS: Henry?
TROY WHITMORE: I'm done.
KATE WILLIAMS: Go ahead.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: I was just going to say that we look at the pros and cons associated with it.
And like I said, Lincoln was one of those that we put the infrastructure in there and designed it that if the
dollar and the payback comes back in, we can put the solar panels in at Lincoln. So new construction, we
look at the pros and cons. And if we can accommodate it or not preclude it in the future, we do that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Whitmore, you good?
TROY WHITMORE: I'm good. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede, so you have questions or comments?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I do not. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: You are welcome. I have none either. So I think we will move to a vote on this. I will
proceed alphabetically.
Director Broom, your vote.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes. And may I suggest, Madam Chair, that our vote is our attendance as well.
Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Melanie? That works for me. Does that work for you?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, Madam Chair. That's just fine. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Thanks, Director Folska, for that. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Aye.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Walker.

JEFF WALKER: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: I am a yes also. That makes the vote unanimous. There are 15 yes votes, no no votes
and no abstentions. So that motion passes.
We do not have another recommended action tonight nor do we have any updates. We have a number of
information items. As normal, those information items were presented in the packet and published on the
Board's meeting portal. Unless I hear any specific questions from any of the Board members, we will
allow them to speak to, anyone who needs to speak to us, to address the staff after the meeting. Is there
anybody who has anything critical that they want to add now?
Guess not. Mr. Ford, is there anyone on your staff who wants to add anything to the information items?
MICHAEL FORD: Madam Chair, I'd just like to capture a little bit of focus on the Access-a-Ride web
portal. And I have Larry Buter and Paul Hamilton to talk. I think it's important just to maybe give a brief
discussion about that, just so you know what's happened in terms of how we're enhancing the customer
experience. Paul or Larry, do you want to speak to that?
LARRY BUTER: Thank you, Michael. This is Larry Buter, Manager of Paratransit Services. Madam Chair,
ladies and gentlemen of the Board, I'd like to start by first saying that in a year that has been quite
unforgiving to us all, we really needed a win. And I am very delighted to report on the implementation of
the Access-a-Ride web portal.
I'll share with you that this project commenced about four years ago. We reached out to our current
software provider, asked them to provide our customers with an app that was similar to Uber and Lyft.
And after several disappointing delays, our IT department stepped up to the plate and created a web
portal of their own. I want to really reach out and thank members of the IT team, such as Brandon Fowler,
Eric Farrington, David Terada We worked with our APAC members. They were supporting us the whole
way.
And I want to report that three weeks ago we went live. We have approximately 16,000 members who
actively use Access-a-Ride. Of those, 3,400 individuals created accounts to use the app. And within the
last two weeks, we have about 126 who routinely use it. And I am just delighted to be able to say that this
is an application that really transcends what we're all about these days, and that's giving our customers
more options.
So if you will, this application is very similar to the Uber app, in that our customers can now access their
trips either on a smartphone or using a computer at home. They can schedule. They can cancel. They
could view upcoming trips. But more important, they're able to see the whereabouts of their vehicles on
the day of travel. So they're able to open their application, they can see the little Access-a-Ride bus. It
gives them an ETA, how many minutes before they're picked up. And it's really a game changer.
We've heard nothing but positive feedback from our members using the application, from our APAC
members. And again, I kind of liken this project to the Uber app and the Lyft app. But I think it's very
important to put it in perspective. Unlike Uber, unlike Lyft, we're talking about just several individuals in
our IT department who took it upon themselves and during the course of eight months, created this
application for zero dollars. That is huge and they really need to be congratulated.

And with that, I will open it up to any questions that anyone has.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Buter and Mr. Ford.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Director Folska.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Larry, that is such awesome news. It really wasn't zero
dollars, because we do pay the folks who did it. So if you could let the Board know how many man hours
it took and what the cost of that was, I'd appreciate that.
More importantly, I think that it would be good for you to give us all a demo of how this works. And being
an Access-a-Ride user myself, I didn't receive any information directly from the Access-a-Ride. So I don't
know how you pushed out this communication. And speaking of communication, I think it'd be great to
have a press conference with folks from different media outlets to show them how to use it as well, so that
you can really get better coverage.
But all in all, I think that's well done and I can't wait to use it myself. So Larry, if you call me tomorrow or
sometime that's convenient for you this week, we can sort that out. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you Director Folska. I'd like to speak for a second to this, as someone who
works all the time in this field. I have also, Mr. Buter, heard nothing but great things from people who are
very, very excited. And the big one is that they are, in fact, able to see when their ride is approaching
them, which takes a lot of the hassle out of the entire Access-a-Ride paratransit service.
So I think it's absolutely outstanding. Are there any other Directors who would like to speak to this?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis.
KATE WILLIAMS: Go ahead, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Again, like everyone else, I appreciate this. The one
question that I had is you all mentioned that you had done some beta testing with six members of the
RTD Access-a-Ride. And I'm curious as to what you all have put in place to continue to get that end user
feedback to continue to improve on what you all have already built here.
LARRY BUTER: Thank you for that question. So as we discussed with APAC this morning-- APAC, our
ADA Paratransit Advisory Committee-- we thanked them for their participation in testing the product for us
and we also urged them to continue working with us. We're actually working on modifications and
additional functionality. And APAC members will have another opportunity to help us test those
functionalities. And whenever the need arises, we have some really strong members on APAC who are
able to help us test. And it goes beyond the APAC members as well. But it's nice to have APAC available
to assist.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. I appreciate that.
LARRY BUTER: Thank you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Madam Chair, this is Director Folska.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska, hang on one second. I hear somebody else. I'm going to see if there's
anyone else who wants to-JUDY LUBOW: Yes, Judy Lubow.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah. I wanted to thank Larry and everybody that worked on this project. It seems like an
exemplary project. I'm really pleased. I was wondering, has this been discussed or interacted with with
your Access-a-Ride providers?

LARRY BUTER: Absolutely. We've been working with our contractors since the very beginning, letting
them know that this was a product that we were going to release. The reality is that passengers know the
whereabouts of the vehicles before the vehicle even shows up at their front door. So it was important for
us to make sure that operators understood the product so that they could answer questions when their
passengers boarded, if they had any questions.
JUDY LUBOW: And I imagine they're all on board with this and excited about it.
LARRY BUTER: Absolutely.
JUDY LUBOW: Excellent. Well, thank you. And thank you for the good work.
LARRY BUTER: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I forgot to ask this question earlier, so thank you for giving
me this second opportunity. Larry, I was wondering, for the members of your user groups, mostly folks
with disabilities, I'm hoping, did you pay them?
LARRY BUTER: As you know, the APAC members are volunteers. They are not paid for their services.
So to answer your question-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, I was just-- OK, so I think I'm going to just mention this for the Board to
consider as a policy moving forward. You know, for a committee to be a volunteer, to come and give input
is one thing. But to be used as a user group to provide input and time for a product that serves people.
And it's not just that it serves them, but in any other user group, people with disabilities need to be paid
for their time. I do very much appreciate that you reached out to them, but I do think it's very important
that they are paid for their professional services as well.
So maybe that's a policy the Board needs to take up. But I'd like to see that happen moving forward.
That's all for me, Madam Chair. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Folska. Are there any other Directors that wish to speak to this
matter? OK-SHONTEL LEWIS: --Director Lewis, and I support you, Director Folska.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. Are there any other Directors that want to speak to this?
OK. I think we're going to move on. There were several other information items in the packet. I'm
assuming everybody had the chance to review those. Mr. ford, is there anything else that you or your staff
need to speak to?
MICHAEL FORD: No, Madam Chair. I think the information in the packet is pretty self-explanatory. It's
routine information. And if there are any other questions, we'd be happy to take them. But I think it stands
on its own.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. We'll take that offline then. Are there any other matters to come before
this committee this evening?
OK, hearing nothing, our next meeting date will be December 8, 2020, at the same location. And I would
accept a motion to adjourn.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved, Rivera-Malpiede.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, second.
TROY WHITMORE: Second, Whitmore.

KATE WILLIAMS: Well, thank you, gentlemen. And we will stand adjourned for five minutes until the next
committee meeting. Thank you all.

