Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 10, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 1 of 3
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of
Directors

Date:

March 10, 2011

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March
10, 2011 at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference
Room
***
Board Members Present:
Chair Kemp, 1st Vice-Chair Tayer, 2nd Vice-Chair
Cohen, Secretary Malpiede, Treasurer Bagley,
Subject:

Other Board Members
Present:
Board Member Absent:
Others Present:
Call to Order:

I.

Director Deadwyler

Paula Perdue, General Manager Washington,
Sherry Ellebracht
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 12:03
p.m.

March Board Meeting Review
General Manager Washington reviewed the Board meeting action items.
There were no changes to the agenda.
Motion:

Director Malpiede made the motion to
approve the March Board meeting
agenda.
Director Tayer seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Bagley explained why he had
voted no on the ADA Eligibility
Functional/Cognitive Assessments at the
committee meeting. He noted that
access-a-ride consumes 10% of the
budget. He believes that the focus on
innovation will bring opportunities to look
at our approach to cost for the ADA.
Perhaps we could look at the different

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 10, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 2 of 3
elements of the cost breakdown to see if
there is an opportunity there. It is
important that we decrease these costs
or minimally hold the costs to where they
are today. The cost cannot go up-they
must go down.
Director Deadwyler agreed with Director
Bagley. She believes we can get more
innovative in how we are managing the
costs. She would like to better
understand the breakdown/categories of
the costing fee ($50). For example, it
may be that if the government regulations
allow for more automatic qualifications,
we could reduce our costs in the
assessment areas if we could reduce
some of the assessments.
Director Malpiede asked if there are
different pay scales for drivers of accessa-ride versus the other operators.
General Manager Washington indicated
yes and Chair Kemp added it is based on
the length and type of bus, not
necessarily specific qualifications. We do
not pay more for access-a-ride drivers.
Vote on
the Motion:

The Motion PASSED.




Unanimous Consent
CAD/AVL Owner’s Representative Contract Third Year Renewal
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute
all documents necessary to amend the contract with IBI Group (IBI)
as the Owner’s Representative to Support Replacement of RTD’s
Radio and Computer Aided Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle Location
(CAD/AVL) Systems (Contract 18DH016). This contract amendment
is for the third year of a five year period of performance. The scope
and fee are renegotiated annually. The third-year fee is not-to-exceed
a limit of $2,600,000 for a total contract value to date of
$5,322,000.



Recommended Action



ADA Eligibility Functional/Cognitive Assessments
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer

Services

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 10, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 3 of 3
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager, or his designee, to enter into a contract with Easter
Seals, Colorado for the provision of ADA paratransit eligibility
functional assessments. Performance under the contract is for a
five year period and shall not exceed $1,740,671.
II. Discussion Items
 Legislative Conference, Washington D.C.
Sherry Ellebracht provided an update on the Legislative conference in DC.
Patton & Boggs are still working the schedule but they were able to get
meeting with the actual Delegates with the exception of Cory Granued.
They will meet with his staffer and the staffer for Mica. They will also meet
with Amy Scarta, the new Deputy Secretary of Transportation.
For the Hill visits, they have broken them out into smaller teams of 3 Board
members plus a member of Patton & Boggs. General Manager Washington
will be a floater throughout. (Sherry passed out a handout of the teams)


Director Bagley shared that he and Bill James have been reaching out to
the delegates regarding Denver Union Station. They have met with
Rosemary Rodriguez and Senator Bennet’s office and plan to meet with
Coffman, Perlmutter and Udall in the upcoming weeks. They have been
talking about the innovative financial program put together with the
TIF/RIF loans.

III. Other Matters
There were no other matters.
VI. Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 12:22 p.m.

