Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

December 18, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
December 18, 2007 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Martinez called the meeting to order at 5:35 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Fourteen (14) Board members were present at the time of roll call. Director Quinlan was
out of town.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
Thirteen employees retired in December, 2007. Charles Blackmon, Bus Operator, was present
with his wife Shirley to accept his award. Charles indicated he spent 28 years with RTD and
provided a quote from a famous poet, Kahlil Gibran “It’s when you give of yourself, you truly
give; and I gave 110 percent.” He thanked the RTD Board for inviting him
even though all these many years he had not met many of them, but he still thanks them. His
wife was the backbone for him getting up every morning. He quoted a saying from Louisiana
which basically meant thank you for 28 years. This was truly a heck of a ride. He wished
everyone happy holidays and may the Holy Spirit watch over each and every one of them.
Ed Cordova, Mechanic, also celebrated his 28 years of service and was present to accept his
award. He stated that he enjoyed working on buses and had hoped to be a mechanic for 30
years. He will never forget RTD. He hopes he left good memories with RTD. It was a
pleasure.
Special Recognition by Cal Marsella
Cal Marsella recognized Fulton Bell, street supervisor, who provided 4 buses and assisted
Arvada police department when the Amtrak train was halted in Arvada, November 29, 2007
for a suspected explosive device.
Special Recognition for Light Rail
Director Bruce Daly recognized the driver, Robert Vialpando, and his dispatcher, Eugene
Acosta, for their quick thinking and grace under fire while nearly averting a major catastrophe
when the UP freight train derailed onto parts of the RTD light rail track. A small token of
appreciation and certificate was presented to Robert and Eugene.
Roadeo Winner Presentations for Contractors
Director Bruce Daly read the names of the winners and Chair Chris Martinez presented the
winners who were present with a certificate and small gift from the Board. Representation
from the contractors was impressive. The following employees were present:
Bus Operators
1st Place
2nd Place
3rd Place

John Willem
Kiarla Kim Cherry
Alfred Rhodes

Veolia
Veolia
Veolia

Maintenance
1st Place (team)

Ralph Ruhnke

Veolia

Robert Knoke
Roger Grindle
2nd Place (team)

Mike Sacchetta
Ryan Harrington
Derek Ogden

Veolia
Veolia
First Transit Longmont
First Transit Longmont
First Transit Longmont

3rd Place (team)
Becky Willetto
Juan Mendoza

First Transit Denver
First Transit Denver

Greg Arzola with First Transit was unable to be present.
Chair Martinez expressed gratitude on behalf of the Board to the employees for the job they
are doing, the fact they are the face on the front line and they make a great positive reflection
of RTD. The RTD Board is appreciative of their many years of dedicated service, quick action
and accomplishments in helping to maintain RTD as the best agency in the country.
IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Russell Greear, Denver, thanked the Board and Board office for listening to the voice of the
consumer and for the better bus service on route 16 during the weekend.
Cliff Battista, Littleton, shared that he is a regular passenger on the Skyride to DIA. Over
the years the traffic and schedule have become very unreliable. He wanted to encourage
RTD to work with the cities and city officials to consider options for expanding I-225 or to
extend the light rail into DIA. He identified several areas for improvement including
getting the timing of the traffic lights improved, expanding the information board to include
problems on buses or routes and better training of trainees who are not familiar with the
routes.
Bryan Wareing, Applewood, spoke to the 2 billion cost override of the RTD budget and
indicated this amounted to a tax cost of $2600 per family just for the initial startup. He stated
that having people to have issues with eminent domain but still in favor of light rail is
tantamount to donning the suit of corruption during Christmas when they have no avenue for
protest. He stated this activity was corruption at its worst and the RTD organization is set up
for the benefits of bankers, lawyers, politicians, developers and investors. RTD has filth on it
which cannot be washed off. If he were RTD, he would be shame. He then sung some
satirical lyrics and ended with “get the thieves out of town”.
Steve Fesch, Denver, who owns the property at 2750 W. 14th Street across from the Decatur
Station passed out some literature showing his property and the areas of dispute. He
summarized this document by concluding that costs, depreciation, long term lease, property
improvements by Go-Fast, and relocation of tenants are variables that makes it more feasible
to consider the alternatives that he is posing for a fair resolution. He and Cal have a meeting
with Urban Drainage and Flood Control District coming up and he hopes that common sense
will prevail.
Gary Zilik, Pine Junction, representing the riders on US 285 coalition, read the mission
statement of desire for a working partnership between RTD, the riders, community, Park and
Jefferson County Commissioners and CDOT until a permanent parking structure can be built
on that property.
Renee Nelson, a Director on the Colorado Property Rights Coalition Board, addressed the
eminent domain issues expressly for the Colfax and Wadsworth. She believes this to be
outside the scope and they are looking at the state stature of 32-9-107. They believe that
RTD is harming the inhabitants of that district and property rights are being stomped upon

which is outside of the RTD scope. She will be watching for all aspects of this FasTracks line.
Most of the things that people are bringing before the Board should be common sense and it
irritates her that we are taking the time and money out of the taxpayers lives, our lives and
RTD to bring this forward. If a property owner wants to develop their land after RTD is done
with it, give it back. It’s that simple-common sense. She is also disturbed by the level of
security and the fact they were not allowed signs as directed by legal counsel. She would like
a copy of the letter. If the Board of Directors have meet since the last meeting and placed this
request, this is a violation of their first amendment rights and she would like a followup in
writing from someone on this issue.
Russell Haas, Colfax and Youngfield intersection, came to speak on the injustice being done
with the property owners at 13th and Wadsworth. If RTD is serious about needing the
property only for a short time, why don’t they lease the land? He does not believe that RTD is
serious about working with the property owners.
Brenda Perkovich Crespin who owns a business at 12th and Benton in Lakewood, expressed
her concerns over two letters that she received in July notifying them that effective January
25, 2008, she needs to move her building, fences and all items and dispose of them properly
at her expense. It also stated she could no longer have access across the tracks to the
property and since this is the only entrance to her business, this effectively make her
business landlocked and shuts down her business, her only source of income. She indicated
that RTD has not done eminent domain nor made any offers for compensation. This is her only
livelihood and with a sick husband and daughter-in- law who needs health insurance, this
business provides their only option. She would like RTD to be honest and provide fair and just
compensation for their property and for anyone else affected by this issue.
Duncan Phillips, Fort Collins, indicated that he is neither a RTD user nor the light rail user but
considers himself a defender of the bill of rights. He think it is unlawful what RTD is doing
under the guise of eminent domain and can find 100 angry white men like him to take this
protest to the street. If RTD does not believe he is serious, RTD can check him out on
Trtnational.com if we want to see what they are capable of doing. He is capable of inciting
lots of people and RTD will suffer public humiliation. He has done this before very effectively.
Tom Wambert, president of Colorado Property Rights Coalition, stated they had sent a letter to
RTD asking for a meeting to establish ground rules and guidelines between Board and property
owners not only for Wadsworth but for Gold line, NW and any other corridor coming up. He
made a plea for RTD to meet with them to lay some ground rules for fair negotiations for all
the people throughout the metro Denver.
Natalie Mentin, Lakewood, expressed great concerns about the FasTracks property but wanted
to talk about valuation in particular. If someone’s property is being taken away, they are not
allowed to add the potential worth of that property into the valuation. However, because of a
senate bill which was passed two years ago by lobbyists hired by RTD, when we consider
partial property, RTD appraisers can look at the potential value of the property lying along the
light rail to see if there is an increase to that property. If that is so, RTD is allowed to deduct
that from the piece they are taking from the owners down to 50% of its value. It looks like
the laws are written in RTD’s favor. From the last study session in the minutes it looks like
RTD aims to increase its rights under eminent domain in the next legislative session, which
makes her worried. This is the perspective from someone who is not directly involved but
concerned about property rights. It does not look very fair. They are concerned that the
definition of public use has been abused.
Robert Baxter, Pine Junction, stated that the postponement that the Board approved two
months ago has had a positive impact on the community. This decision kept dozens of
vehicles off the highway during the recent snowstorms and improved the safety of the
community. They have been monitoring the bus ridership and have determined the usage is
much higher at the Pine Junction park and ride than the Mountain View. They feel that is it

now time to look at the land that RTD already owns across from the existing facility to develop
a more permanent parking structure.
Laurie Walker, community organizer for Metro Organization for People and employed by the
Sun Valley coalition which is near the Decatur property. She has been working with
homeowners involved in transit oriented development with the city of Denver. Residents want
the question answered if RTD will be involved in more acquisitions of property specifically near
the Decatur Station. If so, what can RTD do to keep the residents better informed than just
receiving a letter and coming to the Board meetings in a reactive manner? The residents would
like to engage in a proactive and ongoing dialog so they can stay as informed as possible.
Russell Weisfield, Colorado Property Rights Coalition Board, saw an article in the Rocky
Mountain News where one Director was quoted as saying RTD should expand into dealing with
TOD ad how we live. This is way beyond what RTD is setup to do. It does not extend into
how we live but should focus on how we transport. There is some talk about some land in the
West Corridor for future use and may need to sell it back. The CPRC understands the need for
land use temporarily during construction but after that time the land should refer back to the
landowners. Consider the concept of eminent leasing.
Kim Snyder apologized for their loss of decorum at the last meeting. It was inexcusable and
she apologizes. However, the voters voted in 2004 for transportation and did not vote for
redevelopment or the 1.5B over budget. It is their perspective that RTD is trying to make up
for this shortfall by stealing people’s property through eminent domain. RTD is in the
transportation business, period. It is unfair, without conscience and a slap in the face to any
veteran past and present who has sacrificed and served to protect the most basic of rights
which is the quiet protection of one’s own property. This is their retirement, not RTD’s.
Daniel Gallegos, a decorated Marine who served in Vietnam was wounded in combat and lost
his left leg. He is here to speak about RTD and the effect it had on his parents and his step
dad’s business. In 1987 his parents were told by RTD that they would need their property for
the light rail to be built. His mother’s home, his step dad’s service station and all properties
were affected by the light rail system being built. RTD did not negotiate in good faith with his
parents. RTD made deals with his parents separately. His mother received $48K and his
step dad received $20K for his properties. RTD was not fair and did not pay his parents the
full market value for their properties. This is old news and a done deal. This should be a
wakeup call for the residents of the West corridor. To drive people from their home is a bitter
shame. RTD does not have a good track record for being fair. RTD stands for remove,
trample and destroy.
Galen Foster, apologized for getting out of hand and directly apologized to each of the RTD
Board Members. He directly apologized to Cal. However they feel they have been backed into
a corner and there is no where to go but forward. He still is committed to their attitudes about
the way RTD is taking people’s property and capitalizing through the developers and working
with them and the city. What RTD is doing is totally wrong. There is a few of RTD but lots of
them. It is in the RTD manual that once the light rail is put down, the property in and around
the core area will triple in value. It is not right that RTD will profit. He then called out one of
the Directors for not paying attention and stated he wanted him to pay attention. They will
not ever forget what RTD is trying to do to them. He thinks RTD has gotten off on the bad
feet. RTD needs to work with them. He will try not to get out of hand but encourages RTD to
get back on the right foot and work with the property owners.

Chair Martinez pointed out to the Board that the FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee had
placed a letter in front of them which they had hoped to have someone to read. A copy of
that letter may be found with the Board minutes in the Minutes Notebook located in the Board
office.

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
Director Pulliam shared that the Legislative Committee had just met prior to the Board
meeting 12/18/07 and the decision has been made that the legislative will not be
considering TOD or have a bill on Eminent Domain during this session.
Chair Martinez stated that the Board received a letter from the City of Tampa thanking
them for allowing Cal Marsella, General Manager, to speak to them about FasTracks and
how the RTD Board is set up and the geographical setup.

VI.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF November 20, 2007
MOTION:
Director Pulliam moved for the adoption of the November 20,
2007 regular board meeting minutes.
Director Elfenbein seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 14 votes in favor (Brohl,
Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton,
Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Ruchman, Tayer, and Yamrick) and
0 against.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

VII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
1. Clarification of Eminent Domain
Cal Marsella provided clarification on the misperception that RTD is taking property for
development purposes. RTD is not getting into the development business and he will host
a meeting with the Colorado Property Rights Coalition and interested parties to engage in
dialog about this issue. He supports honest and open communications.
Cal Marsella provided further clarification that RTD is looking at the whole block of the
property between 13th and 14th of Wadsworth. There are nine properties on this block
which will be impacted. RTD plans are to use the whole block for a 4 story 1000 car
parking structure with traffic egress and traffic improvements. There is some
misinformation and Cal will meet with them directly. The City of Lakewood initial
sketch of what a re-development might look like had provisions for development which
overlap where RTD is. RTD is aware of this and is talking to Lakewood about this.
However, this is not RTD’s plan at this time. There is no money and the property is not
being acquired to do this. RTD is moving ahead with the assumption they will need the
whole block for a parking structure. It is true that on the site where the structure will
be, RTD will use it for a staging area leading up to the building of the permanent
structure. This property is not available to be given back since it is the property where
the actual parking structure will go once the tracks have been laid. Picture this as a
phased utilization of the property.
There is a possibility that when RTD is ready to build their 4 story structure, a
developer may come in and offer to build the structure for RTD with the proviso they
can use the remaining 8 stories above the RTD parking structure that has been zoned
by the City of Lakewood. This is purely speculative. This will not be in lieu of the
parking but as an ancillary development to the RTD site. This is where some of the
misinformation is coming from. RTD owes these people a full explanation and Cal is
committed to doing so.

2. Union Pacific Thanks Light Rail Passenger
Cal Marsella expressed thanks to Lloyd Mack and the light rail staff for how they
handled the situation with the derailing of the UP freight train. UP is particularly
grateful and will show their appreciation by offering the light rail patrons free coffee,
juice, and candy canes at a designated date.
3. Employee Forums
Cal Marsella has been hosting a series of employee forums at Blake St, District Shops and
Platte. These forums have been well attended and positively received. Employees have
expressed interest in the FasTracks development including the issues of TOD and Eminent
Domain. They are also interested in the status of the pension plan.
4. Meeting with CASTA agencies 12/10/07
Cal Marsella stated that the CASTA agency does good work in providing a collaborative
exchange of information about sister transit properties. Sherri Ellebracht is the president of
that organization.
5. Meeting with Atlanta Leadership 2008 with Chair Martinez 12/11/07
Chair Martinez and Cal Marsella met with business and government officials from Atlanta
and have agreed to host a meeting with them in April 2008 here in Denver.

VIII.

6.

Presentation to 80th Annual Transportation Conference
Cal Marsella was invited by CDOT to provide an update on FasTracks. Director Yamrick
was present for this presentation

7.

Meeting with Lakewood on Wadsworth Station and Parking
Cal Marsella met with Bob Murphy, Mayor of Lakewood and staff to make sure everyone
is on the same page related to the issues of eminent domain. RTD’s preferred option is to
negotiate with the property owner for the sale of property and the second option is
through eminent domain.

8.

Meeting with Steve Fesch on Property
Cal Marsella met with Steve Fesch to review all alternatives for his property. Cal
Marsella will look at every possible option within the framework of what RTD can legally
do.

9.

West Corridor Elected Officials Briefing
Cal Marsella, Directors Pulliam, Daly and Ruchman met with West Corridor officials to
discuss property needs and the process of commitments. One of the issues discussed
was the options for sound walls. Director Ruchman added that the sound wall mitigation
could be an issue.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT

MOTION:

Director McMullen moved that the Board of Directors
adopt the Unanimous Consent Agenda A-E
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 14 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein,
Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Ruchman,
Tayer, and Yamrick) and 0 against. Director Quinlan was
out of town.

Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

IX.

A.

BackCountry at Highlands Ranch Annexation
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the annexation of the 467 acre BackCountry property to RTD. The
property owners, Shea Homes Limited Partnership and Sand Creek Cattle Company,
have petitioned RTD to approve the annexation. Upon approval of this annexation, the
area will become part of District H.

B.

FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee – Reappointment of Committee Members
It is recommended by the FasTracks Committee that the RTD Board of Directors reappoint four members of the FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC), Tom
Asburn, Thomas J. Burns, Charles Choi and Ken Hotard, for a three-year term.

C.

Park Meadows – Cost Sharing Agreement
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to amend the existing Cost
Sharing Agreement with the Rouse-Park Meadows in order to provide additional RTD
financial support for the operation of the Park Meadows shuttle during the 2007 holiday
season and to transfer $50,000 excess funds from the BroncosRide budget to cover
the additional expenses.

D.

access-a-Cab Subsidy Increase
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to increase the access-a-Cab
subsidy from the current $7.00 per trip to up to $12.00 per trip.

E.

Amendment of “Evergreen call-n-Ride” Contract to include additional Saturday
Service
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to amend the existing
contract, 16D0046, with the Seniors’ Resource Center for inclusion of a second vehicle
on Saturdays for the Evergreen call-n-Ride service.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
MOTION:

Director Ruchman made the motion to move into
Executive Session for the purpose of C.R.S. 24-6402(a) Acquisition of Property-Englewood McClellan
Reservoir Foundation and C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(e)
Contract Negotiations-Denver Union Station
Director Chacon seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Chair Martinez declared the vote PASSED.

The meeting adjourned to Executive Session at 7:00 p.m.
X.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
The meeting adjourned from Executive Session at 8:10 p.m.
A roll call was taken with thirteen members present and two absent. Director Quinlan was
out of town and Director Chacon left early.

F.

Acquisition of Property – Englewood McClellan Reservoir Foundation (from
Executive Session) (Board report will be available during Executive Session on
12/18/07)
MOTION:
Director Kinton made the motion to approve acquisition of
property-Englewood McClellan Reservoir Foundation.
Director Ruchman seconded the motion.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 12 votes in
favor (Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton,
Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman, and and
1 against (Yamrick). Director Chacon had left early and
Director Quinlan was absent.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

G.

Request for Approval of Property Acquisition Services Contract – Eminent Domain
Counsel
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to award multiple contracts to the qualified proposers, Duncan, Ostrander &
Dingess, P.C., in the amount of $900,000.00, May and Associates, P.C., in the
amount of $900,000,00 and Icenogle, Norton, Smith, Blieszner & Gilida, a Professional
Corporation in the amount of $700,000.00 for the provision of legal services
specializing eminent domain for West Corridor Light Rail Project and and/or possible
additional transit projects. Funding for this contract is in the West Corridor Budget.
MOTION:

Director Ruchman made the motion for approval of
property acquisition services contract-eminent domain
Director Pulliam seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 13 votes in
favor (Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton,
Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman, and
Yamrick) 0 against. Director Chacon had left early and
Director Quinlan was absent.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

H.

Authorization to Execute Letter of Intent with Executive Oversight Partners and the
Union Station Neighborhood Company
MOTION:
Director Ruchman made the motion to provide
authorization to execute letter of intent with Executive
Oversight Partners and the Union Station Neighborhood
Company.
Director Busck seconded the motion.
FRIENDLY
AMENDMENT:

Director Tayer offered a friendly amendment to modify
the language in alternative 1 to read as “Authorize the
General Manager to enter into the LOI with a
transportation plan which is based on a design that is

subject to final approval on the EIS and make an initial
$2 million and additional negotiated progress payment
to USNC after the LOI is finalized.”
The amendment was accepted by Directors Ruchman
and Busck.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 13 votes in
favor (Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton,
Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman, and
Yamrick) 0 against. Director Chacon had left early and
Director Quinlan was absent.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

I.

Resolution No. __Series of 2007 Salaried Employee Pension Trust—Trustee
Appointments
Director Yamrick explained that this was a new resolution being brought forth by the
request of three Board members.
MOTION:

Director Yamrick made the motion for approval of this
new resolution which had been modified from Director
Christopher’s amended resolution from 11/20/08 to
remove the blanks on item 2 of that amendment. This
effectively would leave two vacancies until 2008.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

FRIENDLY
AMENDMENT:

FRIENDLY
AMENDMENT 2:

This was quite a back and forth discussion with several
members favoring the status quo and other members
favoring this change.

Director Ruchman offered a friendly amendment to (1)
require employees interested in being a member of the
Pension Board to submit a 350 word letter of interest and
(2) Appoint Director Brohl as the additional Board Member
to this Pension Board.

Director Tayer offered a second friendly amendment to
add language to this motion that will provide for the
ability to allow for the Trustees to go into executive
session when needed.
Directors Yamrick and Christopher accepted both of these
amendments.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken to vote on this
motion which includes both the amendments offered by
Directors Ruchman and Tayer. There were 7 votes in
favor (Brohl, Christopher, Kinton, Martinez, Tayer,

Ruchman, and Yamrick) 6 against (Busck, Daly, Elfenbein,
Kemp, McMullen and Pulliam). Director Chacon had left
early and Director Quinlan was absent.
Chair Martinez declared the motion FAILED.
PRIMARY
MOTION:

Director Pulliam made the motion for approval of the
primary motion that would replace Phil Washington with a
mid level manager, Linda DeHerrerra.
Director Elfenbein seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 7 votes in
favor (Busck, Elfenbein, Kemp, McMullen, Tayer, Pulliam
and Kinton) and 6 against (Yamrick, Daly, Ruchman,
Christopher, Brohl and Martinez).
Chair Martinez declared the motion FAILED.

XI.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
Chair Martinez inquired if anyone wanted to take from the table the resolutions which had
been tabled on November 25, 2007. No one took these resolutions from the table so these
resolutions died.
With legal counsel advice, Chair Martinez declared the resolution for 2007 salaried
employee pension trust appointees dead and closed for the 2007 session. A new action
will be required to take this forward in 2008.

XII.

NEW BUSINESS
Three Board members had requested to bring this item forward which had died for lack of
motion in the Executive Committee meeting on December 11th.
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the existing RTD Salaried Pension Plan
(the Plan) be closed as to new salaried employees effective December 31, 2007 and that a
new defined contribution (DC) plan be created for all salaried employees hired on or after
January 1, 2008. It is further recommended that the contribution for the new plan be 9% of
payroll per employee and that the board separately fund administrative costs to create and
operate the plan. The investment of the contributions to the new plan would be self-directed
by the employee from a list of Board of Trustee-approved investment vehicles. This will have
no negative impact on any existing salaried RTD employees or existing salaried pension
retirees.
MOTION:

Director Kemp made the motion for approval of the
recommended modifications to RTD Salaried Pension
Plan.
Director Elfenbein seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Some of the Directors expressed surprise and concern
that this item was brought back and felt unprepared to
make a decision tonight. Other Directors argued that this
issue had been discussed for quite awhile and the Board
should listen to the expert advice of the advisors and
move on.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 10 votes in
favor (Busck, Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton, Martinez,
McMullen, Pulliam, Tayer and Yamrick) 3 against
(Ruchman, Christopher and Brohl). Director Chacon had
left early and Director Quinlan was absent.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

XIII.

ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned at 9:10 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, December 18, 2007

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Chris Martinez, Chair
Bill Christopher, First Vice Chair
Barbara Brohl, Secretary
Lee Kemp, Treasurer
Noel Busck
Juanita Chacon
Bruce Daly
Bill Elfenbein
Daryl Kinton
Bill McMullen
Wally Pulliam
Dave Ruchman
John Tayer
Barbara Yamrick
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Cal Marsella
Susan Altes
Fulton Bell
Dennis Cole
Phil Eberl
Mike Gil
Caitlin Magee
John Perry
Daria Serna
Joe Smith
Bill Van Meter
Greg Yates
OTHERS PRESENT:
Steve Gee (Spectrum A/V)
Russell Greear
Howard Alton (ATU 1001)
Jeff Leib (The Denver Post)
Roger Sherman (CRL Associates)
Larry Warner
Lou Franzen
Derek Ogden (First Transit)
Mike Sacchetta (First Transit)
Ryan Harrington (First Transit)
Janet Arrowood
Ralph Ruhnke (Veolia)
Kiarla Cherry (Veolia)
Bruce Behnke (Veolia)
Chris Fersa (Veolia)
Mike Bennett (Veolia)
Steve Bernal (Veolia)

District B
District J
District D
District I
District K
District C
District N
District A
District H
District E
District L
District M
District O
District F

Bruce Abel
Justin Aragon
Gloria Bell
John Dawson
Sherry Ellebracht
Marla Lien
Jerry Nery
Liz Rao
Dean Shaklee
John Tarbert
Robert Vialpando
Eugene Acosta

Bill Bell
Rick Clarke
Ron Dodsworth
David Genova
Lloyd Mack
Paula Perdue
Scott Reed
John Shonsey
Lisa Trujillo
Phil Washington

Robert Knoke (Veolia)
Steve Fesch
Charles Blackmon
Shirley Blackmon
Scott Broce (Veolia)
Alfred Rhodes (Veolia)
Roger Grindle (Veolia)
Greg Arzola (First Transit)
Gary Zilik
Mitzi Craney
Jane Webber
Brenda Perkovich Crespin (BJ’s Used Jeep Parts)
Dave Minshall
Daniel Gallegos
Robert Baxter (Riders 285 coalition)
Becky Willetto (First Transit)
Janet Stevenson (First Transit)
Vivian Vos
Duncan Philp
Joe Beaver
Tom Wambolt
Greg Picchione
Jennifer Gilbert
M. Barnes
Steve Barnes
Glen Hannum
Robin Knier
Jon Esty
Joe Wingerter
Bill James
Natalie Menten
Steve Ormiston (Shea Homes)
Kim Snyder
Daniel Gallegos
Galen Foster
Ed Crodova
Diana Cordova
Renee Nelson (CPRC)
Russell Haas
John Willem (Veolia)
Renee Malagisi
Cliff Battista
Frank Long
Brian Wareing
Laurie Walker
Paul Bobian (Sun Valley Coalition)
William Martin
Joseph Kervin
Russell Weisiev

