2022-03-09
Operations and Safety Committee Meeting
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Okey dokey. The Operations and Safety Committee will now come to order. We are
convened as of 5:30 PM Mountain Standard Time. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this
meeting to please MUTE yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that under current circumstances, the official
meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely in the interest of health public health,
safety, and welfare. For the immediate future, the official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held
via Zoom AND will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial
minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Visit rtddenver.com and scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to the, quote, Board of Directors page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceedings, I would ask that you please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call on you
before proceeding to speak. Speaking out of turn will only add confusion to the record and to the
proceedings. Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to indicate that
they would like to speak by pressing star 9. To toggle your mute setting on your phone, press star 6.
I would like to now call the roll for committee members. Julien Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: (FRENCH ACCENTED SPEECH) Present.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Shontel Lewis. I'm sorry, I didn't hear, you were-SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Present.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Oh, OK, there you go. Thank you. Doug Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Kate Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I am here.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And I am here as well. So for the record, I see we also-- let's see who else we have
online. We have Director Peggy Catlin. Let's see who else. Director Troy Whitmore. And is that
everybody? Did I miss anyone? Oh, and Director Vince Buzek, Mr. Chair.
So I would like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any
topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. If you wish
to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your

phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you are dialed in, press star 6 to toggle your
mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing and you will not have the opportunity to
speak this evening. If any speaker has documentation or reference materials for this committee or if any
member of the public would like to submit written comments, please email those materials to the Board
Office at the following email address, RTD.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
During public comment, the committee will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may
contact speakers following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow up.
Speakers should begin their remarks by saying their names. Each speaker will have three minutes to
speak. Speakers, please refrain from profane or obscene speech, direct your comments to the committee
as a whole, and refrain from any personal attacks.
Let's see. Do we have any speakers?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: This is Tai-Shrae. No, there's no speakers in the queue.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All righty. Thank you, Tai-Shrae. Appreciate that. With no participants in the queue,
we will close the public comment period at this time.
So next we will go to see if we have any information from external entities. And from my understanding,
there is no information from external entities this month.
And then we go to, we have one recommended action on the agenda this evening. And that
recommended action is the May 2022 service plan, for the Board of Directors to approve the May 2022
service change package as revised and summarized in attachment A, and to authorize General Manager
and CEO, or her designee, to execute contract amendments, as necessary, for private operators whose
service is impacted by these changes. Do we have a motion?
JULIEN BOUQUET: So moved, Director Bouquet.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Let's see. I thought I heard Director Bouquet as moving and then Director Williams
as second.
KATE WILLIAMS: Correct.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I would ask at this time Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer, and Jessie Carter,
Senior Manager of Service Development, to present any pertinent information regarding the action. I
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, Chair. It's Michael Ford, COO. And I'd like to just give a little bit of
background and go into some discussion and then take some questions at the end,

Commensurate with the service change and voting process detailed in your collective bargaining
agreement, the CBA shared between the RTD and the Amalgamated Transit Union Local 1001, the May,
2022 service change proposal facilitates both an opportunity for bus and rail operators to select new work
assignments and the opportunity for service development staff to make adjustments to the operations
plan for the transit network.
Current system-wide ridership trends are relatively stable, showing an overall increase in ridership with a
customary drop in ridership associated with the holiday season, which is depicted in figure 1 and
attachment B. However, operator availability challenges still exist, made worse by absenteeism issues
related to the COVID-19, making it more difficult to both maintain system on-time performance and
expand service offerings to customers.
By way of discussion, following the 2021 through 2026 strategic plan relating most directly to customer
excellence and recognizing the agency's people power problems, the proposals herein are directed at
improving on-time performance, adhering to the CBA, and adjusting service levels to match anticipated
summer ridership.
The Board adopted guidance for proposed service changes continues to be service performance
evaluations based on established service standards, the effects on the overall integrity of the transit
network and transit-dependent markets, the availability of alternative services to affected riders, cost
effective distribution throughout the district and family of services, and the ability to enhance service when
possible, title VI and Civil Rights Act benefits and services are provided without regard to race, color,
national origin, also disparate effects on low income and minority populations, responses to changes in
communities where services are provided.
Given the current economic conditions due to the COVID-induced economic slowdown, the overarching
guidance for the proposed May 2022 service change comes from the Board adopted guidance for
COVID-19 budget reductions, especially principle number three, which states, we will prioritize mobility for
people who must depend on transit during the pandemic, we will strive to maximize mobility during the
pandemic for those customers who most depend upon our service to access essential jobs and the
necessities, while also keeping our community activity centers appropriately connected.
A summary of a list of service proposals are provided below, which are detailed in attachment A. As part
of the summary of public hearings, I would offer that there were three public meetings conducted via
Microsoft Teams. And those dates were Tuesday, February 3 at 5:00 PM, Monday, February 7 at 5:00
PM, and Tuesday, February 8 at noon. These meetings have been recorded and are available for review.
Comments from this public input period have been summarized and are also listed in attachment C and D
of this report.
And finally changes in initial recommendation, staff receives input during the public comment process and
continues to conduct additional analysis after the initial service recommendations are communicated to
the Board of Directors. Depending on the outcome of public comments process and continuing analysis,
staff may or may not propose modifications to these initial recommendations.

The following proposals have been added or significantly modified. So I just wanted to give them an
overview at this time. I will stop the presentation and ask if there are any other questions, and ask Mr.
Carter, the Senior Manager of Service Planning, to join me to answer any other detailed questions that
you may have. Thank you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All righty. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. Quick question about the change to the Route 37.
Was that in response to the comment that was received or is, in the comment that was received about the
later departure, I think it was like, it normally leaves at 5:02 and it left-- or it left at 5:02 and it normally
leaves a bit later than that. Or is this different than what is being asked about in the comments that you all
received?
JESSIE CARTER: If I may, Chair.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yeah. Why don't you just dialogue back and forth? That's fine. Thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: OK. Thank you. This is Jessie Carter, Senior Manager of Service Development. The
change on the Route 37 has a lot to do with the fact that a very major detour ended on that route. And so
we needed to reschedule. There are a number of complaints that have come in, and you've probably
heard a few of them, with regard to the service not performing well, trips arriving very late. And those
were all related to the detour. So since that detour has ended, we had an opportunity to rewrite the
schedule and add whatever resources were necessary to put that service back on schedule. I'm hoping
that answers your question.
JULIEN BOUQUET: It does.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: The second question I have is around the comment around, the comment with the
44. It says there was a request to increase capacity. Did you all receive any additional information
expanding on the increased capacity? Like what was maybe happening on that route that someone might
request that?
JESSIE CARTER: I'll go ahead and answer this one-SHONTEL M. LEWIS: OK.
JESSIE CARTER: --if I may. Actually with the Route 44, it, like a number of other routes that are going in
and around the I-70 corridor, the major project that that is, we've had problems here and there where you
have trips that overload due to the fact that other trips were very late, and thereby they're actually
catching load, the number of people who are usually on the trip before it. So we had a couple of
overloads caused by, again, service delays and detours. OK?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you. That's very helpful. And then looking into-- I know we're suspending the
school chippers for the 20 and all others. But there was a request about having the 20 run a bit earlier to

get the students to school earlier. And that won't obviously be an issue for summer, but might be
something we think about in September.
JESSIE CARTER: No, no. Thank you, Director Lewis. We are certainly going to take that into our
process. We're looking at September. However, I have to remind everyone, with each year, especially
with Denver Public Schools each principal has control over their bell times. And it is so often that we
actually see changes to those bell times even fluctuating between the start of the year and the second
semester. So we have to really stay on top of those things.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: You're absolutely right. And I appreciate you all's diligence in this. Those are my
questions.
JESSIE CARTER: OK. Thank you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Director Lewis, and Mr. Ford and Mr. Carter. As a teacher at DPS, I can
tell you that we are actually contemplating-- I mean, not myself, but I know senior leadership is
contemplating changes to start times in the fall. So you might always consider chatting with DPS about
that, about that final adoption.
Let's see. So we have Director Whitmore.
Thanks. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just an observation. I want to check my facts here. Despite the COVID
changes and a lot of the facts that were presented very well by COO Ford, this strikes me as maybe one
of the most minor revisions that I can recall in my three years on the Board. I just wanted to check that. Or
is this something that typically is prevalent when we go to the May run board change? Jessie or Michael,
either one, or other members of the Board.
TROY L. WHITMORE: OK, if I may. I've been hanging about the agency for a few years now. So I will say
that, yeah, this is one of the quieter run boards. And it largely has to do with our lack of resources in
terms of the number of operators that would be necessary for an increase in service. So yes, you're
seeing primarily schedule adjustments and some turn downs in frequency, which are not permanent, but
would be put back in place in September.
So I would say it was very quiet run board. And I think when you look at the number of comments for the
proposed service change, there were a small number of those as well.
TROY L. WHITMORE: OK. Thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Appreciate that.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All righty. Any other questions for Mr. Carter or Mr. Ford?

All righty. Thank you. Are there any-- OK. Oh, excuse me. All right. Thank you. Are there any-- OK, so
we're going to call for the vote. Are there any no votes on this action? OK. That is unanimous. Therefore,
the new May service plan passes unanimously.
Next we're going to go to any discussion items. And there are no discussion items at this time this
evening. Any other matters to discuss?
All right. General Manager and CEO, Ms. Debra Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Hi. Good afternoon, Mr. Chair and members of the Board. I just want to
acknowledge that Jessie Carter you may have noticed, does not have Acting on his name. He is now the
Senior Manager of Service Planning. So just wanted to acknowledge that.
Mr. Carter, come back, please. Say hello.
JESSIE CARTER: OK. Thank you for that announcement. I appreciate it. And the whole senior thing-PAUL ROSENTHAL: Wow. Mazel tov.
JESSIE CARTER: Yeah. Appreciate it. The senior thing has nothing to do with the gray, but the thanks is
welcome. I appreciate it.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Mr. Carter. You've been doing the job since I got here.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Congratulations.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And thank you for that announcement General Manager Johnson.
Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Given the fact that this is the Operations
Committee, I wanted to raise an operational matter regarding, in particular, the commuter rail and
University of Colorado A Line that is operated by Denver Transit Partners. And I am aware of some of the
discussion we've had in the past relative to this and finding a second agent or officer to be able to ride
that train.
But the reality is this. My phone is scheduled to receive text messages every time there is a disruption in
the commuter rail line or in the light rail lines operating on the Southeast rail corridor. My phone blows up
daily with A Line cancellations. It is very distressing to see that and it causes a great deal of angst.
For example, on Friday of this week, I'm scheduled to fly to Washington, DC, where I will be chairing a
portion of the American Public Transportation Association's legislative conference in DC, hosting the
Secretary of Transportation and a bunch of other people. I always schedule myself to park downtown and
take the University of Colorado A Line to the airport, because I promote the train to the plane to all kinds
of people.

And yet when I get these text messages, I say to myself, am I being foolish? Am I setting myself up for
failure, in terms of being able to get to my plane on time? I know I'm not alone in this. I had the benefit
today of having an extended conversation with the extremely able and talented Dave Jensen, who runs
our rail operations, and he explained to me a lot of what's going on. But most importantly, what he
explained to me was that when we encounter these difficulties, which particularly focus on having a
second officer, second individual, but an armed officer being available for the train trip, that what we do is
we work very hard to make sure that we don't cancel two runs in a row.
In other words, we're on a 15-minute headway during the day on the University of Colorado A Line. And
so if we cancel a run, the question is, how long do you have to wait? Well, the plan is-- and apparently,
the reality, to a great extent, is-- that you'll be running, instead of on a 15-minute headway, you might be
on a 30-minute headway. Perhaps worst case scenario, a 45-minute headway. And since I live off of the
University Boulevard bus line, the 24, which is on an hour headway anyway-- hey, not a problem-- but it
is, it's nice to know that we are, number one, of course, aware of this. And I know we are. But number
two, that we're taking steps to try to address it. And number three, beyond that step of making sure that
we don't cancel two in a row, that we are taking additional steps to see if we can address that situation.
And hopefully, with the assistance from our contractors, we'll be able to provide a better solution for that.
But I felt that it was worthwhile to take a few minutes this evening, during the Operations Committee
meeting, to express my concern about these operations and to applaud the steps that we are taking and
to encourage our staff, from the General Manager on down, to take whatever reasonable steps can be
taken in order to assure that people who for that train particularly, given the fact that it is associated with
getting to the plane on time, that those steps are taken and that they're being effective.
So I thank you for allowing the rant. And I would welcome any further comments. But again, many thanks
to Dave Jensen for taking the time to have that dialogue with me. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Director Tisdale. General Manager Johnson, would you like to respond,
or have staff?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I will have Mr. Jensen respond, as he had the conversation with Director Tisdale. So
Mr. Jensen, thank you.
DAVE JENSEN: Yes, good evening. Mr. Chair, if I may.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes, go ahead, please.
DAVE JENSEN: Yes. In response to Director Tisdale's comments, and I appreciate the conversation and
the discussion regarding the second crew person, I want to be clear that's what we're talking about is a
second crew person. And there's a number of different type of people or classifications of individuals that
are qualified to be able to perform that function.
At the risk of maybe overcomplicating a simple matter, I think it's helpful to keep in mind that to operate
the commuter rail trains, it takes twice as many employees to operate every one train than it does for light

rail, for instance. It's a single person crew for light rail. It takes twice as many people to run commuter rail.
And therein lies really the challenge that we discussed earlier, even with the service change, the last
agenda item, where there is the national labor shortage, where everybody is struggling with, we are
struggling with the increase in absenteeism with COVID and increases the risk for us to have enough
employees to be able to operate the trains.
But I assured Director Tisdale, and assure you, that with each and every trip that's dropped, every effort
has already been made to exhaust every resource available to us to make sure that either a supervisor or
train operator, a second crew person has already been either assigned or looked at. And we make every
effort and are working in concert with our partners to ensure that we're minimizing the overall impact to
our customers, thereby making every attempt to eliminate multiple trips in a row being dropped. And so
that's been our reality.
I would also like to possibly provide a little bit of data that might be helpful, in as much as we are not
providing the service, that our goal is in our target. But January's numbers, just on the A, B, and G line,
for the way this would be reflected is in our service availability was still roughly around 94%. And so still
more than 9 out of every 10 scheduled trips are being operated on the A Line. And so considering the
challenges that we're facing, I think the team is doing a good job of meeting the demands that they have.
And I did want to bring clarity to, that it's a second crew person that we are discussing. So thank you for
the opportunity to elaborate on that concern and respond to it.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Jensen.
I have a quick question, while we're talking about the A Line, is there any follow up on choosing the next
sponsor for the A Line after University of Colorado?
DAVE JENSEN: Mr. Chair, I don't think that's a question for me.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Or General Manager Johnson, perhaps.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Right. In recognizing that we are in an active sort of solicitation process as it relates
to that, I would say at this juncture, I would respond to say, yes, staff is working diligently to ensure that
we are being diligent in that process. So sorry to appear cagey, but recognizing the question as posed, I
think-- thank you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: It is totally fine. All right. Great. Thank you very much, General Manager.
Next, we have Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Hi. Thank you very much. With regard to Director Tisdale's comments, I notice on the
line that I'm most familiar with and when I plan my trips, the D line, it seems as if every other trip does get
canceled when there's a shortage. And my question, as a follow-up to Director Tisdale, is that are those
scheduled so as to coincide with canceled trips on the University of Colorado A Line, so that there isn't an
inordinate amount of time for a transfer to be made from the D line to the University of Colorado A Line?

DAVE JENSEN: Mr. Chair, if I may.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Go on ahead, please.
DAVE JENSEN: I think the short answer to that is no. On light rail in particular, we're really at the mercy
of call in sicks. We call those call outs, when an employee calls in sick. So if a trip is going to be lost,
we're typically not picking and choosing which trips are lost on the D Line. What we're doing is we're
working hard to recover the lost trips that have already come open by sending a supervisor or an
additional operator, if available, or somebody from the extra board to fill those.
But coordinating between the N Line and the D line I think was your question. The short answer is no. It's
just not practical for us. Oftentimes, we get very short notice on which trip is going to be dropped. It's
typically because we don't have somebody on the extra board that can fill that shift. And so it would be
very difficult for us to be able to be strategic in which trips get dropped in that way.
That being said, when we have a little bit of additional time, we try to minimize the overall impact, like I
said earlier, to the overall system. But it's not it's not coordinated with connections between lines like that.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you. I just, I do notice, though, that when the D Line trips are canceled, it
does seem to be every other one as opposed to a whole slate of them at the same time. So I appreciate
that. And hard to do trip planning when you have cancellations.
DAVE JENSEN: It is. And I'm sorry to interrupt and just continue the dialogue. It's easier for us, if we've
got operators out there, to hold an operator back and hold a train back than to get somebody out to a train
that doesn't exist. So that's how we were able to go every other train. If we know we're going to drop a
trip, with what the controllers who are running the system can do is rather than have a large gap in
service, we can pull a trip back and utilize the equipment that we have out there and run every other trip,
like you're describing, so that we can minimize the overall impact.
But again often we're really at the mercy of the people that we have available to us to operate our trains.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for that explanation. I really appreciate it.
If I might, Mr. Chair, I have one more thing.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Please do.
PEGGY CATLIN: We're going on Daylight Savings Time this coming weekend. And so for all of you
committee chairs who do your spiel to start out with in opening and closing meetings, starting next week
we will have Mountain Daylight Time as opposed to Mountain Standard Time. Just a reminder. Thank
you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Fair enough. And thank you for that update. Appreciate that, Director Catlin.

All righty. Any other matters that anybody would like to discuss? All righty. General Manager, any updates
you'd like to also present?
DEBRA JOHNSON: No, Mr. Chair. I'm fine. Thank you for asking.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All righty. Well, in that case, our next meeting date is Wednesday, April 13. And the
next Operations and Safety Committee will be on that date. Seeing no other discussion, the meeting is
now adjourned at 6:07 PM.
Thank you, everybody, and we will see you soon. Thank you. Bye-bye.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thanks, Paul. See y'all.

