1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, February 3, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Larry Hoy

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 7:40 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
7:38 PM

Ernest Archuleta

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

7:37 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Present
Present

7:38 PM
7:37 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District E
Director, District N

Present
Present

7:37 PM
7:37 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater

Committee Chair
Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Present
Absent

7:37 PM
7:37 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

7:37 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

7:34 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

7:34 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

7:37 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

7:37 PM
7:37 PM

Director Lasater left after the Government Relations Committee meeting.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Mike Barnes, Shirley Bennett, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen,
Ignacio Correa-Ortiz, Lou Cripps, Kevin Diviness, Robert Downes,
Martell Dyles, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, Ron
Enserro, Ken Fleck, David Genova, Doug Gragg, Cory Granrud,
Nathan Herman, Janet Huhn, Jim Kelley, Erin Klaas, Mitch Kuharski,
Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Jeff Miessel, Vivian Morales, Amanda
Murray, Andy Mutz, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Roger Sherman,
Pranaya Shrestha, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Kirk Strand, Stan
Szabelak, John Tarbert, Brenda Tierney, Pauletta Tonilas, Gary
Turnquist, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Ashland Vaughn,
Phil Washington, Brian Welch, Susan Wood, Nikita Zanichkowsky

Others Present:

Suzanne Arkle, Brain Bellfi, Mike Dino, Joni Goheen, Sherman
Hamilton, Larry Holbert, Tina Jaquez, Jim Maguire, Michele
Martinson, Tim Mordz, Dan Pearsall, Mike Peek, Shawn Plichta, Eric
Rolle, Mike Salmon, Marta Sipeki, Carl Smith, Lindsey Smith, Former
USDOT Secretary Rodney Slater, Joe Tlacosky, Les Townsend,
Hadley Trent, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Hortensia Villa, Monte
Whaley, Darcy Wilson, Emaan Wilson

B. Recommended Actions

• Indemnification, Waiver of Governmental Immunity and Purchase of
Insurance for the BNSF Railway Company on the North Metro Rail Line
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors pass the attached Resolution agreeing to waive the defense of
sovereign immunity to the extent it may under Colorado law and to purchase
insurance for the purpose of indemnifying the BNSF Railway company
(BNSF) for claims arising out of RTD’s ownership and use of the property to
be acquired from BNSF for the NMRL, including but not
limited to
environmental liability, claims both regulatory and in tort; claims arising out
of the use of automobiles, worker protection claims including those for
railroad worker’s arising under the Federal Employee’s Liability Act (FELA);
and, the Board intends that the limits shown in the Resolution shall be the
limits to which immunity is waived pursuant to C.R.S. 24-10-114.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the February 17, 2015
Board meeting.

Director Solano seconded the motion.
Discussion:

Marla Lien, General Counsel, explained that RTD is acquiring
property and entering into a Construction and Maintenance
Agreement with BNSF for approximately 2.5 miles of right of
way on the North Metro Rail Line (NMRL). Since RTD and
BNSF trains will operate in close proximity to one another,
BNSF will not sell property for the use of passenger rail and
thereby increase its exposure to risk without indemnification.
She stated that Federal law limits liability for passenger rail
accidents to $200 million per occurrence at the present time,
and state law limits exposure to punitive damages for both
RTD and BNSF. Marla Lien said that RTD must acquire and
maintain insurance in the amounts outlined in the resolution,
subject to review by RTD and BNSF approximately every five
years, as a condition of RTD operations. She pointed out that
if RTD fails to obtain and maintain insurance and indemnify
BNSF, RTD may be precluded from operations in the shared
portion of the corridor. She added that this must be made in
resolution form in compliance with Colorado law. Marla Lien
stated that this type of resolution has been done with every
FasTracks corridor.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Paul Solano, Director, District K
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy,
James, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Gary Lasater
Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Updates

• North Metro Rail Line Update
Ashland Vaughn, North Metro Rail Line Project Manager, and Ron Enserro
North Metro Rail Line Design Manager, reviewed the North Metro Rail Line
(NMRL) Update presentation included in the FasTracks Monitoring
Committee meeting packet for February 3, 2015. The presentation included
a review of the NMRL, major project elements such as tenant relocation,
construction update, community outreach, design progress and schedule,
stakeholders and partners, and platform configuration.
Ashland Vaughn noted the presence of Mike Salmon and Shawn Plichta,
representatives from Regional Rail Partners (RRP). NMRL Public Information

staff was present earlier in the evening but unfortunately had to leave due to
other commitments.
Committee Chair Hoy stated that Ashland Vaughn was being modest when
explaining the tenant relocation as he just mentioned it. Committee Chair
Hoy said that project was a big job that Ashland Vaughn worked hard to get
done.
Committee Chair Hoy said that he has had conversations with staff and
crews. He pointed out that all the Directors in the corridor, including
Directors Anderson, Lubow, Solano, and himself, are very excited to see the
progress on the NMRL.
Director Folska noted how exciting the update on the NMRL is since it will
be finished in 2018 as opposed to a longer term project. She asked Rick
Clarke, Assistant General Manager for Capital Programs, to explain any
2015 developments with RRP funding to Highway 7. Rick Clarke replied
that RTD has an option for construction through December, 2015 if we
want to exercise it. He said that currently it is not funded so staff will be
revisiting its status throughout 2015. Director Folska asked what the total
construction cost was to fund to Highway 7. Rick Clarke answered that it
was $180 million. Director Folska pointed out that if construction was to
begin while the current construction is happening it would be cheaper to
take advantage of the current construction crews. She asked if the
Southeast (SE) expansion and its stakeholder’s partnership has been
mentioned as an example to the stakeholders in the NMRL area. Rick Clarke
said that the stakeholders are aware of the SE collaboration and agreed that
utilizing current construction crews would be more economic. Committee
Chair Hoy noted that he has mentioned those same comments to staff. Phil
Washington, General Manager, explained that the Graham option to exercise
expires at the end of 2015. This is different from their demobilization at the
end of construction in 2018. Staff will want to find funds before the
demobilization. Director Bagley reminded the Directors that it would require
10 votes to move forward with the NMRL extension.
Director Bagley noted that the proposed Park-n-Ride at 124th has 166
surface parking spaces and 741 garage parking spaces. He asked what the
cost of the parking garage will be. Ashland Vaughn replied that staff does
not have set numbers since the project is in the design phase but the
average is $15-$18 thousand a space. Director Bagley estimated the total
at just under $15 million. Rick Clarke added that total would be offset by
the value add engineering. Director Bagley said he understood the offset.
He added that this reminded him of the Wadsworth and Sheridan Park-nRides. Currently they are underutilized, at 20-25% and 15% capacity
respectively. He noted that he knew that these were constructed looking at

2030 utilization; however, these Park-n-Rides starting from scratch have not
yet taken off. He compared it to the Arvada Park-n-Ride in Director
Anderson’s District, noting that there is an active Park-n-Ride and utilization
culture. He pointed out that when using the West Corridor as experience,
the 124th Park-n-Ride does not look good. Committee Chair Hoy added that
constituents with complaints on the Wagon Road Park-n-Ride may find the
proposed Eastlake Park-n-Ride useful.
Director Tobiassen said that while attending the Joint Legislative
Transportation Committee, Pueblo seemed to be the source of steel for
different projects. He recently read an article on the boom of the
manufacturing companies in Pueblo. Director Tobiassen wondered where
the concrete for RTD projects would come from. Ashland Vaughn said that
there are no procured ties yet, but it would probably be Pueblo.
Director Solano expressed his confusion regarding the funding from the
current end of line at 124th and the future end of line at Highway 7. We
wondered if that part of the corridor was going to be federally funded. Rick
Clarke clarified that that part of the corridor originally was going to be a
Federal project but it was later decided to be a locally funded. Director
Solano asked if there were any plans to pursue Federal funds for that part of
the corridor. He said his concern was restarting the bureaucracy process.
Rick Clarke replied that that part of the corridor does not meet the criteria
for federal funds. Ashland Vaughn added that in order for the corridor to
qualify it would need a bigger environmental statement.
Director Menten noted that the design for the NMRL is at 60% completion.
She pointed out all the design improvements that have had to be done and
still need to happen on the West Corridor, especially at the Federal Center.
She asked staff if the lessons learned from the West Corridor were being
taken into consideration on the NMRL design. She also wondered if disabled
groups, such as the Colorado Center for the Blind, have been brought in to
revise the design. Ashland Vaughn replied that “lessons learned” is part of
the daily vocabulary of the project. He added that Denver Transit Partners,
RTD Rail Operations, and other groups are reviewing the designs as the
project moves forward. He pointed out that no one from the disabled
community has been involved in the process so far but he thinks this will be
important as the design moves along. Director Menten suggested staff
reach out to Jadwiga Brown, Orientation and Mobility Specialist/Vision
Rehabilitation Therapist at the State of Colorado, as she has offered to share
her knowledge in this area. Ashland Vaughn will follow up with Director
Menten to get Ms. Brown’s contact information.

• Southeast Rail Extension Qualifications

Pranaya Shrestha, Senior Manager for Program Management, explained that
the Southeast Rail Extension procurement process has two phases: Request
for Qualifications (RFQ) followed by Request for Proposal (RFP). He said
that the RFQ was sent out on November 19, 2014. Seven firms replied:
 Balfour Beatty Infrastructure with Parson Brinkerhoff
 Graham – Kraemer Joint Venture with Modern Railway Systems and
Stantec
 Kiewit with Mass Electric and Hatch Mott McDonald
 Stacy Witbeck – Herzog – Wadsworth Joint Venture with Modern
Railway Systems and STV
 PCL with CH2M Hill and RailWorks Project, Inc.
 Flatiron with Hamon Contractors and Huiit-Zollars, Inc.
 AECOM with Aldridge Electric and G.W. Peoples Contracting
Pranaya Shrestha added that all companies have previous RTD experience.
He said that the RFQ covered areas such as how they intend to meet the
project goals, their experience, organization of key personal, project
management, and approach to WIN/DBE/SBE, among others.
Andy Mutz, Engineering Project Manager, explained that the selection team
consisted of seven RTD staff members. They all scored and measured
qualifications individually. They met together last week. Four teams stood
out. They will be sent an RFP:
 Balfour Beatty Infrastructure with Parson Brinkerhoff
 Graham – Kraemer Joint Venture with Modern Railway Systems and
Stantec
 Kiewit with Mass Electric and Hatch Mott McDonald
 Stacy Witbeck – Herzog – Wadsworth Joint Venture with Modern
Railway Systems and STV
Andy Mutz outlined the next steps:
 End of February: RFP to the four teams
 Early April: Comments and questions due
 End of April: Responses due
 Mid-May: RFPs due
 June: Staff recommendation
 Early 2016: Construction starts
Phil Washington, General Manager, noted that RTD is moving forward
aggressively with not just the SE extension but all of FasTracks. He hopes
to break ground on the SE extension by the fall of 2015. He noted the
importance of not only being on the President’s budget, but also being paid
$92 million all at once in one fiscal year, which is very unusual. He
reminded the Directors of Former Secretary of Transportation Rodney
Slater’s comments during the Government Relations Committee earlier that

evening. Secretary Slater mentioned that RTD was included in the
President’s budget due to its efficiency in delivering projects on time or
earlier, within or under budget, and leadership speaking in one voice. Phil
Washington reminded the Directors of the discussion to add the SE
extension to the Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG) plan.
This discussion ended on a divided vote. However, moving the SE extension
to the DRCOG plan was what allowed the Federal funding through the
President’s budget. Phil Washington added that staff deserves credit for
their work on the SE extension.
Director Bagley thanked Phil Washington for his comment on speaking with
one voice. Director Bagley recalled that the SE extension vote was very
close at 10-4. He added that $92 million is a very significant amount. He
noted that towns and private entities are investing $35-$40 million with $25
million of it in cash and the rest in such forms as right of way. He said that
even though the SE extension is not in his District, he is in communication
with the Denver South Economic Partnership and imagines they will be very
happy with the Federal funding. Director Bagley thanked the staff for their
work as well as Secretary Slater and Squire Patton Boggs for their work at
the Federal level.
Chair Sisk echoed Director Bagley’s remarks and thanked staff for their
work. Chair Sisk wondered what kind of engagement the SE stakeholders
would have throughout the bidding process, hoping that they would still be
part of that conversation. Phil Washington replied that the SE stakeholders
will be part of the process.
Committee Chair Hoy noted how the SE extension project is a great
opportunity to think regionally. RTD will write a check for $60-$70 million
and the end result will be a project worth $200 million. He said that the
northern constituency, although perhaps begrudgely understands that it is
very hard to bypass a deal like that. Committee Chair Hoy pointed out that
the SE community is willing to invest $35-$40 million. He does not know if
the northern stakeholders have that ability, but at least hopes that the SE
extension project will grab their attention and maybe RTD will see some kind
of participation. Director Bagley added that local stakeholders adding “skin
to the game” makes a big difference.

D. Other Matters
Director Solano thanked Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager for
Communications and Pauletta Tonilas, Senior Manager for Public Relations and
Public Information, for helping set up the Commerce City Town Hall with Senator
Ulibarri.

Director Menten noted that on the General Manager’s report there was a mention to
the Request for Information for 16 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) buses. She said that
she thought a supplier had been picked already given the context of the
presentation by Nadine Lee, Engineering Project Manager for US36 at another
committee meeting. Phil Washington, General Manager, explained that the first
BRT buses that will be used for US36 will be over the road coaches from MCI.
These buses are not true BRT buses: they are not low floor, only one door, etc. He
explained that the ideal BRT vehicle is a low floor bus with 2 doors. RTD is not in a
position to create the custom vehicles. RTD is working with stakeholders to use
the current buses and to replace them with true BRT vehicles the next time a fleet
of buses is set to retire. He clarified that staff is evaluating the Request for
Information on services and supplies.
Phil Washington informed the Directors that RTD will be hosting a delegation of 4
from Costa Rica on February 17th and 18th. The delegation will include the Costa
Rica Rail Minister and the US Ambassador to Costa Rica. Phil Washington added
that Chair Sisk will be addressing the delegation.
Phil Washington updated the Board on the receipt of an unsolicited proposal to
monetize parking at RTD facilities. The unsolicited proposal process includes a
period of time to study the proposal and determine whether it has financial or
technical merit. Staff will come back to the Board with a recommendation within
30-45 days. If it has one of those two qualifications, staff would then seek a
decision from the Board on whether to solicit an RFP.
Director Folska thought that unsolicited proposals would only be entertained for real
property. She asked Phil Washington to clarify the policy. Phil Washington replied
that the unsolicited proposal policy was revised in 2011 to encourage the private
sector to come up with their ideas. This change aided in the development of
Private Public Partnerships (P3s). This also helped in furthering the I-225 and North
Metro projects. RTD’s Transit Oriented Community Department is working on
developing an unsolicited proposal policy for real estate, which is not covered by
current policy. This will be brought to the Board in the next month. Director Folska
asked Phil Washington to explain the unsolicited proposal process. Phil Washington
said that staff will review an unsolicited proposal for technical or financial merit. If
it has either one of those, then an RFP would be placed to look at it competitively.
If it doesn’t have either technical of financial merit, the proposal is not pursued.
Phil Washington added that if the proposal is found to have merit, staff will be
looking for a head nod from the Directors in order to move forward with the RFP.
Committee Chair Hoy asked how many times the Board will be able to process the
proposal. Phil Washington said that he envisions an executive session to go over
what is allowed to be discussed from the proposals. Staff would look for a head
nod to craft the RFP, which would be brought to the Board before being released.
Phil Washington added that it takes about 5 to 6 months to write an RFP. Staff

would only want to write an RFP if the Board agrees to it. Committee Chair Hoy
said that 5 to 6 months answered his question.
Phil Washington pointed out that Former Secretary of Transportation Rodney Slater
has been very impressed with the work RTD is doing. Phil Washington said that
Secretary Slater does not interface much with RTD’s work at Squire Patton Boggs,
but he is genuinely interested in keeping informed. He said that Secretary Slater
was genuine in his remarks to the Board during the Government Relations
Committee meeting earlier in the evening.

E. Next Meeting Date - March 3, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 8:43 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

