Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 11, 2007, 8:00 a.m.
Page 1 of 5
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

May 11, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 11, 2007
at 8:00 a.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room

Board Members Present:

Staff Present:
Others Present:
Call to Order:

I.

***
Chair Chris Martinez; Director Lee Kemp, Treasurer;
Director Brohl, Secretary; Director Quinlan, Second
Vice-Chair; Directors Busck and Chacon (via phone)
Cal Marsella, Paula Perdue
Jeff Lieb, L.W. Morrow
Chair Chris Martinez called the meeting to order at 8:02
a.m.

Recommended Action
State Legislative Liaison Contract Services
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an agreement
(for state legislative liaison services) with C. Thomas Bastien &
Brandeberry-McKenna Public Affairs, A Joint Venture, to exercise a
one-year option (July 1, 2007 through June 30, 2008) to extend
Contract No. 12-DX-101, at a cost of $92,985.
MOTION:

Director Christopher made the
motion to approve the
recommended action.
Director Kemp seconded the
motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director Brohl queried if this was
an escalating contract and if we
are factoring sufficient time in our
schedule to ensure we are getting
the right lobbyists. Chair Martinez
responded this action is to
approve the exercise of a 1 year
option but that the RFP process

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 11, 2007, 8:00 a.m.
Page 2 of 5
would effectively address her
concerns.
Cal Marsella provided the cost of
$88,558 for the last option and
$92,985 for this option so it does
escalate.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

A voice vote was taken with 5
ayes and 0 nays.
Chair Martinez declared the motion
PASSED.

II.

May Board Meeting Agenda Review
 Unanimous Consent
August 2007 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations Committee that the Board of
Directors approve moving the proposed August 19, 2007 Service
Changes (Attachment A) on to public review and comment.
Cal Marsella reviewed some of the selected route changes and
indicated there were no expected controversial change. They were
following a model suggested by Director Busck to cut back services
rather than to cancel completely which appears more palatable to the
constituents. Director Quinlan suggested more efficiencies could be
gained in removing the G line completely until the I-225 corridor is
ready.
Board Reimbursement Policy for Telecommunications Equipment and
Home Office Access
It is recommended by the Technology Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the proposed changes to the policy adopted on
November 14, 2006 and modified on March 27, 2007, allowing
reimbursement to RTD Board Directors for telecommunications
equipment and access by adding additional services and equipment
and increasing reimbursement amounts according to the schedule
attached hereto. This action item also authorizes the budget transfer
of $25,400 from Information Technology and $12,500 from the
General Manager’s Unallocated Capital account to fund these
expenses through a separate account established for the Board Office
to a maximum of $2,520 per director per year. Subject to a financial
review, a cost of living adjustment will be applied to this program
annually each January.
Director Quinlan provided an explanation of the purpose of this policy

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 11, 2007, 8:00 a.m.
Page 3 of 5
and answered questions around the usage reimbursement.
Director Kemp requested an explanation of the IT Technology
Recommendations and Requirements to see if it includes Vista, the
new operating system. Paula Perdue agreed to follow up with the IT
department.
Chair Martinez asked if the Board office is clear on the policy so that
it could be implemented correctly. Paula Perdue indicated as sure as
can be.
2006 Audited Financial Statements
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that
the Board of Directors accept and enter into the record the various
audited financial reports relating to the year ended December 31,
2006 as prepared or reviewed by the District’s independent auditor,
Bondi & Co. LLC.

Contract Amendment 2006-2009 Street Improvements & Shelter
Installation Contract # 36DH003
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his
designee to execute all documents necessary to award a contract
amendment to initiate the second year of a three-year option contract
for the annual Street Improvements & Shelter Installation contract
with Manion Construction, Inc. for $359,158.00. Funding for this
contract amendment is provided by the annual 2007 Capital Budget.
Transfer of Funds for the Treasury Sewer Line Upgrade Project
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer
$185,000 to the Treasury Sewer Line Upgrade project from the
Denver Union Station (DUS) Window Upgrade project. Funding for
this project is included in the 2007 RTD budget.
Northwest Rail Corridor Environmental Evaluation
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to negotiate a
sole source contract with URS Corporation to complete 30 percent
Preliminary Engineering design work and an Environmental Evaluation
for the Northwest Rail Corridor in an amount not to exceed
$7,000,000. Funds are included in the 2007 Budget and FasTracks
Program for this work effort.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 11, 2007, 8:00 a.m.
Page 4 of 5
US 36 Draft Environmental Impact Statement
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the Board of Directors direct the General Manager to release the US
36 Draft Environmental Impact Statement for public and agency
review. This is the first of a series of steps in the National
Environmental Policy Act process and means simply that the agencies
are requesting official public and agency comment and feedback on
the No Action and the two build alternatives and their impacts.
West Corridor Contract Amendment for Denver Transit Construction
Group; Contract for Removal of Existing Rail and Ties
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager to
execute all documents necessary to award a contract amendment to
the Denver Transit Construction Group (DTCG) in an amount not to
exceed $252,916.00 for the removal of the existing track and ties. It
is estimated that the salvage value of the track is $240,000 for a net
cost to the West Corridor project of approximately $12,916.
West Corridor Value Engineering Proposals and Contract Amendment
for the Design and Costing of These Value Engineering Items
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute
all documents necessary to award contract amendments to the Front
Range Systems Consultant (FRSC) for $2.1 million and David Evans
and Associates (DEA) for $6.05 million for a total amount not to
exceed $8,150,000 for the design of the accepted Value Engineering
items associated with the West Corridor. It is also recommended by
the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board
postpone action on the following VE proposals: Sheridan Boulevard
Light rail Bridge/Overpass, Auraria Station Realignment, Drainage
Redesign and Single Track Section from Denver Federal Center to
JeffCo as these items are still being negotiated. Funding for this
amendment is available in the FasTracks budget for the West
Corridor.
State Legislative Liaison Services
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an agreement
(for state legislative liaison services) with C. Thomas Bastien &
Brandeberry-McKenna Public Affairs, A Joint Venture, to exercise a
one-year option (July 1, 2007 through June 30, 2008) to extend
Contract No. 12-DX-101, at a cost of $92,985.



Recommended Action
On-Call Engineering & Design Services Contract June 2007

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 11, 2007, 8:00 a.m.
Page 5 of 5
through June 2012
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or
his designee, to execute all documents necessary to award a
contract to the most qualified proposer, Huitt-Zollars, Inc, in the
estimated not-to-exceed amount of $5,000,000 for the On-Call
Engineering & design Services contract. This contract has a fiveyear duration and is administered on an as-needed, work order
basis. This contract is based on our projected TDP budgeted
projects that will require subsequent RTD Board action.
After much discussion and concerns expressed by Board Members
on other alternatives including hiring fulltime staff, this item was
pulled from the agenda and Cal Marsella will provide more analysis
in a subsequent meeting which will give more baseline.
III.

May 19 Board/Staff Retreat Agenda
Chair Martinez reviewed the planned agenda but indicated they need to
remain flexible for the afternoon session. Cal Marsella indicated the
plans are coming together but there will be lots of material to digest. He
will take the lead in this presentation.

IV.

Board’s Involvement in TRB Best Practices Conference August 26-27,
2007
Director Kemp shared the importance of this conference as an
opportunity for the RTD Board to showcase our products and services
and to actively participate in this conference. Chair Martinez indicated
we will coordinate the activities and the opportunities for the Board
Members to be involved.

V.

Other Matters


L.W. Morrow requested that his item from last year be brought before
the Board on May 15th for a formal vote. The Committee was unclear
of what this item was but after some clarification, Chair Martinez
explained to him the correct committee process to get his item
considered (P&D). This item had been rejected by the Board
previously and will not be brought before the Board on May 15 th.



Director Christopher shared information from his Rocky Mountain Rail
Authority meeting and indicated the Board needs to decide how they
want the money donated by RTD to be earmarked for the feasibility
study. This item will need to go before the Legislature Committee
before coming to the Executive Committee.

VI.
Adjourn
The meeting adjourned from Executive Session at 9:19 a.m.

