Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday December 9, 2008
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

December 9, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee and Operations & Customer Services
Committee meeting held on Tuesday, December 09, 2008 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms, R, T &
D
***

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Not Present:

I.

Chair John Tayer, Vice Chair Bill Christopher, Barbara Brohl, Noel Busck, Bruce Daly,
Bill Elfenbein, Lee Kemp, Chris Martinez, Dave Ruchman
Juanita Chacon, Daryl Kinton, Bill McMullen, Wally Pulliam, O’Neill Quinlan, Barbara
Yamrick

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Phil Washington, Bob Lewis, Teresa Sedmak, John Perry, Brian Matthews
Terry Howerter, Paula Perdue, Robert Merriman, Dave Genova, Bruce Abel, Scott Reed,
Marla Lien, Bill Porter, Trent Ratcliff, Cal Shankster, Caitlin Magee, Larry Buter, Carolyn
Conover, Marie Christensen, Ron Dodsworth, Jeff Becker

Others Present:

Brad Brewer, Jack O’Boyle, Tom Tobiassen, Kevin Flynn, Matt Cohen, Jeff Leib, Dan
Lacomis

Call to Order:

Chair Tayer called the meeting to order at 5:33 p.m.

Recommended Actions
a. U.S. Leveraged Lease - 1997-B - Teresa Sedmak, Manager Debts and Investments, introduced this
action. This action was discussed in Executive Session at the December 2, 2008 Planning and
Development meeting and Ms. Sedmak asked if there were any questions.
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the General Manager be authorized
to approve modification to operative documents related to the U.S. Leveraged Lease dated December
12, 1997 (the 1997-B US Leveraged Lease) between the Regional Transportation District (Lessee) and
EntreCap Financial LLC (Lessor) required as a result of downgrades in the credit ratings of AIG.
It is further recommended that the Financial/Administration Committee authorize the General Manager
to create a security interest for the Lessor not to exceed $10 million, in RTD reserve accounts, as
appropriate, to resolve claims which may arise should AIG, the payment undertaker on the agreement,
fail to make payments as required and should existing collateral securities posted by AIG prove in
sufficient to satisfy payments required under the lease.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday December 9, 2008
Page 2 of 4

It is further recommended that RTD be authorized to pay the Lessor’s fees and expenses related to the
lease revisions in an amount not to exceed $400,000 and any additional related RTD legal fees with
the firm of Pepper Hamilton in an amount not to exceed $100,000.
Motion:

Director Christopher made a motion to forward this item
onto the December 16, 2008 Board Meeting Agenda.

Second:

Director Ruchman seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

b. FasTracks PC Support Services Contract – Phil Washington, Assistant General Manager,
Administration, presented this item. Mr. Washington said that the District has done an analysis of
having the work done in house versus out sourced and that these contracts make sense financially to
be outsourced.
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the
General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award a 3 year contract with two 1 year
options for consulting services (Systems Support) for the 3 year contract in the amount of
$244,689.50 with an effective date of December 29, 2008 to Technology Integration Group (TIG).
The selected vendor was selected through the competitive bid process. The contract is being brought
to the Board because this is a Personal Services Contract per RTD Resolution No. 27, Series of 1983.
c. Consulting Services – Network Support – It is recommended by the Financial/Administration
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents
necessary to award a 3 year contract for consulting services for Sr. Network Support in the amount of
$573,000 with an effective date of January 2, 2009. This vendor Synamon Systems, a SBE firm,
was selected through the competitive bid process. The contract is being brought to the Board
because this is a Personal Services Contract per RTD Resolution No. 27, Series of 1983.
d. Kiosk System Support Services Contract - It is recommended by the Financial/Administration
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents
necessary to award a 3 year contract with 2 1 year options for Kiosk Systems Support for the 3 year
contract in the amount of $190,740.00 with an effective date of January 2, 2009 to Counter Trade
Products. The selected vendor was selected through the competitive bid process. The contract
(18DJ022) is being brought to the Board because this is a Personal Services Contract per RTD
Resolution No. 27, Series of 1983.
Director Ruchman wanted to know how many bids were received on each RFP and the criteria for
these different contracts. Bob Lewis and Trent Ratcliff reviewed the criteria.
Director Daly suggested putting the reason(s) why a vendor was selected in the Board report.
Motion:

Director Busck made a motion to forward these three
items onto the December 16, 2008 Board Meeting

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday December 9, 2008
Page 3 of 4
Agenda.

II.

Second:

Director Elfenbein seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

Update on Salaried Defined Contribution Plan – Terry Howerter referred to the handout in the Board packet
and then turned the update over to Marla Lien, General Counsel. Ms. Lien reviewed the progress on the
Salaried Defined Contribution Plan; the District is still awaiting plan approval from the IRS. A Financial
Advisor, Brad Brewer from Innovest, was hired to run the plan. ICMA (International City Management
Association) is the bundled service provider for the plan.
Director Brohl asked if the employees have access to the financial provider and the employee education plan
was outlined by Mr. Brewer. The education can be in the form of group or personalized education.

III. October Financial Status – Robert Merriman, Manager of Budget & Financial Analysis, gave this report.
Boardings are up 8.5%. The District has collected .5% more in sales tax this year versus 2007 which is
1.5% under the adjusted budget. Fare Revenues are up 3.7% over plan year to date. The District is within
budget on expenses. Director Elfenbein wanted to know why Other Income was so much lower. Robert
Merriman responded that it was overstated in the 2007 actuals. Most of it pertains to air rights at Civic
Center.
Director Martinez wanted to know if there would be a spike in sales tax revenue for December. Robert
Merriman said that we should see a bump but it will probably be less than it has been in years past.
Director Tayer wanted to know some things the District has done to maintain budget in light of the
economic downturn. Phil Washington said that the District is focusing on critical hiring, travel has been
cut, Senior Staff has tightened the budget, and the progression raise for salaried staff has been eliminated.
Cal Marsella shared that the District is deferring replacement of over the road MCI coaches and the fare
increase will help mitigate the impacts of reduced revenue.
Director Martinez asked about the mid life bus repair. Does the District have an analysis of when those
coaches are going to be purchased? Cal Marsella said that buses are normally depreciated on a 12 year
cycle and the District is looking to push it out to a 14 year cycle. The District has also requested bus
replacement money in the Obama administration budget stimulus.
Director Ruchman wanted to know how the air rights for Civic Center were overstated. What is the nature
of these contracts? Are they relatively long term? Is there anything we can do to generate better
numbers? Phil Washington said he believed the air rights were for 99 years and signed in the 70s. Cal
Marsella said that he could not answer why Civic Center air rights were overstated and asked staff to
research this. Marla Lien said that the lease is locked and the District cannot better the terms unless we
terminate or buy out the lease with favorable terms.
Director Christopher asked for a list of all the federal grant money and stimulus package requests that we
have in the “hopper” right now. Cal Marsella said that the requests were for “ready to go” projects that
could be in the ground in 120 days. The District is working with our lobbyists to see if we can get

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday December 9, 2008
Page 4 of 4
additional money. The big requests are for money for bus replacement (several million), $230 million for
Denver Union Station and one billion dollars for the East and Gold lines. In addition to that there are several
FTA formula funding grants that the District gets that help with bus replacement and capital cost of
maintenance. There are also 5309 funds that are available to CASTA which RTD is a member of. On a
State level, there are also Senate Bill 1 funds but that pool of money is rapidly declining.
Cal Marsella asked Directors to mark their calendars for January 16, 2009 for the signing of the Full
Funding Grant Agreement for the West Corridor.
IV. Budget Update – Phil Washington gave a list of after action review of the 2009 budget process and
tracking the deferred projects on an annual basis for the Board’s information. The packet will be distributed
to the Board on December 10, 2008.
Director Kemp wanted to know if there was a scope of work for the refurbishment of the MCI buses. Cal
Marsella responded that the District has heard back from MCI on what would be required; most of it is
frame refurbishment. MCI believes it will require thirty-one person hours per bus to make the safety
retrofits. Maintenance is doing engine oil analysis on the buses to see which ones are closest to needing
help.
V.

Other Matters – There were no other matters discussed.

VI. Next Meeting Date – The next meeting of the Financial Administration Committee will be determined at a
later date.
VII. Adjourn to Operations & Customer Services Committee – Hearing no objection, Chair Tayer adjourned the
Finance and Administration Committee at 6:13 p.m.

