Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, August 2, 2011
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
Corrected Minutes
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

August 3, 2011

Subject:

Summary of FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on August 2, 2011 at 5:30
p.m. in RTD Room
****

Board Members
Present:

Chair Pro Tem Cohen; Directors Anderson, Hoy, James, Malpiede,
McMullen, and Tobiassen
Director Tayer arrived after the FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Meeting began

Board Members
Absent:

Directors Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Kemp, O’Boyle, and Riley

Staff Present:

Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, David Genova, Mike Gil, Terry Howerter,
Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Jerry Nery,
Tai-Shrae Parish, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Jeanette Scarpino, Teresa
Sedmak, Daria Serna, John Shonsey, Julie Skeen, Bill Sirois, Walt
Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van Meter, Del Walker,
and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Debra Baskett – City of Broomfield, Lori Frasier – Key, Bill Mosher –
DUSPA/TCC, Liz Rao – HNTB, Tom Rousakis – VP Goldman Sachs,
John Schwab – CDOT.
****

Call to Order

Committee Chair Cohen called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.

I.

CAC Update
Committee Chair Cohen noted that the next CAC update would be at the September
6th FasTracks Committee meeting.

II.

Recommended Action


Authorization to Award the Construction Contract for the Table Mesa
Pedestrian Bridge Project

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, August 2, 2011
Page 2
Directors authorize the General Manger or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a construction contract with PCL Construction Company in
the amount of $6,448,938.59. This contract is for the construction of the RTD
pedestrian bridge over US36 at Table Mesa Drive and associated bus pull-out and
plaza improvements. Funding for this project is partially from CDOT ($3.5M, Senate
Bill #1 IGA signed October 28, 2010) and partially from RTD FasTracks local funds.
The funding for this project is included in the 2011 FasTracks budget.
John Shonsey added that this pedestrian bridge is associated with phase II of the US
36 project. The bridge will be located on property owned by the University of
Colorado and improvements would reduce travel times by 3 to 4 minutes per bus
with an estimated $100,000 annual operational cost savings. The scheduled
completion of this project is January 2013.
Director Malpiede added that she was pleased to see that this project had a DBE goal
of 12%.
Motion:

Director McMullen made the motion
to forward this item to the full
board at the August 16, 2011
Board meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the
motion.

Vote on
the motion:



The motion passed Unanimously.
Directors Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler,
Kemp, O’Boyle, Riley and Tayer
were absent from this vote.

Extension and Amendment of Goldman Sachs Contract

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to authorize the second
option year of the contract with Goldman Sachs for Financial Services Related to
Public-Private Partnerships advisory services which will extend the performance
period from September 1, 2007 to August 31, 2012. The original contract period
was from September 1, 2007 to August 31, 2010 with two one-year options to
extend, and the first of these two options was exercised in August 2010.
Teresa Sedmak explained that over the past four years, Goldman Sachs has provided
important information and advice especially in regards to the Eagle P3 Project. Not
only have they done extensive financial modeling, but they have gained the trust of
both staff and the Board. This extension is of no cost, but adds an additional year to
our current contract. This is a work order extension unless or until unsolicited
proposals are received.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, August 2, 2011
Page 3
Committee Chair Cohen added that this organization has expertise that RTD does not
have.
Motion:

Director Malpiede made the motion
to forward this item to the full
board at the August 16, 2011
Board meeting.
Director Tobiassen seconded the
motion.

Vote on
the motion:

III.

The motion passed Unanimously.
Directors Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler,
Kemp, O’Boyle, Riley and Tayer
were absent from this vote.

Update


Englewood Parking Project

Committee Chair Cohen noted that many of the Directors were receiving emails and
phone calls from constituents regarding this project, and based on public sentiment
this is not very popular.
Rick Clarke added that this project has been in the works for the past few years with
the City of Englewood and we are currently waiting to hear back from the City
regarding their decision.
John Shonsey explained that this site was chosen with the recommendation of the
City of Englewood and we were under the impression that the public was okay with
this project. Mr. Shonsey added that we will not do anything until approval is
received from the City of Englewood but public sentiment was, and is strongly
opposed.
Rick Clarke further added that any formal feedback from the City of Englewood will
be forwarded to the Board.
Committee Chair Cohen further noted that this is not an action item so there would
not be a vote to move this to the Board meeting on the 16th.


US 36

Del Walker explained that the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) Phase 2 current projects
include the Table Mesa Pedestrian Bridge, Queue Jumps, Transit Signal Priority
Study and the US 36 Managed Lanes Project. RTD’s hope is to achieve rail like
service on the BRT route.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, August 2, 2011
Page 4
Nadine Lee added that with support from 36 Commuting Solutions, CDOT, US 36
Coalition and RTD, 13 attendees visited L.A. Metro June 1-3 to tour the BRT and
ExpressLanes Projects. Elements observed during the trip were: Prepaid Tickets,
Quick Boarding, Vehicle Types, Branding, Stations, and Bicycle Storage. Tour
benefits highlighted potential trade offs for consideration, BRT system integration,
and considerations for implementation.
Director Tayer noted that there had been somewhat of a disconnect between US36
corridor stakeholders and RTD staff regarding the vision for the BRT system. Thanks
to the work of RTD staff in reaching-out to the corridor stakeholders, we have
reestablished relationships and helped to build a common vision for the BRT system.
This will be a different and unique service in the Denver region and I am glad you are
drawing on examples from around the country. This is very exciting and excellent
work.
Director Tobiassen added that smart card and cashless technology is great, but
another issue is access for those with disabilities. ADA compliance is necessary, but
we should try to make it better.
IV.

Other Matters
Committee Chair Cohen noted that he attended the Board Support Workshop in
Jersey City, NJ and that he found many of the sessions to be rewarding. While this
is usually a smaller conference, it was a great opportunity to network with other
Board Members from other agencies. This conference focused on the interactions
between the Board and Board Support Staff, since the Board support staff is aware
of all that happens on the Business side and the Board side of an organization.
Committee Chair Cohen further added that the National Transportation Board
Chairman referenced the WMATA (Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority)
Board which was cited for lack of oversight of their organization.
Also, Committee Chair Cohen explained that the Cold Springs Park-n-Ride is no
more, and the new Federal Center Station Park-n-Ride has been opened.

V.

Next Meeting
The next meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee is scheduled for
September 6, 2011.

VI.

Adjourn
Committee Chair Cohen adjourned to the Planning and Development Committee at
7:45 p.m.

