Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on December 3, 2007
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

December 10, 2007

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting held on
December 3, 2007 at 5:00 p.m. in Rooms T and D

***
Committee Members
Present:
Chair Ruchman, Noel Busck, Bill Christopher, Bruce Daly, Lee
Kemp, Daryl Kinton, Bill McMullen, John Tayer, Barbara Yamrick
(via teleconference)
Staff Present:

Liz Rao, Marla Lien, Scott Reed, John Shonsey Susan Altes, Rick
Clarke, Dennis Cole,
Karen Morales, Bill Sirois, Henry
Stopplecamp, Gideon Berger, Daria Serna, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill
Van Meter, Caitlin Magee

Others Present:

Steve Ormiston, Max Tyler, Ben Kelly, Maria Garcia-Berry, Kevin
Flynn, Roger Sherman, Jeff Leib, David Kenney, Sean Duffy
***
Chair Ruchman called the meeting to order at 5:00 p.m.

Call to Order:

I. Recommended Action
 Request for Approval of BackCountry at Highlands Ranch Annexation
Liz Rao, Assistant General Manager, Planning and Development, introduced this item.
The proposed annexation is currently open land and is a planned gated community of
1,110 acres.
Steve Ormison of Shea Holmes spoke to this item. This action is requested to have
the same tax assessment and consistent level of service as other parts of Highlands
Ranch.. This was not done in the prior annexation because the planning was not
developed at that time. Mr. Ormison distributed a map of the area. This map is
included in the Planning and Development Meeting Minutes Notebook.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the annexation of the 467 acre BackCountry property into RTD.
The property owners, Shea Homes Limited Partnership and Sand Creek Cattle

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on December 3, 2007
Page 2 of 4

Company, have petitioned RTD to approve the annexation. Upon approval of this
annexation, the area will become part of District H.
Motion: Director McMullen made a motion
for full approval before the Board
at the December 18, 2007 Board
Meeting.
Second: Director Busck seconded
the motion.
Discussion: Director Christopher said he had no concerns about this particular
annexation but would like for future annexations if there could be a more
detailed fiscal analysis.
Liz Rao said she would provide an estimate on the financial impacts for this
annexation.
Lee Kemp echoed Director Christopher’s concern and said he would like to see a
matrix on future annexations about what revenue may be generated from the
area and what the service expectations may be.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.

 Request for Approval of Property Acquisition Services Contract – Eminent Domain
Counsel
Susan Altes, Manager, Real Property, spoke to this item.
This is a
recommendation to hire eminent domain counsel to assist with the acquisition
program on the West Corridor and any other transit projects that may come up
during the time period of this proposed contract. The District put out a RFP and
received eight proposals. Three companies have been selected for the contract.
The District is using the same model of property acquisition as the TREX project.
Director McMullen asked about the process. Liz Rao responded that the District
follows strict guidelines outlined by the Federal Uniform Act of 1970. Liz Rao
said this process would be reviewed again at the December 4, 2007 Study
Session.
Director Christopher asked how the work is divided up among the firms. Susan
Altes responded that on TREX, the corridor was divided into segments so that the
same possible legal questions are addressed by the same firm.
Director Yamrick asked who oversees the contract and what the performance
measures are. Susan Altes responded that she oversees the contract. It is
difficult to have performance measures as it is unknown which cases will go to
trial.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on December 3, 2007
Page 3 of 4

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to award multiple contracts to the qualified proposers,
Duncan, Ostrander & Dingess, P.C., in the amount of $900,000.00, May and
Associates, P.C., in the amount of $900,000,00 and Icenogle, Norton, Smith,
Blieszner & Gilida, a Professional Corporation in the amount of $700,000.00 for
the provision of legal services specializing eminent domain for West Corridor
Budget.
Motion: Director McMullen made a motion
for full approval before the Board
at the December 18, 2007 Board
Meeting.
Second: Director Christopher seconded
the motion.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.
II. Updates
Federal Center TOD – Bill Sirois, Manager, Transit Oriented Development gave this
update. Mr. Sirois showed maps of the planned design for the Federal Center. The
RFP for the Federal Center was released on October 2, 2007. Four proposals were
received. Mr. Sirois reviewed the evaluation criteria with the Committee. Staff is
conducting interviews with the proposers. Staff expects to come to the Board in
March 2008 with a recommendation.
Public Opinion Survey on FasTracks – Ben Kelley of the Kenney Group spoke about
the survey. The presentation is available for viewing in the Planning and
Development Committee Meeting Minutes Notebook. A telephone survey of RTD
district residents was conducted October 30 through November 4, 2007. Seven
hundred seventy-one interviews were completed. Demographics of the survey
sample population were balanced to reflect gender, party registration and
geographic distribution of the RTD district.
The Denver metro electorate is content and public entities – such as RTD – receive
favorable marks. Transportation and traffic was the top issue for metro area
residents. Among local residents, RTD has a 72% positive rating and a 16%
negative rating, this is up from 2004.
Forty percent of Denver metro residents think traffic and transportation is a top
issue for the region.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on December 3, 2007
Page 4 of 4

Director Tayer asked if participants were told that this was a RTD survey and Mr.
Kelley said no. The script used was provided for the Committee. A copy of this
script is available in the Planning and Development Committee Meeting Minutes
Notebook.
The majority of people surveyed (81%), drive alone to work. Seven percent use
transit and four percent carpool.
Bill McMullen asked about the carpooling number, he felt it was high. Bill Van
Meter said that this percentage is equal to numbers that are seen in DRCOG
modeling.
Sixty-nine percent of the survey respondents gave RTD a good or excellent rating.
Fifty-three percent of the respondents are very or somewhat familiar with the
FasTracks program.
Public confidence and support at this stage are both strong, but also moderate in
their intensity.
Seventy-five percent of respondents are confident that RTD can “complete the
FasTracks plan that voters approved.”
Major Findings:
Awareness is moderate of cost escalations in implementing FasTracks, and they are
a significant concern. However, voters have confidence in RTD to overcome these
challenges.
Entering into PPP to complete portions of FasTracks is generally viewed favorably
by area residents.

III.

Other Matters – There were no other matters discussed.

IV.

Next Meeting Date – The next meeting of the Planning and Development
Committee will be Tuesday, January 15, 2007.

V.

Adjournment - There being no objection, Chairman Ruchman adjourned the
meeting at 6:04 p.m.

