Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on August 11, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 1 of 4
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of
Directors

Date:

August 11 2011

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on August
11, 2011 at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference
Room
***
Board Members Present:
1st Vice-Chair Tayer, 2nd Vice-Chair Cohen, Chair
Kemp, Secretary Malpiede (via phone)
Subject:

Other Board Members
Present:

I.

Director Tobiassen

Board Member Absent:
Others Present:

Director Bagley
Paula Perdue, General Manager Washington,
Claudia Folska

Call to Order:

Chair Pro Tem Tayer called the meeting to order
at 12:05 p.m.

Recommended Actions


Resolution No._______ Series of 2011, Appointment of Trustees to the
RTD Pension Trust and Defined Contribution Plan.
Chair Kemp introduced this item and explained his reason for selecting
Director Tobiassen for the Salaried Employee Pension Board. General
Manager Washington also pointed out that this resolution included the
re-appointment of Marla Lien to the Pension Plan. Chair Kemp stated he
had also had a conversation with Marla Lien and she had agreed to this
reappointment.
Motion:

Director Malpiede made the motion to
move the resolution forward to appoint a
new Board member trustee to the
Salaried Pension Board
Director Cohen seconded the motion.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on August 11, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 2 of 4
Vote on
the Motion:

II.

The Motion PASSED.

August Board Meeting Review
General Manager Washington brought this item forward and asked if there
were any questions or concerns pertaining to these items. There were no
questions so the motion moved forward.

Motion:

Director Cohen made the motion to move
the August Board meeting agenda to the
full Board for approval on August 16.
Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

Vote on the
Motion:


The motion PASSED.

Unanimous Consent


Authorization to Award the Construction Contract for the
Table Mesa Pedestrian Bridge Project
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager
or his designee to execute all documents necessary to enter
into a construction contract with PCL Construction Company
in the amount of $6,448,938.59. This contract is for the
construction of the RTD pedestrian bridge over US36 at Table
Mesa Drive and associated bus pull-out and plaza
improvements. Funding for this project is partially from CDOT
($3.5M, Senate Bill #1 IGA signed October 28, 2010) and
partially from RTD FasTracks local funds. The funding for this
project is included in the 2011 FasTracks budget.



Extension and Amendment of Goldman Sachs Contract
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or
his designee, to authorize the second option year of the
contract with Goldman Sachs for Financial Services Related to
Public–Private Partnerships advisory services which will
extend the performance period from September 1, 2011 to
August 31, 2012. The original contract period was from
September 1, 2007 to August 31, 2010 with two one-year
options to extend, and the first of these two options was
exercised in August 2010.
Additionally, it is recommended that the contract scope be
amended to include, on a work-order basis, assistance in the

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on August 11, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 3 of 4
review and development of proposals, which may include a
possible availability-based concession or other public-private
partnership arrangement involving all or a portion of the
remaining RTD FasTracks projects such as North Metro, I-225,
US 36, Northwest Rail and the Southeast and Southwest
extensions. This contract amendment would increase the
maximum value of the contract by $2,500,000, to a new
combined contract maximum of $19,868,250 for Goldman
Sachs and JP Morgan. Funding for this work-order contract
amendment in 2011 is included in the 2011 Amended expense
budget for FasTracks, and funding for 2012 will be included in
the 2012 expense and capital budgets for FasTracks.


Resolution No._______ Series of 2011, Appointment of
Trustees to the RTD Pension Trust and Defined Contribution
Plan.



Board Policy for Organizational Memberships
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board
of Directors adopt this policy on the process for establishing
Board individual and agency memberships in community
organizations.



Budget Transfer for CCTV at Denver Union Station
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the
transfer of $353,399 for the Denver Union Station CCTV
project, and the associated Homeland Security grant funds,
from the base system capital budget to the FasTracks capital
budget to facilitate proper accounting for the assets. This
project is 100% funded by a federal Homeland Security grant.

 Recommended Action


Authorization to award the design/build contract for the Mall
Paver Pilot Program for one block of the 16 th Street Mall
It is recommended by the Planning and Development
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the
General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to enter into a contract with
Atkinson-Noland & Associates, Gallegos Masonry, Inc. in
the dollar amount of $1,474,433.00. The contract is for
the design and construction of one block of the 16th Street
Mall to test alternate concepts for the rehabilitation of the
mall pavers. Funding for this project in the amount of $2.8
million, including $800,000 in grant funds, is included in
the 2011 budget.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on August 11, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 4 of 4


III.

2012–2017 Strategic Budget Plan (SBP)
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors adopt the 20122017 Strategic Budget Plan (SBP).

Other Matters
General Manager Washington indicated that we might expect a large group
for public participation at the Board meeting on Tuesday related to the EastWest Station Discussion. Chair Pro Tem Tayer asked for an update related to
this item. General Manager Washington explained that the issue of
relocating the station to the West side has resurfaced by the developer. He,
Chair Kemp, Director Malpiede, Former Directors Busck and Christopher and
staff have participated in meetings with the developer related to this issue.
At this point, Adams County Commissioners have remained neutral.
Chair Kemp indicated he had asked for staff to present at the August 23
study session because he wants the full Board to know the background of
what has happened. Director Malpiede indicated that one of the issues
raised is that the developer contends that the working poor did not have a
chance to have their voices heard. RTD will explain the NEPA process
followed over 4 years ago when the community was given the opportunity
to provide their input.
Director Tobiassen asked about what is the latest date that changes can be
made. General Manager Washington commented that the issue is one of
cost and it would cost roughly $5.5M to make this change. Chair Pro Tem
Tayer inquired if this was sunk cost. General Manager Washington indicated
this was due to the change orders required and sunk costs.
Director Cohen noted that we will probably get constituents from the
Englewood Park-n-ride who will want to comment at the Board meeting on
Tuesday.

IV. Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 12:20 p.m.

