Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on November 13, 2007 at
7:00p.m. Page 1 of 2
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

December 4, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, December 4,
2007 at 7:50 p.m. in Rooms T & D

Board
Members Present:

Chair Martinez, Directors Brohl, Busck, Daly, Chacon,
Christopher, Elfenbein, Kinton, Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman,
Tayer, Yamrick

Member Absent:

Directors Kemp and McMullen

Staff Present:

Senior Staff: Cal Marsella, Bruce Abel, Marla Lien, Paula
Perdue, Scott Reed, Liz Rao, Phil Washington
Jeff Becker, Dennis Cole, Sherry Ellebracht, Caitlin Magee,
Daria Serna, Cal Shankster, Joe Smith, Errol Stevens

Others Present:
***
Call to Order:

Brad Ramirez, Steve Weinstein, Max Tyler
Chair Martinez called the meeting to order at 7:50 p.m.

Chair Martinez moved the RTD Salaried Pension Plan Review presentation to
the front of the agenda in sensitivity to the time delay for the guest
presenters.
I. RTD Salaried Pension Plan Review
Brad Ramirez, SEGAL, presented the presentation on the RTD Salaried
Employees Pension Plan that included additional information requested from
the Board on November 19th, 2007. For a copy of this presentation, please
refer to the Study Session Minutes notebook located in the Board office.
After discussion on the options available to them, the Board instructed Marla
Lien to prepare a Board report which will provide a 9% defined contribution
scenario and the options to accept the change now or delay the decision and
make the change in 2009.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on November 13, 2007 at
7:00p.m. Page 2 of 2
II. Champion of Transit Award Policy Procedure
Chair Martinez reviewed the Champion of Transit policy as written which
stated the Executive Committee would make the selection decision and that
one award would be given in the respective categories (individual and
organization). He asked the Board for their feedback.
After some back and forth discussion, the Chair summarized the process to be
the Executive Committee would review the list of nominees based on the
selection criteria established by the sub-committee and assign a 75%
threshold for the winners. Any nominee who exceeded 75% of the eligible
points would become a winner.
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager for the Board of Directors would send out
the list of nominees and selection criteria to the Executive Committee in the
Friday packet prior to the Executive Committee Review meeting.
III. Service Evaluation of Routes
Bruce Abel introduced the service performance evaluation process for 2006
and shared the factors that comprise this decision: how many hours, how
many people and how much cost to generate passenger boardings. He then
turned it over to Jeff Becker who provided a cursory view of the service
performance process. For a copy of this presentation, please refer to the
Study Session Minute Notebook located in the Board office.
Bruce Abel indicated they would come back to the Board early in the year with
information from a comprehensive evaluation that is underway.
IV. Other Matters
Seeing there were no other matters, the meeting adjourned at 9:15 p.m.

