1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Larry Hoy, District J

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, October 2, 2018
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• Federal Liaison Services
C. Updates

• Local Update - CRL Associates, Inc.
• State Update - Brandeberry McKenna
• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs
D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date -December 4, 2018
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: September 26, 2018

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

September 26, 2018

Board Meeting Date: October 16, 2018

Subject:

Federal Liaison Services

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize
the General Manager or his designee to enter into an agreement for Federal Liaison Services with Squire
Patton Boggs LLP for a one-year option at a cost of $276,000 (January 1 through December 31, 2019).
This action represents the fifth and final year of a five-year contract. Funding for this contract is included
in the annual budget.
Goals:
Core Goal #3: Strong Financial Management
Core Goal #5: Effective Communications & Community Outreach
Task Goal #3: Ensure Fiscal Sustainability
BACKGROUND
A solicitation for proposals for Federal Liaison Services was issued on August 12, 2014. This
solicitation was a Best Value Procurement where technical factors and cost were all considered. Ten
responsive proposals were received, and they were evaluated by an evaluation committee that
recommended Squire Patton Boggs LLP. The recommendation of the evaluation committee was
subsequently referred to the Government Relations Committee on November 11, 2014.
The
Government Relations Committee recommended that Squire Patton Boggs LLP be offered a new contract
for a five-year period. Squire Patton Boggs has been RTD’s federal lobbyist since 2000 and to date has
assisted in RTD’s receiving over $2.5 billion in federal grants and loans. In addition to constant
monitoring of Congressional and Executive Branch activities, status reports are issued and special
reports are prepared when required by the Board of Directors or the General Manager.
DISCUSSION
Constant monitoring of federal legislative activities that relate to RTD is required, and RTD’s interests
must be conveyed to appropriate members of Congress, including the Colorado delegation and other key
Congressional committee members. The Squire Patton Boggs team has excellent rapport and respect
from the Colorado delegation and serves as a resource for the delegation staff. When RTD has a Full
Funding Grant Agreement (FFGA) in place as it now does (Eagle P3 Project), the annual appropriations
process requires intense attention to committee hearings and to the status of the Congressional budget
process.
The Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act (FAST) was passed on December 4, 2015, and the
federal lobbyists played a key role in representing RTD’s needs in this reauthorization bill. With the build
out of FasTracks, the lobbyists need to be especially attentive to the federal financing needs for the new
corridors, and they will monitor discussions and advocate for RTD’s best interests regarding new plans
for the Executive Office’s infrastructure bill to be introduced sometime in the near future. When the bill
is revealed, Squire Patton Boggs will play a key role in advising RTD as to the contents of the bill and
monitoring the amendments and progress of the proposed language.

Packet Pg. 3

1.B.1

In addition to helping with Congressional activities, assistance is also necessary with the Executive
Branch of the federal government, including the US Department of Transportation (the Federal Transit
Administration and the Federal Railroad Administration). Squire Patton Boggs provides guidance and
assistance in applying for and receiving federal funds from the Department of Transportation, as well as
advising staff on proper protocols for these agencies.
The Denver office of Squire Patton Boggs serves in an important advisory role in RTD’s connection to
relevant national personnel and issues. In addition, annually, or as required, meetings with the Board of
Directors are also held.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Government Relations Committee’s Recommended Action to authorize the General
Manager or his designee to enter into an agreement for Federal Liaison Services with Squire
Patton Boggs LLP for a one-year option at cost of $276,000 (January 1 through December 31,
2019). This action represents the fifth and final year of a five-year contract. Funding for this
contract is included in the annual budget.
2. Continue the contract on a month-to-month basis, if amenable to the current Contractor (Squire
Patton Boggs LLP). This option is not recommended because continuity and stability in liaison
services is an important consideration.
3. Do not accept the Recommended Action and issue a new Request for Proposals (RFP) for Federal
Liaison Services. This option is not recommended because RTD’s RFP process was properly
utilized for this procurement, and all the proposals were reviewed and subjected to the evaluation
criteria, resulting in a recommendation from the evaluation committee—pursuant to RTD’s longstanding procurement procedures.

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 4

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: September 26, 2018

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

September 26, 2018

Board Meeting Date: October 2, 2018

Subject:

Local Update - CRL Associates, Inc.

ATTACHMENTS:


CRL LGR Report 09-25-18

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 5

Date:

September 26, 2018

To:

Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer

From:

Roger Sherman

Subject:

Local Government Relations Update

Below is our update for October 2018:
1. Metro Mayors Caucus (MMC) – The next full caucus meeting is Wednesday, October
3, 2018, from 7:30-10 AM at the at the Denver Metro Chamber of Commerce, 1445
Market St. on the 4th floor.
2. Denver Metro Chamber Gubernatorial Candidate Forum – The DMCC is holding a
Gubernatorial Candidate Forum on Friday, October 5, 2018, from 7-9:30 AM at the Hyatt
Regency Denver at the Colorado Convention Center, 650 15th St. CRL has a table at the
event and still has a couple of seats available.
3. Transportation Matters Summit – The 2018 Summit is September 28 at the Hyatt
Regency-Convention Center in downtown Denver. Doors open at 11 AM. CRL is a
sponsor and still has a couple of luncheon seats available.

1660 Lincoln Street, Suite 1800, Denver, CO 80264 p. 303.592.5450 f. 303.592.5460 www.crlassociates.com

Packet Pg. 6

Attachment: CRL LGR Report 09-25-18 (3588 : Local Update - CRL Associates, Inc.)

1.C.1.a

1.C.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: September 25, 2018

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

September 24, 2018

Board Meeting Date: October 2, 2018

Subject:

State Update - Brandeberry McKenna

ATTACHMENTS:


State Update 10-2-18 (PDF)

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 7

1.C.2.a

1410 Grant Street, C-307 | Denver, CO 80203
office 303.539.1320 | fax 303.861.0683

To:

RTD

Date: September 24, 2018
Re:

October Board Update

The Joint Budget Committee received the September Revenue Forecasts from Legislative Council and
the Office of State Planning and Budgeting (OSPB).
Both forecasts show the US and Colorado economies are still performing very well. The nation is on
track to post the longest economic expansion in US history due to healthy levels of job creation, robust
consumer spending, rising incomes, and solid business activity.
For the fiscal year that ended on June 30, 2018, both forecasts show general fund revenue excess of
$103 million higher. This surplus is a result of stronger than expected sales, individual income, and
corporate income tax collections.
According to Legislative Council, this surplus means that the JBC will enter into the discussions about the
upcoming 19/20 budget with $1.16 billion or 9.2 percent more to spend or save in the General Fund
than what is budgeted for FY18-19. The OSBP forecast has a slightly higher growth rate.
The recent US Supreme Court ruling in South Dakota v. Wayfair, Inc. provided an unanticipated source of
revenue. The Legislative Council forecast included an estimated maximum of $110 million in additional
sales tax collections per year as a result of this ruling. Both forecasts anticipate Tabor refunds for
FY2018-19 and FY2019-20.
Although this forecast is positive there are still a number of uncertainties that could impact Colorado’s
revenue outlook. The November ballot includes several measures that would have significant fiscal
constraints on the state budget as well as others that make substantive changes to Colorado’s tax
collections. These factors in combination with changes at the federal level could change the long-term
forecast for the state. The Governor’s budget will be submitted to the Joint Budget Committee by
November 1st.
BBMK has confirmed that General Manager Genova and RTD Board Chair Tisdale will present on October
1st at 9 am for the statutorily required update to the Committee. BBMK would encourage board
members to attend this meeting.
BBMK is monitoring two transportation ballot initiatives filed by the Denver Metro Chamber of
Commerce and the Independence Institute. Both initiatives received the required number of signatures
to proceed and will appear on the November ballot. BBMK has attached a separate memo that includes
more detailed information about all the initiatives that will be on the November ballot.
Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: State Update 10-2-18 (3579 : State Update - Brandeberry McKenna)

From: Brandeberry McKenna Public Affairs (BBMK)

1.C.2.a

Lastly, BBMK is working with RTD Executive Staff to coordinate a tour for legislators of the Transit
Oriented Development sites within the District. The tour will be on October 15th from 2:30pm-4:30pm
beginning at Union Station.
Please do not hesitate to contact us if you have any questions.

2
Packet Pg. 9

Attachment: State Update 10-2-18 (3579 : State Update - Brandeberry McKenna)

BBMK met with Senator Zenzinger to discuss the results of the Pass Program Working Group work and
we will continue to coordinate briefings with legislators on this issue. In addition to the meetings on the
Pass Program Working Group, BBMK has been interviewing prospective legislative candidates this fall
and briefing them on issues of interest to the District.

1.C.2.a

1410 Grant Street, C-307 | Denver, CO 80203
office 303.539.1320 | fax 303.861.0683

To:

RTD

Date: September 21, 2018
Re:

2018 Ballot Initiatives

On Monday September 10th the Secretary of State officially certified the November ballot. The ballot
includes for consideration: three constitutional amendments, four statutory changes, and six measures
referred from the Colorado General Assembly.
Citizen Initiated Ballot Measures
Proposition 109 Fix Our Damn Roads: this measure would authorize $3.5 billion in bonds to fund
statewide transportation projects including bridge expansion, construction, maintenance and repairs.
The measure would require that the state repay the debt from the general fund without raising taxes.
This measure is being proposed by the Independence Institute.
Proposition 111 Limits on Pay Day Loan Charges: this measure would restrict the charges on payday
loans to a yearly rate of 36 percent and would eliminate all other finance charges and fees associated
with payday lending. This measure is being proposed by an organization called Coloradans to Stop
Predatory Payday Loans.
Proposition 112, Minimum Distance Requirements for New Oil, Gas, and Fracking Projects Initiative:
this measure would mandate that new oil and gas development, including fracking, be a minimum
distance of 2,500 feet from occupied buildings and other areas designated as “vulnerable.” Vulnerable
areas are defined by the initiative as “playgrounds, permanent sports fields, amphitheaters, public
parks, open space, public and community drinking water sources, irrigation canals, reservoirs, lakes,
rivers, perennial or intermittent streams, and creeks and any additional vulnerable areas designated by
the state or a local government. The current regulations specify that wells must be 1,000 feet from
high-occupancy buildings such as schools and hospitals, 500 feet from occupied buildings such as homes
and 350 feet from outdoor areas like playgrounds. This measure is being proposed by Colorado Rising.
Proposition 110, Let’s Go Colorado: this measure would authorize $6 billion in bonds to fund
transportation projects, establish the Transportation Revenue Anticipation Notes Citizen Oversight
Committee, and would increase the state’s sales tax and use rate by .062 percent (from 2.9 percent to
3.52) percent for twenty years starting on January 1, 2019 through January 1, 2039. This measure is
being proposed by the DMCC. The revenue from the increased sales tax would be placed into the
following accounts and spent as follows:
• 45% to the State Highway Fund for bond repayment and state transportation funding including
highway construction and maintenance.
• 40% to the Local Transportation Priorities Fund for municipal and county transportation projects
and
Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: State Update 10-2-18 (3579 : State Update - Brandeberry McKenna)

From: Brandeberry McKenna Public Affairs (BBMK)

1.C.2.a

15% to the Multimodal Transportation Options Fund for municipal and county transportation
such as mass transit and paths for walking and biking. To receive these funds counties and
municipalities would need to match 50 percent of the funds.

Amendment 73, Funding for Public Schools: this measure boosts income taxes to raise money for
education by establishing a tax bracket system rather than a flat tax rate and raises taxes for individuals
earning more than $150,000 per year, raises the corporate income tax rate and creates the Quality
Public Education Fund. There would be no change in income taxes for those earning between $0 and
$150,000 which would continue to be taxed at the current rate of 4.63 percent. The initiative would
also increase the corporate tax rate from 4.63 percent to 6 percent. The measure would decrease
property taxes levied by school districts but does not affect property taxes levied by other local
governments. The property tax rate for residential property would be decreased to 7 percent and nonresidential property rate would be decreased to 24 percent. Lastly the measure would establish a fund
called the Quality Public Education Fund. This measure is proposed by Great Schools Thriving
Communities.
Amendment 74, Compensation to Owners for Decreased Property Value Due to State Regulation
Initiative: this measure would require that property owners be compensated for any reduction in
property value caused by state laws or regulations. This measure is being proposed by the Colorado
Farm Bureau.
Amendment 75, Campaign Finance: this measure changes campaign finance limitations so that if a
candidate contributes or loans more than $1 million to his or her candidate committee, then all
candidates in the same election who did not benefit from the contributions are entitled to accept
aggregate individual contributions for a primary or general election at five times the current rate. This
measure is being proposed by two former Colorado legislators Rep. BJ Nikkel and Senator Greg Brophy.
Constitutional amendments referred by the Colorado General Assembly
•
•
•
•
•

•

Amendment A: amends the state constitution to prohibit slavery and involuntary servitude as a
punishment for a crime and thereby prohibiting slavery and involuntary servitude in all
circumstances.
Amendment V: amends the state constitution to reduce the age qualification for a member of
the Colorado General Assembly from 25 years to 21.
Amendment W: changes the format of the election ballot for judicial retention elections by
consolidating retention questions.
Amendment X: changes the definition of industrial hemp.
Amendment Y: changes the way that congressional districts are drawn by taking the duty to
draw congressional districts away from the state legislature and giving it to an independent
commission composed of 12 citizens with restrictions designed to prevent control and influence
by one political party.
Amendment Z: changes the manner in which state Senate and House districts are drawn and
reforms the existing legislative reapportionment commission by expanding the commission to
twelve members, authorizing the appointment of members who possess specified qualifications
and prohibits any one political party’s control of the commission.

2
Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: State Update 10-2-18 (3579 : State Update - Brandeberry McKenna)

•

1.C.2.a

Attachment: State Update 10-2-18 (3579 : State Update - Brandeberry McKenna)

Due to the passage of Amendment 71 in 2016 all constitutional measures must pass with a 55-percent
majority rather than a simple majority in November.

3
Packet Pg. 12

1.C.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: September 26, 2018

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

September 26, 2018

Board Meeting Date: October 2, 2018

Subject:

Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs

ATTACHMENTS:


Federal Update 9 25 18 (PDF)

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 13

1.C.3.a
Squire Patton Boggs (US) LLP
2550 M Street, NW
Washington, DC 20037
+1 202 457 6000
+1 202 457 6315
squirepattonboggs.com
O
F

To:

Board of Directors, Regional Transportation District of Denver

From:

Squire Patton Boggs (US) LLP

Date:

September 25, 2018

Subject:

Federal Update

Congressional Negotiations Continue on FY 2019 Spending Bills.
FY 2019 Transportation-HUD Bill:
While the Senate has passed its FY 2019 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development
(THUD) appropriations bill, the full House has not considered its THUD bill. Congressional
staff for both the House and Senate appropriations committees have, however, been preconferencing the two THUD bills this month, and intend to include the THUD bill as part of a
four-bill appropriations package that is nearing completion. That package has not yet been
released, however, and at this time it appears unlikely that Congress will vote on a final FY 2019
THUD bill before current-year transportation appropriations expire on September 30.
Short-Term Continuing Resolution:
This week we expect Congress to pass and send to the President another appropriations package
that includes a short-term Continuing Resolution (CR) that would fund through December 7
those departments and programs of the Federal government – likely including US DOT – for
which Congress has not yet reached final agreement on spending legislation. Thus, it appears
likely that US DOT programs would continue at FY 2018’s historically high funding levels
under the CR until the FY 2019 spending bill is enacted.
RRIF Program Language in the CR and FY 2019 THUD Bills:
US DOT and the Office of Management and Budget have secured language in the short-term CR
that appears to be a step backwards in our efforts to direct US DOT to begin returning credit risk
premiums due and owing to borrowers who have repaid their loans under the RRIF program.
While bill text for the FY 2019 THUD spending bill has not yet been released, we understand the
THUD bill may make further changes to the law governing RRIF credit risk premiums. Such
changes could affect our continued efforts to secure the return of the credit risk premium on the
DUSPA loan, so SPB remains directly engaged with US DOT, House and Senate Committee
staff, and our Congressional delegation. We have made clear that RTD has followed all the rules
of the RRIF program and simply expects US DOT to do the same.
47 Offices in 20 Countries
Squire Patton Boggs (US) LLP is part of the international legal practice Squire Patton Boggs, which operates worldwide through a number of
separate legal entities.
Please visit squirepattonboggs.com for more information.

1
Packet
Pg. 14

Attachment: Federal Update 9 25 18 (3586 : Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs)

Federal Update

1.C.3.a

Upcoming Midterm Elections Could Affect Infrastructure Legislation and RTD’s
Congressional Delegation.

Democrats have already stated that a large infrastructure package will be a top priority, should
they take control of the House. Infrastructure investment has long had significant bipartisan
support and could be an area in which House Democrats and the White House work together in
the new Congress. If Congress considers a large infrastructure package next year, it is also likely
to consider reauthorizing surface transportation programs in the same bill, as the Fixing
America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act expires in September 2020. Additionally,
Democrats would likely be willing to consider a Federal gas tax increase to address the Highway
Trust Fund’s (HTF) chronic revenue shortfall and may also consider reestablishing
Congressional earmarks to direct infrastructure investment to particular projects.
The elections could also affect RTD’s Congressional delegation. While all other Colorado
incumbents appear to have safe seats, Representative Mike Coffman (R-CO-06) is in a close race
with Democratic challenger Jason Crow. Recent polling shows that currently 40 percent of
voters support Coffman while 51 percent support Jason Crow. Hillary Clinton carried the district
by 9 points in the 2016 Presidential election.
FTA Acting Administrator Addresses Critics at APTA Annual Meeting.
The Federal Transit Administration’s (FTA) Acting Administrator, Jane Williams, spoke at
APTA’s meeting in Nashville on September 24. She touted FTA’s deployment of historic levels
of discretionary grant and formula funding and the Agency’s approach to reducing regulatory
burdens on transit agencies. She also emphatically defended FTA’s implementation of the
Capital Investment Grant (CIG) program, and decried what she described as outsized and unfair
“myths” about the Agency’s actions to implement the program. She noted that the current
Administration has deployed significant CIG funding on pace with prior Democratic and
Republican Administrations, and that her focus on geographic diversity in grant awards is
consistent with prior Administrations as well.

2

Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: Federal Update 9 25 18 (3586 : Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs)

The upcoming midterm elections on November 6 could produce changes relevant to RTD’s
mission and interests, both here in Colorado and at the Federal level. At this time, the most
likely outcome of the Congressional elections will be that the House switches to Democratic
control while the Senate remains in Republican control.

