Oct 2 2018 0530 PM Government Relations
Committee
PAUL SOLANO: Second day of August. I'm sorry, October. Where have I been? 2018. The
committee will now come to order. Please note that the official meetings of RTD Board of
Directors are digitally video recorded and will be captioned and made available to the public via
the Board's website.
And RTD safety is our core value. I'd like to begin the meeting with a short safety briefing. If we
have a medical emergency and 911 needs to be called, I'll ask our RTD general counsel to make
that telephone call. Any medically trained individuals in the room are respectfully requested to
assist, if needed. An Automatic Emergency Defibrillator, an AED, is in a glass case located
outside this room on the wall to the right.
In the event we must evacuate the building for fire or any other emergency, please calmly exit
out the door you came in at the back of the room, go up to the stairs to the first floor around the
security desk, and exit through the front door. Police and security officers will be there to direct
you to a safe meet-up area.
Anyone needing special assistance in the event of an evacuation will be assisted by RTD staff, as
necessary. While RTD takes every precaution to ensure the security of its passengers, vehicles,
and facilities, the agency relies on both staff and the general public to be aware of and alert to
any suspicious or dangerous activity on buses, trains, and around stations, stops, and platforms.
As such, I would encourage all RTD employees and patrons to download the RTD Transit Watch
app, which allows users to report suspicious or dangerous activity and communicate directly with
RTD transit security personnel on a real-time basis.
In the event of an emergency situation, the Transit Watch app is available via Google Play and
the Apple App Store. Thank you. We kindly ask everybody to turn off your cell phones or
silence them.
We have two recommended actions tonight. First, we have updates-- local, state, and federal.
First, we'll ask CRL to do their update. And I believe that's Roger Sherman.
ROGER SHERMAN: OK, I don't have too much to add to my written report. But I just will
point out these two items of interest on the Metro Mayor Caucus meeting next-[INAUDIBLE]
ROGER SHERMAN: Someone's on the phone. We have a mobility choice update at Metro
Mayors, and I know you're going to have an update here tonight. And then General Manager
Genova will be doing an update to the Metro Mayors. We've had that scheduled for a couple
months. At that point, we're talking about G Line, I'm sure there'll be other things that Dave will
update the mayors on.

So that is tomorrow at 7:30 at the Metro Chamber on Market. And that meeting is open of course
to anyone that would like to attend. The other thing I'll point out is we still have I think three
seats at the Chamber's Gubernatorial Candidate Forum a week from-- I know that's this Friday.
Gosh, where are the weeks going? So this Friday, if you have any interest in attending, just
please let me know, because I hate to see those seats go to waste. And that is it, unless you have
questions.
PAUL SOLANO: We'll have our state-- Brandeberry~McKenna do the update.
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: Hi, yesterday, Director Tisdale and Dave Genova presented to the
Transportation Legislative Review Committee. I think that went really well. Not surprisingly, a
handful of members on the committee had a lot of questions about the Pass Program Working
Group. I think they were very satisfied with the detailed update that Dave and Director Tisdale
provided.
The other stuff were really just kind of waiting to the election. We put in our report and update
on the budget, so we're getting a little bit of a picture of what the state budget forecast looks like.
But honestly not a whole lot is happening until the elections happen next month.
We've spent most of the summer and fall meeting all the candidates that are running, and briefing
them on who you are, what you've worked on, and trying to figure out who wants to be on
transportation, what issues that they're interested in, what kind of legislation they might be
interested in carrying. And I think we'll have more to report after the first part of November. I'm
happy to answer any questions.
But I also want to thank Director Tisdale for his testimony yesterday, Director Solano for
working with us at the end of last legislative session, having some meetings with legislators who
were very interested in the past program working group, and for Director Catlin who showed up
at the hearing. I think legislators really appreciate seeing members at the capitol, and we thank
you for that.
PAUL SOLANO: OK, now we'll do our federal. Mike Dino, if you will, please.
MIKE DINO: Great. Mike Dino here with Squire Patton Boggs. A few things happened after our
first report came in. So I think we did share a supplemental report and also some good news-RTD received $11 million in funding from the federal government under the Program for Bus
and Bus Facilities Infrastructure Investment Program. $7.5 million for bus replacement and $3.5
million for replacing some roofs on some of your maintenance facilities. So that's $11 million
from the federal government that's not going elsewhere and coming here, so that's good news.
Speaking of money, the Appropriations Bill for Transportation, known as the THUD Bill
because it includes Housing and Urban Development, thus T-H-U-D, THUD. It's more exciting
than that, but the news is that the bill was not finalized really by Sunday, the end of the fiscal
year 2018. So Continuing Resolution, known as a CR, is in effect through December 7.

An interesting thing happened in the Senate, they passed what is called the TRIP Act, called the
Transit Rail Inspections Practice. And it requires states to be capable of making unannounced
inspections of rail transit systems. Now FTA already authorizes states to do this, but now they're
requiring them to do it.
It's only passed the Senate, it has some important people on the Senate though that pushed it
forward, so there's a chance it could pass this Congress. And so we'll see if it doesn't make it
through this Congress, the bill will go away and it may be reintroduced again. But it's an
interesting thing that is putting a little more pressure on the states to be more active in transit
inspections.
Another interesting thing was that the FAA (Federal Aviation Administration) bill is going to
pass. It looks like the president will sign it by Sunday. And they are looking at in the FAA bill
whether RRIF (Railroad Rehabilitation & Improvement Financing and TIFIA (Transportation
Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act) can be used for airport-related projects. So we'll see if
they'll investigate that more. They're just going to study that, they're not going to make a change
just yet.
Speaking of RRIF, I know board members have asked me in passing what's up with the Credit
Risk Premium, the CRP, the $29 million that you deserve to get back because you're paying off
the RRIF loan. Well, the USDOT (US Department of Transportation) and the Office of
Management and Budget, known as OMB, seem to put something in the continuing resolution
that thwarts our efforts. So that's just for the short-term, the continuing resolution.
So we're continuing to work with DOT, with the House and Senate committees, and our
delegation to get the language we want in the final appropriations bill that hopefully will free up
that money and get it back to us. So that's been frustrating. We seem to have at times people who
want to help us in DOT and other times they don't. So we need to apply political pressure from
our delegation and other avenues.
So that's a quick update, and glad to take some questions, if need be.
PAUL SOLANO: Director Anderson?
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you, Chair Solano. It was pretty exciting to see the difference
in the acting FTA (Federal Transit Administration) Director and her presentation at APTA
(American Public Transportation Association). It was always in the past eight years that I have
gone to APTA, at least the FTA acting or whoever it was would at least take questions. And it
was a little stunning to see her just come out and say what was and walk back behind the stage.
So I was disappointed in that.
The rail that you have described, the rail issues, passing the Senate, I have a real concern about
that, especially if it were to pass and it would be the Colorado PUC (Public Utilities
Commission) that would be doing that. I would think that we would have to work with the
legislature to find a whole new group of people to take care of that issue. Is that a possibility?

MIKE DINO: Well, let me ask this question. I understand we have a state safety oversight
agency. Is that under the PUC?
DAVE GENOVA: If I may, Mr. Chair. Yes, so the current state safety oversight rules and
regulations under the Federal Transit Administration, the Colorado Public Utilities Commission
is our state safety oversight agency. We have a very good working relationship with them in that
program. And so what I'm not familiar with under the TRIP Act is whether that is FTA or FRA
(Federal Railroad Administration) or both.
MIKE DINO: It seems to be FTA.
DAVE GENOVA: OK, so they already have that authority to do that under the state safety
oversight program. And actually we do a joint audit program currently, and we have for years
with the Public Utilities Commission because they have been the state safety oversight agency in
Colorado over light rail since probably the late 1990s.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: When they come out and staff makes some decision, does that then
have to go wait and go before the board before it's approved? I just think the whole PUC process
is old-fashioned and not conducive to getting things done as rapidly as transportation issues are
going to change in the future. So I'm just wondering where we should be going with how we
work to make the process that they go through more efficient.
DAVE GENOVA: Well, under the oversight program, there are certain things, of course, there
are things that we have to report and there are certain elements that the commission does
approve, like accident investigation reports and corrective actions and things like that. But
they're usually pretty timely about approving those things, and we've really not had any issues
under the state safety oversight program at all.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: That's good to hear. That's all.
PAUL SOLANO: Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Solano. I was just wondering what rationale was given for
not giving us back our money? What could be used rationally for that?
MIKE DINO: Well, I think they've continually said this hasn't happened before, nobody's paid it
back, we need the money, it's within our jurisdiction. And they've just been obstinate in that way.
I mean, I don't think they've given us a good reason that we can't refute. And I think we've been
very clear that RTD lived up to its terms of the agreement, and thus the federal government
needs to live up to its terms too. And I think they've just been very unreasonable.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you.
PAUL SOLANO: Director Folska?

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Solano. I agree, Mike. I think it is unreasonable. And
I'm wondering what it is-- we went after this for how many years? Three, two?
MIKE DINO: It's been two to three.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Right, so our federal delegates, what could they be doing that they're not
doing?
MIKE DINO: Well, certainly I think our two Senate offices have been very attuned to it, and I
think they'd like to see the DOT reach this decision on their own volition. But they're not getting
there. And if it for some reason doesn't appear in the final appropriations, then I think our
delegation, particularly our senators, need to be pretty aggressive in getting it overturned.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, that's all.
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you. I see one more speaker, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, thank you. So with that same topic, can you give us a document that
just specifically shows that language change that created this issue?
MIKE DINO: Sure, we can.
NATALIE MENTEN: I want it. I don't know if anybody else does, but I would like it.
HEATHER: I think I got it.
MIKE DINO: OK, Heather think she has it, so we can share it with the director.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: We can track that through. So there was actually favorable language in the
2018 omnibus, but they're going back and changing that language now. And we have been
working closely with not only Mike and his team, but also our delegation. Every visit we make,
every time we're in DC, we're meeting with our delegation staff. And then the staff members on
the committees that are actually working out this language, we meet with them regularly, too.
But the whole thing really comes around to the definition of "cohort", and that is a key part of it.
And so then in 2018 they came down to narrowing down that definition, which was favorable for
us. And now it seems like they're looking at expanding out that definition again. But we'll be able
to give you what it was before, what it was in 2018, and whatever new language they come up
with.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you, that's it.
SHERRY ELLEBRACHT: And I might just add-- this is Sherry-- that I don't think they ever
planned on anyone paying the loans back, so they didn't escrow the money anywhere. So finding

the $29 million is the difficult part for them. So another reason that they're not too anxious to put
language in a bill to give the money back to us. They don't know where they will find it.
[INAUDIBLE].
PAUL SOLANO: OK, I see no other speakers. I took the discretion to do updates.
KATE WILLIAMS: Hello, hello?
PAUL SOLANO: I'm sorry. Who do we have there, Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: It is, Chair Solano, and I do have a question.
PAUL SOLANO: Go ahead.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, this is for Jenifer. I'm sorry, I'm at the Colorado state transit
thing, can't be there in person. But I would really like to know what was the primary question
about the past program working group, what's your summary of that?
BRANDEBERRY MCKENNA: I think most of the comments were just positive, that they were
happy to hear that the Board concluded its recommendations. I think one representative
expressed a little bit of disappointment that it takes six months for implementation. But Heather
and Michael, Dave, and Director Tisdale I think spent some good time walking them through as
to why it takes so long just from an implementation standpoint. I thought it was a very positive
meeting. And again, appreciate all of the support of the Board working with us, with legislators
who had interest in this issue and being there yesterday to answer their questions in detail.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super, that's all I had. Thank you, Jenifer, thank you, Chair Solano.
PAUL SOLANO: OK, once again, I took the discretion to do updates first. Now we'll go to
recommended actions. It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter an agreement for
federal liaison services with Squire Patton Boggs LLP for a one year option at a cost of
$276,000, January 1 through December 31, 2019. The action represents the fifth and final year of
a five-year contract. Funding for this contract is included in the annual budget.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So moved.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: So moved
PAUL SOLANO: OK, who was the mover?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Director Folska.
PAUL SOLANO: Folska. And second?

ERNEST ARCHULETA: Archuleta.
PAUL SOLANO: Archuleta, OK. All right, we have a presentation?
[INAUDIBLE]
SHERRY ELLEBRACHT: Actually, this is the action that I bring you forward tonight. And I
think you've had the opportunity to read the board report, but I would just emphasize how
valuable their work in Washington is for us. And they stay on top of any of the appropriations
bills that are coming up for the budget proposals that are put forward, the appropriations bills,
any bill that impacts RTD. And Mike mentioned the TRIP Bill, which is the railroad inspection
bill.
And even though it's only passed the Senate at this point, or is before the Senate, it's something
that they will be watching very closely.
[INAUDIBLE]
SHERRY ELLEBRACHT: Was someone on the phone?
PAUL SOLANO: Whoever's on the phone, can you mute your phone, please?
SHERRY ELLEBRACHT: And it seems like we've just had an authorization bill, the FAST
(Fixing America's Surface Transportation) Act, but already at the beginning of next year,
Congress will begin working on the next appropriations bill. So that's another reason that Squire
Patton Boggs being present in Washington is so valuable for us.
And Mike already talked about the credit risk premium, that they continue-- Patty is working
diligently to try and find a way for us to get that premium back. And their work in Washington
and their stature in Washington is fantastic. The relationships that they have are invaluable. And
then of course I think it's invaluable that we have a representative here in Denver, Mike Dino.
So I would just ask for your approval of this one-year option.
MIKE DINO: And Sherry, may I add, though some of us do miss earmarks and such, we do
work with you and your staff and certainly others, including the delegation, closely on grants.
And those are much more competitive than they ever used to be, so that's why we're always glad
to see when RTD is successful there, too.
SHERRY ELLEBRACHT: And I have to say that we have a grant application in for the BUILD
(Better Utilizing Investments to Leverage Development) program, which is the old TIGER
(Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery) grant program. It's for the
rehabilitation of the 16th Street Mall. Patty has been working diligently to make sure that we
have all the letters of support that we need to give to FTA so that we have a really good chance
of getting $25 million in that grant application. So I have to say they're working constantly on
our behalf.

PAUL SOLANO: Thank you, Sherry, Mike. Next we have the Director Bob Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank, Chair. During the past year we've had a lot of people on staff retire. So
my question is, are the same people going to be assigned to this contract that has worked on this
in the past?
SHERRY ELLEBRACHT: To my knowledge, it will be Patty Doersch, Patricia Doersch, Tim
Drake, and Mike Dino. And then if there are areas that Patty doesn't feel comfortable working
on, there are other people in the firm that she pulls in. But really she is the point person. And as
far as I know she's not planning to retire-- at least I hope not.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
PAUL SOLANO: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to point out, first of all,
that I support the exercise of the option for the fifth and final year of this five-year contract.
Second, I did want to point out that unlike the misfire that your Chair was responsible for earlier
this year concerning another exercise of option, even though this is within the General Manager's
signing authority, it is the policy of this Board, and we have reiterated and restated it, that by
virtue of the very special relationship that we have with the liaison on the federal, the state, and
the local level, those matters come before the Board, even though they might be within the
General Manager's signing authority. So I'm in support of the recommended action. And I just
wanted to provide that historical footnote for the sake of the record. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you. Director Chuck Sisk.
CHUCK SISK: Thank you, Chair Solano. Since this is going to be my last opportunity to discuss
the contract, I think that, having worked with Squire Patton Boggs, it's really been a pleasure.
And I think, all of us should-- we have some other comparables or maybe we don't have other
comparables, but I would say, if we did, we would see how their-[DOG BARKING]
Professional services-- and the dogs are barking. That's my dog at home.
Anyway, but the fact is that we have Mike, that he's the point person and does a really great job
of working with all of us and delivering the services. And certainly Patty in Washington and
others, and the support group is great. So I really wanted to say a personal thanks to Mike Dino
for what he's done work for RTD, what he's done, what he continues to do, because Mike casts a
big presence.
He still can't shoot the ball very well from high school, but he's a heck of a lot better lobbyist
than he was a basketball player. And he was a really good basketball player, all seriousness

aside. Anyway, it's a great honor to be supporting this fifth and final option. And I know the next
Board will get more options than this.
MIKE DINO: Thank you, Chuck.
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you, Chair Sisk. I'd like to add in, if there's no other speakers. I've
worked with Patton and Boggs, Mike Dino's team, and Patty Doersch for the six years, we've
traveled to Washington DC, and I think they've been great. And they've always been supportive.
They let us know where we had to be and what we needed to know. And I would strongly
support this, and I encourage all our Directors to support this.
And if we have no other questions, I'd like to take this to a vote. Other speakers?
First of all, Director Williams, would you like to vote?
KATE WILLIAMS: I will definitely be supporting this one. Thank you.
PAUL SOLANO: Also, can you mute your phone, please?
KATE WILLIAMS: I do not own a dog and I have been muted.
PAUL SOLANO: Really?
[LAUGHTER]
Well, then, you must be barking, I don't know. Can we have the mover and the seconder? OK,
this passes 12 to one. No vote is Director Menten. And we have 12 yes. This passes.
MIKE DINO: Thank you very much.
CHUCK SISK: Chair Solano, I think we had 13 to one.
PAUL SOLANO: I'm sorry, 13 to one. Yes, thank you for clarifying that.
Other matters-- myself and Lead Service Planner, Nataly Handlos, and Systems Planner, Bill
Van Meter, will travel to Brighton on October 23 to present to the Brighton City Council
regarding the RX and RC proposed discontinuation. This will be with a study session.
We will address fiscal responsibility and responsibility to our tax payers and our fare payers
regarding services that require moving empty buses. And we're in the business of moving people,
and not empty buses. But we'll discuss this with the City Council in Brighton on October 23.
OK, no other matters? I'll call this meeting adjourned.
JUDY LUBOW: Five minutes.

PAUL SOLANO: Five minutes break.
SPEAKER 10: 13 to one.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

