Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District
Secretary – Claudia Folska, District E
B
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Bonnie “Ernest” Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Larry Hoy, District J

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, July 17, 2018
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

I.

Call to Order
First Vice Chair Menten called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance
Led by Jamison Rhodes.

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Directors Deadwyler and Hoy and Chair Tisdale were absent.

IV.

Retiree Awards
There were no retirees for the month of July.

V.

Public Participation
David Dvorak, Lafayette.
Adrienne Deshaies, Arvada.

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Executive Committee – Chaired by Chair Tisdale
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Chair Tisdale
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Deadwyler

Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Mihalik
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Walker
The committee reports were adopted as included in the packet.

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
Presented by Director Walker.

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of June 26, 2018
Motion:

Director Williams made the motion to approve the
Board Meeting minutes of June 26, 2018.
Director Broom seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 12 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Catlin, Deadwyler, Folska,
Lubow, Menten, Mihalik, Sisk, Solano, Walker,
Williams) and 0 against. Directors Hoy and
Deadwyler and Chair Tisdale were absent.
Chair Tisdale declared the motion PASSED unanimously

IX.

Chair's Report
Presented by First Vice Chair Menten.

X.

General Manager's Report
Presented by General Manager Genova.

XI.

Unanimous Consent
Director Sisk noted for the record that one of his employees was related to a
person who worked on a project associated with Agenda Item A. He stated that he
did not feel the relationship required his recusal from voting on Item A.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to approve
items A and B on the unanimous consent agenda.
Director Broom seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion:

The motion passed with 12 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Catlin, Folska, Lubow, Menten,
Mihalik, Sisk, Solano, Walker, Williams) and 0
against. Directors Deadwyler and Hoy and Chair
Tisdale were absent.

First Vice-Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
A.
Approval of ERP Licenses
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute
all documents necessary to award a contract to Mythics for licenses for the ERP
Replacement Program for an amount not to exceed $2,000,000 over 5
years. Subscriptions for the ERP Replacement Program will be paid annually.
This recommendation addresses two of the General Manager’s 2018 goals: Core
Goal #3 Strong Financial Management and Task Goal #1 Fiscal Sustainability.
B.

Approval of Data and Content Analysis Software

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to award a fiveyear contract to Active Navigation in the total not-to-exceed amount of $869,539
for a data and content analysis software (record crawler).
This recommended action addresses the General Manager’s 2018 goals - Task
Goal #1 Fiscal Sustainability, and Task Goal #3 Asset Management/State of Good
Repair.

XII.

Recommended Action
None

XIII.

Old Business
Directors Lubow, Folska, Catlin, Broom, Williams, and Sisk spoke.

XIV. New Business
Directors Williams, Walker, Sisk, and Anderson spoke.

XV.

Executive Session
Denver Transit Partners dispute resolution process and negotiations. CRS 24-6-402
(4) (b) (Conferences with an attorney for the local public body for the purposes of
receiving legal advice on specific legal questions); and CRS 24-6-402 (4) (e) (I)
(Determining positions relative to matters that may be subject to negotiations;
developing strategy for negotiations; and instructing negotiators)
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to move into
Executive Session for the purposes of discussing
CRS 24-6-402 (4) (b) (Conferences with an
attorney for the local public body for the
purposes of receiving legal advice on specific
legal questions); and CRS 24-6-402 (4) (e) (I)
(Determining positions relative to matters that
may be subject to negotiations; developing

strategy for
negotiators).

negotiations;

and

instructing

Director Williams seconded the motion.

ARCH AWAY
The Board moved into Executive Session at 6:30 p.m.

XVI. Adjourn from Executive Session
XVII. Adjourn
First Vice-Chair Menten adjourned the meeting at 7:52 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of
an RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

