1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, April 2, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Bruce Daly

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Daly called the meeting to order at 5:32 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title

Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Kent Bagley

Chair of the Board
Director, District H

Present
Present

5:31 PM
5:16 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Committee Chair
Director, District B

Present
Present

4:55 PM
5:28 PM

Claudia Folska

Director, District E

Present

5:04 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District J
Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Present
Present

5:10 PM
5:31 PM
5:32 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:31 PM

Natalie Menten
Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District M
Director, District C

Present
Present

5:26 PM
5:34 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:26 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:29 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:07 PM
5:32 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Shirley Bennett, Lee Cryer, Chuck Culig, John Elias,
Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Terry Howerter, Kate Iverson, Tina
Jaquez, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Patrick
McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Pranaya
Shrestha, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert,
Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington, Brian Welch

Others Present:

Edie Bryan, Mike Dino, Stan Gronek, Sherman Hamilton, Miller
Hudson, David Lewis, Darien O'Brian, Joe Racosky, Jacob Riger,
Marta Sipeki, Jo Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Hugh Wilson

B. Recommended Actions

• RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT OF UNIFORM SALES TAX
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move this
item to the Special Board Meeting on April 2,
2013.
Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded the motion.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [14 TO 1]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten
Committee Chair Daly declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• Government Relations Update
Local – Sherry Ellebracht
Sherry Ellebracht explained that Roger Sherman was unable to attend the
meeting so she would brief the Board on CRL Associates’ activities. She
stated that Roger Sherman and CRL have been spending a lot of time
working on the interim transportation funding solutions. This is a State-wide
effort possibly going to the ballot for funding transportation. The initiative
would be a 0.7% sales tax increase with 2/3 going to highways and 1/3
going to transit. Sherry explained that the western slope and mountain

communities continue to be concerned about the sales tax; the resort
communities already have very high sales tax rates.
Sherry Ellebracht stated that Roger Sherman attended the Metro Mayor’s
Task Force that met on March 5th and there will be another meeting on April
10th. She shared that he has also been attending all the Citizens Advisory
Committee (CAC) meetings and the meetings between CAC members and
RTD Directors. Sherry Ellebracht said that 7 meetings were completed in
March with the balance to be scheduled in April.
Federal – Patton Boggs
Mike Dino stated that since the Directors were last in Washington, D.C. the
House and Senate did pass the Continuing Resolution (CR) for Fiscal Year
2013. This Resolution funds the Federal Government through the rest of the
Fiscal Year which is through the end of September, 2013. He explained that
this is minus the $85 billion in automatic cuts related to Sequestration. All
Federal agencies need to have a plan by April 25th as to how they will deal
with these cuts.
Mike Dino said the positive elements of the Continuing Resolution (CR) are
that the transit formula was set to levels authorized in MAP-21. The final
CR provides $117 million more for transit than the House originally
proposed. He stated that there will ultimately be $1.855 billion going to the
Federal Transit Administration (FTA) for New Starts and Small Starts grants
and $10 million that was put in the Transit Oriented Development Planning
Pilot Program. Mike Dino stated that the Transportation Investment
Generating Economic Recovery Grant Program (TIGER) also received $475
million in funding. He explained this is good since RTD has had designs on
looking at how to get more funding through the TIGER Program and partner
with other agencies.
Mike Dino stated that our top advocacy issue is to make sure RTD receives
the $150 million that was asked for in Fiscal Year 2013 for the Eagle P3
project. He explained that because the Sequestration did reduce New Starts
by $100 million they are concerned that the FTA will give all the Full
Funding Grant Agreements (FFGAs) a cut.
Mike Dino shared that they are working with our delegation to send a letter
to FTA Administrator Peter Rogoff as well as US Department of
Transportation (DOT) Secretary Ray LaHood asking them to honor the Full
Funding Grant Agreement Request for $150 million this Fiscal Year. He
stated that our Senators have agreed to sign a letter and Congresswoman
Diana DeGette is working to have her House associates write a similar letter.
Senator Michael Bennet and Congressmen Ed Perlmutter said they would
make phone calls.

Mike Dino explained that our messaging in the letter requests the allocation
of the full $150 million for Fiscal Year 2013. He stated that they are
stressing that this is the only major transit public-private partnership going
on right now and that it is in the best interest of the FTA to support it. They
are also highlighting how RTD has managed all our other FFGAs on time and
within budget.
Mike Dino said that the President announced his Rebuild America Partnership
that will focus on more money for transportation infrastructure by creating a
National Infrastructure Bank with $10 billion dollars. This replaces the Build
America Bonds Program with America Fast-forward Bonds. He said the
President is also proposing $4 billion in new competitive funding for TIGER
Grants as well as TIFIA loan money. Mike Dino stated that the Marketplace
Fairness Act, which is an opportunity for states to collect sales tax on
internet sales, did pass in the Budget Resolution for the Senate. This could
lead to more revenue for RTD if it is enacted by the president. He said that
we are still waiting for a new United States Department of Transportation
Secretary to be nominated.
Mike Dino shared that on April 10th, 2013 the President will introduce his
Budget Resolution; RTD has asked for $160 million for Fiscal Year 2014. He
stated that the House and Senate both passed their Fiscal Year 2014 Budget
Resolutions. The Senate has called for Tax Credit Bonds and Infrastructure
Bank to help transportation while the House wants to eliminate funding for
high speed rail.
State – Brandeberry~McKenna
Jenifer Brandeberry shared that the House passed Senate Bill 13-027 with
44 yes votes. She explained that because there was an amendment that
was put into the Legislative Declaration by the House Committee it will have
to go back to the Senate for concurrence. Jenifer Brandeberry said that our
Senate Sponsor, Senator Todd, is working on the Bill so she does not
anticipate any problems. She thanked everyone at RTD who worked with
Brandeberry~McKenna in getting this Bill through.
Jenifer Brandeberry stated they are also working on House Bill 1272. This is
the Sales Tax Parity Bill that is a product of the Board adopted Risk
Allocation Matrix (RAM). She said there were many meetings prior to the
introduction of HB1272 with the Majority Leader and Department of
Revenue. This Bill will make tax collection in the State of Colorado uniform.
Jenifer Brandeberry explained that her team worked very hard with members
of the business community, the Denver Metro Chamber of Commerce, and
the Colorado Association of Commerce and Industry knowing that for a long
time they have been at the General Assembly talking about this policy;

having consistency in what is collected is important to them. She shared
that Tom Clarke came to the House Committee and testified in favor of this
Bill. The Bill was heard today on second reading in the House and passed
on voice vote. It should continue to move along in the process. Jenifer
Brandeberry thanked Terry Howerter, Marla Lien and Director Sisk for
working on this complicated piece of legislation. She believes this will
create a clearer idea of what is collected.
Jenifer Brandeberry informed the Board that we had a joint presentation to
the Transportation Committees. It was attended by Chair Anderson and
Directors Daly and Tobiassen. She said that General Manager Washington
and Terry Howerter gave the presentation. The Transportation Committees
are holding a series of early morning meetings about how the State can look
at innovative financing. Jenifer Brandeberry stated that it is a compliment to
the District that we were asked to present. RTD provided some interesting
testimony and conversation about how we have been incredibly visionary.
Jenifer Brandeberry stated she received many comments from the
Committee following the presentation that the education provided is very
beneficial.
Jenifer Brandeberry shared that the Budget has passed from the Senate and
is now in the House. She believes that a big part of the Budget will be done
by the end of the week (April 5, 2013).

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - May 14, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Daly adjourned the meeting at 5:52 p.m. to the FasTracks
Monitoring Committee.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

