Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on September 13, 2012, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 1 of 5
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of
Directors

Date:

September 13, 2012

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on September
13, 2012 at 1:15 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room
***
Board Members Present:
Chair Kemp, 1st Vice-Chair Tayer, 2nd-Vice-Chair
Cohen, Treasurer Bagley, Secretary Malpiede
Other Board Members
Present:
Subject:

Board Member Absent:
Others Present:
Call to Order:

I.

Paula Perdue, Scott Reed for General Manager
Washington
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 1:15 p.m.

Approval of Revised Board Bylaws
Chair Kemp shared that he had appointed Directors Daly and Walker to the
Bylaws ad hoc committee for the review and revisions to the Bylaws. They have
done a fabulous job in editing and providing changes. General Counsel Marla Lien
also made some recommendations which have been incorporated.
Motion:
Director Malpiede made the motion to
approve revised Board Bylaws.
Director Cohen seconded the motion.
Vote on the
Motion:

II.

The Motion PASSED.

Approval of September Board Agenda Review
AGM Scott Reed presented the August Board agenda.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve
the agenda for the September 18 Board
meeting.
Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on September 13, 2012, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 2 of 5
Discussion:

Chair Kemp reviewed the changes that had
been approved by the Board in the F&AA
committee meeting for the Salaried Pension
Plan. Specifically, there was the amendment
to the Salaried Defined Benefits Pension
Trust to change the cap from 9% to a dollar
range up to a maximum of $3.1M and the
Defined Contribution would be funded at 9%
for 2013. The Committee was clear on the
change and there were no other questions.
Director Bagley asked to have the executive
session for the General Manager contract
removed as it may be premature.

Vote on the
Motion:


The Motion PASSED.

Unanimous Consent




Approval of Revision to Board Bylaws
Amendment of the RTD Salaried Employees’ Pension Trust
and Certification of the 2013 contribution for the RTD Salaried
Employees’ Pension Trust and Defined Contribution Pension
Plan Trust
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors amend the RTD’s Salaried
Employees’ Pension Trust to change the contribution cap from the
9% rate to allow for a maximum annual contribution not to exceed
$3.1 million. Further it is recommended that the RTD Board of
Directors certifies a 2013 contribution to RTD’s Salaried Employees’
Pension Trust at the actuarial recommended amount of $3.1 million
and Salaried Employees’ Defined Contribution Plan Trust rate at 9%
of each participant’s eligible compensation.



Authorization of RTD Investment Policy
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors adopt the Investment Policy
Statement (the “Policy”), attached.



Authorization for Property Acquisition for Eagle P3 Project
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors pass the attached property acquisition resolution
certifying certain additional properties as necessary for construction of

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on September 13, 2012, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 3 of 5
the Eagle P3 Commuter Rail Project and the associated Commuter Rail
Maintenance Facility and authorizing staff to proceed with all requisite
legal process under state eminent domain law.



Award of Solar Panel Photovoltaics for East Metro Facility
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his
designee to award a contract to the most qualified proposer,
Namaste, in the estimated not-to-exceed amount of $1,200,000 for
the design/build of the solar panel photovoltaic (PV) installation at the
East Metro facility.



Approval to Move Proposed January 2013 Service Changes
to Public Comment
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that the Board of Directors approve moving the proposed January
2013 Service Changes (Attachment A) on to public review and
comment.



Award of Contract to Purchase Retail Point of Sale Terminals
for Smart Card Program
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
enter into a contract for the purchase of up to 300 Retail Point of Sale
Terminals from Xerox, Inc. (Formerly ACS Transportation Solutions, Inc.).
This contract is for an amount not to exceed $1,725,513.00.





Vanpooling Agreement with DRCOG
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager,
or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to enter into an
Amended Agreement with the Denver Regional Council of
Governments (DRCOG) to provide RTD support for the expansion of
the DRCOG RideArrangers vanpool program in the Denver metropolitan
area. This agreement is for calendar year 2012 and shall be in an
amount not to exceed $659,000.00.

Recommended Action



Authorization for Property Acquisitions for I-225 Segment 2
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors pass the attached property acquisition resolution
certifying properties as necessary for construction of the I-225
Segment 2 Light Rail Project and authorize staff to proceed with all
requisite legal process under state eminent domain law.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on September 13, 2012, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 4 of 5



Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility (CRMF) Expansion for
future North Metro Rail Line
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to
approve a Change Order to Denver Transit Partners (DTP) to design
and construct an expansion of the Commuter Rail Maintenance
Facility (CRMF) to accommodate the ultimate fleet required for the
NMRL service to End Of Line for an amount not to exceed
$17,500,000 for the years 2012 through 2014. Funding for this
Change Order would come from the existing North Metro project
cost to complete construction from DUS to NWSS, as identified in
the RTP Amendment financial plan approved by the Board in
August 2012. These funds would be replenished between now
and award of the construction contract for that segment.

II. Other Matters
 Director Tayer placed a request for a FasTracks marketing update.
Scott Reed shared that a communications update is on the agenda for
September 25. This will also include an explanation of the structure
change to the Government relations and public information contract.
Director Tayer indicated three particular areas of interest: (1) update
on the alcohol advertising (2) notion of using properties for marketing
and (3) one-page status updates for each corridor that can be easily
distributed and shared with others. All of the other Directors agreed
for a need to get information easily into the hands of the “average
Joe” in the community. Ideas were shared such as neighborhood
newspaper marketing, or working with the registered neighborhood
infrastructures to make sure information is being disseminated in a
timely manner. The Board members felt that having a 1-page fact
sheet with information on what has been expended in that corridor,
what has been done, etc. is needed. The Committee agreed that
information exists but we need to come up with a strategy for getting
it into the hands of the community.
Scott Reed shared that they are focused in three areas of web
content management, branding and accessibility and are working on
the integration process to make access appear seamless rather from
the RTD web or the FasTracks web. He shared that in his 2013
budget projection, there is a headcount for a PR community outreach
specialist who hopefully can address some of the concerns around
community outreach.
The Committee was very interested in understanding the different
roles, and responsibilities of our current public information team and
consultants. They would like to see this team become more engaged
and visible with the Board. They are especially interested in seeing
some of the creative output from our PI consultant. Scott Reed

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on September 13, 2012, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 5 of 5
explained some of the physical and structural changes to the contract
and indicated his team was pleased with the work of the PI
consultant. Scott Reed indicated that he would take the comments
under consideration in helping to improve the ongoing
communications, more engagement with the Board and
informing/collaborating more with the Board on events in their
respective districts.

III. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 2:20 p.m.

