Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

May 15, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
May 15, 2007 at 5:30 p.m.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Martinez called the meeting to order at 5:32 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
11 members were present at roll call. Directors Brohl arrived after roll call. Directors
Busck, Elfenbein, and Kemp were absent.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
There were two retirees.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
L.W. Morrow, Denver Colorado, referenced a June 20, 2006 decision by the Board rejecting
his fuel cell technology proposal but felt in light of new members on the Board, the issue
should be re-addressed. He stated that some of the members of the Board had been appointed
rather than elected but was corrected for the record by Director McMullen and Chair Martinez.

None was present to receive the award.

David Rothenburger speaking to the West Corridor Value Engineering plan, expressed a desire
that the VE would apply region-wide to all corridors. His specific issues were the walkway
placement (#2& 36), the change to a 3-car base (#24) and sound wall and materials used
(#3&8). He stated they had not seen the results of the noise study for West Corridor. Liz Rao
responded they are in the process of finalizing the results of the noise study and they are
placing signals and leaving enough right-of -way to easily grow the 3-car base. Chair Martinez
responded that each corridor is looked at individually based on its budget but that Value
Engineering will be a key component in all.
Joel Noble, representing the Central corridor or the Historic Curtis Park area, spoke about
the street car proposal and that he feels the RTD team has provided a creative solution to
tie this into the overall LRT system by extending Downing Street all the way to the Civic
Center Station. Civic Center Station should be looked at as a local hub.
V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
Chair Martinez indicated the Committee Chairs should keep it brief, succinct and focused on
new development since the minutes from the Committees had already been included in their
packets.
Planning & Development Committee
Director Ruchman reported on the Planning and Development Committee meeting held
5/10/07. He referenced the Transit Village presentation and stressed the 37 non-controversial

VE changes that were on the unanimous consent agenda. If further information is needed on
the Planning and Development Committee, please refer to the Committee minutes.
Director McMullen queried what level of storm event would last night’s storm that swept a
woman and her child away be rated. Dennis Cole indicated it was less than a 5 year storm
event.
Legislative Committee
Director Pulliam reported that the Lobbyists had done a good job on the RTD supported issues.
Director McMullen shared that he and Elfenbein had participated at a Legislative meeting and
had received positive feedback from Representative McFadden. Cal Marsella expressed
appreciation also to Director Pulliam for accompanying staff to at least 11 legislative meetings.
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Director Chacon provided the report from the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held
jointly with the Study Session on 5/1/07. If further information is needed on the FasTracks
Monitoring Committee, please refer to the Committee minutes.
DBE Committee (Ad Hoc)
There was no DBE meeting held in May but Director Chacon reported on the presentation
made by the DBE Committee in the Board Study session on 5/1/07. Follow-up to the Small
Tier Bonding Program will occur in the June Study session.
Contracted Operational Services Committee
Director Yamrick reported on the Contracted Operational Services Committee meeting held
5/2/07. She emphasized the concerns over the unsustainable paratransit growth and the
Wackenhut non-compete requirement. If further information is needed on the Contracted
Operational Services Committee, please refer to the Committee minutes.
Operations/Customer Services/Marketing Committee
Director Kinton reported on the Operations/Customer Services/Marketing Committee
meeting held 5/2/07. Director Kinton shared the focus on the proposed August changes
especially on route G, P route and Englewood Art Shuttle. If further information is needed
on the Operations/Customer Services/Marketing Committee, please refer to the Committee
minutes.
Financial Administration Committee
Director Kemp was not present to present a report from the Financial/Administration
Committee. If information is needed on the Financial Administration Committee, please refer to
the Committee minutes.
Ad Hoc Reports:
Audit Committee
Director Tayer reported on the Audit Committee meeting held 5/14/07. He shared that the
Committee is preparing information on what areas they could use more support or if more
audits are needed and this will be shared later with the Board. If further information is needed
on the Audit Committee, please refer to the Committee minutes.
Technology Committee
Director Quinlan reported on the progress made by the Committee on web conferencing.
For more information on the Technology Committee, please refer to the Committee minutes
of this meeting.
CDOT Committee
No report was provided.

E-470 Committee
No report was provided.
DRCOG Committee
Director Quinlan reported that in a study, DRCOG shows 45% of health services workers
use transit to commute.
ACED Committee
Director Christopher reported on the annual award luncheon that he and Director Busck
attended in April.
Northwest Parkway
Director Pulliam reported the NW Parkway is in negotiation with a Spanish/Portugal based
consortium and things are moving well.
Pension Committee
Director Pulliam indicated they are having a meeting next week.
Rocky Mountain Rail Authority
Director Christopher reported the minutes from the April 30th meeting in Georgetown.
RMRA currently have 24 members and growing. He indicated they had adopted a budget
and had received sufficient funding and commitment to receive the $311,000 in local
match. They are proceeding with the feasibility study. The next meeting will be June 1st,
2007.
Chair Report
Chair Martinez reported on a number of events all geared to increase the potential workforce
pool, increase pool of certified companies or to share information about RTD and FasTracks.
Such events include the Hispanic/Latino Outreach event, Denver Partnership, Fitzsimmons
TMA group, high school technical program, FasTracks build out, and the FasTracks retreat
workshop. A preview meeting will be held on Friday at noon to receive early copy of the
FasTracks presentation.
VI.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF April 17, 2007
MOTION:
Director McMullen moved for the adoption of the April 17,
2007 regular board meeting minutes.
Director Pulliam seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

A voice vote was taken with 12 votes in favor (Brohl, Chacon,
Christopher, Daly, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan,
Ruchman, Tayer, and Yamrick) and 0 against. Directors Busck,
Elfenbein and Kemp were absent.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.

VII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
1. Attended the APTA and Paratransit Conference in Nashville
Cal Marsella reported a good turnout at the conference and good Board members
participation in the sessions. RTD is ahead of the pack in our implementation but good
information was obtained.
2. Attended Liability Limitation Meeting with Marla Lien at APTA
Cal Marsella and Marla Lien attended this session in Washington D.C. Cal Marsella will
chair this committee which has several properties interested. APTA has pledged its support

to this committee. In addition to the priority expressed by the RTD Board, other
government officials such as Representative Joan Fitzgerald and Councilman Rick Garcia
are involved in this issue.
3. Continued Work on FasTracks Plan
The plan is coming along well and lots of creative thoughts and solutions are available.
They are looking at potential advisory to help administer the PPP program and have
narrowed it to 4 for interviews.
4. Hosted APTA Meeting on Rail and Bus Standards
RTD hosted a meeting with APTA who is creating standards on rail, bus, paratransit,
sustainability and other related areas in transportation. This is a great piece of work that is
paid out of the APTA dues.
5. Participated in CDOT Financing Meeting
Cal Marsella is a member of the Governor’s Technical Advisory Committee and attended a
meeting with Russell George, CDOT, and Carrie Kennedy, State Treasurer, to brainstorm
on CDOT financing and funding mechanisms.
6. Other Matters
Selected David Genova as new Assistant General Manager, Facilities & Operational
Support effective 5/14/07.
Director Brohl asked when do the May changes go into effect and could she receive a
progress report on the route 16 nighttime ridership as she had a pivotal role in its
implementation.
Chair Martinez reported he gave a group of visitors from Kansas City who are considering
LRT, a tour of the light rail and they were impressed with the ease of use, cleanliness and
the ontime schedule of the train.

VIII.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
Director Pulliam had indicated in the committee report that an error was in item I, West
Corridor Value Engineering proposal and contract amendment for the design and costing of
these value engineering items. Proposal number 5 of the attachment, jack and bore tunnel
under I-70 with one bore for single track, should be removed from this action and become a
part of the postponed action pending further negotiations.
MOTION:

Director Ruchman moved that the Board of Directors
adopt the Unanimous Consent Agenda with the
amendment to remove proposal number 5 from item I.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 12votes in
favor (Brohl, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Kinton, Martinez,
McMullen, Quinlan, Pulliam, Ruchman, Tayer, and
Yamrick) and 0 against. Directors Busck, Elfenbein and
Kemp were absent.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

A.

August 2007 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations Committee that the Board of Directors approve

moving the proposed August 19, 2007 Service Changes (Attachment A) on to
public review and comment.
B.

Board Reimbursement Policy for Telecommunications Equipment and Home Office
Access
It is recommended by the Technology Committee that the Board of Directors approve
the proposed changes to the policy adopted on November 14, 2006 and modified on
March 27, 2007, allowing reimbursement to RTD Board Directors for
telecommunications equipment and access by adding additional services and equipment
and increasing reimbursement amounts according to the schedule attached hereto.
This action item also authorizes the budget transfer of $25,400 from Information
Technology and $12,500 from the General Manager’s Unallocated Capital account to
fund these expenses through a separate account established for the Board Office to a
maximum of $2,520 per director per year. Subject to a financial review, a cost of
living adjustment will be applied to this program annually each January.

C.

2006 Audited Financial Statements
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors accept and enter into the record the various audited financial reports relating
to the year ended December 31, 2006 as prepared or reviewed by the District’s
independent auditor, Bondi & Co. LLC.

D.

Contract Amendment 2006-2009 Street Improvements & Shelter Installation Contract
# 36DH003
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract amendment to initiate the second year of a three-year
option contract for the annual Street Improvements & Shelter Installation contract with
Manion Construction, Inc. for $359,158.00. Funding for this contract amendment is
provided by the annual 2007 Capital Budget.

E.

Transfer of Funds for the Treasury Sewer Line Upgrade Project
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer $185,000 to the Treasury Sewer
Line Upgrade project from the Denver Union Station (DUS) Window Upgrade project.
Funding for this project is included in the 2007 RTD budget.

F.

Northwest Rail Corridor Environmental Evaluation
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to negotiate a sole source contract with URS
Corporation to complete 30 percent Preliminary Engineering design work and an
Environmental Evaluation for the Northwest Rail Corridor in an amount not to exceed
$7,000,000. Funds are included in the 2007 Budget and FasTracks Program for this
work effort.

G.

US 36 Draft Environmental Impact Statement
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors direct the General Manager to release the US 36 Draft Environmental Impact
Statement for public and agency review. This is the first of a series of steps in the
National Environmental Policy Act process and means simply that the agencies are
requesting official public and agency comment and feedback on the No Action and the
two build alternatives and their impacts.

H.

West Corridor Contract Amendment for Denver Transit Construction Group; Contract
for Removal of Existing Rail and Ties
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of

Directors authorizes the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
a contract amendment to the Denver Transit Construction Group (DTCG) in an amount
not to exceed $252,916.00 for the removal of the existing track and ties. It is
estimated that the salvage value of the track is $240,000 for a net cost to the West
Corridor project of approximately $12,916.
I.

West Corridor Value Engineering Proposals and Contract Amendment for the Design
and Costing of These Value Engineering Items
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
contract amendments to the Front Range Systems Consultant (FRSC) for $2.1 million
and David Evans and Associates (DEA) for $6.05 million for a total amount not to
exceed $8,150,000 for the design of the accepted Value Engineering items associated
with the West Corridor. It is also recommended by the Planning and Development
Committee that the RTD Board postpone action on the following VE proposals: Sheridan
Boulevard Light rail Bridge/Overpass, Auraria Station Realignment, Drainage Redesign
and Single Track Section from Denver Federal Center to JeffCO as these items are still
being negotiated. Funding for this amendment is available in the FasTracks budget for
the West Corridor.

J.

State Legislative Liaison Services
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board of Directors authorize
the General Manager to enter into an agreement (for state legislative liaison services)
with C. Thomas Bastien & Brandeberry-McKenna Public Affairs, A Joint Venture, to
exercise a one-year option (July 1, 2007 through June 30, 2008) to extend Contract
No. 12-DX-101, at a cost of $92,985.

IX.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS

X.

NEW BUSINESS

XI.

ADJOURN
Seeing there was no unfinished or new business, the meeting adjourned at 6:38 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, May 15, 2007

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Chris Martinez, Chair
Bill Christopher, First Vice Chair
Neill Quinlan, Second Vice Chair
Barbara Brohl, Secretary
Juanita Chacon
Bruce Daly
Daryl Kinton
Bill McMullen
Wally Pulliam
Dave Ruchman
John Tayer
Barbara Yamrick
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Cal Marsella
Rick Clarke
John Dawson
David Genova
Caitlin Magee
Paula Perdue
Teresa Sedmak
Bill Sirois
Henry Stopplecamp
Pauletta Tonilas
Larry Warner

District B
District J
District G
District D
District C
District N
District H
District E
District L
District M
District O
District F

Bruce Abel
Dennis Cole
Rod Dodsworth
Marla Lien
Richard Morton
Liz Rao
Daria Serna
Joe Smith
Stan Szabelak
Lisa Trujillo
Bill Weidenear

OTHERS PRESENT –
Gina McAfee – C&B
Jennifer Heisler – C&B
Pedro Ramos – JP Morgan
Sandi Kohs – CDOT
Scott Deming – CCS
Nakia White
Joel Noble
David Rothenburger
Julia Stone – Bondi & Co, LLC
Bruce Behnck – Veolia
Steve Bryant – PSI
Franco Williams, MV Transportation

Susan Altes
Bill Van Meter
Sherry Ellebracht
Lloyd Mack
Jerry Nery
Scott Reed
John Shonsey
Errol Stevens
John Tarbert

