Jun 4 2019
Planning/Capital Programs and FasTracks Committee
JUDY LUBOW: And our audacious, admirable co-chair is Troy Whitmore. We do not have any
recommended actions for this meeting, but we have three updates. So why don't we start
immediately. Mr. Van Meter, would you like to start with the first update?
BILL VAN METER: Without further ado, this is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General ManagerPlanning. Without further ado, I'm going to turn it over to Bill Sirois and Paul DesRocher.
BILL SIROIS: Thank you, Bill. Again this is Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit Oriented
Communities in the Planning Department. So we're here tonight to kind of give you a final update
on the First and Last Mile planning effort that we've been undertaking for the past 16 months I
believe. And so we have before you information, including in the presentation, an attachment of
the executive summary, a draft executive summary, for you to look at. If there is interest in the full
report, we can make that available to the Board as well. So I just wanted to make that note.
So let's get started. We embarked on this project, like I said, a couple years ago in terms of first
getting funding through DRCOG, and then going through the scope. But this is an issue that, I
think, as we've opened up more lines and open up new service, has become a bigger and bigger
issue regionally.
And I think industry wide it has become one of the bigger issues that we deal with. And it's a way
that we need to look at how are we going to grow our ridership. And this is a way that we can do
it with working in partnership with, in particularly, jurisdictions who control a lot of the ways that
people get to our facilities and our services.
So the main goals of the plan. One of the big things, and probably the biggest thing, that we were
trying to do with this is emphasize partnerships. I think in thinking about this, this isn't something
that RTD-- this is kind of a unique plan in the fact that we developed a plan where we are not the
primary implementer of a lot of the recommendations.
We are relying on our partners, local jurisdictions, TMAs, and other partners to work with us to
make some of these improvements and programming projects to make our services more
accessible. So it is really a unique plan in that respect.
We had a lot of partners involved in the plan. We had internal partners through our internal working
group. We had a fairly large advisory committee made up of local jurisdictions, TMAs, many
others that were involved and very engaged in the process. So, again, it is a really important piece
to emphasize as part of this.
The other piece, as we all know-- we're dealing with the rapid changes in technology, and rapid
changes in technology related to First and Last Mile. A lot of it's influencing this. We have our

mobile ticketing. We have the scooters and the bikes. We have Uber and Lyft. We have all these
things out there that five or six years ago really we didn't have.
So it is one of those things that, as we go forward, we need to be cognizant of that. And I think we
will address this even more heavily as part of the T2 process. And finally, and, again, importantly,
this is a way for us to increase our ridership and improve our accessibility to our system. So we
really need to look at this. How can we grow our ridership with, frankly, a limited investment on
our part in partnering with others to make it easier for people to get to our trains and buses. So this
really is kind of a fundamental thing is, how do we make it easier for people to get to our services?
And so these were the goals of the plan in terms of what we're doing. And I'll turn it over to Paul
from here. But, again, what we ended up with this plan is really a framework for people to operate
and look at First and Last Mile. And I think it really has been embraced by our partners.
DRCOG is going to be using this plan as kind of a framework when they evaluate projects and
proposals for funding through the DRCOG TIP process, so we're excited about that process. So
we can use as kind of that overall frame for the region. And so, again, we've got many letters of
support from those who are involved. And so we're excited about moving this forward. And with
that, I'll turn it over to Paul.
PAUL DESROCHER: Thank you, Bill. Again this is Paul DesRocher. I'm the Manager of Planning
Coordination in our Planning group. And I just really briefly want to point to a couple of the
Directors that were specifically involved in our planning partners group. And that's Director Angie
Rivera-Malpiede, as well as Director Kate Williams. And so I just wanted to give them a quick
shout out because, again, partnerships cannot be emphasized too much in this study. Really it is at
the heart of all First and Last Mile improvements.
So I want to go through some of the framework that we set up, but then focus on some of the
projects that we identified out of this planning process. So we started way back in January 2018,
and this is our fourth presentation to the Board of Directors. So I'll be going through some of the
framework a little bit more quickly than I will on the implementation side just to kind of get to the
heart of what we want to talk about tonight.
Beginning in this process, we really focused on stakeholder and public outreach. That was a
fundamental thing that we wanted to hear from our passengers. You all heard from our customer
satisfaction survey representatives this evening. This is another layer in which we could go and
understand what were the concerns for people coming to our station. So that's really the bedrock
for all of the projects and recommendations that came out of this schedule.
So what were the things that we included in the plan, or what were the actual outputs. And, again,
these were things that we had presented to the Board previously, but we developed some typologies
that would represent stations that we see throughout the district. So Denver Union Station as the
most prominent example. That's an urban core station. It exists within our central business district.
Very different than, say, a station in Evergreen or Nederland, or other parts of the district and there
are very different. First and Last Mile concerns associated with those.

In addition, we developed some overlays that gave a little more detail to those typologies. Things
like, does this Park-n-Ride have very high Park-n-Ride utilization? Are there persons that are what
we call high vulnerable users, so minorities and persons of low income? Are there high populations
of persons working in retail so working nontraditional working hours? Those are people that,
again, fit into that somewhat transit dependent category, and we wanted to make specific
recommendations oriented to them.
Then we developed a strategies toolkit. So there were about 40 strategies that we developed that
fit into some themes that I'll get into, and we selected 15 representative stations. I'll also get into
that a bit later and identified three pilot projects.
So the typologies I mentioned here. We really identified at the outset of the study five typologies- urban core, urban, suburban mix-- so that's a mix of both jobs and residences-- suburban
residential-- which is really just residences-- and rural. The middle three is what I want to draw
your attention to, because those middle three comprise 95% of all RTD station types throughout
the district. They also represent stations in which First and Last Mile or station accessibility tends
to be the greatest concern.
In a station like Denver Union Station, you have a wealth of options in order to get there. Lots of
transit service, you've got all of these private services getting there, really great bike and pedestrian
infrastructure connecting to those. Whereas in rural situations, you're likely to be more dependent
on your vehicle in order to get there. But in these middle three, we find that there are lots of
opportunities in order to improve First and Last Mile accessibility, so that's where we focused.
The plan strategies. We group those 40 distinct strategies into five themes. One, the improvement
or reuse of existing infrastructure. This might be something where if we have a Park-n-Ride and
the parking spaces aren't well utilized, that we potentially transition that to something like bike
parking, or pickup and drop off zones for TNCs.
New Infrastructure. This is something where if there are missing sidewalk connections to get to
stations or missing bike infrastructure, that would fit into that category. First and Last Mile general
guidance are things that typically do not fall into these other categories, but are integral to the first
and Last Mile trip. And the best way to really explain this is more about the experience of what it
might be like to access a First and Last Mile, or an RTD station or stop.
So if any of you have ever walked along Federal-- which is the most dangerous street in Colorado- it's not a pleasant experience, because of the fact that there is a very high traffic volume and very
high speeds along that street. And so really what we're talking about here is creating a more
pleasant experience-- frankly one in which people want to do continually-- and it's not taking your
life into your hands, which we can create a more pleasant environment to get there. That might
involve wider sidewalks, shade trees, elements at stations like seating, lighting, things of that
nature.
Transportation Demand Management was another theme. These are activities typically taken up
by the Transportation Management Associations throughout the region. And they focus on really
marketing existing services that we have, things like marketing our EcoPass program. And lastly,

Transportation Services. This encompasses things like new scooters TNCs, microtransit, things
like that. So those are our five categories.
And I mentioned our representative stations. We selected these 15 representative stations last fall,
late last summer. And they were primarily selected in order to be representative of those three
main station typologies that I touched on earlier. So you can kind of see a breakdown there in terms
of how they fit into the urban, suburban mix, and suburban residential.
There's also a fair geographic diversity in the selected stations. And I want to focus on two just as
a representative of what the process was like, and how we used those representative stations within
our planning process. The stations we selected were Wagon Road and Federal Alameda. These
two stations are very distinctly different.
Of course, Federal and Alameda, this is an intersection along a very high use transit corridor.
Wagon Road is in a suburban mixed environment, in which you have both jobs and residences
surrounding there. But you have a large catchment for this station because it's the furthest north on
our I-25 corridor, whereas Federal Alameda tends to be more of a neighborhood station. So
different issues associated with these stops.
Wagon Road. What this is showing here is a walk shed analysis. So the dotted line illustrates a
half mile radius outside of each of those stations. The green splotch that you see there is associated
with a 10 minute walk outside, essentially in the middle of that radius.
So as you can see in Federal Alameda, you're going to get further in that 10 minutes-- particularly
in all directions and largely due to that grid street network and the presence of sidewalks-- than
you would at Wagon Road. Which, as you note, Huron and 120th, which are the two primary
streets that are intersecting that station, are going to create barriers for a pedestrian in order to get
outside of that 10 minute walk. So very illustrative in terms of the differences of how people can
or cannot access those stations by walking.
Then lastly, we focused on developing recommendations for each of those stations. So, again, in
Federal and Alameda, we have lots of people walking and biking to that station. So our
recommendations focused on making infrastructure improvements to that station that would better
enable walking and biking. Scooters tend to fit in that mix, just in terms of providing a shorter
connection to transit.
And I also just wanted to briefly mention that we have actually developed license agreements with
all of the scooter companies that operate within Denver in order to enable better connections there.
And some of you may or may not have seen the stencils that we've painted at some of the stations
in Denver. That was a specific outgrowth of those license agreements, and some of how we're
partnering with those scooter companies.
In the Wagon Road example, any of you who have ever tried to find a parking space at Wagon
Road after about 9 o'clock in the morning will know that it's pretty difficult. And so what we try
to do is to try to compel those people who maybe live closer, and have the opportunity to get to
the station with means other than driving, to potentially leverage our partnerships with Uber and

Lyft. And to find specific pickup and drop off locations, and really further promote those
partnerships.
We also-- and this is also the example on the bottom left-- this is also a recommendation that came
from the Mobility Choice Blueprint plan. So there was some coordination there in which we would
provide some information to commuters on a variable message sign, like you see illustrated here,
that would indicate the number of parking spaces available, as well as the travel times, comparative
travel times, for a vehicle getting to a specific location, say, Downtown Denver, compared to the
transit travel times. And we actually note that in certain corridors, it is faster for people-- and more
reliable. They can more reliably depend on a transit trip to get them to places than they would if
they were driving. So it actually would be a benefit to us to just provide that information.
So lastly, I just wanted to focus on our three pilot projects that we're working to advance. The first
one is developing a multimodal wayfinding signage. Through all of our outreach efforts that I
mentioned initially, as well as working with our planning partners externally and internally, we
noted that wayfinding is a dire need in the district, and specifically for those people walking and
biking.
So we were successful in winning a grant from DRCOG to begin designing what that wayfinding
sign would look like. That process is going to begin in the next several months. And then we'll
also be pursuing funding for the implementation and the actual fabrication and installation of that
signage. So that's something that we're very much focused on.
Mobility hubs. This is a term that frequently gets bandied about in circles and we, through this
process and working with our service development partners, have developed a concept and some
guidelines for what a mobility hub would look like. And frankly, what that is really about is about
creating physical places where people can define where they can make those connections between
RTD services and those private partners that we have frequently talked about.
And then microtransit. Again, working with our service development partners, this is a concept in
which we would attempt to bring in other providers, Uber, Lyft, taxis, shuttles, other providers
around the district who can also provide trips that get called into our flex ride service. So if you
were to call in to or schedule a ride on our flex ride, you would only have the option today of
having a flex ride vehicle delivered to your door, or wherever you were at to request that vehicle.
And this project works on bringing other providers in who can accept those rides. It's something
that, again, service development is working on. The project is in procurement right now. So these
are three pilot projects that we're very much focused on at this point so that we can move this plan
into implementation fluidly, and take advantage of the momentum that we've created through this
process.
BILL SIROIS: So just to wrap up one thing. And, I'll just note, about all these pilots is that we all
feel that they're all going to involve partnerships. For instance, with the wayfinding piece, we did
get some actual local match money from Denver and Aurora to match the grant and fully expect
that there's going to be heavy involvement from the jurisdictions about where the signage is placed,
how it looks, and how it works.

And the goal is to have a common set of standards regionally for wayfinding for First and Last
Mile so that we can have some commonality. So when somebody is going in Aurora, versus
Littleton, versus Arvada that they can have the same kind of experience in all those jurisdictions.
That's the goal. So, again, we're excited about moving forward with this.
I talked about how we've got some enthusiastic support from our partners on this. We also see this
as a jumping point for the T2 process. We think that First and Last Mile is an issue, like I said, that
as an agency, we need to look at in the future.
What role is this going to play? How are people going to look at getting to our services differently
in the future? And how do we need to look at that and prioritize resources that could go to that in
the context of everything else that we're going to be considering in the future. So this will be a part
of T2 as we move forward. So with that, we can open it up for any questions from the Board that
you may have.
JUDY LUBOW: Hello, I don't see any-- It feels like my mind. OK, yeah-- Director.
LYNN GUISSINGER: This is great. I think that's some really exciting stuff. I think that the three
pilot things look really good. I was curious, what is the license agreement with all the scooter
companies in Denver? What does that allow you to do?
PAUL DESROCHER: The license agreement is specifically to allow those private operators to
deploy on RTD owned property. So it it would most specifically apply to our stations and Park-nRides where we own land, specifically. For those stops and stations where we operate in these
cities or other cities right away, the stencils don't necessarily exist, nor does the license agreement
apply. But it's specifically at those Park-n-Rides.
BILL SIROIS: And one of the main goals with that is hopefully to try to maybe organize those
scooters a little bit better than if we were just to allow them to kind of randomly put themselves
wherever they wanted to. And we did provide them some guidance and Paul said, we put stencils
down. Not to say that they're always adhering to that, but I think that we are doing pretty well with
them. And we haven't had too many complaints, actually, as we have been working with them,
specifically as we get into the summer months.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And on page 14 of the packet, you talked about how you'll be able to give
parking information and drive time information, which I also think is great. And how would that
be provided? Is it an app? Is that the concept?
PAUL DESROCHER: Well, it could be. I think the concept that I was showing here is leveraging
variable message signs. So the signs are typically owned and operated by CDOT. Again, this is a
project that was developed out of the Mobility Choice Blueprint, and we found a lot of applications
for our Park-n-Rides that are very much oriented to highway users.
So things like Nine Mile, Wagon Road, really any of the southeast line where commuters might
get that travel information and maybe think to themselves, oh, it's going to take me 10 minutes
longer to get downtown if I drive versus take the train. There are a lot of power involved in just

providing that information. Whether or not it would be included in an app, I think is TBD. Right
now, the primary objective is to identify what exactly the elements are involved with that project
and how it would move forward.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great.
BILL SIROIS: And we have started discussions with CDOT staff on this, so we are kind of moving
this forward.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good. Thank you. Great, Paul.
JUDY LUBOW: Well, Lynn, you snuck in.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I did.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Here's Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. You said he had a more detailed, in depth document.
BILL SIROIS: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: Would you please send that to me?
BILL SIROIS: Sure.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. That's all.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Director Williams, please.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Sorry, I was eating chocolate. I think you just answered my
question. I wanted to point out that CDOT is all over mobility hubs, and I wanted to make sure
that we were in that same ballpark. And we've been talking about it over here, so I think you
already answered that. I'll go back to my candy.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Catlin. I was really interested in the wayfinding signage. And I've even heard
from some constituents that they've had trouble accessing some of our facilities, so I was really
pleased to see that in there. My question is are other transit agencies across the country-- is there
some sort of a national standard for some these wayfinding signs similar to the manual of uniform
traffic control devices that I was so familiar with at CDOT? Because I can see people coming in
from out of another city, or another country, or something who are familiar with some other
wayfinding mechanisms that might not be familiar with what we're developing.
BILL SIROIS: I know there's things like-- and I may get this wrong-- but like the international
standard, where it's a very picture oriented kind of symbol. I know about that. I'm not aware of any

national standards. I don't know if you are, Paul, but it's certainly something we will investigate as
part of this in terms of if there are national stands.
I mean people like NACTO and other people out there that are very into this kind of issue. I don't
know if they've been working on standards themselves. Certainly it goes beyond what's in the
MUTCD, so we will certainly look into that. But, I mean, I'm not aware of anything beyond kind
of that international standard, and certainly would be a big part of this effort in terms of researching
that and looking at what options that we do have.
PEGGY CATLIN: Great. Thank you very much.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Lewis, please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Came to me quickly. Thank you. I have a few questions and a comment. Paul,
can you explain to me the connection between the 15 stations and the mobility hubs? Is there a
connection?
PAUL DESROCHER: In terms of where the mobility hubs might go?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
PAUL DESROCHER: Oh, I see. OK. Well, we haven't defined the locations where the mobility
hubs might go. I think there's really a two step process involved with the mobility hubs, and I think
some of the questions and comments that Bill had made earlier get to that. But the first step is
really defining regional standard for what a mobility hub is, and I think that's different based on
where it might go.
Similar to the station typologies, a mobility hub might look different at Denver Union Station than
it would at Colfax and I-225. There might be different elements, different needs by the users there.
So I think developing the standard for what would actually be included based on those different
elements is the first step. And then the second step is defining where we want to pilot that. So that's
kind of our process at this point for that particular pilot.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. The second question I have is in regards to the operator
shortages. I don't know if this goes to you, General Manager Genova or to any of you all. If we are
successful-- which I trust we will be-- in increasing ridership, one of the things that we should be
creating in parallel is recruiting and retaining bus operators. And I'm sure you all are already on
top of that, but I just want to name it because I care about the operators.
And then the second thing that I wanted to-- It was more of a comment and things that I've been
hearing while being a part of the Civil Rights Committee is a lot from our communities with
disabilities. And, in particular, with Uber and Lyft and those vehicles not being accessible. And so
planning for and mitigating that as we're looking at T2. So that's it.
BILL SIROIS: Just to respond to one of your comments. One of the things that we have identified
as part of the T2 plan is really addressing our workforce. And looking at the current operators

shortage and projecting our need in the future and looking at is there systemic trends and how do
we deal with those. So that is an issue that I think that we're going to delve into pretty heavily in
the T2 process.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Cook, please.
SHELLEY COOK: Hi there. Thanks for that presentation. So I liked the part about a focus being
empowering communities and so forth in terms of identifying and helping to implement the best
First and Last Mile for the particular station area bus stops and stuff. So thinking about that 100
million, maybe there is a way to focus on-- I think a portion of it, it's discretionary. I don't
remember exactly how it's parceled out, but part of it goes to cities and counties. And maybe there
is a way to focus this agreement, or this plan, toward the use of that money.
I don't know if that means incentivizing it by setting aside a little funding that we can match
whatever they put up or something like that as a way to get them to try these First and Last Mile
things, to go through the plan and the typologies and things like that. And in that way, hopefully
increase the ridership that we would then benefit from. The region would benefit from. So it was
just a thought. Take advantage of that 100 million and to the extent that the cities and counties can
use it, find a way to make that more likely that they'll use it for this.
BILL SIROIS: And we'd also say that through DRCOG's process they've invested pretty heavily
in First and Last Mile and looking to invest more because it's a huge issue with our member cities.
So we think we've got a good partner in COG to being able to use this as a framework as they
evaluate projects as well. So we think it's hopefully going to be a very well used framework.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Walker, please.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I'm glad to hear more of us-- and it's been this way since I've started,
but I'm hearing it more-- that our influence extends beyond the bus stop sign that's on Broadway,
or Colfax, or something like that. So the new infrastructure, identifying that as a way to get people
to the bus stops is really heartening. If we can do something about the snow, though, and snow
plows pushing it back up on the sidewalks. Anyway, so-- I lost my train of thought. OK.
So it seems like this agency, like other agencies, is evolving like Apple, for instance. They're
dropping iTunes after about an 18 year run, because it's changed. The market's changed. And just
like our customers are changing, the city is changing. So it's good to see that we're changing also
and we're evolving right along with it.
One of the things that Director Catlin mentioned was the consistency in signage. So just like Uber
and Lyft have taken off, because anywhere I go in this country-- I don't know about overseas-- but
all I have to do is hit that app, and it's consistent no matter where I am. When somebody comes
here from another place, they know to look for that specific sign. And, oh, I recognize that from
wherever I live. That's where I need to go. That's where I need to look for and that will tell me
where I want to go.

So I think that implementing that consistency would be good for not just us, but every transit
agency, or as many as participate in this. The other day I read an article that Uber and Lyft are
looking to eat our transit agencies ridership, and I don't think that'll ever happen. I think there will
always be a need for the transit agency. They're not going to make their money off of passengers,
anyway, as long as a drivers.
But I think they can fill a niche like the oil companies that came in after the big oil companies left
where smaller oil companies came in and got the scraps, and they made a good profit off of the
leftover gas and oil that was left in the ground. I think that's where the TNC's, Uber and Lyft's,
market is.
So these partnerships that we're forming I think will be beneficial to transit agencies and to those
TNCs to make that connection there. So I'm looking forward to reading the longer document, but
what I've read in the executive summary was really exciting. So thank you. That's it.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director River-Malpiede, please.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair, I would like to commend Bill Sirois, Bill Van
Meter, and Paul DesRocher for their leadership in this project. Because it really has exemplified
collaboration, and with RTD at the lead really taking a deep dive into these kinds of collaboration,
and looking at that whole First Last Mile component. And as a TMA Director, we've been focused
on that for a little bit.
But I think this really has credibility and can be built from it. And I think that the wayfinding
signage is going to be a game changer for the entire region. I'm really excited about it. But it was
such an honor to sit on this committee as a TMA Director. We're thrilled to be part of it. And I
think it's I think it's going to be a great model not just for the region, but maybe for the whole
country. So thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I have a comment now myself. Thank you all and this is a very
exciting project and I very much appreciate the work you've done. I was wondering. You
mentioned that there were four strategies. Are they in writing anywhere that we could see? 40. I'm
sorry, 40 strategies.
PAUL DESROCHER: Yes. Yes, and they would be included in the full report. So what you were
provided was the executive summary. What we wanted to do is present this plan to you all this
evening, and take your feedback, and make some adjustments to the plan as needed, and then
produce a draft of that final document. But we can certainly provide those distinct 40 strategies to
the Board.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I'd love to see them, because I think they're very important, even now
prior to the report coming out. Thank you. I was also wondering, are the three pilot projects
funded? I mean, they're in the process of already being funded?
BILL SIROIS: The wayfinding signage project is funded. We did get a DRCOG grant for that.
The mobility hub project is not funded. The thing that we have to scope out-- And we just, as an

example, had a conversation recently with Denver where they're talking about a fairly, I'll say, low
budget mobility hub idea where they would go out, throw some paint down, and signage down,
call it a mobility hub, and then measure it and see how it works. And we may have some of those
kind of partnerships.
We all are-- as I think as Paul said-- we are going to be pursuing funding for that. There are some
upcoming opportunities which we'll get to here shortly through DRCOG for funding for these kind
of projects. So we will be looking for that. And then on the FlexRide project, I mean, that is funded.
It is in procurement, and we are moving forward with that.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. I imagine you've got many other bright ideas of potential projects.
BILL SIROIS: And a lot of what we didn't talk about is that we did 15 representative stops or
stations. There are hundreds, if not thousands of more locations throughout the district that could
be done. And the goal with this is that this gives people then the framework, and hopefully fairly
easy, to go through the process and the information that we can provide through our report that
they can actually do it themselves with a little bit of analysis on their own. And so that's the intent
with this is they can take some of this and say, oh, I have a situation like Federal and Alameda
because I'm over on Broadway and another street. Or I have a situation like Wagon Road because
I'm at Mineral and that's similar to what Wagon Road is, so I want to do something like this. The
goal is to use this and the examples in here that they can use in their own communities as they look
forward to do more First and Last Mile planning.
JUDY LUBOW: And is that what you're expecting? Have you been talking with people and they've
been saying, yay-BILL SIROIS: Yes. And I think too that, like I said, DRCOG, who's been a primary funder of
planning studies for of this type is excited to use this as a framework as they evaluate projects that
come in for funding.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you very much, and thank you for very good report. Are there any
other comments? Yes, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I just want to ask about one other thing. In having the General
Manager Oversight or Strategic Meeting for 2020. That would be a better term. And during our
Board only Retreat earlier this year, there was actually a strong showing of hands for-- forgive me
if I'm using words that you did not agree with but-- some type of, perhaps, voucher system in areas
of our district where the sub-city level is just unsustainable, but those people are still paying in
sales tax to the district.
And within the 2020 strategic plan, I believe that is one of the line items, essentially saying-- I
don't have the document in front of me, but to me, it meant vouchers potentially. But some type of
an alternative. Again, if we're subsidizing something say, to the tune of $30 per boarding, perhaps
we should be-- this is me, my words-- perhaps looking at something like a $5 voucher to give to
somebody, because we're going to be ahead $25 potentially. How would we tie that in to this type
of a plan?

BILL SIROIS: Well one, I think that is the exact kind of thing that we're going to be doing through
the system optimization planning process that we're starting this summer, where we're going to
look at our services, and what makes sense where. And there are things where maybe we're doing
that subsidy that we think is too much, and can we provide an alternative service, or is there an
alternative means that we can provide that can still accomplish what we hope to without that level
of subsidy. I think that will be part of that process.
The goal with this is that this then becomes an input into the T2 process, whereas we do that
evaluation and say that we do have this service that's unsustainable or its too expensive, and we
need to do something differently. Can we do something where we have a $5 subsidy where we
work with the jurisdiction, where they can maybe do something to improve First and last mile,
because there's a connection they could make to people to get to a station or to a place where there
is service that's more sustainable. And how can we work with them to do that, to make that
connection. So that that would be the ultimate goal.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And to me, that would be a $5 electronic credit, piece of paper,
whatever it may be, and it would be usable on any kind of transportation. So if they wanted to give
it to an Uber driver, somehow, potentially we've got a partnership where that's acceptable. And so
hopefully that could all be tied together. Because I'm envisioning T2 as really a two year. I'm going
to be gone and this is rolling much sooner.
But then we've got the 2020 strategic intertwined. Kind of sewing those two together. Since you're
looking for a little bit of feedback, that would be one thing. I know that at our Board only Retreat,
I think we got maybe nine votes on something along that lines of a mechanism to reduce-- well,
I've already described the words. You know where I'm going there.
BILL SIROIS: And I think the other thing that the way I look at this is that in part of the T2 process,
we're still going to be doing things that are beyond the plan. We are still going to be doing
improvements and partnerships with Uber and Lyft, improving our mobile ticketing, improving
our account-based ticketing, and other things like that, that are going to be happening outside of
the T2 process that may help with some of the issues that you're talking about as well.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. All right. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: All right. Thank you. I think we're done, gentlemen. So thank you very much.
OK, let's go to our next update.
BILL VAN METER: Chair Lubow, Board, this is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of
Planning again. And there have been a number of references this evening to this next quick update,
which is an update on RTD's competitive or discretionary grants. And that's as opposed to our
formula grants. So on an annual basis from the Federal Transit Administration primarily, RTD and
all major transit agencies-- and minor transit agencies, for that matter-- across the US receive
formula funds.
Formulas based on things like population, service, hours, and riders. Very reliable and steady
source of support. Non-operational capital, capital maintenance, and related expenditures. Those

are formula programs. They come to transit agencies based on those formulas. They're predictable,
and they aren't competitive.
So what I'm talking about this evening are the competitive or discretionary grant type programs
that we apply for on an annual basis. This is a listing of those, or at least the major ones that we
track very regularly, and that come out regularly both at the local level, which are primarily federal
funds. Congestion mitigation, air quality, and STP metro funds. State funds through FASTER and
other federal funds administered through the Federal Transit Administration, or the US Department
of Transportation.
In 2018, RTD had one of our best years in recent memory in terms of success in competitive grant
applications. We had a couple grant applications-- the Low or No Vehicle Program and the Build
Program for the 16th Street Mall in partnership with City and County of Denver that were not
successful, no funding awarded. But then you see a long list of project awards for competitive or
discretionary grants that we were successful for in the year 2018.
Our team wrote the applications, went through an internal vetting process to make sure we would
have local match, and that they were priorities that aligned with the district's priorities, and applied
for those grants. Almost $26 million last year. So far to date this year, we have applied for the
Automated Driving System Demonstration Grant. This would be a similar application to the AV61,
but on the University of Denver campus in a much more active environment and one that would
have much higher ridership. We are waiting to hear whether that grant application, which was
developed along in partnership with TMO, with the city and county of Denver, and with the
University of Denver, of course. And we're waiting to hear if that was successful.
We applied for $5,000 for signage for our bike lockers. We did not win that award. And we've
applied for Low No Emission Vehicle Program again this year for a couple of additional electric
bus purchases, leveraging the VW settlement funding that we received last year. You also heard
at the earlier meeting that we have applied for a Homeland Security Grant. That's not something
that typically flows through my team, but because of security sensitive information, flows through
Mike Meader's team. Those sorts of applications.
Looking prospectively forward in 2019, there is CDOT FASTER Grant. There's actually a set
aside, which is somewhat similar to a formula, but there's also a discretionary amount of money
every year that we can compete for. There is an Integrated Mobility Innovation Demonstration
Program that we have our eyes on and some ideas in terms of applying for. DRCOG has a couple
of different grant programs that will be coming available later this year. And then there is the
BUILD Program, which used to be called the TIGER Program under previous administrations, and
that's a nationwide competitive discretionary program across all surface modes of transportation.
2018 was a great year. I hope we can come close again in 2019, but you can see a bit of a pattern
here. We do better about every four years. That's not completely a coincidence. Every four years
is the timing for programming of the DRCOG local funds that were on that first page, the
transportation improvement program funds. And we always compete for those funds, and we often
do pretty well. So that's why you see a pattern up and down, but in '10, '14, and '18, a little bit more
success.

These numbers that you see dating back about 10 years do not include our discretionary grant
programs, as noted on the bottom, for the W Line, the Eagle, and the SERE the capital investment
grant program funds. If we would have thrown that on, you wouldn't have seen much variation in
terms of the rest of the grant applications and programs. But we have a note down below regarding
that. And with that, that ends my attempt at a brief update about the status, some of the successes,
and the look at our discretionary and competitive grant program. Chair Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: All right. Thank you very much. Are there any questions or comments so far?
Can't see anybody. There we go. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I really appreciated this. I think I had asked for an update a while
back about what was available for us to apply. I would be interested in a little bit more detail on
the criteria for some of these grants, maybe not all of them but, there are a couple of them that
come to mind. So at some point if I could ask for it offline, but I would be interested in some of
the criteria.
BILL VAN METER: Happy to share that. The DRCOG staff have been reviewing those criteria
with their technical and policy committees and moving them forward on the DRCOG side and
certainly the feds have criteria for their grant programs as well. Happy to be able to share that with
any Board member.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. The TIP funding at DRCOG has changed this past year to where
local governments have far more say over improvements in their particular geographic area. Does
this impact RTD, or does RTD come off the top before those allocations are made?
BILL VAN METER: No. So RTD is eligible to apply at the regional level. In this past go around
spread over four years was just under-- Is my microphone going in and out? I thought so.
JUDY LUBOW: Want to use this?
BILL VAN METER: Sure, I want to use this. Or John has-- Thank you. Throws the speaker off
occasionally. Yeah, at the regional level, for regional type projects, DRCOG last year, this year,
in this go around for their TIP program, allocated about $60 million. We were eligible to apply for
those funds as a regional agency.
They had about $208 million dollars spread over that four year TIP funding period for the county
level sub-regional TIP, so significantly more funds there. In theory, we could have applied directly
through the county governments. In practice, what we did is looked for partnerships with local
jurisdictions and local governments.
General Manager Genova provided this information earlier this year to the Board, but identified a
number of opportunities where we felt we should support those project applications with the local

jurisdictions, and there was a lot of success there. The rules have changed. We learned some this
time around. We had some real success this time around with funding for the T2 Comprehensive
Plan, as well as for the account-based ticketing, and a number of local jurisdictions partnerships
for transit related type projects. And in four years, I think we'll have some good opportunities still.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Lewis, please. Thank you
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you for this presentation. It's very helpful I just have one question for
you. If you could provide to me, or to the Board, the projects planned outcomes. I'm not sure of
the terms that you would use for each one of the grants that you've applied for. I've no interest in
reading the full grant application.
BILL VAN METER: But just a nice summary of those?
SHONTEL LEWIS: If you could.
BILL VAN METER: Yeah.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thank you.
BILL VAN METER: For the whole Board, of course.
JUDY LUBOW: All right. All right. Seems like there's no more comment about that. So our third
update. Mr. Van Meter.
BILL VAN METER: Yep, that's me again. So to give you an update on Southwest Chief and Front
Range Passenger Rail Commission. You will recall in 2017, the legislature created this
commission. It was a successor to the previous Southwest Chief Commission. The composition is
11 voting commissioners.
Basics are on that slide and were presented to you. I had the fortune of being selected by this body
to be the representative from RTD on that commission. It's been pretty interesting to date. I wanted
to make sure you get regular updates on this, and I've been a little bit slow on that so-Commission's purposes. Two primary purposes-- So I'm here today.
One is to preserve the Amtrak Southwest Chief service across southeast Colorado, and the second
is to facilitate development of Front Range Passenger Rail service. To that end, the commission is
looking at a corridor along the Front Range extending really from the Wyoming border, but the
focus is from Fort Collins on the north, down to the New Mexico border, although the real focus
is to Pueblo, and then on South from there. So a real Front Range corridor.
The commission has been meeting since later in 2017 on a monthly basis. I'll add that. Discuss this
a little bit. In past discussions with the Board of Directors, particularly the cost estimate and
information on the right. From previous CDOT studies looking at Bustang, potential ridership, and
costs in current year dollars and travel times between Fort Collins and Denver, and between
Colorado Springs and Pueblo and Denver.

Giving you an order of magnitude feel if we looked at commuter rail plus integrating with the RTD
network, comparative travel times between those same points, costs, and ridership. And then with
a high speed rail network, the one illustrated here serves DEN, but the option to serve DUS is kind
of one of the key things that the Commission will be thinking about and studying with our
consultant services in the future.
Cost estimates. You can see related ranges, very consistent with the information that General
Manager Genova provided earlier this year in one of his Friday Board Memo's. In 2018, we made
a couple of accomplishments in terms of the Southwest Chief Amtrak service-- that's the service
from Chicago to LA that I referenced earlier-- in terms of securing grant funds to upgrade
infrastructure, which will make those operations more reliable and likely to keep Amtrak on
schedule.
In 2018, the Governor also signed a bill passed through the legislature allocating $2.5 million
dollars for commission support. That has allowed us to hire a project director and also to move
forward with a study to look at the Front Range Passenger Rail component. That study has been
advertised for consultant services. The RFP is on the street right now. CDOT has assisted the
commission in preparing that and advertising it to assure consistency with state procurement
practices.
The intent of that study is to look at purpose and need, quarter options and alignment, station
locations, high level cost estimates, a fatal flaw analysis, technology level service, of course. I
didn't put it on the slide, but a robust public and stakeholder involvement component as well to
look at those alignment and technology alternatives, to work with Amtrak, the neighboring states,
and to look at the Southwest Chief business plan as well. But a big focus is going to be on this
Front Range Rail Passenger Service Development Plan as described on this slide with those key
elements
CDOT. We discussed this a little bit earlier as well. The Executive Director of CDOT, Executive
Director Lew, has expressed a lot of interest in support for the commission, and the commission's
work, and has made an offer of in kind staff resources to support the commission and our study
and plan efforts, including technical environmental experts, travel demand modeling staff, and
traffic experts to help support us.
And then they have also volunteered as an eligible applicant to support the commission in any
future grant funding type opportunities that might develop in the future. So that gives you a feel
as to our current activities. The pace has picked up quite a bit in the past six months for the
commission. And we're pretty excited to have that funding and the capacity to move forward with
that study and planning work that I just described. Chair Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much. Let's see if there's anybody waiting to speak. Why, there
we go. Director Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. How does this study differ from the one that was undertaken
about six, seven years ago by CDOT and I think CH2M HILL was the contractor that they hired.
And they looked at not only the Front Range, but that looked at providing rail service up to Vail.

BILL VAN METER: Indeed. So this will have the opportunity to build on that study, and to update
it, and to provide more information that would allow us to align for and start moving through a
Federal Railroad Administration approval and potential funding process. So that was the interregional connectivity study completed as you referenced in about 2013, 2014 and looked at and
developed some of those cost estimates that I provided earlier in the presentation. So we're going
to be able to take that as a starting point, not have to redo the work, but start looking more in detail
at fatal flaw type analyses, develop somewhat more refined cost measures, and more refined, but
still very high level, of engineering, fatal flaw analysis, and how to get around those issues.
BOB BROOM: Thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Williams, please.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Mr. Van Meter, I'm looking at packet page 40, the CRISI grant
to install positive train control on 179 miles of BNSF track between Dodge City, Kansas and Los
Animas Colorado. And I'm wondering-- And I see that that's something that is happening.
How come anybody wants to go to Las Animas, Colorado, number one. Number two-- Because I
have done some work down there, and it's pretty low transit oriented in that part of the state. And
if that's the Southwest Chief operations, does that not negate coming through us at all? People who
go down that way. Do they then come up from Pueblo to us, and then go on West.
BILL VAN METER: Right. So the Southwest Chief right now does not even access Pueblo. It cuts
off and doesn't go through Pueblo why anyone would want to go to Las Animas. I'm sure there are
many good reasons for that. And I won't go down that rabbit hole but that was really just the
segment of track that segment of track that was the next most critical segment along the Amtrak
route for improvements, required improvements to assure that Amtrak could keep running a
reliable service along that line. So that's how that location was identified and what we see is the
Front Range rail is a real connection between the Southwest Chief Service and the metro area and
points north. One part of the Southwest Chief Commission's goal is is to extend service on the
Southwest Chief and make a connection to Pueblo so the service actually goes through Pueblo and
then to be able to have that connection between Pueblo, Colorado Springs, Denver Fort Collins
and potentially up to Cheyenne using the front range rail as that connecting point. Does that
somewhat answer your question?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah. Yeah, I think maybe we should talk about it offline another time. I just
wanted to ask what involvement we had in that and we have involvement just because you're on
this commission. It doesn't-BILL VAN METER: Yeah. You know, I foresee my focus as the Front Range Passenger Rail and
how that interface works with the RTD system and services, and making sure that it's
complementary and not competitive. And I take others' lead on the commission as it relates to the
Southwest Chief issues, which are nowhere near our jurisdictional boundaries.

KATE WILLIAMS: No. I just know that Bustang has been very successful in all of those routes
and those areas, and it would seem to me that we would want to support that. But that's OK. Thank
you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Chair Tisdale please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I just wanted to follow up because of the
mention of the progress on the creation of this rail service plan and the mention of BNSF and usage
of some of their traffic. You prompted me to recall that we will shortly be receiving from staff
some information regarding proposed steps in going forward on a plan relative to the Peak Rail
service plan. And obviously, it is just the listing of the steps to be taken, rather than a formal plan
yet, because we're working toward getting to that point.
But I do find that we continue, pursuant to the FasTracks resolution that we passed two months
ago, including the Peak Rail service plan, including this information here, and all of the other
updates tonight, and the constant references to T2 confirm to the public that we are engaged, that
we are looking forward, that we are in fact a proactive agency that does not sit back and simply
say, we do it that way because we've always done it that way. And that's not what we do. So I
personally have enjoyed hearing the various updates tonight, and I wanted to use the opportunity
to address the Peak Rail service plan as well. Thank you, Madam Chair.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. And that's a great entree for my comments. Basically,
I was intrigued to know where this relates with FasTracks, where the RFP relates with FasTracks
where the commission is going, how it relates to either end or north metro and the northwest.
BILL VAN METER: So at the last commission meeting, I gave the commission a briefing on the
Northwest Rail Peak Service plan. Just kind of the status and update of what the discussions were
looking like. From Denver Union Station north, there are two kind of primary alternatives that we
are considering entering into the plan. There may be more alternative alignments that develop as
we go through the study.
Those two primary alternatives would be one, sharing track with North Metro and then extending
that north to I-25 and up to Fort Collins. The other would be an alignment sharing track with the
Northwest Rail corridor through Boulder, Longmont, and then on up the BNSF alignment to Fort
Collins. The other alternative, that which would access DEN, and would start at DEN and follow
E-470 to I-25 and then head north along I-25, or some variation of that alignment.
So these issues of DEN access versus the DUS access, particularly on the north end of town are
pretty interesting and critical, and something that this Board I think would be interested in as it
proceeds. Some potential real opportunities or constraints heading south. There are all alternatives
that look at E-470 to 25 or along the consolidated main line alignment, which is west of there and
essentially adjacent to our southwest corridor and then heading south. So those are kind of two
major alternatives currently as viable candidates. As I said, there may be more but those will all
be looked at.
JUDY LUBOW: So who's going to make a decision about this?

BILL VAN METER: So there will be a process looking at those same typical sorts of factors-costs, potential ridership, public stakeholders support and interest. And seeing how all of those
factors and other related factors, environmental or engineering fatal flaws, how you overcome
those sorts of issues. That will all go into the mix, and I will keep this Board informed. And I'm
sure the press will be doing the same in terms of the progress that we're making along the way as
those recommendations and decisions get made.
JUDY LUBOW: What timeline are you thinking of?
BILL VAN METER: The goal is to get this study up and going pretty quickly and start some strong
public involvement, getting things going by late this summer. And we'll have to hear back a little
bit from the competing teams in terms of how quickly they think they can hit the key milestones
that we've laid out and the scope of work that's been advertised.
JUDY LUBOW: Well let me ask you another question, a $64,000 question. Do you foresee any
money potentially coming in to help us finish any of the FasTracks corridors that might be
considered part of the alignment?
BILL VAN METER: Right now there's no money. But that's one of the other things that the
commission is certainly focused on with the support, I believe, of the Governor and the Executive
Director of CDOT. And that is to explore funding opportunities. And if those alignments coincide
with RTD's FasTracks alignments, there may be some real opportunities for funding or synergy
but that's pretty speculative at this point. There's been talk about various funding initiatives that
could include tax initiatives that the commission has had, not in any serious fashion or manner,
but they have bandied about and discussed those at their meetings. At our meetings.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you very much. Very interesting. I think that's it for comment. Thank
you very much. We are up to other matters. Are there any other matters? Why, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I am curious what is the last communication that we have gotten
from Burlington Northern regarding the Northwest alignment and potentially about the subject of
Peak Service. Have we gotten a recent communication?
BILL VAN METER: Not that I am aware of. We have been in contact with them and have
requested some analysis related to that Peak Service, and we have indications that they have been
working on a response. But I have not received or heard of a response to date.
DAVID GENOVA: Nothing, nothing in writing. It's an ongoing conversation as far as the project
and the concept.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: You know, I'd like to jump on to that, because we've been hearing rumors. Very
odd, but I've been getting calls from people saying, oh, have you heard anything from Burlington
Northern? We've heard that they've been providing information. I said, I haven't heard anything.

So I'm just wondering, we haven't seen anything in writing. But in the conversations, what has
been going on? Anything new?
DAVID GENOVA: Nothing really new to report. I need to have another conversation with DJ and
see where they are on the presentation that they wanted to do to provide us on alternative vehicles.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. OK. Thank you very much. All right. So that's it for other matters. We're
getting close, everybody. The next meeting date, it says August 6 but I think it's August 8th.
[INTERPOSING VOICES] Oh. It is the 6th, cool all right OK well with that let's adjourn and that's
it.

