1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, May 20, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Committee chaired by Judy Lubow

A. Call to Order
Committee Vice-Chair Solano called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Kent Bagley
Bruce Daly

Director, District L
Director, District H
Director, District N

Present
Present
Present

5:28 PM
5:20 PM
5:28 PM

Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District B

Absent

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy
Bill James

Director, District E
Director, District J
Director, District A

Present
Present
Present

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Absent

Judy Lubow

Committee Chair

Present

5:46 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

5:25 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District C
Director, District O
Committee Vice-Chair

Absent
Present
Present

5:20 PM
5:22 PM

5:21 PM
5:16 PM
5:17 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:21 PM
5:22 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tina Austin, Tom Barlow, Shirley Bennett, Jessie Carter,
Rick Clarke, Carolyn Conover, Heather Ellerbrock, Kalee Freestone,
David Genova, Mike Gil, Austin Jenkins, Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop, Erin
Klaas, Mitch Kuharski, Barbara McManus, Brian Matthews, Doug
MacLeod, Vivian Morales, Brenden Morgan, Alice Osner, Kevin
Parker, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert

Others Present:

Gady Barrett, Marshall Crawford, Doug Gragg, Rita Kan, Brad
Langner, Jaime Levin, Matt Marino, Mike Newman, Pedro Ramos,
Cheryl Waller, Monte Whaley, Rich Wilson, Dee Wisor

B. Recommended Actions

• Approval of August 2014 Service Change
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the August 2014 Service Change package as
revised and summarized in Attachment A and, further, to authorize the
General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as
necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the May 27, 2014
Board meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager for Bus Operations,
and Jessie Carter, Manager for Service Planning and
Scheduling, presented the revised August 2014 Service
Change package starting on page 3 of the Operations &
Customer Service/Financial Audit & Administration Committee
Meetings Packet for May 20, 2014. The original version of
the service changes was presented to the Operations &
Customer Service Committee on April 8, 2014. Feedback
gathered during the 6 public hearings was incorporated into
the revised package presented to the Committee at this
meeting. Bruce Abel noted that the guiding principles for
proposed service changes continue to be:
 Service performance evaluation based on the RTD Service
Standards
 The effects on the overall integrity of the transit network
and on transit dependent markets




The availability of alternative services to affected riders
Cost-effective distribution throughout the District and
Family of Services and the ability to enhance service when
possible
 Title VI of the Civil Rights Act: benefits and services are
provided without regard to race, color, or national origin;
also disparate impacts on low income and minority
populations
 Response to changes in the communities where services
are provided.
Jessie Carter highlighted the modified changes for bus routes
225, EV/ES/EX, and L. Bruce Abel pointed out that they had
found a more acceptable solution to the initial proposal to
truncate the light rail service and use a bus bridge to the final
termination point. Instead, they will have reduced frequency
yet still serve final line destinations in order to accommodate
for maintenance of way and customer service.
Director Folska asked for more details on the Southmoor light
rail service after 11 p.m. on weekdays. Jessie Carter replied
that the service will transition from every 30 minutes to hourly
from Sunday through Thursdays. Friday and Saturdays will
remain as is.
Chair Sisk congratulated the scheduling team on rerouting Bus
Route 225 in order to serve the patrons of the Community
Food Bank. He said that this reroute will impact those who
RTD needs to serve. Chair Sisk asked for clarification on an
additional SkyRide trip to Boulder at 12:30 a.m. which was
mentioned during the May 19, 2014 Telephone Town Hall.
Jessie Carter answered that he will get back to Chair Sisk
offline with the information.
Director Walker thanked Bruce Abel and his team on the
changes to the C line.
Director Solano apologized for not attending the Commerce
City Service Change Hearing on May 8, 2014 and expressed
his contentment over the growing ridership on bus route
104X.
Director Daly thanked the scheduling team for not giving up on
the bus service from Niwot to Evergreen.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Menten, Sisk, Solano,
Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Gary Lasater, Judy Lubow, Angie RiveraMalpiede
Committee Vice-Chair Solano declared the motion PASSED UNANIMOUSLY.

• Longmont Fare Buy Up Program
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
enter into a contract with Boulder County to allow the County to buy up fares
on all four of the Longmont local fixed route services, herein referenced as
“The 300 series.” Specifically the 300 series are routes 323, 324, 326 and
327 and complementary Access-a-Ride services for an initial period of 6
months with options to extend the buy-up period up to two years.
Motion:

Committee Chair Lubow made the motion to
move this item to the full Board at the May 27,
2014 Board meeting.
Director Folska seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel and Brian Matthews, Manager for Special Services,
explained that Boulder County, in cooperation with the City of
Longmont, has requested that they be allowed to “buy up” all
fares on the 300 series routes in Longmont. Boulder County
and the City of Longmont feel that one of the major reasons
that ridership has declined in Longmont over the years is due
to high fares. The objective of this action is to build ridership
and prevent future service reductions by RTD. This request is
for a 6-month period. The Federal Transit Authority (FTA)
currently considers this program a fare change, which would
require a fare equity analysis. The program could be extended
for an additional 18 months if the FTA position changes from a
fare change to a fare buy up. Brian Matthews explained that
Boulder County, in collaboration with RTD, will take the lead
on marketing.
Director Tobiassen asked what the difference is between the
proposed 300 series routes and the 16th Street Free Mall Ride,
the Free Metro Ride, and the Englewood ART Ride. Brian
Matthews replied that these were initiated as free services.

Patrons on the 300 series routes currently pay a fare. If the
buy up is approved, patrons will no longer pay the fare. The
fare would be paid by Boulder County.
Director Daly expressed his concern aboutfree rides and the
struggles that are part of such services: abusing the system,
increase of incidents, violent circumstances, etc. He also said
he understand the idea specially when considering the
comparative mileage of the average rider of the 300 series
routes. He called Boulder County very generous in their
request to buy up the fares. Brian Matthews said that RTD is
working with the police to have them involved in all aspects of
the process. He also mentioned that riders of the 300 series
routes will be issued transfers that could be used on the Bolt,
L, Call-n-Rides, and any other RTD service.
At this time, Committee Vice-Chair Solano yielded the chairing
of the meeting to Committee Chair Lubow, who arrived a few
minutes prior.
Director Hoy asked who would be responsible for the extra
equipment, operators, etc., needed if ridership does increase.
Brian Matthews replied that Boulder County has agreed to
cover the costs during the term of the contract. Director Hoy
emphasized that if in two years the program does not work,
patrons will go from not paying a fare to paying the
appropriate designated fare at the time.
Director Bagley asked what would happen to the fares during
the 6 months/2 year contract period if fares increase across
the District. Brian Matthews answered that this specific item
has not been discussed with Boulder County yet but he does
not anticipate this being a problem. The contract has not been
signed and therefore could have an added clause regarding
Boulder County’s responsibility for the fare changes.
Director Solano asked how ridership would be measured.
Brian Matthews answered that bus operators will key
boardings into the fare box.
Director Folska asked if there is a financial benefit to RTD for
offering free rides, such as the ART shuttle and others. Bruce
Abel said he does not know the details, but overall, yes,
thereis a benefit for offering free rides. He mentioned RTD
collects forgone fares for the Englewood ART shuttle from

non-transfer ridership. Boulder County would pay the average
fare box per year, approximately $210,000, even if there is no
ridership.
Committee Chair Lubow shared the excitement of the city of
Longmont and Boulder County over this proposal. She
explained the decrease in ridership after the fare increase since
the mileage was comparatively not enough to justify the new
price. Services were diminished due to low ridership, leading
to a downward spiral for mass transit in the area. She hopes
Longmont will follow the example of Nederland, who had a
similar program for 2 years. As a result, a city wide EcoPass
was approved by voters.
Chair Sisk, who originally moved to approve this motion,
ceded his motion to Committee Chair Lubow.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Judy Lubow, Committee Chair
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Menten, Sisk,
Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Gary Lasater, Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Committee Chair Lubow declared the motion PASSED UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Updates

• CCDC Settlement Baseline Complaint Report
Bruce Abel, Carolyn Conover, Senior Manager for Contracted Services and
Alice Osner, General Superintendent for Transportation presented the
Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition (CCDC) Settlement Baseline Complaint
Report starting on page 23 of the Operations & Customer Service/Financial
Audit & Administration Committee Meetings Packet for May 20, 2014. One
of the requirements of the CCDC Settlement Agreement is for RTD to
“provide CCDC with an Initial Report. The purpose of the Initial Report will
be to determine a data baseline and to assess, in both data and other
subjective evidence available, the effect of the policy and training as
required by [the] Agreement.”
Bruce Abel, Carolyn Conover, and Alice Osner handed out the Analysis of
CCDC Agreement Securement Area Issues Data during the meeting. They
explained that the key components of the policy are:
 Large items cannot block the aisle of the bus



Large items must be collapsed prior to boarding, and passengers must
use the seats behind the securement area for themselves and their
items
 If large items cannot be collapsed and stored behind the securement
area, those passengers will not be able to board the bus
 Large items must be readily moveable and stowed behind the
securement area
 Passengers with mobility aids, such as wheelchairs, will be given
priority boarding at bus stops.
Bruce Abel, after presenting the data, concluded that of the 161 incidents
recorded, only 40 instances were actual pass ups. Of those 40 instances, 6
are still under investigation. Pass up incidents have an average wait time of
10-15 minutes before the next bus arrives. The bus routes generating the
most pass up incidents are the 16, 15L, 15, 0. The bus operations
department is looking into ideas on how to better serve riders in mobility
devices along those routes. Bruce Abel also noted that this topic generated
a lively discussion during the American Public Transportation Association
(APTA) Bus & Paratransit Conference.
Director Anderson thanked Bruce Abel and his team for the report and for
providing better services. She mentioned that she understood how 23 of
the 161 instances were duplicate entries since she would also press the
button multiple times hoping to get dispatch’s attention. She noted that
some of the instances, including the 15 times a lift was inoperable, are an
easy fix. Carolyn Conover ensured that every bus tests their lift prior to
departing on their route. The recorded lift malfunctions were inevitable.
Director Folska thanked the staff for increasing accessibility, embracing
diversity, and giving every constituent the ability to ride on RTD. She found
the report enlightening and asked if these reports would be given to the
Directors on a quarterly basis. She recalled mentioning a while back, halfjoking, getting rid of more seats on buses to make more room for mobility
devices. Today she wonders if this may be a legitimate consideration. She
mentioned the Portland light rail’s priority seating, signs, and recordings in
English and Spanish as an example to take into consideration.
Director Tobiassen suggested staff added to the report the total number of
boardings per day in order to report how many successful boardings
compared to 15 lift failures in 6 weeks. He noted that denial of service to
anyone is always negative, but overall the numbers look impressive and staff
is doing a great job. Bruce Abel said that staff is trying to communicate that
individuals with mobility aids have a limited number of seats and those seats
need to be made available.

Committee Chair Lubow thanked the staff for the report and asked to add
the pending investigations to the next quarterly report.

• Highblock Replacement - No Backup
David Genova, Assistant General Manager for Safety, Security, and
Facilities, noted that the high blocks along the central corridor light rail
stations are over 20 years old. Two locations, 16th and California and 16th
and Stout, will be replaced during the summer and the fall. They will each
be closed one at a time and each will be impacted for up to 30 days. RTD
will work closely with patrons and stakeholders to minimize the impact. The
work will be done by RTD’s capital programs.
Director Folska expressed her excitement over this project. She suggested
widening the blocks, adding panic buttons and/or a security phone as well as
a lip on the edge for security. David Genova replied that staff could look
into a panic button/security phone system and study what impact it may
have on the construction and cost. Regarding expanding the width, he said
that the high blocks are limited due to their position on the sidewalks. He
also noted that the high blocks will look similar to those along the West line.
Director Solano asked how the 16th Street Free Mall Ride or the 16th Street
Mall masonry will be affected. David Genova answered that the stops
where the high blocks are intersect with the mall ride but will not affect the
16th Street Free Mall Ride nor the 16th Street Mall masonry.
Director Bagley asked for the total costs of the renovations for both high
blocks. Mitch Kuharski, Construction Project Manager, said that the cost
depended on the location and that each one averaged $110,000 $120,000. The cost includes removal and replacement.

D. Other Matters
Director Bagley asked for an update on the Free Metro Ride operations. David
Genova mentioned that it was very successful. Bruce Abel added that it is
operationally working well and has a promising outlook. He mentioned a small
operational incident that was quickly resolved. Passengers’ feedback is positive as
they ask when it will become an all-day service. Director Bagley asked for an
update on how the Free Metro Ride has impacted the 16th Street Free Mall Ride.
Director Bagley noted he has not received the bike survey statistics he requested
during the May 13, 2014 Planning & Development Committee Meeting. David
Genova said he would follow up.
Committee Chair Lubow recognized Director Claudia Folska as the recipient of the
WTS Rosa Parks Diversity Award. Director Folska said the award reflects RTD’s

commitment to women in transportation. She was inspired by the recipients in this
organization who continue to be strong models for women in transportation. She
encouraged key RTD leaders (i.e. Nadine Lee, Lacy Bell, Carolyn Conover, Alice
Osner, Danielle Smith), and every women in transportation to look into WTS as a
resource for working collaboratively. She believes this is a shared award and asked
Chair Sisk to keep the award at his RTD office.
Director Menten asked for clarification on the operational incident Bruce Abel had
referenced. He said that Monday morning a transit coach in regular operations
broke down at the 1st bay of DUS causing a back-up. The matter was quickly
resolved.

E. Next Meeting Date - June 10, 2014
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Lubow adjourned to the Financial Administration & Audit
Committee at 6:28 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

