1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
May 28, 2013 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Anderson called the meeting to order at 5:32 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance
Chair Anderson asked Director Solano to lead the meeting with the pledge of allegiance.

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Paula Perdue gave roll call. There were 14 Board members present at roll call and 1
absent (Director Lasater).
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Arrived
Lorraine Anderson
Kent Bagley

Director, District L
Director, District H

Present
Present

5:29 PM
5:30 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

5:29 PM
5:35 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

5:31 PM
5:24 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Absent

5:27 PM

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten
Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District I
Director, District M
Director, District C

Present
Present
Present

5:33 PM
5:32 PM
4:04 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:29 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present

5:32 PM
5:29 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:25 PM

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel, Lacy Bell, Shirley Bennett, Rick Clarke, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Mike Gil,
Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Edin Memic,
Tara Miller, Paula, Perdue, Scott Reed, Henry Stopplecamp, Walt Stringer, Pauletta
Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington, Brian Welch, Julia Yugel
OTHERS PRESENT
Louis Apolinar, Atlys Banet, Kristy Bassuener, Joe Berdaus, Jeannine Berdaus, Robert
Boehm, Mac Callison, Tammy Crynes, Chuck Culig, Gretchen Dewey, Becky Edwards,
John Fernandez, Cole Finegan, Suzie Fleming, Charles Foster, Dianna Gallegos, Adam
Goldstein, Tom Grushka, Sherman Hamilton, Walt Hime, Theresa Horne, Douglas Howey,
Shari Janata, Diane Marsh, Aylene McCallum, Maureen Nicolais, Joel Noble, Noel Norman,
Kathy Olsen, Eric Perry, Paula Perry, Hameed Pousti, Martin Ramirez, Rhonda Rodriguez,
Gail Ryan, Peggy Schenkelberg, Brittany Saunders, Kenny Shepard, Lynn Sundseth, Chris
Taylor, Jim Toweill, Gary Van Dorn, Jeanne Weis, Monte Whaley

IV.

Retiree Awards
There were four retirees eligible to receive a retiree award but only Joe Berdaus, Senior
Manager for Customer Service was present. Scott Reed, AGM for Communications,
presented this award to Joe Berdaus. He stated that he has worked collaboratively with
Joe for a long time. Joe is a true friend and committed to RTD. Joe has many years of
experience and will be difficult to replace.
Joe commented that he has enjoyed working for RTD but is now looking forward to his
retirement.
The list of retirees included:
Joe Berdaus – Senior Manager, Customer Information – 23 years
Rebecca M. Carter – Telephone Information Specialist – 21 years
Hal Fabricius – Lead Controller, Rail Operations – 31 years
Pat Thiry – Electronic Technician – 33 years
Special Recognition
Additionally, Directors Tobiassen and Folska along with Department of Vocational
Rehabilitation Services, Cathy Kohl, made a special presentation to Joe Berdaus. Director
Folska reflected on her first interaction with RTD in 2004 and how helpful Joe had been.
She had the opportunity to tour the TIC Center where he was in the process of hiring
some new people. She had referred him to Cathy Kohl where he eventually hired a person
with disabilities. She introduced Cathy who spoke about Joe as a great friend with the

disability community and that they had established a wonderful collaborative partnership.
She will miss him.
Director Tobiassen also spoke on Joe’s willingness to work with them on advancing
opportunities for people with disabilities.

V.

Public Participation
















Walt Hime spoke about the recent changes in the West Corridor, particularly the
route 100X and requested that it be returned back to its original route.
Hameed Pousti indicated he was a Ken Caryl rider who now must endure an
additional 40 minutes to his travel time. This is not working.
Gretchen Dewey provided specific details on her workday that now with the new
system change, has added at least 1-1/2 additional commute time. She spoke
about the multiple stops on the W line that averages 17 miles per hour. She also
requested a re-instatement of the 100X and to add more buses and call-n-ride
services.
Eric Perry spoke about the changes to route 16. He requested that route 16 and
17 be brought back as well as route AF Skyride and 100.
Joe Noble representing the Curtis Park Neighborhoods spoke in support of the
downtown Denver circular fare-free service. He understands the proposed change
to peak hour services but encourages the full Triangle service as soon as possible.
Charles Foster expressed concerns on the overloading on the 16 bus from Golden
and feels safety is really an issue. THz bus is too packed and too dangerous. He
would like RTD to address the safety impact from this change.
Tom Grushka, RTD Watch, referenced October, 2011 when the Board made the
critical decision to right size service as part of the fiscal sustainability efforts. This
resulted in a cut on routes affecting the Colorado Center for the Blind. He stated
that Director Bagley made the motion for this service cut and that in the joint
board-staff strategic planning session in March, 2013, both Director Bagley and
General Manager Washington rejected a recommendation by Director Lubow to
make affordability a top strategic goal. He then shared a biased edited cut from
some of the discussion from the strategic planning session.
Tammy Crynes spoke on behalf of people who lived further east and have been
impacted by the changes to the routes 100X or 87X. She stated that light rail has
doubled her commute time, connections from the feeder line buses to the light rail
are not synchronized and there is no shelter. She requested RTD to review these
issues.
Jim Toweill read a letter from RMR contractors stating some of their issues.
Louis Apolinar shared his firsthand experience from working as a member of the
RMR contractor-i.e. no breaks, water, wage cuts and safety issues.


















Jeanne Weis from the Arc in Jefferson/Clear Creek, spoke on behalf of the
developmentally challenged who have felt some unintended consequences from the
loss of the 16 L. They no longer have access to their workplace, they have no
shelter and they have been severely disadvantaged from having reliable
transportation.
Cole Finegan, Downtown Denver Partnership, stated his support for the downtown
Denver circulator fare-free service plan. He stated approximately 1/2 of the riders
on this circulator will be transferring from bus or rail and would not be charged for
this ride anyway.
Theresa Horn spoke about the inconveniences to riders on weekends and holidays
especially the access-r-ride and people of disabilities. She relayed her personal
experience of contacting access-a-cab with no success. She is advocating for more
safer and reliable transportation services.
Kathy Olsen spoke about the 16 L bus. She stated there has been a whole
community cut off since the elimination of route 16 that is forcing people to the
16L. The 16L is overcrowded and they need more frequent and dependable
service.
Bail Ryan addressed some concerns around the 13th and Garrison Station, namely
safety, noise and sound levels and congestion. She indicated they had been told
initially that this would be a vehicle free zone but now there are shuttle buses and
call-n-ride that are dropping off there with no room for pullout. She would like to
see these services moved further down the street where space is available.
Kristy Bassrener representing the Denver AA Museum spoke in favor of the
downtown circulator. She feels this will greatly benefit the Golden Triangle area.
Shari Janata expressed concern over the 100X route. She indicated this has added
15-20 minutes to her travel each way. She feels this route needs to be direct to
the Civic Center downtown. She also feels the public hearing and meetings about
service change should be better communicated, perhaps having the bus drivers to
announce on the bus when a meeting is scheduled.
Paula Perry indicated she had to make an unscheduled pickup of her neighbors due
to lack of service. She turned it over to her neighbor Noel Norman who shared
their experience in trying to get a bus from the Federal center to the airport. He
talked about the fact that they are elderly travelers but had to take three transfers
lugging their luggage to get to the airport and was told they had to take three back
to get to the Federal Center. In expiration, they had contacted their neighbor to
pick them up. This service is not working and definitely for the disabled or senior
citizens.
Rhonda Rodriguez stated that she works at Jefferson County and uses the RTD
buses. The new bus route for the 100 and have run on Parker Street and because
the school is out, RTD is canceling the route. The bus stop is too far from the

health department. She is concerned for mothers with strollers and wheel chair
riders. They are asking to keep the same route 100 and keep 100W open.
 Maureen Nicolais from Lakewood Colorado stated that when the routes were
revised due to the West Line, the route that goes by the public health building was
eliminated on their side of the street. Many people did not know about the changes
and they are having to cross the busy intersection. She sees elderly, mothers with
strollers and all type of pedestrians trying to navigate that crossing and she worries
about their safety. They want the routes revised for security purposes.
 Kenny Shepard spoke on behalf of two of his co-workers who live in Parker and
want to know the plans to extend the district to their area. They appear to live just
right outside the RTD line. Kenny also expressed frustrations with riders who
disobey the foot on the seat sign and feels the seats are dirty as a result. He
suggested moving the signs a little higher to curtail riders putting their feet on the
seat.
Chair Anderson thanked all of the speakers for their comments and public participation.
She shared that public hearings would be held from June 3-June 17 and encouraged them
to participate in these hearings. Director Menten indicated the specific information for
location, etc had not been posted.

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Malpiede/Director Deadwyler
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee – Chaired by Director James
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Director Sisk
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

Corrections were made to the Government Relations, FasTracks and Operations and
Customer Service Committee meetings as recorded.

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee Chair Bagley shared
that the committee had just met prior to the Board meeting. The committee met to discuss
the results from the 1Q’2013 Survey Monkey. He thanked the Board members who
participated in this survey and reiterated the importance of this process and that the
responses are anonymous. He shared this was a very productive meeting and attended by

Directors Rivera-Malpiede, Tobiassen, Solano, Daly, Bagley, Anderson and Folska. The
next meeting will be June 18 from 3-5 p.m. where they will discuss the major issues for
the GM to focus on for the next period and began looking at the tactical plans for 2014.

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 16, 2013
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion to approve the Board
meeting minutes from April 16, 2013.
Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion:

The motion passed thirteen yes and two no-votes. Director
Menten had left the area and Director Lasater was absent.

RESULT:
ACCEPTED [13 TO 0]
MOVER:
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
SECONDER: Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Gary Lasater
AWAY:
Natalie Menten
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.

IX.

Chair's Report


Chair Anderson stated that they had the West Line opening last month and staff is
working to address the different issues that have arisen since then. She also
encouraged the public to attend the upcoming public hearings that will be held.



Chair Anderson, Directors Daly and Bagley attended the accident free day celebration.
RTD has 700,000 Access-a-Ride boardings each year and close to 100 million
boardings for buses and trains and safety is the most important issue. In 2012 they
had 24% less accidents than in 2011. She thanked the staff.



She also thanked the Board members for the outreach to their residents during the
month. She stated that she attended two meetings; one was Jeff West which is an
effort on the part of a couple of legislators to engage the public in the Westminster
part of Jefferson County. She was able to thank Senator Hudak and Representative
Kraft-Tharp for their help in passing legislature that was recommended by the
Sustainability Taskforce. She also mentioned that many of the Board members
attended the Governor Hickenlooper’s bill signing on HB 1272, sales tax parity. It was
great to see that.



X.

She attended the Colorado Black Chamber of Commerce luncheon. Their speaker was
Marcus Davis, owner of the Houston based Breakfast Klub and Reggae Hut Café and
his message was “Being successful in Business by Being Connected to your
Community.” It was a powerful message and it applies to the Board members as they
work with their communities to improve transit. She sat next to a young man that has
been bidding for RTD contracts. She thanked Directors Angie Rivera-Malpiede and
Barbara Deadwyler for their efforts with DBE/SBE.

General Manager's Report






General Manager Washington expressed thanks to the staff and the community for
a successful West Corridor installation. He stated that his team had already done
some things to be proactive in fixing some of the problems that had occurred and
he appreciated the feedback and concerns expressed by the constituents during
public participation. They have already reinstated the 116X and will be adding new
trips on the CX. They are looking at adding trips on the 16 and are recommending
reinstating the 100X and 87X with the August service change. He indicated that a
lesson learned is not to make or cut routes too quickly until things have had a
chance to settle. He would ask however that we allow time for the shift in travel
patterns to occur and to educate the riders on how to make the shift from the bus
to light rail. When we opened the Southeast line, initially we had several concerns
and had to do some initial tweaking. Since then, the riders have adjusted their
travel patterns and we receive few complaints. General Manager Washington also
added that it is by design that all buses forward will be going into the DUS station.
We have physical limitations at the Civic Center so as we roll out other corridors,
the buses will be terminating at DUS. This is one of the factors for the proposed
downtown Denver circulator that it will help to offload some of this traffic and
redistribute throughout downtown. When you look at the business plan for
downtown Denver, many of the activities will be shifting to LODO (DUS) as new
developments occur. There are significant financial impacts and implications to this
shift.
APTA rail conference-next week General Manager Washington and members of his
Senior Leadership team will be participating in the rail conference in Philadelphia
where they will be showcasing RTD. There is a planned technical tour to the
factory that will be producing the cars for Eagle P3. Some members of the staff
and Directors Anderson and Rivera-Malpiede will attend this tour.
I-225 Light rail project—General Manager Washington indicated he was in receipt of
a letter from UC President Bruce Benson asking RTD to partner with UC and the
City of Aurora to relocation the Montview Station. As the University focuses on its
goal to be a preeminent national and international biomedical facility, there is
concern about electromagnetic interferences (EFI) and vibrations that the light rail

would create as it traverses past these buildings. There is also concern that
proposed mitigation may be insufficient and would cost millions of dollars. The
proposed realignment would provide mobility throughout the Anschutz medical
campus. Staff will bring this as a Board action item for the June 11 FasTracks
meeting.
Questions/comments from the Board members:
o Director Lubow expressed a concern over the problems experienced on the
West line. She requested a formal lessons learned document that would
help us to address how to reach the people ahead of time. We need to put
more quality time in being proactive and reaching the people before these
problems occur.
o Director Folska stated she appreciates the immediate response to the West
Corridor problems. She shared her experience when the Southeast Corridor
cutover and she had to learn a new route. She stated that perhaps the
riders will find new opportunities for travel as they rework and relearn new
routes. Director Folska also expressed the public hearings will be posted on
the RTD website. She asked General Manager for an estimate of cost to
mitigate. General Manager Washington responded approximately $50-60M
with no certainty of success (i.e. the floating slabs and other things being
considered for mitigation may or may not work). There are also potential
delays to the schedule that could result in monthly penalties of $1-1.5M.
o Director Deadwyler expressed her empathy for the riders in the West
Corridor. She stated there have also been unintended consequences to
members in her district who ride the 43. She is hopeful they can get this
figured out soon. She stated that she agreed with General Manager
Washington on the lesson learned not to make such drastic cuts
immediately. We need to better understand the impact of these multiple
changes and respond quickly to the issues created.

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.
Presentation of 2012 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to
Governance
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors accept and enter into the record the District’s audited financial reports relating to
the year ended December 31, 2012 as prepared by Staff and audited by the District's
independent auditor, RubinBrown, LLP.
Motion:

Director Sisk made the motion to approve the 2012
RTD Comprehensive annual financial report and report
to governance.

Director Rivera Malpiede seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion:

The motion passed fourteen in favor and zero against.
Director Lasater was absent.

RESULT:
ACCEPTED [13 TO 0]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Bill James, Director, District A
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Gary Lasater
AWAY:
Natalie Menten
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED UNANIMOUSLY.

XII.

Recommended Action
B.

Approval of the Downtown Denver Circulator Fare-Free Service Plan

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the Downtown Denver Circulator bus service plan including fare-free operations
beginning in 2014.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to approve item B,
approval of the downtown Denver circulator Fare-Free
Service Plan.
Director James seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Lubow asked for clarity on her understanding
that it would cost more to collect the fares than the
money collected. General Manager Washington
indicated this is so due to the fact that 70-80% of the
people using the circulator will be transfers and that we
have no vehicle to collect fares as passengers hop on
and off the vehicle.
Director Folska stated she thinks it is a good idea to get
to the art museum and service that Triangle. She
asked if there could be a financial partnership with the

Downtown Denver Partnership to pay for the cost. She
also indicated she had some concerns for safety about
the proposed bus bulbs where cyclists could ride across
them.
Director Deadwyler stated that she has mixed feelings
about the circulator. She certainly thinks it is
appropriate to ask the partners to contribute. She
stated that she had received a call from Councilman
Brooks who stated he had some ideas for possible
sources for revenue. General Manager Washington will
follow-up.
Director James indicated that he and Councilman
Brooks have exchanged emails about this. He is
encouraged about the possibility of partnership. One of
the issues to think about is the efficiency of the mall
shuttle is that we do not charge rates. This would
slow the bus down if we had to collect. Both the mall
shuttle and the circulator will need to work in
congruence. If we tried to collect on the circulator, this
would slow this process down and the two lines may
not work well together.
Director Walker expressed his support of the downtown
Denver circulator. He stated this may give some of the
small businesses and establishments along the way a
chance to benefit from the added access.
Director Menten expressed that she was opposed to
this downtown circulator. She stated there are lots of
assumptions but little facts on which to base an
opinion. She had just protested the signing of the sales
tax bill where we will be adding a 3% sales tax
increase on food, etc. This will undoubtedly hurt the
small businesses. In the same breathe, we are talking
about adding a fare-free circulator while we implement
service cuts and increase sales tax. She is opposed to
any fare-free expansion.

Vote on the
Motion:

The action passed thirteen in favor (Anderson, Bagley,
Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede,
Folska, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen and Walker) and one
opposed (Menten). Director Lasater was absent.

RESULT:
PASSED [13 TO 1]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Bill James, Director, District A
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Gary Lasater
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.
C.

RTD Drug and Alcohol Policy

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the revised RTD Drug and Alcohol Policy mandated by the Federal
Transit Administration of the United States Department of Transportation.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve item C,
Drug and Alcohol Policy.
Director Daly seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion:

The motion passed fourteen in favor and zero opposed.
Director Lasater was absent.

RESULT:
PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Bruce Daly, Director, District N
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Menten, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Gary Lasater
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED UNANIMOUSLY.

D.

August 2013 Service Plan

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve moving the proposed August 2013 Service Change as summarized
below and described in Attachment A on to public review and comment.
Motion:

Director Rivera-Malpiede made the motion to
approve item D, moving the proposed August
2013 Service Plan to public hearing.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Vote on the Motion:

The motion passed fourteen in favor and zero
opposed. Director Lasater was absent.

RESULT:
PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Menten, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Gary Lasater
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED UNANIMOUSLY.

XIII.

Old Business





Director Rivera-Malpiede referenced an email that was sent by Mr. Grushka earlier
that day to all of the Board members. She expressed concern about this e-mail and
thought it was alarming. She felt very harassed.
Director Folska concurred on this e-mail. She too was alarmed and felt fearful. She
requested Chair Anderson to take action.
Chair Anderson reprimanded Mr. Grushka in the meeting about this email. Mr.
Grushka responded aggressively to this reprimand and was asked by RTD security
to leave the room.

XIV. New Business


XV.

Director Walker shared that in the architect magazine, there is an article on Denver
being more transit oriented. The article is called “Mile-Hi on Rail.”

Executive Session

XVI. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 7:30 p.m.
Prepared and Transcribed by:

___________________________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Director to the Board of Directors

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

