Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Shelley Cook, District L
Bob Broom, District F
Vince Buzek, District J
Claudia Folska, District E
Lynn Guissinger, District O
Shontel M. Lewis, District B

Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
April 11, 2019 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
Chaired by Doug Tisdale
I.

Call to Order

II.

April Board Meeting Agenda Review

III.

Other Matters

IV.

Adjourn

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - April 16, 2019
I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Garry E Mahoney – Equipment Maintenance Supervisor – 30 years
Gavino Ramirez – Information Specialist – 15 years

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Communications & Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Guissinger
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Lewis
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Williams
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Mihalik

GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Broom
VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of March 26, 2019

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Approval of Contract Authority for BI Work Order

It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all
documents necessary to award a contract to 6e Technologies for BI Work Order
Contract (Contract Number 19DH0XX) for an amount not to exceed
$2,500,000 over 5 years. Work is administered on an as-needed, work order
basis. Funding for these Work Orders will be included in the budgets of the
projects on which the work is performed.
This action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
 Core Goal #3- Strong Financial Management
 Task Goal #3 – Ensure Fiscal Sustainability
 Task Goal #4 – Address Future Transportation Needs and Methods
XII.

Recommended Action
B.

Board Commitment to FasTracks Completion and Peak Service Plan

It is recommended by the Chair of the Board of Directors, Doug Tisdale, by the
Chair of the Planning/Capital Programs, & FasTracks Committee, Judy Lubow, and
by Directors Buzek, Guissinger, Lewis, and Whitmore that the Board of Directors
approve the attached Resolution No. _____, Series of 2019, Regarding RTD Board
Commitment for Finishing FasTracks and Supporting the Peak Service Plan for
Northwest Rail, as presented to the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks
Committee.
This recommendation is consistent with the General Manager’s 2019 Goals as
follows:
 Core Goal #2 – Strong & Ethical Leadership;
 Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management;
 Core Goal #5 – Effective Communications & Community Outreach;
 Task Goal #3 – Ensure Fiscal Sustainability; and



Task Goal #4 – Address Future Transportation Needs and Methods.

C.
Approval of IGA between RTD and the State's Office of Information
Technology
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all
documents necessary to execute an IGA to develop and operate software to help
manage LiVE Eligibility Applications through the State PEAK software system (State
Contract Management System (CMS) # 128691) for an amount not to exceed
$1,800,000. The IGA is for five (5) years of development, operations and
maintenance.
This action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #3: Strong Financial Management
Task Goal #3: Ensure Fiscal Sustainability
D.

Resolution Supporting Two Weeks of Free G Line Service

It is recommended by the Chair of the Board of Directors, Doug Tisdale, that the
Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution No. _____, Series of 2019,
Regarding RTD Board’s Support for Two Weeks of Free Service for G Line Travel,
as presented to the Operations & Customer Service Committee.
This recommendation is consistent with the General Manager’s 2019 Goals as
follows:
 Core Goal #2 – Strong & Ethical Leadership;
 Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management;
 Core Goal #5 – Effective Communications & Community Outreach;
 Task Goal #3 – Ensure Fiscal Sustainability.
XIII.

Executive Session

XIV.

Old Business

XV.

New Business

XVI.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

2.11.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

April 2, 2019

Subject:

Approval of Contract Authority for BI Work
Order

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: April 3, 2019
&

GM
Board Meeting Date:

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to award a contract
to 6e Technologies for BI Work Order Contract (Contract Number 19DH0XX) for an amount not to
exceed $2,500,000 over 5 years. Work is administered on an as-needed, work order basis. Funding
for these Work Orders will be included in the budgets of the projects on which the work is performed.
This action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
 Core Goal #3- Strong Financial Management
 Task Goal #3 – Ensure Fiscal Sustainability
 Task Goal #4 – Address Future Transportation Needs and Methods
BACKGROUND
RTD has need of an on-call contractor to provide technology services related to Business Intelligence.
RTD is moving into more data driven decision making. The District needs data to drive business
decisions hence the need for Business Intelligence IT services. RTD currently has a variety of BI tools
such as Oracle OBIEE, Oracle OACS, Informatica, Tableau, etc. The Work Orders (WOs) will be short to
mid-term periods addressing business, management of technology and consultant services. The activities
are inclusive of all activities necessary to support, enhance and update the BI tools and processes.
RTD anticipates the upcoming 5-year contract period may include work associated with several
initiatives around data including: Ridership Analytics, Realtime operational trend analytics, predictive
maintenance analytics, state of good repair and other ancillary analytic needs. RTD will also use this
contract to assist in maintaining day-to-day operations of the existing Oracle BI and Informatica tool sets
while the new systems/tools are being implemented.
DISCUSSION
RTD conducted an open procurement for a BI Work Order contractor. Five firms submitted proposals.
The criteria used to evaluate the proposals was:
Item
No.
1
2
3
4

Item
Compliance Matrix Score
Corporate Qualifications/Technical Skills
Staff Qualifications/Technical Skills
Prototypical Project Management Plan and Monthly

Weight
(%)
20
20
20
10

Packet Pg. 4

2.11.A

5
6

Reporting (response from example WO Abstracts)
References
Cost (including options, if any)

5
25

The five members of the evaluation team selected two firms for final interviews. 6e Technologies was
selected as the successful proposer.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The contract authority shall not exceed $2,500,000. Funding for these Work Orders will be included in
the budgets of the projects on which the work is performed. The types of funds are dependent upon the
funding source of each individual project. Individual work orders will be funded as the project
requirement is processed. The amount is not to exceed $500,000.00 in any one year.
The current timeline and approximate costs for activities such as business process reviews,
implementation services, and system configuration for new implementations; assistance maintaining the
current BI systems; and other associated project work is as follows:
2019 - $ 500,000
2020 - $ 500,000
2021 - $ 500,000
2022 - $ 500,000
2023 - $ 500,000
ALTERNATIVES
1. It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to award a
contract to 6e Technologies for BI Work Order Contract (Contract Number 19DH0XX) for an
amount not to exceed $2,500,000 over 5 years. Work is administered on an as-needed, work
order basis. Funding for these Work Orders will be included in the budgets of the projects on
which the work is performed.
2. Provide the needed services with RTD personnel. RTD personnel does not have the expertise or
capacity that can be provided by a work order contractor. This does not meet the needs of RTD.

Prepared by:
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Kim Heldman, Senior Manager, IT
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 5

2.12.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: March 28, 2019

From:

Doug Tisdale, Director, District H

GM

Date:

March 28, 2019

Board Meeting Date:

Subject:

Board Commitment to FasTracks Completion
and Peak Service Plan

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Chair of the Board of Directors, Doug Tisdale, by the Chair of the
Planning/Capital Programs, & FasTracks Committee, Judy Lubow, and by Directors Buzek, Guissinger,
Lewis, and Whitmore that the Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution No. _____, Series of
2019, Regarding RTD Board Commitment for Finishing FasTracks and Supporting the Peak Service Plan
for Northwest Rail, as presented to the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee.
This recommendation is consistent with the General Manager’s 2019 Goals as follows:
 Core Goal #2 – Strong & Ethical Leadership;
 Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management;
 Core Goal #5 – Effective Communications & Community Outreach;
 Task Goal #3 – Ensure Fiscal Sustainability; and
 Task Goal #4 – Address Future Transportation Needs and Methods.
BACKGROUND
In 2004, the voters of the Regional Transportation District approved the FasTracks ballot initiative to
create a comprehensive rail and bus rapid transit project connecting Denver and its suburbs, with an
expected completion date of 2017 for the entire project. For a number of substantial reasons, some of
which are noted in the resolution, project completion did not occur in 2017. It is expected that by 2020,
approximately 70% of the project’s mileage will be completed. This will leave several sections of the
project not yet funded nor finished.
DISCUSSION
The proposed resolution is appropriate and beneficial because it has been 15 years since the passage of
the FasTracks initiative, several corridors remain unfunded and unfinished, and the voters and taxpayers
deserve assurance that the project is not being forgotten. The resolution will express the Board’s
acknowledgement of RTD’s legal responsibility to complete the unfinished FasTracks corridors and its
intention to do so in as expeditious a manner as possible.
Addressing the financial challenges facing RTD in completing this task, the resolution expresses the
Board’s directives to staff to investigate reasonable cost saving measures and to propose funding
mechanisms to construct and operate the unfinished FasTracks corridors, with a report of steps taken to
appropriately move forward to be provided within two months. Further addressing financial challenges,
the resolution also dictates that staff explore, fund, and facilitate construction and operation of a cost
saving measure for the unfinished Northwest Rail that is presently being evaluated by staff and
stakeholders – the Peak Service Plan. A report outlining proposed steps to appropriately move forward
with this Plan will also be required and submitted within two months.

Packet Pg. 6

2.12.B

FINANCIAL IMPACT
Aside from the staff time required to prepare the reports identified above, there is no additional fiscal
impact associated with the adoption of this resolution.
ALTERNATIVES
1. To adopt the attached resolution
2. To amend and adopt the amended resolution.
3. To reject the resolution.

ATTACHMENTS:


2019 FasTracks and Peak Rail Resolution - Committee Revised Draft



Letter from Governor Polis



2011 Resolution 004 - Concerning A 2011 FasTracks Election (PDF)

(PDF)

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager, Board Office
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 7

RESOLUTION NO. __________, SERIES OF 2019
REGARDING RTD BOARD
COMMITMENT FOR FINISHING FASTRACKS
AND SUPPORTING THE PEAK SERVICE PLAN FOR
NORTHWEST RAIL
WHEREAS, the citizens of the Regional Transportation District
(“RTD”) passed a ballot initiative in 2004 to tax themselves to create a
comprehensive train and bus rapid transit project connecting Denver and its
suburbs (“FasTracks Program”), with an intended completion date of 2017
for the full project; and
WHEREAS, the full FasTracks Program was not completed in 2017,
with the current expectation being that approximately 70% of the project
mileage will be completed by 2020; and
WHEREAS, several corridors and extensions included in the
FasTracks Program have not been completed by the date of this Resolution,
nor have funds for their completion been identified or committed, namely, the
Northwest and the North Metro corridors, and the Central and the Southwest
Extensions (collectively, the “Unfinished Corridors”); and
WHEREAS, it remains the uncompromising intention of the RTD
Board to comply fully with and to fulfill the obligations created in the
FasTracks Program passed by the District voters in 2004 in as expeditious a
manner as possible; and
WHEREAS, the RTD Board has always acknowledged that these
FasTracks obligations are the expressed will of the electorate and that RTD is
required to comply therewith, which acknowledgement was previously
expressed, inter alia, in RTD Board Resolution No. 004, Series of 2011
(“Concerning a 2011 FasTracks Election”); and
WHEREAS, a variety of factors created substantial changes and
challenges and increased capital costs in the FasTracks Program following the
2004 voter approval of said Program, which factors included, inter alia, (a)
the requirement that new technology, including Positive Train Control and
new signal systems and commuter rail cars, be employed; (b) the decision that

2019 04 02 Committee-Approved Draft
Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: 2019 FasTracks and Peak Rail Resolution - Committee Revised Draft (3790 : Board Commitment to FasTracks Completion and

2.12.B.a

all but one of the trains be electric-powered rather than diesel-powered; (c)
additional EIS and local government drainage and traffic requirements; (d) an
increase in right-of-way acquisition costs; (e) significantly increased costs for
construction materials; and (f) the great recession of 2008-2009; and
WHEREAS, while acknowledging the financial challenges, RTD will
not abdicate its responsibility to complete the Unfinished Corridors as
expeditiously as possible in a commercially reasonable manner, and to that
end, the RTD Board expresses its unqualified commitment to and promotion
of fiscally responsible actions intended to facilitate and effectuate the
construction of all the Unfinished Corridors; and
WHEREAS, in regard to one of the unfinished Corridors, staff from
jurisdictions along the Northwest Rail Corridor and from RTD have been
investigating the construction and operation of an interim commuter startup
service (the “Peak Service Plan or “Plan”) along the unfinished portion of
the Northwest Corridor as a means of providing service to the Corridor in the
quickest manner possible; and
WHEREAS, the Peak Service Plan would provide rush hour service to
the presently unfinished portion of the Northwest Corridor, including three
trains from Longmont to Denver (and stations in between) in the morning
rush hour period, and three trains going from Denver to Longmont (and
stations in between) in the evening rush hour.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT:
1. The RTD Board expresses its continued commitment to the
completion of all the Unfinished Corridors, directing RTD staff to investigate
and research all reasonable cost-saving measures for construction and
operation of the Unfinished Corridors and creative funding mechanisms for
the same as expeditiously as reasonably possible, with a report to the Board
within two months following adoption of this Resolution outlining proposed
steps to appropriately move forward on these Unfinished Corridors.
2. In regard to the Unfinished Corridors, the RTD Board acknowledges
and appreciates the value and potential of phased approaches and partnerships
such as the Peak Service Plan to bring interim service to the remaining

2019 04 02 Committee-Approved Draft
Packet Pg. 9

Attachment: 2019 FasTracks and Peak Rail Resolution - Committee Revised Draft (3790 : Board Commitment to FasTracks Completion and

2.12.B.a

portion of the Northwest Rail corridor in the most rapid time frame
reasonably possible, expressing its expectation that RTD staff will proceed in
a commercially reasonable manner to explore, analyze, fund, and facilitate
construction and operation of the Peak Service Plan, including obtaining Plan
pricing information from Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railroad as
expeditiously as possible, with a report to the Board within two months
following adoption of this Resolution outlining proposed steps appropriately
moving forward on the Plan.
3. The RTD Board instructs the General Manager and CEO, through
staff, to communicate and publicize this Resolution to all stakeholders,
interested parties, the media and the public in general by appropriate means.
PASSED AND ADOPTED THIS ________ DAY OF ___________ 2019.
____________________________
Doug Tisdale, Chair

___________________________
Jeff Walker, Secretary

2019 04 02 Committee-Approved Draft
Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: 2019 FasTracks and Peak Rail Resolution - Committee Revised Draft (3790 : Board Commitment to FasTracks Completion and

2.12.B.a

Attachment: Letter from Governor Polis (3790 : Board Commitment to FasTracks Completion and Peak Service Plan)

2.12.B.b

Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: 2011 Resolution 004 - Concerning A 2011 FasTracks Election (3790 : Board Commitment to FasTracks Completion and Peak

2.12.B.c

Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: 2011 Resolution 004 - Concerning A 2011 FasTracks Election (3790 : Board Commitment to FasTracks Completion and Peak

2.12.B.c

Packet Pg. 13

2.12.C

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

April 2, 2019

Subject:

Approval of IGA between RTD and the State's
Office of Information Technology

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: April 3, 2019
&

GM
Board Meeting Date:

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to execute an IGA
to develop and operate software to help manage LiVE Eligibility Applications through the State PEAK
software system (State Contract Management System (CMS) # 128691) for an amount not to exceed
$1,800,000. The IGA is for five (5) years of development, operations and maintenance.
This action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #3: Strong Financial Management
Task Goal #3: Ensure Fiscal Sustainability
BACKGROUND
RTD commits to reviewing its Fare Structure and Fare Programs every three years to determine if any
additions or changes are required to provide the best options for RTD ridership and meet RTD’s revenue
targets. As part of this process, the RTD Board of Directors approved a new Low-Income Fare (LiVE)
Program in mid-September 2018.
RTD is working with the Colorado Governor’s Office of Information Technology (OIT) to implement a
program for evaluating RTD riders’ eligibility for the LiVE program using the State’s public benefits
application system, PEAK. RTD staff has been meeting with employees from various departments and
OIT every week for several months.
The ability to leverage the State of Colorado systems to determine eligibility for the LiVE Program is
expected to:
 Reduce the time for implementation of the LiVE Program
 Limit duplication of data
 Allow for consistent eligibility data usage
 Reduce the time spent on administering the LiVE Program’s eligibility assessment
 Store sensitive data in the State system (For example, data will include pdfs of the application,
photographs, and verification of income information.
 Make it easier for those applying for other benefits to access RTD’s LiVE Program
 Save RTD significant expense
DISCUSSION
RTD needs to execute an Intergovernmental Agreement with OIT to implement the LiVE Program. The
IGA includes the following items:

Packet Pg. 14

2.12.C







Develop a Business Requirements Document (BRD) to identify necessary changes to the PEAK
System. This has been completed.
Develop a Technical Design Document (TDD) to identify the details for development of the
software changes to the PEAK system. This has been completed.
Perform software development to implement the BRD and TDD.
Test software changes when complete.
Provide operational support and maintenance for funning the applications, sending automated
RTD correspondence, store images and documents, provide system administration and provide
call center and help desk support for the application.

The design and software development changes shall be performed by OIT’s contractor for a fee.
Members of OIT and Members of the PEAK Executive Steering Committee have generously donated their
time to provide guidance, support, document development and review to support implementation of
RTD’s LiVE Program.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The contract authority shall not exceed $1,800,000. Funding for this project is included in the 2019
through 2023 Budget. The largest portion of these costs are for the software changes being developed
this year. Annual correspondence, operations, maintenance and customer support are not expected to
exceed $211,000 per year during the term of this agreement.
ALTERNATIVES
1. It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to
execute an IGA to develop and operate software to help manage LiVE Eligibility Applications
through the State PEAK software system (State Contract Management System (CMS) # 128691)
for an amount not to exceed $1,800,000. The IGA is for five (5) years of development,
operations and maintenance.
2. RTD can independently, or through a contractor, develop software to accept and evaluate
applications for the LiVE program. RTD does not have the resources to adequately support the
system 24/7 and continuously meet Personally Identifiable Information (PII) security standards.
Development of such a system from scratch would take more than a year to implement and
would be appreciably more expensive. This would put implementation of the LiVE Program and
RTD security systems at significant risk.
3. RTD can develop a process to manually accept and evaluate applications for the LiVE Program.
This would require development of new policies and procedures and the hiring of more than 5
new employees. This would take more time and cost significantly more to implement.

Prepared by:
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Monika Treipl-Harnke, Sr, Manager of Revenue
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 15

2.12.C

Packet Pg. 16

2.12.D

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Board of Directors

Date: April 10, 2019

From:

Doug Tisdale, Director, District H

GM

Date:

April 10, 2019

Board Meeting Date: April 16, 2019

Subject:

Resolution Supporting Two Weeks of Free
G Line Service

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Chair of the Board of Directors, Doug Tisdale, that the Board of Directors
approve the attached Resolution No. _____, Series of 2019, Regarding RTD Board’s Support for Two
Weeks of Free Service for G Line Travel, as presented to the Operations & Customer Service Committee.
This recommendation is consistent with the General Manager’s 2019 Goals as follows:
 Core Goal #2 – Strong & Ethical Leadership;
 Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management;
 Core Goal #5 – Effective Communications & Community Outreach;
 Task Goal #3 – Ensure Fiscal Sustainability.
BACKGROUND
Operations for RTD’s G Line were originally scheduled to commence in late 2016. Though the
commencement of operations was continually delayed due several external factors, the G Line opening
day has been set for April 26, 2019.
DISCUSSION
As a token of RTD’s commitment to its community partners, stakeholders, and constituents, the
resolution expresses the Board’s strong support for a proposal to offer free service for travel on the G
Line for the first two full weeks of service operations, commencing Sunday, April 28, 2019, and ending
Saturday, May 11, 2019.
ALTERNATIVES
1. To adopt the attached resolution
2. To amend and adopt the amended resolution.
3. To reject the resolution.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The financial impact of this resolution falls within the General Manager’s discretionary authority, and any
necessary adjustments will be included in the 2019 Amended Budget.
ATTACHMENTS:


2019 04 10 11 28 Resolution for G Line Free Service - DRAFT

(DOCX)

Prepared by:
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager, Board Office

Packet Pg. 17

2.12.D

Approved by:

Packet Pg. 18

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
RESOLUTION NO.____, SERIES OF 2019
(RTD Board’s Support for Two Weeks of
Free Service for G Line Travel)

WHEREAS, The G Line, the 11.2-mile western arm of RTD’s expansive Eagle P3 commuter
rail project, runs from Denver Union Station through Denver, Adams, and Jefferson
Counties, terminating at Wheat Ridge/Ward Station; and
WHEREAS, G Line operations were originally scheduled to commence in late 2016; and
WHEREAS, Due to several external factors, the commencement of operations was
continually delayed, and the constituents and businesses along the corridor have been
patiently awaiting the line’s opening since that time; and
WHEREAS, General Manager Genova announced on April 1, 2019, that the G Line will finally
go into operation on April 26, 2019; and
WHEREAS, The RTD Board recognizes that the delay in G Line operations has caused
significant inconvenience and frustration for those who have long anticipated its opening;
and
WHEREAS, As an acknowledgment of the impacts endured by those along the corridor due
to lack of promised service and inconvenience while waiting, and as a gesture of the good
will and good faith of the agency, General Manager Genova has proposed that the first two
weeks of G Line service be offered free of charge to passengers.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT the RTD Board of Directors expresses its full
and unqualified support for and approval of the General Manager’s proposal to offer free
service for travel on the G Line for two weeks, commencing with the service day beginning
Sunday, April 28, 2019, and ending Saturday, May 11, 2019, in order to demonstrate our
strong support for our partnering communities and our abundant appreciation for the
patience and perseverance of the district, particularly those constituents and businesses
along the G Line corridor.

Packet Pg. 19

Attachment: 2019 04 10 11 28 Resolution for G Line Free Service - DRAFT (3805 : Resolution Supporting Two Weeks of Free G Line Service)

2.12.D.a

Passed and adopted by the Board of Directors of the Regional Transportation District on the
________ day of April, 2019.

______________________________
Doug Tisdale
Chair of the Board

_____________________________
Jeff Walker
Secretary

Packet Pg. 20

Attachment: 2019 04 10 11 28 Resolution for G Line Free Service - DRAFT (3805 : Resolution Supporting Two Weeks of Free G Line Service)

2.12.D.a

