Apr 11 2019 1200 PM Executive Committee
DOUG TISDALE: --in. This is Chair Doug Tisdale. I will note for the sake of the record that we
have present in the room, at this point in time, our Secretary, Jeff Walker, our General Manager,
Dave Genova, our Board Manager, Barbara McManus. And we have on the telephone Vice
Chair Peggy Catlin, Second Vice Chair, Angie Rivera-Malpiede, and our Treasurer, Shelley
Cook.
So all of the Directors are present. Are there any other Directors on the telephone with us at this
time? Silence advises that there are none, so we've called the meeting to order.
Hopefully you have received now an electronic copy of the April Board Meeting Agenda. Our
first order of business is to review the April Board Meeting Agenda. It is standard. Let me ask
Board staff first. Do we have someone for the Pledge of Allegiance? Do you know?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Not confirmed, but we have someone lined up.
DOUG TISDALE: Excellent. Thank you very much. There will be two retiree awards. Are we
aware whether they will be present?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Not yet.
DOUG TISDALE: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: They won't confirm until Monday.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. We do not anticipate anything special relative to the committee
reports. I am assuming that Director Broom, as Chair of the GMOC will not have anything
specifically to put forth, because the GMOC (General Manager Oversight and Performance
Management Committee) has not met yet.
The Chair's report and the General Managers' report will give an overview of any particular
events or news flashes that we need to share. Obviously, the most important news flash that our
General Manager will share with us is the announcement of the opening day for the G Line,
because that occurred after our last Board meeting. We do have one item on the Unanimous
Consent agenda, and that was the approval of a contract.
And then under Recommended Action, we do have three items that are indicated. The first one is
the so-called FasTracks Resolution, which we adopted previously in committee. And then we
have the approval of an IGA (intergovernmental agreement) between us and the state's Office of
Information Technology to assist in the going live with the LiVE Program, as of hopefully July.
And then we have added, and I thank you all very much for your kind indulgence on this-- we've
added the resolution supporting the two weeks of free G Line service. I'll give a comment or two
about that in a minute, just to put it in perspective. Well, actually, let me say it now.

We have confirmed several things. First of all, that the two weeks of free service on the G Line
that this resolution proposes are within the General Manager's discretionary authority relative to
the dollar amount. But we wanted-- because it is a major statement. We wanted to have the
Board-I wanted. Let me put it that way. I wanted to have the full Board weigh in on that to be able to
provide the support to the General Manager in doing this so that he might not be subject to
criticism from others. We have also confirmed that there is no financial implication associated
with the DTP (Denver Transit Partners) Concessionaire Agreement that we have for the
operation of the G Line associated with providing this two weeks of free service.
There is the overview of the agenda. Let me now invite comments. And because we're on phone
with several of you, let me begin with Madam Vice Chair Catlin. Do you have any thoughts,
observations, comments relative to the agenda?
PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): With regards to the resolution for the free service, or maybe it
should be non-revenue service?
DOUG TISDALE: Mm-hmm.
PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): Should there be a statement about the lack of impact to the
DTP Concession Agreement? Acknowledging that in the resolution?
DOUG TISDALE: I don't know that we need it in the resolution. I'll ask the General Manager to
weigh in on that. I don't know that we need a resolution. We certainly can say so as we discuss
the item, because I expect that there will be discussion on the item, and it would be appropriate
to discuss it there.
But I don't know that we need to burden the resolution with that. I think the important thing is to
send out a very clean, positive message. But let me ask General Manager to respond to the
question as to his thoughts.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Yeah, I don't think we need to put it in the resolution.
So the Concession Agreement is clear that their payments begins on the G Line as soon as we
execute the Revenue Service Commencement Certificate, and that has been done. So there's no
language in the Concession Agreement that would be impacted by this at all. So I think it would
just be cleaner to leave it out of the resolution at this time.
PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): That's fair enough. I think as long as it is pointed out in the
Concession, that would-- I would be comfortable with that. But here's a follow-up question. I'm
assuming you've already discussed this with DTP.
DAVE GENOVA: Yes. Yes, and-PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): And they're supportive?

DAVE GENOVA: Yes. And in fact, every two weeks, I have a call with our leadership team-myself, Henry Stopplecamp, Joe Christie, and then John Thompson and the DTP Board. We
have a call every two weeks, and we had that call this morning. And I talked about this, and
everyone thought it was really a great idea. And they're completely behind it.
PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): So would there be any benefit for them to have a brief letter to
you in support of that? That could be-- not within the resolution itself, but just could be an addon, or would there be some risk there with respect to the commercial-DOUG TISDALE: I'm not worried so much about the risk on the litigation side, or even other
commercial issues, but rather just the logistics of getting a very disparate Board. Remember,
these are various companies that have come together. And being able to get that through in
advance of Tuesday I think would be challenging, but I look to the General Manager for further
response.
DAVE GENOVA: That, I would agree with you, Mr. Chair, because it would have to go through
their legal review, and-PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): OK.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah, and while I'd-- it's a good question, but I think we're fine without it.
DOUG TISDALE: And I think to be able to state at the meeting that you brought it to the
Board's attention today, and that they verbally expressed support, is a great idea. But it takes
them out of the hassle of having to go through submission of a formal document, review by a
group of lawyers-- a gaggle of lawyers.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): I'm fine with that, but I just-- I would really like to have both
of those things acknowledged verbally.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. I think that's a great idea.
PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): OK. Because you know that we're not going to get a
unanimous vote on this. And so-- from our Board. So I just was trying to shore up the argument a
little bit.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. And then I appreciate that, because I will tell you that I think we will-I believe we will have near unanimity on this resolution. But yes, I understand it will not in, I
think in anyone's imagination at this point in time be 15-0.
PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): OK. That was my comment, and I don't have any others.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you very much. Madam Second-- oh, I'm sorry. Go ahead.
Yeah. Just jump right in.

DAVE GENOVA: If I may, Mr. Chair, while we're on this resolution. This really didn't come out
in the discussion the other night, because I didn't want to bring it up in a big public forum. But
the other outstanding benefit of the free service is that we're going to be running parallel bus
service until August.
And we want people to change their behavior and get on the train, because we're not doing this in
conjunction with the runboard. Because people are very comfortable in their routines, and this
gives them all an opportunity to make that switch to try the train and get very comfortable with
the train. Because in August, when we do the G Line service changes that have already been
approved by the Board, some of those routes will go away. And then some will change and be
revised.
And so I think this is also-- not only is this a goodwill communication by the organization, it's
also a great tool for us to get people on the train and getting them used to it and using it to make
a smoother transition for a later G Line service change with the bus routes.
PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): Also I-SHELLEY COOK (ON PHONE): You know-PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): And if I-- Shelley, go ahead. After you. Yeah.
SHELLEY COOK (ON PHONE): Yeah, yeah. If I could just reinforce that, because I think it's
worth at least making comments about. It is a good business decision as well as one that's meant
to be a good will gesture. And I think that may lessen the concern that some of the parts in the
unfinished quarter may have-- that it's not simply a gesture to our quarter versus theirs. It's also a
good business decision, from the standpoint that the General Manager talked about. So I like
that.
DOUG TISDALE: Excellent. Thank you very much. We appreciate the observation, Madam
Treasurer Cook. And I say that for the sake of the record, because we can't see who is talking on
the video when we're talking to a phone. All right. Madam Second Vice Chair, Madam RiveraMalpiede. Your thoughts, comments, questions as to the agenda?
ANGIE RIVERA MALPIEDE (ON PHONE): Yes. Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I have a couple.
The first one is one I've been thinking about for a while now, and it's for the retirees and the
retiree awards, which I think are great. But many times, they do not attend the event where
they're being recognized. And I think it would be a great gesture on behalf of the RTD Board of
Directors to write them a congratulatory letter and send it to their home with all of our signatures
thanking them for their services so that they know that we're thinking of them.
DOUG TISDALE: Let me ask Ms. McManus to weigh in on that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So we do contact via a letter all of the retirees, inviting them to and
thanking them for their service. It does not have all the Directors' signatures on it, but that model
can certainly be changed to add that. We're also in contact with them.

And when we get the notification of their retirement is when that letter goes out. And then there's
a full process we have in place where we follow up with them to see if they're coming. And then
if they let us know that they're not coming, we make sure that we get their plaque sent out to
them in the mail.
ANGIE RIVERA MALPIEDE (ON PHONE): OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So we're in touch with them multiple times after they retire, prior to
them coming or not attending the Board meeting.
DOUG TISDALE: And-ANGIE RIVERA MALPIEDE (ON PHONE): OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Let me footnote on that, if I may, before you go along with your comments,
Madam Second Vice Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA MALPIEDE (ON PHONE): OK.
DOUG TISDALE: And that is that I just was struck with a thought. If we cannot find someone to
lead us-- a young person, which is what we're trying to do-- lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance,
if we have retirees who show up, maybe we could default to them as leading us in the Pledge of
Allegiance.
Just a thought. Madam Second Vice Chair, I interrupted you. Please go on.
ANGIE RIVERA MALPIEDE (ON PHONE): Well, the other part I'm thinking of, that maybe
we should have some thank you cards printed up with our signatures to send in addition. I just
want them to know how much they are valued. So there is that piece. Under the recommended
action on the commitment of FasTracks, where you list the Board members who are part of the
Northwest Rail, isn't District C part of that as well?
DOUG TISDALE: That is an excellent question, and we-- what we did was-- by the way, we
have zero problem with, in the course of the meeting, adding as co-sponsors anyone who wants
to be a co-sponsor. These are the people who specifically brought this up when Director Lubow
and I were initially talking about this, and who expressed their interest in participating. But the
opportunity to be a co-sponsor of this can definitely be exercised on Tuesday night at the
meeting.
ANGIE RIVERA MALPIEDE (ON PHONE): OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And-ANGIE RIVERA MALPIEDE (ON PHONE): I [INAUDIBLE].

BARBARA MCMANUS: I would just like to add to that. If that changes, then we do make that
change in the Board report so that it is reflected in the record moving forward. It would not just
be verbal or in the minutes. It would be in, actually, the Board report as well.
ANGIE RIVERA MALPIEDE (ON PHONE): OK.
DOUG TISDALE: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA MALPIEDE (ON PHONE): Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Anything further, Madam Second Vice Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA MALPIEDE (ON PHONE): I think the only other thing that I would like to
bring forward is some concerns that I've heard about Board members not feeling like they're
being included in some of these discussions, and I think it's something we need to just kind of do
a check on.
DOUG TISDALE: I think that's an excellent thought. Let's put that on "other matters" and come
back to that when we're completed with the discussion on the agenda.
ANGIE RIVERA MALPIEDE (ON PHONE): Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Then Mr. Secretary, Walker-- Mr. Walker, do you have any
thoughts, comments, or questions relative to the Tuesday night Board meeting agenda?
JEFF WALKER: Just one. Just one item about the agenda-- the resolution supporting two weeks
free. Mr. Genova mentioned how it's also a toe in the water for those who are currently taking
other forms of transit, or other routes.
I think one of the things that we've all heard when we introduce a new line is, this totally messed
up my schedule. That happened with T-REX when the Southeast Line opened. Some people I
worked with got totally discombobulated, and I think when a bus route was reintroduced. After
that, it happened with West Line. It happens.
So I think this-- and Mr. Genova stated, and then I thought about it after we hung up-- or after I
hung up from the meeting Tuesday night, that it is a good way to get people, to introduce them to
this new alignment without going in head first. They just get to put a toe in the water and see
how it works for them. And then we can probably-- I'm assuming that staff would be very
interested in hearing those comments from the public, if there's any way an on-board survey or at
the station survey. How is your experience time-wise, et cetera?
And then maybe some adjustments in the planned bus schedule can take place then, before it
goes out to the public, and probably in July for the August Run Board. So it was a great
suggestion on Mr. Genova, and I had the same thoughts from, basically, on my conversations
with people I know who have started writing trains after-- by force or by choice after their lines
were introduced. And that's it. Thanks.

DOUG TISDALE: OK. Thank you. Appreciate that observation. All right, then. Madam
Treasurer Cook, any thoughts, questions, observations relative to the agenda?
SHELLEY COOK (ON PHONE): No. I just appreciate the comments that Walker had made
about the entire agenda, and certainly about the resolution on the two free weeks of service.
Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. All right. Then if there are no other thoughts relative
to the agenda, we are now ready for a motion to approve the Board Meeting Agenda for April 16,
20-I'm sorry, wait. I have-- the Executive Manager of the Board is reminding me that she needs to
be able to speak up too, and I apologize. Madam McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So we need to bring forward with a vote to move forward to the Board
meetings specifically the-DOUG TISDALE: The G Line resolution.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Prior to us-DOUG TISDALE: That's right.
BARBARA MCMANUS: --approving the agenda.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. We should, for the sake of the record, because we brought this up
as effectively a Board-initiated action item rather than as one percolating through staff and the
committee in the normal process. We should formally at this time adopt a resolution of the
Executive Committee approving that this item-- not approving the item itself, but approving that
this item go to the Board on Tuesday night. So may I have a motion that the resolution
supporting the two weeks of free G Line service go forward on Tuesday night? So-ANGIE RIVERA MALPIEDE (ON PHONE): Mr. Chair, I make that motion.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, OK. Madam Treasurer, we appreciate you're making the motion.
JEFF WALKER: I second.
DOUG TISDALE: And I have a second from-PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): Second.
DOUG TISDALE: --the Secretary. And is there any discussion on that motion? Hearing none, all
those in favor immediately saying aye.
JEFF WALKER: Aye.

ANGIE RIVERA MALPIEDE (ON PHONE): Aye.
SHELLEY COOK (ON PHONE): Aye.
PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed? There are none. That passes unanimously. Then we
turn to the motion to-- and thank you very much, Madam Executive Manager of the Board, for
bringing that to our attention to make sure that we got that right. Now may I have a motion,
please, to approve the Board Meeting Agenda as presented and as discussed?
ANGIE RIVERA MALPIEDE (ON PHONE): So I move.
DOUG TISDALE: There is a motion. Is there a second to the motion?
JEFF WALKER: Second.
SHELLEY COOK (ON PHONE): I guess I second.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. We have multiple movants and seconds relative to the motion. Is there
any discussion on that motion? Hearing none, all of those is favor immediately saying aye.
JEFF WALKER: Aye.
PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): Aye.
ANGIE RIVERA MALPIEDE (ON PHONE): Aye.
SHELLEY COOK (ON PHONE): Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed? There are none. That passes unanimously. We then
turn to other matters. We have one matter that Madame Second Vice Chair, Rivera-Malpiede,
has brought to our attention. And Madam Second Vice Chair, you have the floor.
ANGIE RIVERA MALPIEDE (ON PHONE): Thank you. Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I have been
a little bit concerned about the feeling that there has been meetings and just different kinds of
outreach done without at least the Executive Committee being notified.
And so I just want to say, for the record, that as the leadership group of the Executive
Committee, that if there is to be a meeting or an event, that we be notified of it so that we can
participate if we have the time to do it. I am very concerned about that. The other piece that I
want to bring forward is, if we are having an event in someone's district that they have the
opportunity to welcome the community first, and then turn it over to the program people-- I just
think that it shows unity within the Board.

DOUG TISDALE: And if I may respond to that second point first. I think your point is
exceptionally well-taken. I have been informed there was some history on that in years past, and
that for a time, the practice was to get away from that, because it caused, apparently, issues of
concern beyond my ken. And quite honestly, beyond my interest.
The truth is, I think your point is exceptionally well-taken, and I personally will state again my
apology to you relative to the event at Union Station, where we did not specifically invite you to
come forward relative to a welcoming of the crowd before we actually began the balance of the
program. And I think that's very well-taken. And my own personal pledge is that we will do that,
and I think we all can serve as reminders to each other to make sure that that happens as we go
forward.
Having spoken my piece, let me invite others who want to weigh in. And if you don't mind,
Madam Second Vice Chair, let's address your second point, and then we'll come back to you first
point relative to acknowledging people at events and let them be the, if you will, official greeter
to the event. Others who wish to chime in?
SHELLEY COOK (ON PHONE): -- I did want to offer support for that idea. It seems most
relevant right now because of Union Station tending to be the central location for a lot of general
announcements or announcements that affect the district as a whole. But it's still important to
note that it is within the district or the district trustee right now.
So I liked the suggestion. I'm glad for what you're saying, too. And I thought also we could talk
about the meetings and notice to the Board about the announcements and so forth. I don't know if
you want to go right into that, or if you want to wait and get some more comments about the-DOUG TISDALE: If I may, let me get other comments. Then we will circle right back to that.
OK? Is that all right?
SHELLEY COOK (ON PHONE): Oh, yeah. Of course.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you. Other comments relative to the remarks that Second
Vice Chair and I have made about that? Hearing none, let-PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): I-DOUG TISDALE: Oh, I'm sorry.
PHONE): [INAUDIBLE] and support the idea that the person to whom-- who basically is being
showcased to allow the opportunity to welcome folks.
So yeah, I have been aware of some instances where meetings have been held and someone else's
district without that Director being notified or invited. So I'm in support of that.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, well, thank you. And we can, if there are no other comments on this
point now, Mr. Secretary?

JEFF WALKER: I'll just make a quick note that, yes, I support that notion also. We can't always
attend, but it's nice to be invited and have the opportunity.
DOUG TISDALE: Let's then turn to the second element, which was the first mentioned by the
second Vice Chair, relative to a certain sense of not-- of some Directors not believing that
they've received notice as to events and things, or meetings. And I definitely think that's
concerning.
And we want to ensure that does not occur, because that is not the intention, I think, of anyone
on the Board, on the Executive Committee, or myself as Chair.
But let me, if I may, just for a second, Madame Second Vice Chair, are there any specifics you
want to share with us, events? Because the Executive Manager is raising her eyebrows relative to
when has this occurred. Because generally speaking, I think we give pretty good notice out. But
please share with us any specifics or additional details you wish.
ANGIE RIVERA MALPIEDE (ON PHONE): Well, I do think that a couple of things for me-and let just say this, as-- I don't know. But let me just say this. There have been multiple times
that there have been big events happening that I hear about on email after the media has been
there. And I find it extraordinarily disrespectful that at least I'm not getting a heads up on that.
That's number one.
Number two, when you're looking at the FasTracks resolution, let me just say that as a for
instance, I never got any kind of a phone call or invitation for information to see if I wanted to
participate in that resolution. And I know other Board members have felt that way as well.
So those pieces are very concerning to me. And it's making me feel like there's a real disconnect
going on here.
DOUG TISDALE: Right. Well, I appreciate your sharing that. We'll get back to the invites in a
second. Relative to the FasTracks resolution itself, that really is, just to give you some history on
it, a process that began by Director Lubow two years ago.
And I've been working with her on and off for the past two years in doing that. She reached out
to a number of other Directors that she felt were directly implicated or impacted by that. And so
she was the one who made that outreach.
I take your point. And I think it's always good to have as many people as possible become
involved. But I just wanted to give you that history that Director Lubow has been working on it
for two years, and has been working with the other Directors in terms of getting them to sign on
for support and so forth.
ANGIE RIVERA MALPIEDE (ON PHONE): Thank you for that. My only comment to that is, I
don't believe Director Lewis knew that that was happening.

DOUG TISDALE: Yes, OK. And I hear what you say. And we definitely will make sure we
address that. Which is one of the reasons that we specifically, and I think we can now say this,
the Downtown Denver Partnership Awards Celebration, one week from tonight, will give an
award to the RTD. And specifically it relates to Civic Center Station, which happens to be the
extreme southwest corner of Director Lewis's district.
So I have personally made her aware of that and expressed our collective desire that she be there
and be on stage as one of the persons receiving that award next Thursday night. So I think we're
looking at this and trying to address it.
Let me go back to the invitation as to events. Because that's something that the Board Office
staff I think does a pretty good job. But can you give us an example of one where there was an
event? Not necessarily you, but were anyone advised you to [INAUDIBLE], but that Board
Office staff had not communicated that event to the Director until after the fact?
ANGIE RIVERA MALPIEDE (ON PHONE): I'm talking particularly about the G Line opening.
I mean, I got an email at 9:45 in the morning. And the event was at 11:00. And so by the time I
got downtown, it was over.
I just-- and I don't know how long people knew that that was going to happen. I know it was a
short period of time. But it would have been nice to get a heads up that, hey, we're going to be
having a big announcement at 11:00 tomorrow. If you can come, would have been really helpful.
I got downtown-- by the time I read it and got downtown, it was already over. So it was just
disappointing. And you know, that, I think, really doesn't do a good job in terms of showing
transparency and unity.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you.
SHELLEY COOK (ON PHONE): Yeah, that was a-DOUG TISDALE: Go on.
SHELLEY COOK (ON PHONE): That was kind of a tricky one, too, because of the nature of
the announcement. But if there is-- if we could have alerted people in the way that Angie talked
about, I had a little bit more notice, and for that, I was really grateful. Also, I lived in a spot that
is close in. But other people didn't have that. And I know they really would have loved to have
been there. So I just-- I agree with that-PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): I'll echo that. And I know that--this is Peggy Catlin--I echo
that because I know there were some concerns about making the announcement in advance
because of the last-minute approval by the railroads. Dave, is that correct?
But even that-- even just that I had [INAUDIBLE] that it might be coming could have allowed us
to plan our schedules a little bit better to be there in support, and say, you know, we're still

working out the details, and it's pending, stay posted, I think would have gone a long way toward
keeping us in the loop.
And just in general, Mr. Chair, I think we as an Executive Committee want to be able to support
you. And in the event that you're not able to attend something, be there prepared to back you up.
And we often feel that we have some of that limitation or the information to be able to do that.
So that's just my two cents worth.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, thank you for that. And I'm going to ask the General Manager to weigh
in on this, because particularly in regards to the G Line announcement, that really wasn't a Board
Office thing. I just want to make sure it's understood that, insofar as I'm aware, Board Office
staff always gets notice out for events well in advance. But let me ask the General Manager to
weigh in on the specifics of the G Line announcement.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So I realize that that happened quickly. And, you
know, I apologize for that quick notice. But there was a lot of strategy behind that notice. And I
will give you some of that background.
So, for example, we wanted to get an announcement out as quickly as possible because we were
getting very close to a date in terms of getting all of the other logistics done around
[INAUDIBLE]. If we would have, you know, waited longer to announce, then we get closer and
closer to the date we want to open.
And then that becomes problematic because people don't get enough notice to be able to plan to
be here for the opening. And there's a lot of other logistics involved in that. So that's one piece of
it.
A second piece of it is that we wanted to do that in the morning, so that we would catch the
morning news cycle. And then also the afternoon and evening news cycles. And I actually was
on the phone that morning with the Federal Transit Administration, the Federal Railroad
Administration, and also the Burlington Northern Santa Fe, getting final head nods that they
were OK with us announcing this date.
So on Friday, for example, I actually was typing into my Friday afternoon memo that there was a
possibility that we would have that announcement in the morning so the Board would have had
more of an advanced notice. But I wasn't sure we were going to be making that announcement on
Monday morning.
And if I would have put that in the memo, I know that there are Board members that flipped that
Friday memo to media outlets. And so as I was typing it, then I started to hit the delete button,
because I didn't want to create an expectation. Because I wasn't 100% certain that we were going
to make that announcement on Monday morning.
So it was very intentional that I did not want to create an expectation that maybe the agency
could not stand up to and meet. So that's just some of the background behind it. So we make

every effort to try to get information out to the Board as quickly as we possibly can, and
especially ahead of any media things.
I will tell you that it's incredibly challenging right now in our environment, because things get
out-- when we communicate to 15 people, things get out via social media, or just innocently, just
a conversation or otherwise. And then all of a sudden, I'm seeing things on social media that we
haven't announced publicly yet as an agency.
So there's a-- believe me, I'm incredibly sensitive to this. And I want the Board to have as much
advance notice of all things as much as we possibly can. We had a lot of just details, logistics,
and strategy around that G Line announcement though, that made it tight, and they made it for a
very-- I had intention of notifying the Board even earlier that morning before I even got to the
office. But again, there were just some conversations that I needed to have, and some loops that I
needed to close.
So that's the background. But you also have my sincerest apology.
ANGIE RIVERA MALPIEDE (ON PHONE): You know, if I could, I think it might be helpful
when the next time, when you are sending the information to the media, that we get the same
information. Because by then, it is already out there. That might be a good way to do it.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah, well, I typically you get it. So before any major announcement, and
we-- when we know we're going to put a press release out, I almost, in every case, have been
able to get something this to the Board in advance of that announcement.
Now, now sometimes it's quick, because something develops and, you know, we've got to get it
out pretty quickly. But our goal is to always get that information to the Board ahead of time.
And I believe we have all the Board members on the-- you know, even if you don't see the email
from me, because I understand, sometimes when you're looking at email in real time, you see
that, oh, I just saw this media release come out. Like, it just came out. How come I haven't heard
about this? But then maybe an hour before or something, down in the email there would be the
notice from me or Pauletta, or from somebody else.
But we're-- believe me, we are incredibly sensitive to this. And, you know, every once in a
while, we have a misstep. But it's one of our number one priorities to make sure that the Board
has information before anybody else.
And number one priority that all Board members get everything all at the same time. And that
one Board member is not getting something in advance of any other Board member.
DOUG TISDALE: That's something that I think is worthy of an underscore. Because quite often
during the course of a committee meeting or a Board meeting-- excuse me-- a Board member
will make a comment to the effect of, would you please get that to me?

And, of course, the response of staff should be, at least it is internally if not expressed, yes, we
will get it to all of you. We don't want to single out any one or other Board member relative to
information dissemination.
DAVE GENOVA: And if I may just add-ANGIE RIVERA MALPIEDE (ON PHONE): I was going to say, I really appreciate that. And I
don't want to make it sound like I don't believe that the Board Office is doing their due diligence.
Because I think we have the best Board Office in the country.
I just think that there are a couple of times where I felt like I've gotcha. And it didn't feel very
good. And it was embarrassing to me in front of my community.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, this is Barbara McManus. If that happens, please notify us.
Because we work with so many different entities externally, including our internal
communications, on everything that we put on the two-week calendar, and all the events that we
poll for. It's hard to catch everything.
Very often, Board members will get invited to something. And let's just use the example of the
Downtown Denver Partnership. The Board Office wasn't notified. I found out because I knew
that Dave was invited. We weren't sure that any Directors were invited.
Then it came to light that one was. Then it came to light that another one was. And then one who
should have been invited, wasn't invited. And so we sort of work on that with the different
entities to make sure that we have all the information.
But a lot of times the Directors get the information first. And even if you think I'm going to get it
15 times, I'd rather get it 15 times than miss that one thing. So I ask for your help in that as well.
DAVE GENOVA: And if I may-- just the Downtown Denver Partnership is a good example,
because it's an example of when an organization will go to somebody within our organization,
and they're not working it through the Board Office or the Executive Office. And I hear from a
staff member, hey, who do you want to at this event? Because the partnerships [INAUDIBLE].
Whoa.
Look, and we had a misstep with the same type of thing before. And I won't get into the details.
That was a number of years ago. But anyway, so sometimes there's things we don't even know
about that are going on. And as soon as we get then, we try to clear them out.
And believe me, Barbara mentions this regularly at our SLT (Senior Leadership Team) meetings,
that getting items on the two-week calendar, how critical that is. And so she's often reminding
SLT. And then we remind the staff to make sure we're getting those things either on the calendar
or other notices.
And so speaking of this, as we get further down, I won't take the time now, but I have a couple of
items in regards to a couple of upcoming events that I'd like to get some feedback on.

DOUG TISDALE: All right, and we'll do that in just a moment. Let me make sure that we've
closed out discussion on these two points. Anyone else have any comments? And I'll provide a
brief summary here. All right, Director Walker-- Secretary Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Yes, and quickly, I did get the notice where the Union Station-- let's
just stay on that one-- that opening an hour or so maybe before the announcement was made. I
think it came from the Chair. But I remember a couple months ago, Mr. Genova stated that when
an announcement comes, it might be an extremely quick turnaround between the time of that
announcement, and even when revenue service started.
It's like maybe in a matter of days between the announcement and revenue service. I don't
remember what month or what meeting it was. But I remember that a heads up was given. So
different circumstances require different procedures.
Of course, we always want all Board members to be informed at the same time of whatever
events are occurring. Out of the agency. But I didn't have the same experience. Even though I'm
right downtown, I wasn't able to make it because I was tied up from my day job.
But I did receive an announcement. And I have always seen, as far as I know, that the Board
Office, or something from the Mr. Genova's office, or the Chair, will inform us of what's going
on.
Sometimes it's an hour later after it comes out because of the number of emails I get. But I
always see at least an attempt, if not the execution, of that notification. In my seven years here,
I've seen that.
DOUG TISDALE: I appreciate that. Let me provide this summary, if I may then, and then we'll
have General Manager give us the further items he wants to address. First of all, in terms of the
question of welcomes, going forward, it will be the policy that we will acknowledge the resident
Director at each event held in their district, such that the resident Director may express a formal
welcome to all for such event.
So that's one thing that we have determined. Then secondly, we have confirmed here that the
Board Office staff, and, for that matter, the individual Directors, will provide timely notice to all
of all. So we provide notice to all of all. So that we get the best information possible out there.
And that's essentially how I would summarize this discussion. Let me recognize General
Manager now to go forward. And then we'll come back. We'll circle around if there are any other
matters. But the General Manager has a couple of things he'd like to bring forward.
DAVE GENOVA: Yes, and thank you Mr. Chairman. In regards to the G Line. So we did the
Board tour earlier this week. And I'm glad we had a good turnout for that. We're also in the midst
of planning two other G Line tours. And so one is a media training that we're planning on April
23.

And so that is-- we do this on every corridor that we open. And we limit that media train to
media and myself, the Chair, and in case of the G Line would be the G Line Board members, or
the Board members that represent the G Line areas would be invited to participate on that media
train.
And then the local electeds to be, again, just the mayors and, in terms of Adams County, it would
be the Commissioner for that area. So I wanted to let the Board know that that is getting
solidified, or the Executive Committee anyway, for 4/23.
And I was going to talk to you about this, Mr Chair, but I think since the topics up, it' pertinent to
address here. So if the Executive Committee is OK with that-- now, let me repeat who that will
be from the Board.
So on that media training would be-- from RTD, would be myself, Chair Tisdale, and then the
Directors that represent the G Line. And I believe that would be Directors Menten, Director
Cook, and Director Rivera-Malpiede, I think are all the G Line Directors.
DOUG TISDALE: I think that's right. Looking at the map, that seems to be a correct statement.
DAVE GENOVA: So you'll be getting-- the full Board will be getting more information as we
solidify this. But we-- it's in process right now. And again, with our-- we have a compressed
schedule on the G because the stakeholders have made it abundantly clear to us that they want
the line open when it's ready to open, and they don't want to wait any longer than they have to.
So we have that. The other tour that we're trying to plan, and, again, it's a quick turnaround, is for
elected officials. And this would be a narrow-- this would be elected officials that are just G
Line. So it wouldn't be as broad as the elected officials that are all getting invited to the VIP
event.
It would be, for example, it would be all-- or we would do our full Board to be invited on this.
We would have the councils from the G Line cities-- Wheat Ridge, Arvada, Denver, and the
County Commissioners for Adams County.
We would invite our US delegation that touch the G Line. And we would invite the state
legislators that touch the G Line.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DAVE GENOVA: And Jeffco, too. Jeffco, was that the comment?
PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: I was just going to say, Jefferson County Commissioners I think would be
appropriate to include in that group.

DAVE GENOVA: Yes. And so the other thing I would just like not to pick a date, because, you
know, we like to-- picking a date by committee is often hard. But I wanted to get some feedback.
What we're thinking about doing is either late next week, but then realizing that a good day to do
that would be Friday the 19th, is also Good Friday. I'm a little concerned about Good Friday.
So the other date we were thinking about is possibly-- And if we do it any sooner than that, it's
not enough notice. So then we're thinking about doing it on Monday the 22nd, which would be
just, you know, so it's ahead of the media train, so the electeds are feeling that they've been
treated a little bit-- a little bit special, that they're the second group to ride after our Board of
Directors, and then the media.
So that's what we're kind of circling on is that that might happen on the 22nd for electeds.
DOUG TISDALE: If I may just offer an observation, I appreciate your sensitivity to Good
Friday, not only for personal reasons, but as much for the optics of it. And I think it would be
beneficial to avoid creating an issue.
Relative to Monday, April 22nd, I will just bring to your attention. I know you're aware of this,
and I know that Vice Chair Catlin aware of this, the RTD Sheridan Station groundbreaking is, as
I recall, at 10:45 in the morning on Friday-- on Monday, April 22nd.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah, so we'd work around-- we'd certainly work around that.
SHELLEY COOK (ON PHONE): Mr. Chair, if I could add too-DOUG TISDALE: Please.
PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): City Councils often meet on Monday. SO I would just double
check with-- in terms of the timing. If it's going to be on a Monday, just be aware that they'll be
needing to be back at their municipalities for that.
DAVE GENOVA: Yes. And the other key piece I'll put out here is that we're trying to spread out
the highlighting different parts of the G Line. So we have the VIP reception and the grand
opening being at Wheat Ridge, but we also have the ribbon cuttings along the way on that grand
opening morning.
But what we're thinking about doing for the electeds is having everybody gather at Olde Town
Arvada. That's where we would board. We'd take a full trip. We'd take a full round trip, so we'd
see every station and then end at Olde Town Arvada.
PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: I think that works well.

DAVE GENOVA: So I think I'll go ahead and work with Communications to try to plan that for
the 22nd then if the Executive Committee thinks that's a reasonable-- it's also Earth Day, and we
could put some spin on that.
DOUG TISDALE: I'd like that, quite honestly. Other thoughts from other members of the
Executive Committee relative to those dates that General Manager has shared with us? All right,
it would sound as though we have some, at least, tacit approval of that.
If we can ask, you'll be prepared then on Tuesday night at the full Board meeting in your report
to mention those items, or do you want to keep that to a more limited publication?
DAVE GENOVA: No, we can mention it. And because we need to get on this quickly just so
people have adequate notice.
DOUG TISDALE: I think there-DAVE GENOVA: --or as much notice as we can give.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, that's right. Yeah, let's not say adequate. Let's just say as much as we
reasonably can under the circumstances. There may well be some media presence on Tuesday
because of a couple of these items that we have coming forward at the meeting. And so,
therefore, to the extent that we can get that information out, I think that helps to broadcast that
information.
All right, anything further from you?
DAVE GENOVA: No, that is it for me. Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Now, are there other matters from any member of the Executive
Committee? Secretary Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I took the cybersecurity training. It took maybe 30 minutes. Maybe 30
minutes. And I found it very well used time, because it protects the agency and our taxpayers in
return. And even though some of it might be redundant, there's still a bunch of new stuff out
there. And it never hurts to have a refresher course. So I found it very helpful.
DOUG TISDALE: I thank you for sharing that.
ANGIE RIVERA MALPIEDE (ON PHONE): Thank you for the reminder.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, no, it is important.
ANGIE RIVERA MALPIEDE (ON PHONE): --slipped my mind.

DOUG TISDALE: And maybe I shouldn't do this in what is, after all, a public meeting, but I will
share with you, there is a trick to that, too. I did the security training as well. And it took me no
more than 20 minutes to go through the whole thing.
And that's because, when you pull up the security training, and each time there is a slide, the
slides on the right-hand side are the script that you listen to in the video. So you can simply
speed read the script and hit the next button, and not have to listen to a voice say, (SLOWLY)
one thing that always happens is called phishing. You may not know-- I can read this! I can read
this!
And so doing that, I found what-- I experimented when it first came on. I said, what if I just click
next? And it went to the next slide. And I said, OK, that's the way to do this.
DAVE GENOVA: I would comment, Mr. Chair, that it took me under 30 minutes to do the
training as well while I had my lunch at my desk. And I would comment that, on one of the
modules, I had to take the quiz two or three times because I didn't pass it the first time.
So what Director Walker said, you know, there's always something that might be a little new or a
little nuanced that's important.
DOUG TISDALE: That's right, thank you. Thank you very much for sharing that. We appreciate
that. Because we do want to encourage-- do we-- Madame Executive Manager, do we receive in
the Board office from the Cyber Security Training Team, information as to who has not yet
completed--[AUDIO OUT]

