1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, September 2, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Larry Hoy

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 6:04 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title

Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Kent Bagley

Director, District L
Director, District H

Present
Present

6:05 PM
6:06 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

6:05 PM
6:06 PM

Claudia Folska

Director, District E

Present

6:05 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater

Committee Chair
Director, District A
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present
Absent

6:06 PM
6:06 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

6:05 PM

Natalie Menten
Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District M
Director, District C

Present
Present

6:07 PM
6:05 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

6:07 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

6:05 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

6:05 PM
6:05 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Rick Clarke, Jeff Cluphf, John Elias,
Sherry Ellebracht, Kevin Flynn, David Genova, Terry Howerter, Austin
Jenkins, Jim Maguire, Barbara McManus, Tara Miller, Vivian Morales,
Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Bill Sirois, Karen Stanley, Henry
Stopplecamp, Greg Straight, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van
Meter, C. Scott Woodruff

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Michael Dino, Aaron Epsten, Tina Francone, Joni
Goheen, Doug Gragg, Sherman Hamilton, Eugene Howard, Daryl
Kirby, Brian Middleton, Laura Rinker, Roger Sherman, Joshua Solis,
Joe Racogley, Joe Triplett, Ted Wenzlick

B. Updates

• Eagle P3 Project Update
Brian Middleton, Consultant for FasTracks Project Management, recognized
Aaron Epstein as the new Denver Transit Partners (DTP) project director for
the Eagle Project. He said that Greg Amparano, the former project director,
will still be involved in the project as Fluor’s representative on the DTP Board
of Directors.
Brian Middleton presented the Eagle P3 Project Update included in the
FasTracks Monitoring Committee packet for September 2, 2014. The
updates presented included design and system status, commuter rail
vehicles, commuter rail maintenance facility, East Rail Line, Gold
Line/Northwest Rail, bridges and coordination with adjacent projects.
Brian Middleton noted that an Eagle P3 team review identified a problem on
the Jersey Cutoff bridge, just south of I-70 on the Northwest/Gold Line track
alignment. He said that DTP found deficiencies with the bridge design. DTP
determined that it is in the best interest of the project to demolish and
rebuild the bridge. RTD staff agreed with the decision. He stated that at no
time there was any danger to the public. He also said that neither RTD nor
the region’s taxpayers will incur any cost for this work as DTP is taking full
responsibility for both the cost and the work.
Committee Chair Hoy reminded the Directors to keep the questions and
comments on topic. He also asked them to wait until all Directors have had
a chance to speak before asking to speak for a second time.
Director Anderson said she was very interested in the lessons learned from
the Jersey Cutoff bridge. She noted that she understood that incidents

happen but that this one seemed to be of a greater magnitude. Director
Anderson wondered if the fault in the construction had anything to do with
construction through the wetlands. Rick Clarke, Assistant General Manager
for Capital Programs, replied that his team will work with DTP on what
happened and how to move forward. Brian Middleton added that the
wetlands had no impact on the deficiencies.
Director Anderson said that she appreciated the staff’s work with the City of
Arvada. She noted that the parking garage has gone through several
reiterations. She stated that the parking garage is an important component
for the City of Arvada’s Transit Oriented Development.
Director Rivera-Malpiede asked if the rebuilding of the Jersey Cutoff bridge
would have any impact on the 2016 openings. Brian Middleton answered
the demolition and rebuilding will not have any impact on revenue service.
Committee Chair Hoy added that DTP is as motivated as RTD to complete
the project.
Director Bagley noted that there have been problems with bridges in the
past. He said that RTD has a thirty (30) plus years design, finance, build,
operate, and maintain agreement with DTP. He asked what the design life
of the projects’ bridges is. Brian Middleton answered that it is in excess of
sixty (60) years. Rick Clarke added that the length of time is specified in the
contract.
Director Menten asked for clarification on the structure of the Jersey Cutoff
bridge. Brian Middleton replied that the bridge is only for RTD commuter rail
use. Rick Clarke added that the bridge goes over BNSF tracks called Jersey
Cutoff.
Director Menten asked for more details on other problems encountered
during bridge constructions as she was not familiar with other cases. Brian
Middleton answered that about eighteen (18) months ago the Sand Creek
Bridge on the East Rail Line and another bridge, which he did not recall the
name, needed to be restored. DTP took full responsibility for the redesign,
reconstruction, and replacement.
Committee Chair Hoy pointed out that the check and balances process of
the Private Public Partnership (P3) works.
Chair Sisk asked for details on how RTD was made aware about the
deficiencies of the Jersey Cutoff bridge. He also asked for the estimated
replacement cost. Brian Middleton replied that RTD was made aware while
going through the P3 process. As areas of concern were identified they
were brought up to DTP. Upon DTP review, they agreed to demolish and

start again. Brian Middleton hesitated in stating a replacement cost. He
said that the cost to RTD is zero (0) dollars. Rick Clarke added that under a
P3 the private entity assumes full risk. He added that RTD would not have
done this well under any other design delivery method.
Director Lubow asked if these types of design problems are common or if
this should be interpreted as a red flag. Brian Middleton said that the design
process is intricate. Checks and balances are in place to ensure the quality
of the process. He noted that this is not the worst situation he has seen on
a project. He gave credit to DTP for accepting full responsibility and fixing
the problem. Rick Clarke added that the findings triggered an independent
review of all the bridges in the project. No other problems have been
identified.
Director Daly said he appreciated DTP’s honesty and responsibility. He
asked if there was a problem with the subcontractor. Brian Middleton
answered that he was not sure but he did not think so.
Director James said that the Jersey Cutoff bridge incident is both a problem
and an opportunity. From RTD’s perspective the problem is minimal as the
agency benefits from the P3 structure. The opportunity is showing the
public that a P3 is effective. He suggested the staff looked into how to
make the most of P3s in future projects. Rick Clarke added that his team
will assess the lessons learned from the project, both positive and negative.
Director Rivera-Malpiede noted that the Jersey Cutoff bridge was in District
C which she represents. She asked if there was a plan of action for public
outreach. Brian Middleton replied that DTP is working to develop public
outreach.
Director Folska noted that one of the reasons RTD has a P3 is the hard work
of the staff. She asked for a description of the bridge and what makes it
unique since there are so many bridges in the nation. She pointed out a
bridge in Washington, D.C. that is 5 miles long. Brian Middleton said that
the bridge design is unique for the project, not the nation. The original
design for the 500 feet bridge had a supported deck. The new design will
be more traditional.
Committee Chair Hoy reiterated that this P3 is working properly. RTD chose
their partners carefully. DTP stepped up and owned the responsibility. He
said that he could not ask more from contractors.

C. Other Matters
No other matters were presented.

D. Next Meeting Date - October 7, 2014
E. Adjourn
Committee Chair Hoy adjourned to the Planning and Development Committee at
6:35 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

