1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303/299-2303

Regional Transportation District
Board of Directors

Chair – Lee Kemp, District I
First Vice Chair – Christopher Martinez, District B
Second Vice Chair – Noel Busck, District K
Secretary – William G. McMullen, District E
Treasurer – John Tayer, District O
Barbara Brohl, Director, District D
Juanita Chacon, District C
Bill Christopher, District J
Bruce Daly, District N
Bill Elfenbein, District A

Daryl Kinton, District H
Wally Pulliam, District L
O’Neill P. Quinlan, District G
Dave Ruchman, District M
Barbara Yamrick, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, June 17, 2008 at 5:30PM
I.

CALL TO ORDER

II.

ROLL CALL-DETERMINATION OF QUORUM

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
Victor Hernandez, Bus Operator - 33 Years of Service

RECOGNITION OF 2008 INTERNATIONAL ROADEO PARTICIPANTS
Bus International Participants
John Deschner

John Willem (Veolia)

Maintenance International Participants
Kevin Steele
Larry Perkins
Ben Carroll

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD meeting you
wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307

THE CHAIRMAN REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.
THANK YOU.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS-(See Minutes)
Planning & Development Committee - Chaired by Director Busck
Legislative Committee – Chaired by Director Pulliam
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Quinlan (cancelled)
DBE Committee – Chaired by Director Chacon
Operations/Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
Financial/Administration Committee – Chaired by Director Tayer
CDOT – Director Quinlan
E-470 – Director Busck
ACED – Director Busck
DRCOG-Director Elfenbein
Denver Union Station Advisory – Director Chacon
Northwest Parkway-Chair Kemp and Director Pulliam
Pension Committee - Director Pulliam
Rocky Mountain Rail Authority-Director Christopher
Chair’s Report- Chair Lee Kemp

VI.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF MAY 20, 2008

VII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT

VIII.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
A.

Approval of a Contract for Construction for Centrepoint & Sable Bus Transfer Center
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to execute all documents
necessary to award a construction contract to Paramount Construction in the amount
of $1,498,708.24 for the Centrepoint & Sable Bus Transfer Center in Aurora. Funds
are currently programmed in the 2008 RTD budget.

B.

Approval of the Sale of 3,043 Square Feet of RTD property at Colorado Station
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute all
documents necessary to sell 3,043 square feet of real property located generally on
Colorado Center Drive, City and County of Denver to Lincoln ASB Colorado Center, LLC
subject to RTD’s retention of a permanent non-exclusive easement for transit purposes
including a bus stop, pedestrian access, and passenger boarding area. It is further
recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his
designee to negotiate and execute all documents that may be necessary for the
cooperative design, development and maintenance of the arcade design with parking
above and below the bus drop off area.

C.

Release of Rail Passenger Service Easement at Mississippi & Broadway, City and
County of Denver
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute all
documents necessary to release a portion of the Rail Passenger Service Easement on a
parcel of vacant land near Mississippi and Broadway, City and County of Denver
containing an area of approximately 48,479 square feet or 1.113 acres.

D.

Approval of the DUS Preliminary Design Intergovernmental Agreement between RTD
and CDOT
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between the Colorado Department of
Transportation (CDOT) and the Regional Transportation District (RTD) for the
purpose of securing the first increment of the Federal Projects of National and
Regional Significance (PNRS) grant for Denver Union Station. The total amount of
the IGA is $5 million and includes both federal and RTD local match for the
Denver Union Station (DUS) preliminary engineering phase. The 2008 funding
plan for DUS assumes the receipt of the funds.

E.

Approval of Federal Center Transit Oriented Development Agreement
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute all
documents necessary for the development of a minimum 1000 space parking structure,
a 16 bay bus transfer facility, pedestrian connections and plazas, and various street,
access and infrastructure improvements to be designed and built by Aardex LLC with a
financial contribution from RTD in the amount of $12.609 million, the successful
proposer on RFP #17-FH-004 and to transfer the ownership of approximately 10 acres
of vacant land owned by RTD to Aardex, LLC. It is further recommended that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate and
execute all documents that may be necessary for the cooperative design, development
and maintenance of the parking structure. Funds to cover these costs are included in
the 2008 Adopted Budget and the FasTracks Financial Plan.

F.

Approval of Contract Amendment with David Evans Associates
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designees to execute all documents
necessary to award and implement a contract amendment to David Evans and
Associates (DEA) for $7.6 million for services needed to bring the construction
documents from 90% to a conformed set for issue to the contractor and for design
services during construction. The total DEA contract value after this amendment will
be $29 million. Funds are included in the 2008 budget for the West Corridor.

G.

2007 Audited Financial Statements
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors accept and enter into the record the various audited financial reports relating
to the year ended December 31, 2007 as prepared or reviewed by the District’s
independent auditor, Bondi & Co. LLC.

IX.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
H.

Approval of August 2008 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the August 17, 2008 Service Change package as revised and
summarized on Attachment on Attachment A resulting in a net annual savings of
approximately $3,433,900, and, further, to authorize the General Manager to execute
contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by
these changes.

I.

Approval of West Corridor Budget Modifications and Limited Notice to
Proceed Construction Contracts
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to take the following actions in regard to the
West Corridor cost, budget and scope and also provide the General Manager or his
designee with the authority to enter into a contract with Denver Transit Construction
Group (DTCG) (the Civil Contractor) and Balfour Beatty (the LRT Systems Contractor)
for the West Corridor Construction contracts. Specifically the General Manger is
authorized to:


Revise the West Corridor cost and funding from $634.7 million to $707.6 million
due to additional dramatic cost spikes to the construction industry for steel,
concrete, copper, labor and fuel that are affecting bid prices for major construction
projects worldwide and creating a challenging cost climate including the
recommended reallocations as specified in the Financial Impact section of the
report.



Scope Changes- Proceed with scope deferments of approximately $ 28 million and
prioritize restoring these items in the future in the event that contingency funds are
available prior to the completion of the West Corridor. This is similar to the
process we used for the Southwest and Southeast Corridors. The current
contingency line item budget is $ 39 million. This list of scope reductions and
deferments would meet our cost challenges while maintaining essential elements of
the transit project (See below).



Provide the General Manager or his designee with the authority to enter into a
contract with Denver Transit Construction Group (DTCG) (the Civil Contractor) and
Balfour Beatty (the LRT Systems Contractor) for the West Corridor Construction
contracts with a “Limited Notice-to-Proceed”. The Limited Notice-to-Proceed will
allow the DTCG GMP to be locked at $338.7 million and the Balfour Beatty GMP to
be set at $62.6 million and shifts the risk on future cost escalation to the
contractors, and up to approximately $ 5 million to the contingency, and will allow
initiation of limited performance based on task orders to be issued by staff and paid
out of currently budgeted, authorized an appropriated West Corridor funds. Noticeto-Proceed under the full scope of the GMP for both contractors will be made
contingent upon the receipt and approval of the Full Funding Grant Agreement
(FFGA) by the RTD Board of Directors and will require a subsequent Board action
and contract amendment. Task orders will be issued to keep this project on
schedule.

X.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
 APTA Customer Service Peer Review

XI.

NEW BUSINESS

XII.

ADJOURN

