Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

June 17, 2008

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
June 17, 2008 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Special guest Little Miss Tory Deschner (5 years), daughter of John Deschner, was allowed to
hit the gavel signifying the start of the meeting.
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:33 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Eleven (11) Board members were present at roll call. Directors Brohl, Ruchman and Tayer
arrived after roll call. Director Christopher was absent.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
Victor Hernandez, Bus Operator who retired after 33 years of service, was present to receive
his award. Dean Shaklee, Superintendent of Maintenance introduced him and thanked him for
his many years of service. Victor stated how blessed he is to have worked with so many good
people. Eight members of Victor’s family were present to see him receive his award.
Recognition of Participation in 2008 International Roadeo
The following people were recognized for their participation in the 2008 International Roadeo:
John Deschner, Kevin Steele, Larry Perkins, and Ben Carroll. John Willem with Veolia was
not present. John Deschner addressed the Board and talked about what a positive
experience this has been for him.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Prior to the start of public participation, Chair Kemp welcomed Tim Quinn and Tom Coogan
with Route Match to provide an update on the Route Match software implementation. Tim
began by apologizing to the users of the access-n-ride service and any other
user/customer/Board Member who had been inconvenienced by this implementation. He stated
that implementation of any new technology can be difficult but especially since RTD has unique
requirements that impact on the installation. Since the initial rough start, things have improved
and now the average wait time and the lost calls are comparable to what they were last
month. They expect to see a continued 10-15% improvement in performance.
Director Kemp thanked Route Match for understanding how important service is to our accessn-ride customers and the need for reliable service. He then acknowledged Director Ruchman
who asked to better understand the vision and intricacies of the software and why the
problems that were being experienced. Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Customer &
Contracted Services responded that there are three components to the software: reservations,
scheduling, and dispatch. What our customers are concerned about is - can they get in and

how long do they need to wait—in other words the transaction times. This software will offer
benefits in these areas. One of the changes which was implemented in the last couple of days
was to install a T1 circuit from Qwest which allowed them to separate out the reservation
system to its own dedicated line. The horrid problems that our customers reported last week
were indeed true but as of today, staff is seeing some real improvement and is optimistic that
with these changes, combined with the help of the Route Match team, the performance will
continue to improve.
Several of the Board members had questions around the implementation process itself including
had the software been properly tested, will access-n-ride users get penalized for no show,
could RTD have done a better job with knowing additional lines would be required and what is
RTD doing to outreach to our users to show them we appreciate their business now and in the
future?
Director Yamrick had several questions on process and communications with the users of the
service. Chair Kemp suggested this conversation needs to be postponed until a later time.
Matt Samuelson, Parker, spoke to the concerns for discontinuing the Parker call-n-ride and
indicated the problem was one of not being able to pick up all the requested users of the
service during the peak hours to catch the P route. He encouraged RTD to re-consider this
decision.
Zane Johnson, Parker, also spoke on the concerns about discontinuing the Parker call-n-ride.
Mr. Johnson envisioned having a route that has so many requesters, they could not all be
serviced and indicated this is more of the scenario there, especially during peak hours. He
requested a re-consideration of this service.
Russell Greear, Denver, spoke that MCHD at Denver General Hospital is now instructing their
patients to use the RTD bus shelters for smoking and encouraged RTD to look into this issue.
A number of riders on the U route spoke to their concerns over the elimination of the U and its
impact on that rural community. Speakers included Janet Parker, Gary Zilik, Bill Guyton, Ken
Carpenter, JoAnn Harris, Andy Powell, Rich Breed, Marry Anne Bower, Ed Scutellaro, Debbie
Champion, and Sheree Zamarripa.
After numerous speakers, Cal Marsella thanked the group representing the US 285 Coalition
for coming down to share their concerns and stated that RTD had heard these concerns on the
elimination of route U and on schedule adjustments. RTD had gotten the message and would
be synthesizing these issues. There were approximately 40 people representing this area.
Robert Baxter, Pine Junction, wanted to reiterate that in addition to the expressed concerns on
the elimination of the U route, they also wanted a review of the scheduling on the last route U
bus.
Pam Beckhorn, President of the Riders 285 Coalition, summed things up nicely first by reading
a letter from Cathy Hartman, Jefferson County Commissioner, dated June 10, 2008 which
asked for a re-consideration of the proposed elimination of route U. Pam then elegantly stated
the desire to focus on building a positive working relationship with RTD and thanked RTD for
the fine job it does in servicing their community. She stated that the Southwest corridor does
not have options like other communities and eliminating the U route would render their
community without mass transit. She stated that they desire to partner with RTD and the US
285 Coalition is working diligently to promote mass transit in the community including setting
up booths, soliciting at grocery stores and rallying support with a goal for retaining the current
service and preparing for the impending growth. They understand the whole is greater than
the sum of its parts and they are focused on the whole.
The Coalition them offered up T-shirts for the Board Members reading “ Go Green. Ride The

Drive.”
David Leonardi, Indian Hills, stated he is a rider of the bus and light rail services because he
has a concern in saving our country and natural resources. He stated his global observation on
the changing wealth in the world and that US was losing its position as a leading nation. He
shared what he thinks is a solution by increasing the gasoline tax to drive down demand and
force use of alternative transit services.
John Tyke, Park County Commissioner, spoke about the fact that approximately 76% of the
residents there work outside of Park County and mass transit is crucial to providing access for
that community.
Mark Wirth, Bailey, shared various statistics on different countries spending on mass
transit/transportation and stated that the US was one of the lowest. He indicated that the US
285 Coalition was willing to be a voice for lobbying for the needs of RTD in trying to get the
Government to invest in the infrastructure.
Pat Morrow, Bailey, wanted to share that the U route feeds into two light rail stations.
Kent Bagley, Candidate for District H, shared that he had participated in the service hearings
for Highlands Ranch and had captured some of the concerns expressed there. The basic focus
was on the necessity for the call-n-ride service especially for handicapped and elderly people.
He stated the Highlands Ranch Association would be a valuable ally to use in discussing
options for focusing on the commuter needs; and that DIA services from this neighborhood is
critical.
Director Daly wanted to provide clarity that RTD is not abandoning the riders along the US 285
corridor and that we are not closing the park-n-ride.
Rick McNeal, Denver, challenged RTD to begin thinking out of the box on alternate sources for
energy and provided an example of a restaurant owner who has done just that.
Jane Schilling, representing a group of riders of the 15 and 15L Coalition, stated their goal was
to increase safety and security on buses. They have documented many incidents and request
a strong commitment from RTD for security guards on these buses. Please see a copy of the
handout provided to the Board Members in the minutes notebook located in the Board office.
John Korpal, Boulder, stated he had provided the Board with a proposal that gives them an
alternative to the scheduled route cuts. His proposals would:
1. Proposals:Eliminate one round trip for 50% of the Local routes per day, 50% of Regional
routes per day, plus trips from the AT and G line per day. This will save RTD about $
3,482,100.00 per year (@ $6.00 /gallon) or $3,191,925.00 per year (@$5.50 /gallon).
2.

Eliminate one round trip for 60% of the Local routes per day, 60% of Regional routes per
day, plus trips from the AT and G line per day. This will save RTD about $ 4,988,820.00
per year (@ $6.00 /gallon) or $4,573,085 per year (@$5.50 /gallon).

Director Elfenbein stated there are many lessons learned from this process but overall
there is a major crisis in Colorado in transportation. He encouraged the speakers and
audience to take this message forward to their Legislators and to open up their minds on
taxes for transit and transportation.
Director Ruchman requested if the regular order for the agenda could be suspended so the
Board could consider the recommended action for August changes next in consideration for the

constituents who had come for this issue.
MOTION:

Director Pulliam made the motion to move the recommended
action, approval of August 2008 Service Changes, to the front of
the agenda.
Director Yamrick seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Cal Marsella offered up two adjustments to the action item as
written based on tonight’s public participation: (1) Cancel the
Saturday service for the Highlands Ranch and Parker call-n-ride
but keep the weekly peak period service. (2) Withdraw the
recommendation for the elimination of the U route but work with
the US 285 Coalition to market and increase ridership. This will
be revisited in 4 months.
Director Martinez stated that he could be in support of such
action especially in being sensitive to areas that have growing
populations and in knowing that it is easier to keep routes than to
replace them once they have been eliminated. He is pleased with
the compromised being offered. He also asked staff to explore
zone routes for long routes.
Director Busck expressed concurrence with Cal Marsella’s
recommendation and thanked the audience for how professional
and courteous that they delivered their concerns. He then stated
this is a perfect example of the need to revisit our service policy
and the criteria used to determine the elimination of routes.

MOTION:

Director Daly made the motion to approve the recommended
action for the August 2008 service changes subject to the
modifications made by Cal Marsella to: (1) Cancel the Saturday
service for the Highlands Ranch and Parker call-n-ride but keep
the weekly peak period service. (2) Withdraw the
recommendation for the elimination of the U route but work with
the US 285 Coalition to market and increase ridership. This will
be revisited in 4 months.
Director Ruchman seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director McMullen noted that in the end, fare increases must be
a consideration on the table and that projected service reductions
will not be enough.
Director Tayer read a statement as it related to his position on
this issue. “I hate to be here in this position. At a time when
public demand for transit has never been higher, it is a travesty
that we are confronted with service cuts as the only option on
the table for balancing the budget. Call it a paradox, a
conundrum, whatever…it is a terrible disservice to our
customers. We need to position RTD financially to meet rising
service demands. This includes options for increasing RTD’s
commitment to alternative fuel vehicles that wean us from
reliance on fossil fuel costs and work to secure funding that is
proportionate to our region’s transit need. Having said that, I

was prepared to support a universal position from the staff’s
recommendation. However, given the chain of events that have
occurred here tonight, I must state that I will be voting against
this recommendation. I will argue that the route 201 citizens in
my community wish that they were as organized as the US 285
citizens tonight. The number one criticism that they brought to
me was the public notice was insufficient and came at the last
minute and during a time when an adjustment in the school
schedule. 201 has higher ridership on boarding per service
vehicle hour than the U (17.3 versus 12.8). The savings on the
201 is $ 177K versus the U 0f $400K. I say this to argue that if
the 201 folks were here, they would be placing just as
compelling an argument as the folks from the U route. For this
reason, I will be voting against this recommended action and to
ask that we re-consider all these cuts in light of all citizens who
are affected by these service cuts to be able to come back with
options for consideration.”
Director Chacon seconded Director’s Tayer call for process that
would be fair for all.
Director Ruchman thanked all for coming and stated that the
primary responsibility for the Board members is stewardship and
fiduciary overseers of a $900M public entity. As such they must
make the hard decisions and try to be as prudent as possible in
the use of limited public dollars. He encouraged Park County to
consider joining the RTD district.
Director Kinton shared that he too had a concern for the riders of
the AT service in Highlands Ranch and that we could not
continue to trade one route for another. We need to look at the
bigger picture. There is a demand for East-West service in the
southern parts of the district and we must explore new options.
Director Brohl stated that she too share the issue of fairness.
However, until we have a policy that addresses the concerns
raised, the Board has to look at each issue individually when it is
raised. The riders of the U do not have any alternative whereas
the riders of the 201 do. If we eliminate the U, RTD has
effectively eliminated their ability to have transit.
Board members requested a re-calculation of the projected
savings based on these changes. Bruce Abel will work these
numbers.
VOTE ON THE
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 12 votes in favor (Brohl,
Busck, Chacon, Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp, Martinez, McMullen,
Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman and Yamrick) and 1 against (Kinton).
Director Tayer had to leave before the vote, and Director
Christopher was absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

A brief recess was called after which the Board resumed with the regular agenda.

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
There were no changes or comments to the Committee reports. However, Director Yamrick
wanted to ask her question of the Route Match which was could they provide a cost per call
now versus the goal for the cost per call when route match is fully implemented.

VI.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF May 20, 2008
MOTION:
Director Ruchman moved for the adoption of the May 20, 2008
regular board meeting minutes.
Director McMullen seconded the motion.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 12 votes in favor and 0
against. Directors Chacon and Tayer had left and Director
Christopher was absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

VII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
1. Submission of West Corridor FFGA
Cal Marsella stated that the full funding grant agreement went to FTA and RTD should be
in the pipeline for the $308 M.
2. Employee Forum at East Metro
Cal Marsella completed his employee forum and everyone was very receptive and
interested.
3. Lakewood Collaborative Meeting on West Corridor/West Corridor Elected Officials Meeting
Both meetings went well. They discussed the items that went from committed to
contingency.
4. FTA PPP Workshop
This workshop was very well attended with standing room only. FTA expressed support
for the PPP process and the work RTD is doing.
5. TRB Meeting in Woods Hole Massachusetts
PPP was also the subject of many conversations at this meeting.
6. Update on Routematch Services
This update had been provided previously at the beginning of the public participation
process. Chris Martinez requested ongoing updates on the Route match status.
7. Other Issues
Cal Marsella stated that RTD would be on the NBC tonight where they would focus on the
universal problem all cities are facing with the impact of rising fuel cost and declining sales
tax on transportation.

VIII.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT

MOTION:

Director Ruchman moved that the Board of Directors
adopt the Unanimous Consent Agenda A-G.

Director Pulliam seconded the motion.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 12 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton,
Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman, and
Yamrick) and 0 against. Directors Chacon and Tayer had
left and Director Christopher was absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

A.
Approval of a Contract for Construction for Centrepoint & Sable Bus Transfer
Center
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to execute all documents
necessary to award a construction contract to Paramount Construction in the amount
of $1,498,708.24 for the Centrepoint & Sable Bus Transfer Center in Aurora. Funds
are currently programmed in the 2008 RTD budget.
B.
Approval of the Sale of 3,043 Square Feet of RTD property at Colorado Station
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute all
documents necessary to sell 3,043 square feet of real property located generally on
Colorado Center Drive, City and County of Denver to Lincoln ASB Colorado Center, LLC
subject to RTD’s retention of a permanent non-exclusive easement for transit purposes
including a bus stop, pedestrian access, and passenger boarding area. It is further
recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his
designee to negotiate and execute all documents that may be necessary for the
cooperative design, development and maintenance of the arcade design with parking
above and below the bus drop off area.
C.

Release of Rail Passenger Service Easement at Mississippi & Broadway, City
and County of Denver
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute all
documents necessary to release a portion of the Rail Passenger Service Easement on a
parcel of vacant land near Mississippi and Broadway, City and County of Denver
containing an area of approximately 48,479 square feet or 1.113 acres.

D.

Approval of the DUS Preliminary Design Intergovernmental Agreement between
RTD and CDOT
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between the Colorado Department of
Transportation (CDOT) and the Regional Transportation District (RTD) for the
purpose of securing the first increment of the Federal Projects of National and
Regional Significance (PNRS) grant for Denver Union Station. The total amount of
the IGA is $5 million and includes both federal and RTD local match for the
Denver Union Station (DUS) preliminary engineering phase. The 2008 funding
plan for DUS assumes the receipt of the funds.
E.
Approval of Federal Center Transit Oriented Development Agreement
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute all
documents necessary for the development of a minimum 1000 space parking structure,

a 16 bay bus transfer facility, pedestrian connections and plazas, and various street,
access and infrastructure improvements to be designed and built by Aardex LLC with a
financial contribution from RTD in the amount of $12.609 million, the successful
proposer on RFP #17-FH-004 and to transfer the ownership of approximately 10 acres
of vacant land owned by RTD to Aardex, LLC. It is further recommended that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate and
execute all documents that may be necessary for the cooperative design, development
and maintenance of the parking structure. Funds to cover these costs are included in
the 2008 Adopted Budget and the FasTracks Financial Plan.
F.
Approval of Contract Amendment with David Evans Associates
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designees to execute all documents
necessary to award and implement a contract amendment to David Evans and
Associates (DEA) for $7.6 million for services needed to bring the construction
documents from 90% to a conformed set for issue to the contractor and for design
services during construction. The total DEA contract value after this amendment will
be $29 million. Funds are included in the 2008 budget for the West Corridor.
G.
2007 Audited Financial Statements
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors accept and enter into the record the various audited financial reports relating
to the year ended December 31, 2007 as prepared or reviewed by the District’s
independent auditor, Bondi & Co. LLC.

IX.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
H.

Approval of August Service Changes – was moved to the front of the agenda.

I.
Approval of West Corridor Budget Modifications and Limited Notice to
Proceed Construction Contracts
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to take the following actions in regard to the
West Corridor cost, budget and scope and also provide the General Manager or his
designee with the authority to enter into a contract with Denver Transit Construction
Group (DTCG) (the Civil Contractor) and Balfour Beatty (the LRT Systems Contractor)
for the West Corridor Construction contracts. Specifically the General Manger is
authorized to:


Revise the West Corridor cost and funding from $634.7 million to $707.6
million due to additional dramatic cost spikes to the construction industry for
steel, concrete, copper, labor and fuel that are affecting bid prices for major
construction projects worldwide and creating a challenging cost climate
including the recommended reallocations as specified in the Financial Impact
section of the report.



Scope Changes- Proceed with scope deferments of approximately $ 28 million
and prioritize restoring these items in the future in the event that contingency
funds are available prior to the completion of the West Corridor. This is similar
to the process we used for the Southwest and Southeast Corridors. The current
contingency line item budget is $ 39 million. This list of scope reductions and
deferments would meet our cost challenges while maintaining essential elements
of the transit project (See below).



Provide the General Manager or his designee with the authority to enter into a
contract with Denver Transit Construction Group (DTCG) (the Civil Contractor)
and Balfour Beatty (the LRT Systems Contractor) for the West Corridor
Construction contracts with a “Limited Notice-to-Proceed”. The Limited Noticeto-Proceed will allow the DTCG GMP to be locked at $338.7 million and the
Balfour Beatty GMP to be set at $62.6 million and shifts the risk on future cost
escalation to the contractors, and up to approximately $ 5 million to the
contingency, and will allow initiation of limited performance based on task
orders to be issued by staff and paid out of currently budgeted, authorized an
appropriated West Corridor funds. Notice-to-Proceed under the full scope of the
GMP for both contractors will be made contingent upon the receipt and approval
of the Full Funding Grant Agreement (FFGA) by the RTD Board of Directors and
will require a subsequent Board action and contract amendment. Task orders
will be issued to keep this project on schedule.

MOTION:

Director Pulliam made the motion to approve the
West Corridor Modifications and Limited Notice to
Proceed Construction Contracts.
Director Busck seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Director Ruchman inquired if the staff had been
able to negotiate with the contractor to reduce the
guaranteed maximum price. Liz Rao responded
they had negotiated it down from the $710 M
figure initially presented to the current $707.6M.

An electronic vote was taken with 12 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp,
Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan,
Ruchman, and Yamrick) and 0 against. Directors
Chacon and Tayer had left and Director
Christopher was absent.
Chair Kemp
Unanimously.

X.

declared

the

vote

PASSED

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
APTA Customer Service Peer Review
Chair Kemp invited a discussion from the Board members on the APTA Customer Service Peer
Review. Bruce Abel had prepared a summary for the Board that identifies the nature of the
review and the estimated costs between $12K-$15K.
Director Martinez stated that it was vitally important to have the committee interviewing our
customers to get a customer perspective. Customer service should be a priority for us even
during these times of economic hardship.
Director McMullen stated that RTD has already been named the Number 1 Transit Agency in
2008 and that speaks for itself. He did not favor a review.
Director Daly stated there are always things to be learned from a review and this was the
opportunity to validate or identify things we can get better at.

Director Kinton stated that based on calculations the cost to perform this review was a
negligible number as a percent of the operational 2008 adopted budget (.0035) and it is being
responsible to go forward with this review.
Director Elfenbein questioned if this was an effective use of the staff’s time. Directors Busck,
Quinlan and Pulliam shared a perspective that this was a boondoggle activity and a waste of
staff time and money to perform. They did not feel any new information would be found and
opposed this activity.

MOTION:

Director Martinez moved to approve having the APTA
Customer Service Peer Review performed as identified in
Bruce Abel’s summary.
Director Yamrick seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 7 votes in
favor (Brohl, Daly, Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, Ruchman and
Yamrick) and 5 against (Busck, Elfenbein, McMullen,
Pulliam and Quinlan). Directors Chacon and Tayer had
left and Director Christopher was absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion FAILED.

XI.

NEW BUSINESS

XII.

ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned at 8:20 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, June 17, 2008

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
Christopher Martinez, First Vice Chair
Noel Busck, Second Vice Chair
William McMullen, Secretary
John Tayer, Treasurer
Barbara Brohl
Juanita Chacon
Bruce Daly
Bill Elfenbein
Daryl Kinton
Wally Pulliam
O’Neill Quinlan
Dave Ruchman
Barbara Yamrick

District I
District B
District K
District E
District O
District D
District C
District N
District A
District H
District L
District G
District M
District F

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Susan Altes
Rolf Asphaug
Jeff Becker
Dennis Cole
Phil Eberl
Sherry Ellebracht
David Genova
Cory Granrud
Victor Hernandez
Cheryl Holmes

Linda Jones
Jeff Kay
Lloyd Mack
Cal Marsella
Jerry Nery
Paula Perdue
Bill Porter
Liz Rao
Dean Shaklee
Roger Sherman
John Shonsey

Bill Sirois
Stan Szabelak
John Tarbert
Pauletta Tonilas
Lisa Trujillo
Bill Van Meter
Scott Reed
Phil Washington
Susan Wood

OTHERS PRESENT:
Pamela Adams
Kent Bageey
Melissa Barnes
Steve Barnes
Robert Baxter
Bruce Beckhorn
Pam Beckhorn
Bruce Behucke (Veolia)
Bert Beleser
Eric Biga (Veolia)
Lynda Bissett
W. Bond (DRMAC)
Mary Anne Bower
Richard Breed
Janet Brown
Brian Bulatouie (Aardex)
Brian Bulatovic (Aardex)
Jean Carpenter
Ken Carpenter

Ronald Castellano
Debbie Chapman
Ed Colby (URS in Iowa)
Brian Collins
Tex Elam (SEBP)
Sherry Flakes
Jo-An Floux
Kevin Flynn (Rocky Mountain News)
Russell Greear (IAMI)
Bill Guyton
Mark Haf
JoAnn Harris
Vickie Hernandez
Gail Higginson
Jon Ingersoll
Bill James
Brandon Johansson (Aurora Sentinel)
Ramey Johnson
Zane Johnson

Susan Knight
John Korpal
Juanita Kursevich
Pamela Lawson
David Leonardi
Jeff Lieb (The Denver Post)
Peter Lorenzen
Deluvina Martinez
Richard Martinez
Ellen Masella (Mountain Valley PT)
John Maslanik
Pat Mauro
Francis McKeon
Nyla McKeon
Deb McLancon
Rick McNeal (RAM Ventures)
Ivan Moreno
Lori Nichols
Jane Parker
Ben Perez
Crystal Perez

Andy Powell
Jolynn Pryor
T. Quinn (RouteMatch)
Sheren Ramairipa
Larry Rimbey
Steve Roberts
Matt Samuelson
Ed Scatellano
Jane Schiler
Larry Schlegel (MBI)
Kim Snyder
Ravi Swamy (BBRI)
John Tigue (Park County Commissioner)
Pete Tobin (ADC)
April Trujillo
Jose Trujillo
Vicki Wimberly
Martin Wirth
Laura Yribia
Gary Zilik
P. Zule (DRX)

