January 28, 2020
Board Meeting
ALL: --republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for
all.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Miss McManus, would you call the roll?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Here.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Walker. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here still.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I am here also.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 13 present, two absent.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Miss McManus. OK. At RTD, safety is our core value,
and I'd like to begin this meeting with a short safety briefing. If we have a medical emergency that
necessitates calling 911, I will ask our RTD legal counsel to make that phone call. Any medically
trained individuals in the room are respectfully requested to assist, and if needed, an automatic
emergency defibrillator, the AED, is in the glass case located just outside this room and on the
wall to the right.
In the event that we must evacuate the building due to an emergency, please calmly exit out the
door you came in at the back of the room. Go up the stairs to the first floor, around the security
desk, and exit through the front door. Police and security officers will be there to direct you to a
safe meet-up area. Anyone needing special assistance in the event of an evacuation will be assisted
by the RTD staff as necessary.
On a related safety note, RTD takes every reasonable precaution to ensure the security of its
passengers, vehicles, and facilities with that said the agency relies on both staff and general public
to be aware of and alert to any suspicious or dangerous activity on buses and trains and around
stations stops and platforms as such we encourage all RTD employees and patrons to download
the RTD Transit Watch app, which allows users to report suspicious or dangerous activity and
communicate directly with RTD transit security personnel on a real-time basis.
In the event of an emergency situation, the Transit Watch app is available via Google Play and the
Apple App Store. We would really appreciate your support in this to keep our communities safe.
Thank you.
Tonight, we have a number of retirees for the month of January. Though earlier this week, and
actually earlier this evening, we'd received information that we would only have one of our retirees
here, and I'm understanding they have all gone home for the evening since we've-- this is our third
meeting this evening. I would like to ask Mr. Worthen, well, is Mr. Delong in the-- OK, thank you.

Let me go ahead and announce all of the retirees. This is really quite extraordinary, when I think
about it. This is an amazingly accomplished group of employees, who have collectively
contributed 277 years of service. I'm not kidding. That's 277 years to this agency and to this
community. I'd like to read their names and tell you how many years they've worked here.
Joe Anderson, Bus Operator, 20 years. Philip Challis, Bus Operator, 30 years. Chris Garcia, FM
Custodian, 16 years. Thomas Gustamantes, Bus Operator, 16 years. Alfred Henegen, Rail Laborer
of 21 years. Anthony Hauck, Electrocertified Mechanic, 35 years. William Marshall, Bus
Operator, 20 years. David Masten, Bus Operator, 31 years. Osvaldo Nunez, Signal Traction Power
Maintainer, 28 years. Tom Sertic, Mechanic, 20 years. And Gregory Simpson, Rail Laborer, 20
years.
That is extraordinary. Can we just clap for them? I just think they're-- that's amazing.
[APPLAUSE]
I want to wish them the best, and I know that the Board feels the same way. That is amazing
historical knowledge, and it really saddens me that they're going, but I understand they deserve a
rest, right?
OK, so next is our public participation. This is our public participation period, which is open to
anyone who wants to speak. As it is our custom, we allow any of our elected officials present to
speak first, so they can get back to their own meetings and attend to business. I do not see any
elected officials.
If you've signed up to speak, I will call your name in the order in which you signed up. If you have
not signed up and would like to speak, I will ask for additional speakers at the end of the list. And
we will take those additional speakers at that time.
Each speaker is allowed three minutes. We respectfully request that members of the audience
refrain from any indications of support or opposition to a speaker's comments, as such an outbursts
might reasonably have an effect of chilling the free expression of thoughts by speakers. And please
also bear in mind that by appearing at the microphone, you are consenting to being video and audio
recorded by RTD, as all of our meetings are recorded and made available on the RTD website.
So if you do not wish to be recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing.
Please come to the lectern when called, and state your name and address. If any speaker has
documentation or reference materials for the Board, please give those materials to the board staff
prior to speaking.
We have one speaker this evening, Mr. Curtis Edwards.
CURTIS EDWARDS: So Curtis Edwards, South Parker Road, apartment [INAUDIBLE]. Good
evening. My name is Curtis Edwards. I'm a Climate and Transportation Advocate at Conservation
Colorado, the state's largest conservation organization with over 2,000 members.

I'm here this evening to encourage the Board to pump the brakes on proposal to cut bus and rail
service throughout the region. So this proposal would exacerbate our deteriorating air quality,
worsen traffic congestion, and perpetuate transportation equity across our region. Here in
Colorado, we understand the threat that climate change poses to us all, and we understand that it's
going to take a collaborative effort across all sectors to meet this existential threat.
Now this especially including our transportation sector. If you haven't heard, this year 2020 the
transportation sector will become the number one source of greenhouse gas emissions in the state
of Colorado. In addition, just last month, the EPA downgraded our air quality. Due in part to
pollution from single occupancy vehicles, we now have, according to the EPA, serious levels of
ozone that aggravate asthma and contribute to other respiratory-related diseases and deaths.
Low income Coloradans and communities of color disproportionately bear the brunt of these
pollution-induced illnesses, given that we need to be expanding, not contracting public
transportation in our future. Beyond the dire environmental effects of cutting transit service, I'm
personally concerned with how RTD came to this decision.
RTD has stated that this proposal was informed by a survey completed by I believe 13,000 transit
users last fall. The survey asked users if they prefer temporary cuts, but consistent service, or no
cuts, but inconsistent service. According to the survey, 60% of the users preferred the temporary
cuts. However, a December public statement released by the agency removed the word
"temporary."
Now this makes you wonder about the validity of that survey. If we, as respondents, if we knew-and I did respond to the survey. I just for exxposure. If respondents knew that the cuts would be
permanent and not temporary, I wonder if the result would have been the same. And I wonder if
the agency would have moved forth with this proposal.
Now I'm proud to live in a state that approaches big challenges head on, and I know that we can
do it again [INAUDIBLE]. But if we are going to meet this crucial moment, our state's largest
transit agency, you all, you've got to be a leader in finding collaborative and innovative solutions
to decreasing greenhouse gas emissions by providing more bus and equitable access to the train.
Now this proposal to cut services can be counterproductive in achieving that. On behalf of
Conservation Colorado, we look forward to working with RTD Board and staff to make this region
its' own transit --ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Edwards. Are there any others? Are there any
other speakers who would like to come forward at this time? Seeing none, I would like to read into
the record that both Director Guissinger and Director Walker are in attendance on the Board
meeting to be reflected. Thank you.
OK, the committee minutes were included in the Board packet, and we are aware of one minor
correction that will be made to the minutes for the December 19 Study Session. Are there any
questions?

If not, those committee reports will stand as submitted and will become part of the permanent
record. And Directors, I just want to say to you, please be patient with us. We are working on
committee announcements very soon. I really appreciate your patience on this matter. But we
should be getting them to you next week.
OK, now-- yeah, that's you.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. So in terms of the Chair Report, I'd like to do some
highlights with you. The Second Vice Chair Cook, Secretary Buzek, and Treasurer Guissinger all
participated in the 11th Annual Commuting Solutions Legislative Breakfast that was held in
Broomfield on Monday, January 6. On the following day, Director Williams and I attended the
Denver Metro Chamber 2020 Business Legislative Preview Breakfast at the Hyatt, at the Grand
Hyatt in Denver. On Wednesday, January 15th, Director Williams and Folska attended the Denver
Lyft Driver Center Ribbon Cutting Ceremony at their facility in Aurora.
Director Williams and Folska and I attended the 2020 MLK Awards Luncheon held at the Hilton
Denver City Center on Friday, January 17th. The Downtown Denver Partnership presented its
2020 Economic Forecast on Thursday, January 23rd, and Director Mihalik was in attendance.
First Vice Chair Catlin and Director Folska attended the WTS Awards Recognition Luncheon this
past Friday, January 24th. Also, on Friday, Second Vice Chair Cook hosted a table at the Arvada
Chamber of Commerce Annual Dinner at the Arvada Center, and First Vice Chair Catlin, Director
Tisdale, and I attended.
In terms of upcoming events, First Vice Chair Catlin will attend the annual WTS Colorado Gala
at the Grand Hyatt in Denver on Thursday, February 6th. The Hispanic Contractors of Colorado's
2020 Annual Banquet will also be held at the Grand Hyatt. That event will take place on Saturday,
February 15th, and I will be attending.
Also in February, RTD will be holding service change meetings for the May Run Board, and these
meetings will include the changes associated with the proposed service reductions. I understand
that those dates will be announced sometime next week, so please stay tuned. And then last but
not least, I would just like to share with everyone how much the Board appreciates the support and
the voice of the community who shared their vision with us in selecting the Interim General
Manager this evening.
It was really heartwarming to receive the over 350 comments from the community and from
organizations and key stakeholders. It truly shows that, as a community, we want to work together
to move this agency forward, and we really look forward to giving you more information as we
work through this process. We would ask you to be patient with us a little bit as we start working
on this, but we will update you on a regular basis.
I also need to ask all of you to help me approve the Board meeting minutes and the Special Board
meeting minutes for this evening.

PEGGY CATLIN: So Moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second? All in favor?
ALL: Aye.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All opposed? OK. They're moved and seconded.
PEGGY CATLIN: Do we need an electronic vote?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, do it-- nope, we're good. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I wanted to go back for a moment to when you
were thanking the community for their input on selecting the Interim General Manager. I think it's
really important that we also give consideration and great things to the effort and the time spent
by the people who applied and for the finalists that we did have a great selection to choose from.
And it made it very difficult for all of us, I'd say, well, for myself. And I know that everybody who
was a finalist had worked really hard to get to that point, and I thank them for all of their time and
effort. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Folska. All right. Ms. McKillop.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm not going to go through everything
that Mr. Genova had done, but I did want to point out a few things. One of the things that you had
mentioned was the WTS luncheon that was held last Friday. I did want to point out that RTD did
win the Transportation Innovation Award there for the work with Uber. So that will also be
celebrated at the Gala that Director Catlin is going to be attending.
And that team was mainly made up of women, so it was really cool to see that and having all these
talented people accept that award on our behalf. I did want to mention that I attended the Metro
Mayor's Transportation meeting on Friday, and then also, our Chief Operating Officer, Michael
Ford, has been holding meetings in each of the divisions to talk to operators, mechanics, and other
representative folks.
And I was able to join him yesterday in Boulder, and it's always good to get out and hear what the
folks are saying. And they were very vocal. So we learned a lot, and we got a lot of great ideas on
things to move forward to. And there's two or three meetings left, I think, one at 3 o'clock in the
morning this Thursday. So that ought to be, that'll be fun.
So the other thing I wanted to mention is we found out today that the Communications department
learned that we had been selected for two APTA AdWheel first place awards. One is for the Safety
campaign, Stopped in Your Tracks, a suicide prevention campaign, and that's in partnership with
the Colorado Crisis Services and the Colorado Office of Behavioral Health.
And then the other award was for Reimagine RTD campaign, and the first place winners will be
recognized that the APTA Marketing and Communications workshop in late February, and then

will go on to compete for the grand awards, which would be presented at the Annual meeting in
Anaheim later this year. So I just wanted to bring that to everybody's attention. So a bunch of
awards in the last few days, pretty cool.
[APPLAUSE]
That's all I have to report, Madam Chair. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. That is so exciting. I've been at APTA conferences
where this team has gotten first place awards. They really are quite dynamic, so congratulate them
on our behalf, please. We have three items on the Unanimous Consent Agenda tonight. Listed as
agenda item 12-- oh, sorry. There you are.
NATALIE MENTEN: I don't know
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I don't know if you've got it on your mind. I had a question for Interim GM
McKillop, slash CO-FO. CFO. I've been working on welding lately, so forgive me. What is the
most interesting, useful item that you heard from the Boulder visit regarding workforce issues?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So they didn't talk exactly about the particular workforce issues. They
talked more about working conditions as it relates to, so they didn't discuss the mandating as much.
But we asked more for, what can we do, the little things that we can do to make your life easier,
and so they talked about some route issues, like if you did this on a route, it'd create less conflict
for us and our passengers.
They talked about some fare issues, simplification, because those cause a lot of interaction issues.
The mechanics really talked about getting the proper tools to do their job and not just buying tools
that we think they need, but the tools that really help them do their jobs. And so those were some
of the major themes. They weren't huge items, but they were things that, if we could do differently,
they said would make their lives easier.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you for the feedback. That's all.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And may I just say on that, I know that Michael Ford is trying to compile
a list of all of those issues from all the meetings. And then we'll be looking at those from a staff
perspective and seeing which ones we can address right away.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Ms. McKillop, I'd like to say thank you for sitting
in that chair. We very much appreciate you helping us through this transitional period that we are
in, and I would like for you to convey to your peers and all of the SLT how grateful we are, all of
us, to them for keeping things going right now. Thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right, Unanimous Consent. We have three items
on the Unanimous Consent Agenda tonight. They're listed as agenda item 12 (XII), actions A, B,
and C specifically-- the Approval of the Recalculated Base Rental Schedule, the Approval of the
Carry Forward Budget and Budget Transfers for North Metro stand up, and the Approval of the
Contract Authority for TCS for Training North Metro Operators.
BOB BROOM: Move approval.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. It was a Whitmore, and then Folska. Oh, it was Broom.
Sorry. And Folska. OK, so if the, is there any discussion?
NATALIE MENTEN: May I ask to have one of those items removed for separate discussion,
please?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Of course, which one?
NATALIE MENTEN: That would be item C.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: The Approval of Contract Authority?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. So we have a mover and a second with the deletion of,
the removal of, isn't that correct? Yeah, with the removal of the Contract Authority for TCS for
Training North Metro Operators, so we have the moveant and the second, and then everyone vote.
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order on the screen, it says approval of contract authority for TCS. I
thought that was the item removed from the consent agenda.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. That's, That's the one we need to remove. OK.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
ROLF ASPHAUG: This is Rolf Asphaug. Just for the record, then, there was a 12-nothing
unanimous vote to approve items A and B.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.

ROLF ASPHAUG: All right.
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order. This Director didn't vote, because he saw it was the wrong item.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Well.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: We have to do a reboot. yeah. OK, just so we're clear, we're voting
on approval of the recalculated base rental schedule and approval of the carry forward budget and
budget transfer for North Metro standup. Director Broom, Director Folska, and the rest of us.
OK. It passes 14, 14 with one abstention being Director Lewis. OK, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I actually won't discuss the matter. I just wanted it separated from the
consent unanimous agenda. Thank you.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
ROLF ASPHAUG: I apologize. This is Rolf Asphaug. I think you should just have a motion and
a second for that recommended action item that's been moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: To remove it.
ROLF ASPHAUG: No, it's been removed, but now it's a recommended action item.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. All right.
PEGGY CATLIN: PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Seconded. All right, so we can do the vote. I have Director Folska,
the mover, and Director Catlin, the second. 13 yeses, one no, Director Menten, one abstention,
Director Lewis. Is there any discussion? OK, all right. Seeing none. There is no Executive Session,
unless you guys want another one.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Is there any old business?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: New business? Oh, hello. All right, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm not sure how I got in that queue. Am I, I really don't, so, but I do, but
it's under new business I think would be the,
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: We're under new business.
NATALIE MENTEN: I don't hear, OK, maybe I did press it. All right, while, let's see. Mr. Allen,
Mr. Allen Miller has invited us to this event. Just as a notice, Director Lubow and I will be over

visiting at the Elati facility with light rail vehicle operators. So just to give everybody a heads up
that we're not neglecting our duty. We are just over at another facility that was previously
scheduled.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Just for the record, the Elati invitation said 3:00 to 5:00 AM. I just wanted to
point that out.
NATALIE MENTEN: We're not doing that. We have our own schedule. This will be 11:00 to 1:00
on Friday.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: So just for a little, just to clarify that. OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Caitlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I also have a conflict that day. I'm going to be taking
a railroad tour with AGM of Capital Programs, Henry Stopplecamp. The railroad workshop was
canceled, because there were only two of us that had expressed an interest. So he offered up an
alternative, which involves hard hats and vests and steel-toed boots to go look at the actual facilities
on the ground. So I'm most excited about that opportunity on Friday.
So, and there's room for one more. If somebody else wants to join us at 8 o'clock in the morning,
it'll take about four hours. But it's, I think it's a great opportunity, and I wanted to really thank
Henry for making that available to me and appealing to the engineer in me.
I just wanted to report that on the Conifer bus, I think it was the CV bus, last Friday, there was an
incident of road rage, and our bus driver was followed by a man who wasn't happy that he was
going the speed limit and followed him into the Park-n-Ride and was verbally abusive, but also
some of the passengers were fearful that he would have a physical altercation. But it was the CV
bus.
And I actually became aware of this on a Facebook page Conifer, Evergreen, you know, kind of a
neighborhood page, about a passenger who was really saying, hey, come on, guys. We're better
than this in Conifer. But she talked about how professional our operator was and how he kept his
cool and made the passengers feel safe.
And so I probed a little bit further with her and found out the name of the operator. But also,
apparently, Channel 4 got wind of this. A couple of the passengers notified them, and they had
wanted to see if there was any footage or to make a story out of it, and apparently, there wasn't any
video footage on there.
But I just wanted to just say that Robert Johnson is the bus operator's name, and he demonstrated
to all of his passengers what a consummate professional he was and how he just made them feel

really comfortable. So I just wanted to say that that made me feel really proud, And so AGM
Worthen if you can pass on along to Robert Johnson that that has really resonated in my
community, so thank you very much. That's all.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just to update on a couple of things that
I would like to mention, I had the privilege of serving on a panel at a business group with Shoshana
Lew, Executive Director of CDOT, last Wednesday when we talked about all of the current issues
facing the RTD, and then was on a panel with Speaker of the House KC Becker on Thursday, and
then was at a town hall with Representatives Meg Froelich and Tom Sullivan on Saturday, and
was pleased to be able to do an interview on KOA News this morning.
All of that is mentioned, because we have done a great deal of outreach relative to operator
shortage, relative to a decline in ridership, relative to drop runs, and relative to the process for
selection of an Interim General Manager and CEO. And as we mentioned at the end of the Special
Board Meeting when we approved the second item, we need to start discussing the process for
selection of a permanent General Manager, because this Board has had no discussion of that
process yet, other than to approve an amount.
So just to remember, we have more work to do, folks, collaboratively, cooperatively, so let's start
communicating that. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. That's all.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Madam Chair. First of all, I just am very happy to say that I
had the opportunity to talk with Jenifer Brandeberry today by phone, and she's coming along great.
You know, she, they expect a full recovery. You know, it's a process, and she's been home for two
weeks. So she just said her hellos to everyone.
I think you all got an email today that Senator Tate has filed his bill. I think you all have what I
think is the latest version. I don't know. Heather, do you know if that was the latest version that
we got early this morning?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That's my understanding, but we'll double check that. And we can send
out what was actually introduced, so everyone has that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's right. We got the actually introduced item today, and last week,
Jenifer Ross-Amato and Heather McKillop and the rest of the staff, others, I'm sure Rolf was
involved, and did a great job putting together comments. We will be submitting more comments.
I know a number of you have been setting up meetings and will be setting up meetings, and thank
you for that.
I guess the request would be to please let Sherry and Brandeberry McKenna, Julie McKenna or
Megan Wagner, know if you're meeting with someone, just so we have a good tracking of who all
is being talked with. And we'll be hearing, next week, the Brandeberry McKenna team will be

here. It'll be Julie McKenna and Megan Wagner, and they'll be talking more about it then. So I
won't go into too much of it.
I'll be attending the, I think it's the third or fourth of the Governor's Transportation discussions that
started several months ago that are with a number of elected and transportation officials in the
region to talk about what they're looking at at the legislature and regionally. Jackie Millet gave her
presentation at that, at one of those, and so I'm keeping track of all of those. That's on Monday.
And I'll also be moderating a panel that day at the Bicycle Colorado Moving Forward Conference
with Doug Rex, Jackie Millet, and Senator Faith Winter on regional and other options for
transportation funding.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Broom. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I was just looking at our schedule, and it shows a
tentatively scheduled Special Board Meeting Executive Session on Thursday, January 30th. I guess
that's no longer required?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's correct. That has been canceled.
BARBARA MCMANUS: That's correct. It's on there as tentative, and it will come off as of
tomorrow.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Unless you want to have one. Thank you. Anyone else?
OK, well, just a couple of things for me. The first thing is that I was on the bus to Boulder on
Sunday with my granddaughter. And while we were waiting in the bus terminal, there was a young
woman who was having a real difficult time. At first, I thought she was talking on the phone, but
it ended up she was talking to herself. And she was arguing with herself.
And it was very interesting to me how the folks lining up to get on the bus to Boulder watched her,
and then were concerned about her, and then contacted through the Transit Watch app to have
someone come and check up on her. She did get on the bus, but proceeded to the back of the bus
and was kind of escalating. The bus driver was a young woman named Jasmine, and she was just
spectacular.
And the other thing that was interesting to me was that the passengers on the bus were watching
very carefully to see how to move. When the officers came up to ask her to leave the bus, it went
so smoothly, and we went on our way. I want to commend this young woman for her, she was just
wonderful under the pressure. And I just know her name, Jasmine, and it was at 2:30. I'll find out
the rest of the stuff, but she was great.
But I also wanted to commend the passengers, because you know what? We really do all take care
of each other. And it made me start thinking about our bus drivers. And I'm going to start carrying

$5 Starbuck cards to just buy them a cup of coffee for the work that they do, because they really
do yeoman's work. And with that in mind, I also wanted to share with you that the attorney on the
second floor of my building wanted to share with me that her friend is a bus driver, who absolutely
loves his job.
And in fact, he has a Facebook page of all his patrons who get on the bus, and they have, and I
mean, really. And I thought, you know, we need to start highlighting these folks. And you know,
I just think it would be fun to have a bus driver appreciation and rail driver appreciation day where
we really kind of support each other, because they really do have a tough job.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's actually happening. The Denver Streets Partners is having a Bus Driver
Appreciation Day on Valentine's Day, where they are going to greet bus drivers and give them
candy and flowers, and our outreach group, Pauletta is not here anymore, but some of her staff are
working with that. We're going to take the demo bike rack, you know that fake, that's on the front
of the bus so that people can try that out. And so you can see that on Denver Streets Partners
website page that they are partnering with us to do bus driver love on Valentine's Day.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. And then just one last thing. I would like to address
the General Managers Oversight and Performance Management Committee and the General
Managers Executive Search Committee. One of the things that I think that we all recall was at the
end of last year, there was a lot of discussion of folks saying that they wanted this to be the
committee of the whole, the GMOC committee.
And based on our bylaws, it is a committee of seven. So in order to change that, we're going to
have to change the bylaws. And we're not going to be able to do that until later on by the end of
the year, I mean because we are just so slammed right now with everything we've got.
So instead, so there would be seven members, so for this year only, we're going to combine the
GMOC and the General Manager Executive Search Committee together for one committee,
because they'll be working seamlessly on all of these projects as we move forward. So I'm going
to be appointing seven Directors to the committee with one Director serving as the designated
alternate in the event that one of the committee members becomes unable to regularly attend the
meetings.
So I just wanted to let you know that I have selected that committee. It will be chaired by Director
Catlin, and then we have Director Guissinger, Director Cook, Director Lewis, Director Menten,
Director Walker, and myself, with Director Buzek as the alternate.
And the way that we're looking at it would be a lot like you did last time, when you did the
executive search. Each committee member will be assigned a Director as a buddy, and the
committee members will be charged with diligently and proactively sharing all relevant
information discussed during the committee with his or her assigned buddy.

This way, everyone on the Board will know everything happening in this important committee
during this critical time of transition as we elect and select a permanent General Manager for the
agency. The Board Office will be putting together a charter for this committee, but I really just
wanted to let you know what the idea was, what the plan is as we move forward. And as I said,
this is kind of an unusual year for us, so we really wanted to streamline it.
And with that, Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just wondered, it came up in some discussion earlier
about the appointment of the ad hoc committee to work with the Interim General Manager's
contract and who those appointees were if you wanted to make that announcement publicly.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, and so I think that, so as we were working through this, we
were looking at all of these different components. So the ad hoc committee will be Director Buzek
and Director Catlin working with our attorney, outside attorney, looking at the negotiation and just
talking with him as our ad hoc committee.
Are there any questions? OK, seeing none. I would entertain a motion to adjourn from the January
28th meeting.
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: Second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All in favor?
SPEAKERS: Aye.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. We are adjourned. 8:05.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good job, Madam, Madam Chair.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

