1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

STUDY SESSION
January 28, 2014 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Sisk called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Kent Bagley
Director, District H
Bruce Daly
Director, District N

Status
Present
Present
Present

Arrived
5:30 PM
5:29 PM
4:53 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy
Bill James

Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District J
Director, District A

Remote
Present
Present
Present

5:00 PM
5:30 PM
5:20 PM

Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten
Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District G
Director, District I
Director, District M
Director, District C

Present
Present
Present
Present

5:34 PM
5:24 PM
5:35 PM
5:12 PM

Chuck Sisk

Chair

Present

5:23 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present

5:27 PM
5:04 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:15 PM

Director Deadwyler participated via phone.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht,
David Genova, Terry Howerter, Jim Kelley, Erin Klaas, Nadine Lee,
Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod, Barbara McManus, Paula Perdue, Chris
Quinn, Scott Reed, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington,
Brian Welch

Others Present:

II.

Maria Garcia Berry, Doug Gragg, Nehemiah Hall, Marta Sipeki, Joe
Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Monte Whaley

MPACT 64 (Garcia Berry)
Maria Garcia Berry, CRL, said that she would be sharing the preliminary findings of a poll
that the Colorado Transportation Coalition (Coalition) did on behalf of the stakeholders in
the State who were thinking about pursuing a ballot initiative this year for transportation
funding. She explained that the Coalition was not a member of nor do they represent
MPACT64. MPACT64 was created by the Metro Mayor’s Caucus to have a dialog about
transportation issues in Colorado. She stated that the Coalition entered the picture about
two years ago because MPACT64 was considering a gas tax and they had concerns about
this being approved.
Maria Garcia Berry informed the Board that the Coalition’s efforts have all been pro bono;
no public funds were used and this was outside of CRL’s contract with RTD.
Maria Garcia Berry stated that based on the polling results it was clear that there was not
enough support for a tax increase for transportation. She said that economic insecurity is
what really influenced this poll; many people in the state do not have a high consumer
confidence that they will be better off in a year from now. Additionally, many people do
not believe the roads in Colorado are in bad condition.
Maria Garcia Berry informed the Board that Metro voters are most comfortable with bus
transit and BRT over accelerating all rail line construction by a 2 to 1 margin. She
recognized that this information is very important to the Board. She said that the Coalition
will provide the Board with more data once they have the cross tabs. Maria Garcia Berry
shared that 29% of respondents want to accelerate the Northwest Rail Line by 2030 while
58% prefer BRT by 2020 instead.
Maria Garcia Berry said the Coalition was working to do further analysis, specifically by
county, which they hope to have in the next month.
Director Bagley asked if the Coalition would be publishing information on their more indepth analysis or if any additional information would be presented verbally. Maria Garcia
Berry stated that the Coalition has not come to a decision at this time. She said this is a
poll that is owned by the private sector and while they understand that a lot of
commissioners, mayors, etc. want to know what is going on in their city the Coalition
cannot extrapolate for every city; however, the Coalition has agreed to do an analysis on a
county by county basis. Director Bagley stated that he is really looking to have more
information regarding the District. Maria Garcia Berry said the Coalition would look at
that.

Director Tobiassen thanked Maria Garcia Berry for her report. He asked if there was any
testing for tolling during the polling. He noted that there are some pretty major
transportation projects coming down the pike and the option is to pay for them with taxes,
tolling, and/or Public Private Partnerships. Maria Garcia Berry stated that there were not
any tolling questions included.
Director Folska believes this information is very insightful and informative. She asked if
Maria Garcia Berry thought there might be a change in people’s perception if the minimum
wage was increased. She also wanted confirmation that Maria Garcia Berry said that only
4% of the people polled cared about roads and their improvement. Maria Garcia Berry
stated that she could not answer the question about minimum wage until she had a
breakdown of the age groups of where people are feeling less confident economically; it
will make a difference if this is people nearing retirement or a younger generation. She
shared that she was surprised at the number of people who believed their situation would
be worse off next year. She said that 4% of people cared about transportation. In
relation to road improvement only 30% of the people polled thought the roads really
needed to be improved. Director Folska asked General Manager Washington if these
results align with the Critical Issues in Transportation Report from the Transportation
Research Board. General Manager Washington stated that they did line up.
Chair Sisk thanked Maria Garcia Berry for her report. He knows there is a lot of work
ahead of RTD and this report certainly illustrates that.

III.

Northwest Area Mobility Study (NAMS) Progress (Van Meter)
Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning and Development, reviewed a
Power Point presentation with the Board that is available in the January 28, 2014 Study
Session Agenda Packet.
General Manager Washington informed the Board that the Rail Capital Costs presented had
not been independently verified by BNSF; these costs came out of the study and were
prepared by a railroad specialist that once worked for BNSF. He stated, as he has before,
that all of the financial analyses are good for today. General Manager Washington
stressed that they do not take into account RTD’s innovation and ability to engage with
the private sector. He said he takes these analyses with a grain of salt.
Director Tobiassen thanked staff for the presentation. He asked for additional information
about a potential Regional Transportation Authority (RTA). He wondered how an RTA was
initiated, who manages it, how does RTD interface with the RTA, etc. Marla Lien stated
that RTAs are a provision of state law and separate from the RTD Act. Any combination
of at least two cities, counties, etc. have to agree to form an RTA with an

Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) that constitutes its charter. She explained that the
RTA has to be authorized by the people of each entity and they must authorize any tax as
well. She said that she did not believe RTD could be part of an RTA. Marla Lien explained
that if an RTA was created to collect taxes and then give the funds to RTD, there would
need to be a vote of the District to approve re-payment of the funds.
Director Tobiassen asked if a vote would be required should RTD elected to move forward
with the arterial Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) project. Marla Lien stated that when FasTracks
was approved it was a specific plan that included BRT elements for the US 36 corridor
through Downtown Boulder. The plan did not include any other BRT and there was a very
distinct plan for the Northwest Rail. She explained that if RTD wanted to amend the
FasTracks plan and use those funds to pay for additional BRT it would require a vote;
however, if RTD was to use Base System funds a vote would not be required to amend
the plan but might need a vote to issue more debt.
Director Menten asked for clarification on the lifespan of our light rail vehicles. She noted
that during the presentation Bill Van Meter said it was 25 years. Director Menten thought
the lifespan was longer. Terry Howerter stated that the lifespan is actually 30 years.
Director Menten shared that she has been asked by multiple individuals for an explanation
of BRT. She wanted to ensure that she was providing them with the correct definition.
She also wondered how close RTD’s BRT service would be to the formal definition of BRT.
General Manager Washington shared that the FTA had recently released a definition for
BRT that staff would provide to the Board. The FTA definition reads:
“BRT is an enhanced bus system that operates on bus lanes or other transitways in order
to combine the flexibility of buses with the efficiency of rail. By doing so, BRT operates at
faster speeds, provides greater service reliability and increased customer convenience. It
also utilizes a combination of advanced technologies, infrastructure and operational
investments that provide significantly better service than traditional bus service.”
Bill Van Meter stated that on US 36, RTD would be running service that is very close to
what most people think BRT is. He said that for the arterial BRT there would not be
dedicated lanes for the buses but through various improvements it would operate much
more efficiently.
Director Bagley shared that in his experience the components of BRT are all very different
and based on the application. He commented that in the presentation, the cost for the
Northwest Rail was presented in 2013 dollars, not year of expenditure dollars (YOE). He
said that when looking at YOE dollars the costs are likely to be significantly higher than
presented. Director Bagley also expressed concern that the costs for the Northwest Rail

had not been reviewed with BNSF so there was the possibility that they could increase
further. Director Bagley feels that there is more certainty in the arterial BRT projections
even if they are in 2013 dollars versus YOE. He asked staff if that was a correct
assumption. Chris Quinn said that while the analysis does not rely on any outside parties
it was done through very high level engineering numbers.
Director Lubow expressed her disappointment that the financial analysis by revenue source
showed $0 across the board. She wondered if this was the same information that RTD
has already provided to DRCOG. Director Lubow also asked if the anticipated completion
date of 2044 for the Northwest Rail would remain the same. Bill Van Meter stated that
the analysis is the same through 2035. He said that the actual completion date for the
Northwest Rail is uncertain in the forecast but at this time it is post 2040. He reiterated
that staff lacks the confidence to put a year on a project that is so far out. Bill Van Meter
also stressed that if our situation gets better, for example the Sales and Use forecasts
improve, these numbers could go from zeroes to positives in 6 months. He said that just
as General Manager Washington stated, this is just where RTD is today. Terry Howerter
noted that it does not take much to change our financial position; even a 0.5% increase
year over year in Sales and Use Tax revenue would make a huge difference.
General Manager Washington explained that there is a reason that RTD adopted the
mantra of build as fast as you can as quick as you can; staff is looking for any window of
opportunity and RTD needs to be flexible and agile so that we may act on it.
Director Hoy asked if the projected Northwest Rail ridership was from current projections
or based on the 2004 FasTracks Initiative. He also wondered if the BRT ridership
boardings would add to each other. Bill Van Meter stated that all ridership forecasts had
been done as part of the study. He also said that Director Hoy was correct; each BRT
route’s ridership was added together for a cumulative total ridership.
Director Hoy shared that he recently spoke with a gentleman from Siemens and learned
that Siemens has a lease program for replacing rail cars. He asked that staff look into this
as our rail cars need to be replaced.
Director Folska noted that this is a lot of information to process. She feels distracted by
all of the information. Director Folska stated that the people in the Northwest want a train
as that is what they voted for. She thinks it is nice to have alternatives but at the same
time RTD is spending a lot of time and money going back and forth when the people want
a train. Director Folska asked if a vote from the entire District would be required to move
forward with arterial BRT. Marla Lien stated that if it used FasTracks funds or increased
debt it would require a vote, otherwise it would not.

Director Solano stated that he concurs with Director Folska. He said it does not seem like
we are making any progress. He noted that RTD is spending $2 million on this study. He
asked what we are getting in return. General Manager Washington reminded the Board
that this was a partnership with the stakeholders. He believes that if RTD was to cut this
process short the stakeholders would be very offended. He stated that RTD and the
stakeholders are going through the process that both sides agreed to. General Manager
Washington believes it is extremely important to get the public input that this study is
soliciting. Bill Van Meter stated that now that the stakeholders had all the study
information they could evaluate it to really prioritize the transportation needs for the
corridor.
Director Walker asked if the capital costs identified for the Northwest Rail included
acquisitions and permitting. He also wondered how the daily boardings had been
calculated. Director Walker shared that in his experience it is very hard to predict the
future. Bill Van Meter stated that the costs did include acquisitions and permitting. He
explained that the low projection for daily boardings was based on DRCOG’s Regional
Transportation Plan’s projections; however, many of the local governments thought the
projections were low so RTD staff worked with them to come up with the high end of the
daily boardings.
Director Deadwyler asked if the NAMS process would factor in any of the information
presented earlier by Maria Garcia Berry regarding people’s preference for BRT over rail.
General Manager Washington stated that everything needed to be taken into account. He
believes it is important to find out what people really want.
Chair Sisk requested that all the financial analysis be done in current dollars so that
everyone is comparing apples to apples. He recognized that at times he too has felt like
Director Solano but overall this has been a very good process. He believes it is important
that the stakeholders feel they are involved in the entire process. Chair Sisk stated that
the arterial BRT might be a very good interim solution while we work to build the
Northwest Rail. He noted that the arterial BRT already gives RTD an immediate
opportunity to assist Longmont because the route along 287 is something they do not
have now.
Director Rivera-Malpiede shared that she did not understand the concept of BRT until she
attended the Rail~Volution Conference in L.A. She said it changed her entire point of
view; there were massive stations with Transit Oriented Development stops all along the
line. Director Rivera-Malpiede encouraged the other Directors to learn about various BRTs
throughout the country.

Director Anderson expressed her agreement with Chair Sisk. She also noted that the route
along 287 would provide service to the people of Lafayette.
Director Lubow recognized that Director Deadwyler was correct that it is important to
listen to what RTD is hearing from polling, surveys, etc. She informed the Board that she
is not hearing what Maria Garcia Berry shared from the poll as her constituents are telling
her they want rail; however, she thinks it is very important to evaluate all the information
we are receiving.
Director Bagley reminded the Board that RTD would only be buying time slots from BNSF
for rail in the Northwest corridor. He shared this was something that was also done in
Seattle and proved to be very problematic. Marla Lien stated that while RTD would be
negotiating permanent easements with BNSF it would be only for a time slot. She
explained that more time slot would be needed to add capacity to the line which could
prove difficult if BNSF did not want to sell them.
Director Bagley stated that the Board needs to recognize that Boulder County has made
some decisions so cities would not grow together; however, this has had some significant
long term consequences on the population density in those areas.
Chair Sisk noted that the NAMS has been a product of a great deal of significant work
from staff. He believes that staff has worked well to represent RTD. He shared that this
is the part of the stakeholder process that he thoroughly enjoys. Chair Sisk thinks this is
something that was needed because it is bringing into better focus a plan going forward.
He thanked staff for their extraordinary efforts.

IV.

Other Matters
Director Anderson commented that there had been a recent Denver Post article regarding
the actuarial report on the RTD represented employee’s pension fund. She reminded the
Board that this information was known when the Union contract was being negotiated and
voted on last March. She stated that the contract was negotiated with both sides
recognizing that action needed to be taken to prop up the fund and this was done through
some real commitment by the Union and RTD. Director Anderson stated that these things
are not turned around in just a few months; it may take a few years but she has
confidence that both sides will work diligently to get the job done. She also noted that
Julio Rivera, ATU President, said the pension was hurt by having about 50% of the
agency’s bus service run by contractors per a Colorado law. Director Anderson shared
that she was not a supporter of this process and asked if staff could inform the board of
the effects, if any, this might have on the pension fund.

Director Anderson informed the Board that she and Director Daly attended the American
Public Works of Colorado Awards Luncheon where RTD received the 2013 Project of the
Year for the West Rail Line. She said that the City of Lakewood always received an award
for the parks and trails added as part of the West Line development.

V.

Adjourn
Chair Sisk adjourned the meeting at 7:35 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

