1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

MINUTES
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, July 5, 2016
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Larry Hoy

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present

Arrived
5:24 PM
5:26 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Present
Absent

5:11 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District E
Director, District N

Present
Present

5:00 PM
5:29 PM

Larry Hoy

Committee Chair

Present

5:26 PM

Bill James

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

5:16 PM

Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District G
Director, District I

Absent
Present

5:24 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District M
Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Absent
Present
Present

5:28 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:28 PM

5:29 PM
5:27 PM

Directors Deadwyler, Lasater and Sisk were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Lee Cryer, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons,
Tony Forrester, David Genova, Kate Iverson, Erin Klaas, Russ Larson,
Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Robin McIntosh Jr., Barbara
McManus, Tai-Shrae Parish, Scott Reed, Jenifer Ross-Amato, Bill
Sirois, Kevin Steele, Henry Stopplecamp, Greg Straight, John Tarbert,
Gary Turnquist, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Brian Welch,
Susan Wood

Public Present:

Homer Anderson, Jenifer Brandeberry, Mike Dino, Aaron Epstein,
Nadia Garas, Matthew Helfant, Brian Middleton, Kent Moorman, Peter
Strange, Joe Triplett,

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• Board Update B Line
Henry Stopplecamp, Acting Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs,
reminded the Board the B Line Grand Opening would be on Monday, July
25th. He asked Greg Straight, Engineering Project Manager, to review the
Power Point presentation included in the July 5th, 2016 FasTracks
Monitoring Committee Agenda Packet.
Greg Straight stated one important item to note is that the B Line does not
have any public at-grade crossings like there are along the University of
Colorado A Line. He explained this adds to staff’s confidence in the B Line
opening being very successful and on-time.
Greg Straight shared that testing and construction were going well. The
System Performance Demonstration is underway and will last 21 days. The
final platform punchlist work is underway with the canopy installation
complete. Additionally, the elevator construction continues along with the
installation of lighting on the platform canopy and walkway. He commented
that the City of Westminster (City) is building the parking garage, plaza area
and park on the south side of the station. He indicated the City is on track
for completion by opening day.
Greg Straight said that in addition to construction, the B Line team has
conducted an extensive safety outreach program. He noted eight schools
were identified within one mile of the line. He stated such activities such as
classroom presentation, mock crossing and assemblies have reached more
than 5,000 students.

Director Bagley asked for further information about the details surrounding
the parking structure the City was building and if the City would be
implementing paid parking different from that of RTD’s parking fees. Greg
Straight explained that originally the lot was planned as a surface lot;
however, in a joint effort RTD agreed to provide the City with a credit to use
toward a parking structure.
Henry Stopplecamp stated if there was to be paid parking different from that
of our other parking facilities the City would be responsible for parking
management. He reminded the Board that per the State Legislature, parking
will be free for the first 90 days as notification of costs must be posted for
that time period. He indicated that staff and the City are currently in
discussions about how to move forward.
General Manager Genova shared that as of right now it appeared the City
would implement RTD’s parking management program after the initial 90
day period for evaluation; however, he said this could change as discussions
continue. He informed the Board that the July Study Session would include
a thorough discussion of parking such as the recent parking analysis study,
review of the current parking management program, parking structures
where there are Intergovernmental Agreements with a city, etc.
Director Archuleta shared that he has received over 100 emails from the
Sunnyside neighborhood wanting the B Line to stop at the 41st and Fox
station. He asked if this would be happening any time in the near future.
He said he wants to give them facts, not vague statements. Henry
Stopplecamp stated there is always the possibility the 41st and Fox and
Pecos stations could be added but the B Line would not be stopping at them
opening day. General Manager Genova explained that those two stations
were part of the G Line construction process so they would not be through
the certification process by B Line opening day. He reiterated that staff is
going through an evaluation about the feasibility of the B Line stopping at
them at a future date but no decisions have been made.
Director Anderson inquired if there would still be an Eagle P3 Elected Official
Briefing that was included on the Board’s Two Week Calendar for Thursday,
July 7th. She also wondered if the artwork would be finished in time for
opening day. Greg Straight said he would have to look into both of her
questions and get back to her.
Committee Chair Hoy shared that as it relates to the artwork, he recently
talked with one of the City Council members and it is touch and go. The
City is hoping it will be done but would not gamble on it.

Director Anderson shared that when the Major Investment Study (MIS) and
Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) for the G Line were done the
Sunnyside community was a very vocal participant.
Director Francone asked if staff had an estimate of the ridership numbers for
the B Line stop at 41st and Fox. She pointed out that the community is
being very vocal and asked staff to keep that in mind when making
decisions. Greg Straight reiterated that there will be nothing in the
infrastructure to preclude service if and when it makes sense. Henry
Stopplecamp stated the original ridership models showed very few people
stopping from the B Line at 41st and Fox when it ends at Westminster. He
said the ridership goes up significantly when the B Line is extended to
Boulder.
Director Anderson pointed out that the G Line will provide 15 minute
frequencies during peak service hours while the B Line provides only 30.
She believes the Sunnyside community will be quite well served by the G
Line.
Committee Chair Hoy indicated he would be happy to speak with any
Director offline about questions regarding the B Line stops.
Director James wondered if staff knew what the City had planned related to
development around the Westminster Station. Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of
Transit Oriented Communities, said his understanding is that there is an
Adams County Housing Project advancing near the station. He noted there
are a lot of interested parties but does not know specifics. Committee Chair
Hoy stated that the City was keeping their development plans close to the
vest at this time but there have been a lot of inquiries.

• Future Construction FasTracks Corridors Federal Funding Analysis
Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning, introduced Brian
Welch, Senior Manager of Technical Service, and explained that Brian
Welch’s team is the team that took RTD through the most recent Small
Starts Grant process for the Southeast Rail Extension (SERE). He stated this
team is very familiar with the New Starts and Small Starts funding criteria.
Bill Van Meter shared this team used the same rigor to complete an analysis
of the remaining unfunded FasTracks corridors to determine their probability
in qualifying for federal funds.
Brian Welch reviewed the Power Point presentation that was included in the
July 5, 2016 FasTracks Monitoring Committee Agenda Packet. He pointed
out that since FasTrack’s approval in 2004, The FTA’s Capital Investment
Grant Program (CIG), that includes the New Starts and Small Starts grants,
was heavily re-structured under MAP-21 (Moving Ahead for Progress in the

21st Century) and further refined under the FAST Act (Fixing America’s
Surface Transportation). He explained that criteria for the CIG Program was
divided into two criteria. A project must receive an average of “Medium” or
3.0 on a 5.0 scale in both criteria to be eligible. The first is Project
Justification, consisting of six criteria of equal weight. The second is Local
Financial Commitment with is three components with a 25%/25%/50%
weighting. The components of each criteria are:
 Project Justification
o Mobility Improvements: total linked trips on the project
o Environmental Benefits: reduction in vehicle miles traveled
o Congestion Relief: number of new transit trips
o Cost-Effectiveness: capital and operating* costs per trip
(*O&M not included for Small Starts)
o Economic Development: transit supportive plans and policies
o Land Use: Legally binding affordability restricted housing;
existing corridor and station character
 Local Financial Commitment
o Current Financial Condition: fleet age, bond ratings, ratio of
assets to liabilities, service history, etc.
o Commitment of Funds: committed vs budgeted vs planned,
private contributions, etc.
o Financial Capacity and Reasonableness of Assumptions:
assumptions compared to history, reasonableness of cost
estimates, state of good repair, ability to withstand shortfalls
or overruns, etc.
Brian Welch stated when evaluating the remainder of the Central, North
Metro, Northwest Rail and Southwest Rail projects against the Project
Justification Criteria, only the Central Rail Extension would receive a ranking
of “Medium”. He said when evaluating the Local Financial Commitment
none of the four projects would achieve a “Medium” rating based on current
and anticipated RTD financial projections and forecasts.
Bill Van Meter indicated that while the presentation was not as positive as
everyone would like, staff will continue to look at other strategies to fund
the unfunded corridors. He pointed out that both the I-225 and North Metro
to 124th projects moved forward without federal funding; however, he
stressed that any successful funding strategy would have to include
significant non-RTD funds, similar to SERE. He said staff would be providing
further details during the review of the 2016 Annual Program Evaluation
(APE) that would be presented at the next Financial Administration and Audit
Committee Meeting.
Committee Chair Hoy stated it is apparent that RTD is in competition with
the rest of the nation on New Starts and Small Starts Grants. He noted
each of the unfunded projects within RTD are essentially in competition

amongst themselves. He indicated he has heard loud and clear from staff
that the unfunded projects do not rate high nationally for funds. He believes
it may come down to RTD’s private and public partners to bring more to the
table, as was done on SERE. He asked if that was a fair assessment of the
current financial situation of these projects. Bill Van Meter stated that was
accurate. He noted that the FTA and Federal Government do change their
priorities and funding requirements though so there may be opportunities
down the road to revisit these projects. He reminded the Board that the
Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG) is also closely involved in
providing some of the key socioeconomic, land use, etc. projections.
DRCOG is constantly updating and refining their assumptions to make sure
the data is accurate. As their projections change it could also change a
projects potential eligibility.
Director Folska asked for the length and estimated cost to build the Central
Corridor. She said it was her understanding that RTD already applied for a
Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) Grant for
this project. Bill Van Meter stated it was a little less than one mile and is
projected to cost $140 million in Year of Expenditure (YOE) dollars. He
reminded the Board that RTD did apply for a TIGER Grant but was not
successful. He indicated staff applied for another TIGER Grant for the
Central Corridor State of Good Repair as well as some pocket track, which is
a key element of being able to build the extension in the future in addition to
current operational benefits.
Director Solano asked if any progress has been made on the extension of the
North Metro Line to Highway 7 since the project had been defederalized. Bill
Van Meter explained that the defederalization occurred to allow for the
current construction of the North Metro Line to 124th. He said staff has met
with Adams County and the City of Thornton but nothing has panned out todate.
Director James noted an area of interest he has outside of RTD is affordable
housing. He said it sounds as if there is a legal requirement for affordable
housing in the vicinity of a project which enhances the project’s rating. He
asked for further information about how these legal requirements are
defined. Brian Welch explained that the wording is very specific and
convoluted. Essentially there needs to be evidence that if an area has
affordable housing prior to a project, it will not go away when the project is
built.
Director Bagley encouraged staff to continue a rigorous review of all projects
in the future, even if there is a Public Private Partnership (PPP) or significant
local funding. General Manager Genova stated that every project requires a
rigorous review. That will not change whether a project was federally
funded or not.

Director Anderson shared that she recently read an article about Boulder and
population densities. She noted there has always been a housing deficit in
Boulder as they preferred lower-density zoning. She said in her experience
with Arvada, the City Council had the gumption to design a great city that
provides a great housing mix. This positioned Arvada to be competitive as it
relates to the G Line. She believes this is a good opportunity for cities
around our projects to work with DRCOG and improve their density and land
use plans so in the future they might be competitive.
Director Lubow thanked staff for their analysis. She said it was
disappointing but not at all surprising; however, she also thinks in a certain
sense it frees RTD to look at other options. She stated RTD has a fiduciary
duty to make sure any plan is a fiscally sound plan but maybe there are
options not subject to the FTA’s rules.
Director Walker wondered where staff thought the Capital Investment Grant
criteria might be heading in the next 10 years as staff said it can change.
Brian Welch stated the FAST Act was a 6 year bill. He said there could be
new rules proposed depending on the wishes of the administration at the
time but it is a slow process to get from philosophy to rulemaking.
Director Francone thanked staff for an informative and helpful presentation.
She asked for the definition of linked trips versus new transit trips. She also
wondered how affordable housing is defined. Brian Welch explained that
new transit trips were easy to define as they were people that did not
previously use the system. As for a linked trip, it is someone already riding
the system but will use the new system once it is in place, so they are not
considered new riders. He said that affordable housing is based on the
definitions for the various metropolitan organizations.
Director Francone asked if there was a federal cap on the private
commitment of funds for projects. Brian Welch stated there was no cap on
the amount of non-agency private money that could be used for a project.
Director Bagley indicated that while some may see this as liberating that
RTD does not have to conform to federal standards on the unfunded
projects; he reminded the Board that FasTracks has always been defined as
the three legged stool: federal, RTD, and the private/public partners. The
Federal Government was RTD’s partner long before he was ever on the
Board.
Director James thanked staff for their efforts. He thinks it is strategic
thinking at its best. He said this is much like the Fiscal Sustainability Task
Force in examining cost effective alternatives. He pointed out this is very
similar to the golden rule of real estate: those that have the gold make the

rules. He thinks if the FTA is interested in sponsoring a project RTD will
follow their rules. If not then RTD will need to work with other partners to
come up with funding ideas.
Committee Chair Hoy said this is very good information for the Board to sit
back and ponder what staff has presented.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - August 2, 2016
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 6:45 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

