Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, October 20, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Lorraine Anderson

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Anderson called the meeting to order at 8:04 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Committee Chair
Present
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present

Arrived
8:01 PM
8:03 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present

8:03 PM
8:07 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District E
Director, District N

Present
Present

8:10 PM
8:03 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

7:57 PM

Bill James

Director, District A

Present

8:00 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Absent

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk

Director, District I
Director, District M
Director, District O

Absent
Present
Present

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Absent

8:03 PM
8:02 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

8:04 PM
8:02 PM

Directors Lasater, Lubow, and Solano were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jessie Carter, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Heather
Copp, Martell Dyles, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Adrina Gibson,
Doug Gragg, Kim Heldman, Tina Jaquez, Jessica Keegan, Erin Klaas,
Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Naté Malone, Tony McCaulay, Barbara
McManus, Judy McMurphy, Vivian Morales, Ed Neuberg, Paula
Perdue, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Zamy Silva, Henry
Stopplecamp, Monika Treipl-Hamke, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna
Vishwakarma

Others Present:

Mayra Gonzáles, Sherman Hamilton, Eugene Howard, Brian
Lewandowski, Randall Lovegrove, Robert McNown, Peter Mills, Scott
Ramming, Pedro Ramos, Karen Strum, Joe Triplett, Carolina Van
Horn, Gary Van Dorn, Daniela Villareal, Dace West, Bob Wilson,
Richard Wobbekind

B. Recommended Actions

• January 2016 Service Plan
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the January 2016 Service Change package
as revised and summarized in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost
of approximately $870,350 and, further, to authorize the General Manager
or his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private
operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
Motion:

Director Hoy made the motion to move this item
to the full Board at the October 27, 2015 Board
meeting.
Chair Sisk seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager for Bus Operations,
reminded the Directors that staff had already presented a draft
of the January 2016 Service Plan to the Board. He noted that
staff has since gone to public meetings. The changes made to
the Service Plan from the feedback received are highlighted in
yellow in the Board Report.
Jessie Carter, Manager for Service Planning and Scheduling,
explained that most of the changes are routine schedule

adjustments. He highlighted routes 3 and 10 as these routes
include some rerouting. The maps explaining the new routes
were included in the Board Report.
Jessie Carter added that there were 3 public hearings held
with a total attendance of 41 people. Bruce Abel pointed out
that the total cost for the service changes is estimated at
$870,350, with an estimated $139,750 in grant funding,
making the Service Plan net cost $730.600.
Director Francone thanked staff on behalf of her nieces and
nephews, who attend East High School in Denver, for
improving the service in the area.
Committee Chair Anderson said that she understands that
closing a Park-n-Ride is difficult. She added that after talking
to staff, she learned that only 2 people attended the public
hearing to discuss this change. Staff noted that there are
other parking options nearby.
Director Deadwyler shared the concern of several people in her
District relating to the reduction of bus services. She asked
staff to reassure her that people will not complain once all the
service changes go live in 2016. Jessie Carter pointed out
that more information on those bus routes covering Montbello
and the Green Valley Ranch area will be included in the East
Line/225 Line Service Planning Update to be presented later in
the meeting.
Director Francone asked about the Lockheed Martin Call-nRide. She pointed out that during the August Service Changes
this Call-n-Ride was recommended for discontinuation. Bruce
Abel said that this Call-n-Ride has been reduced to one
subscription per day. Jessie Carter told Director Francone that
Brian Matthews, Manager for Special Services, could give her
a further update.
Director Menten pointed out that Route 76 stops at Southwest
Plaza. Some of her constituents would like the route to
extend further south to the nearby medical facility. She asked
staff when was the last time this route was discussed for
possible changes. Jessie Carter replied that route 76 has been
revisited recently as this topic has been brought up in a few
community meetings. Staff is continuing these conversations.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Larry Hoy, Director, District J
SECONDER: Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy,
James, Menten, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Gary Lasater, Judy Lubow, Paul Solano
Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED UNANIMOUSLY.

• Recommended Changes to the Non-Profit Agency Reduced Fare Program
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that
RTD staff be authorized to make changes to the RTD Non-Profit Agency
Reduced Fare Program as detailed in Attachment A of this action to be
implemented by January 1, 2016.
Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the October 27,
2015 Board meeting.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Tony McCaulay, Senior Manager of Marketing, noted that the
recommended action has no changes since the update
presented during the September Study Session. Staff finished
surveying the 360 staff members from current participating
agencies and received 28 responses. He added that several
agencies did express concern over the proposed change in the
discount for 10-Ride Ticket Books from the current 60% to
50%. Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager for
Communications, handed out Attachment A to the Directors
as it was omitted from the recommended action Board report
by mistake. The attachment was emailed to the Directors
prior to the meeting.
Director Hoy shared that he was a bit troubled by the
recommended action. During the Financial Administration and
Audit Committee meeting prior to the Operations and
Customer Service Committee meeting, the conversation
revolved around balancing the budget and sustainability. He
noted that the proposed January Service Plan increased in
service by $800,000, yet this recommended action asks to
cut revenues by $400,000. He pointed out that RTD cannot
cut revenues and increase service. He noted that he would
vote no and asked staff to look at the numbers for the Non-

Profit Agency Reduced Fare Program and at least make it
revenue neutral.
Director Francone thanked staff for their work. She noted that
she had two issues. She is concerned that allowing the
agencies to return unused passes would create an additional
administrative burden to RTD. She worries that since this is a
new product there may be the possibility of agencies
overestimating their needs. Scott Reed explained that he has
had conversations with the Operations Accounting staff and
they have assured him that this new responsibility will not be
extremely burdensome as these types of transactions are
already part of their responsibilities.
Director Francone mentioned that her second concern is along
the lines of Director Hoy’s concerns. She asked staff to speak
to why it seems there is a deficit of $1 million dollars. Tony
McCaulay explained that under the current program RTD
would receive $2.5 million in revenue of the $5.8 fare media
face value. Staff is recommending a face value annual cap of
$6.8 million since they are expecting an increase in demand.
If the cap is met, RTD revenue would increase from $2.5
million to $3.4 million. He added that even though staff is
anticipating an increase in demand staff cannot predict what
the increase will be. Scott Reed noted that the estimation is a
guess since staff has no way of knowing what would have
been bought at full fare versus helping accommodate low
income riders; however, staff felt that the way the
recommended action is presented is the most logical way to
proceed.
Director James suggested that in the future the performance
of this program be measured in both revenue to RTD and
number of rides provided. Tony McCaulay noted that the
current 10-Ride Ticket Books are able to measure both of
those metrics but not passes. He suggested providing a
survey to the non-profit agencies where clients receiving
monthly passes could estimate the number of rides taken in a
month. He added that once SmartCard data is available both
metrics would be easier to track. Director James agreed that
SmartCard data will provide really interesting information.
Director James noted that the proposed discount for the 10Ride Ticket Books from the current 60% to 50% is a good

idea as it creates consistency throughout the agency-wide fare
structure.
Director James pointed out that the discounted fare media is
only available through the participating non-profit agencies.
He wondered what would be the consequences for the nonprofits issuing a type of verification confirmation and the
eligible customers purchasing the fare media through other
fare media outlets. Scott Reed replied that there are 240
agencies participating in the program, meaning that the
accessibility of the discounted passes is not limited. He added
that most people who purchase the discounted fare media
through the agencies utilize the agencies as a one-stop shop
for other safety net programs. Currently clients may have to
do multiple trips to the agencies because the number of
passes is limited. Under the recommended action, the
agencies will be able to provide more passes in one visit.
Scott Reed added that RTD would have a difficult time
empowering the agencies to issue some sort of ID to proof
eligibility, he does not think that the agencies would like that
burden either, and this would add a different type of scenario
for the other sales outlets.
Scott Reed noted that RTD continues to work with Mile High
Connects to address a joint funding scenario for low income
fares. That program has identified an $11 million cost for an
ID card program for which to date no funding partner has been
identified. He pointed out that the current recommended
action focuses on the restructuring of the Non-Profit Agency
Reduced Fare program. Director James noted that it sounds
like staff is willing to explore different options and make future
changes as the conversation develops. Scott Reed confirmed
that staff is committed to continuing the process.
Director Tobiassen reminded the Directors that this
recommended action is for the simplification of the current
Non-Profit Agency Reduced Fare program and not the program
in the works with Mile High Connects. The clients that are
part of the this program are the poorest of the poor, not the
working poor. He noted that these are the people that need
the most help. He added that RTD has other very worthy
programs, like Senior, Student, and Disability discounts as well
as Active Military free fare. He said he will support this
program 100% as it is also very worthy. He shared that his
son drives an ambulance and that many times he has taken

someone to the hospital that, once discharged, is not able to
get home. He suggested adding hospitals to this program to
aid in those kinds of cases.
Director Francone wondered if the Non-Profit Agency Reduced
Fare Program has any impact on RTD statutory obligation on
collecting certain percentage of revenue from fares. Marla
Lien, General Counsel, replied that the statutory definition is
not an accounting definition as it ties too many other activities
within RTD. She said that RTD overall exceeds the recovery
requirements. She added that the fare box revenue gets
averaged between those paying regular and discounted fares.
Heather Copp, Chief Financial Officer, told Director Francone
she will provide her with the correct calculation. She added
that the Non-Profit Agency Reduced Fare program would have
to increase exponentially to affect the statutory obligation.
Director Bagley noted that Director Tobiassen made a
compelling comment and that all the discounts provided by
RTD are very worthy. He trusts that the people utilizing the
Non-Profit Agency Reduced Fare program are the poorest of
the poor. He told the Directors that it is time to take a vote.
Director Walker pointed out that he will support this
recommended action. He mentioned that he has not paid for a
fare pass in 4 years yet he regularly buys fares for his
daughter and her friends. He mentioned that this
recommended action will do a lot of good for a lot of people.
Committee Chair Anderson reminded the Directors that several
months ago the Board asked staff to streamline the process.
She believes staff has done a good job on anticipating more
sales of the discounted fare for the poorest of the poor. She
said that she will be supporting this recommended action
because it essentially does not change current practices. She
added that as the metro region grows more poor people will
not be able to afford transit.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [10 TO 2]
MOVER:
Barbara Deadwyler, Committee Vice-Chair
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, James, Menten,
Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Tina Francone, Larry Hoy
ABSENT:
Gary Lasater, Judy Lubow, Paul Solano
Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.

• Free Rides for Members of the Military
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that
free rides on RTD for active duty members of the United States Military
should be extended from the presently approved date of December 31, 2015
to December 31, 2016. Utilization has been minimal to date and this
extension will have minimal impact on RTD.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move this
item to the full Board during the October 27,
2015 Board Meeting.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Committee Chair Anderson noted that this was very fitting
given the forthcoming commemoration of Veteran’s Day.
Chair Sisk called for the question.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Kent Bagley, Director, District H
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy,
James, Menten, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Gary Lasater, Judy Lubow, Paul Solano
Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Updates

 New Year's Eve/Day Free Fare (no back-up)
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager for Bus Operations, reminded the
Directors that RTD in the past has offered free fares starting at 7:00 p.m. on
New Year’s Eve until 7:00 a.m. New Year’s Day. This year, the free fare will
start on New Year’s Eve at 7:00 p.m. until Midnight, January 2, 2016. This
means that throughout all of January 1, 2016 RTD will provide free fares.

This is meant to aid in the transition into the new fare structure effective
January 1, 2016.



Arapahoe park-n-Ride Update (no back-up)
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager, reminded the Board that the City of
Greenwood Village owned the surface parking lot where the Arapahoe Parkn-Ride is located. Greenwood Village allowed RTD patrons to park on the
premises once the Arapahoe Station opened until the land was sold for
development.
On September 30, 2015, the land was sold and a developer closed on the
property. There has been no parking allowed since that date. The developer
is not set to break ground until February, 2016 and has since decided to
allow for RTD patrons to park there until then.

 East Line/225 Line Service Planning Update (no back-up)
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager for Bus Operations, told the
Directors that staff will come back to the Board with changes from the
feedback received during the public meetings currently being held. Staff
plans to come back to the Board with a recommended action in November.
Jessie Carter, Manager for Service Planning and Scheduling, told the
Directors that there were 6 public meetings held with a total of 100 people
in attendance. Staff continues to receive briefing requests from
organizations and municipalities. He added that he is glad there is some
opposition at the beginning of this program because people are being
proactive providing their feedback. Due to this feedback, several changes
are being made:
 Maintaining Route 28 in the Park Hill area
 Maintaining service on 44th Ave in the Green Valley Ranch area
Director Tobiassen mentioned that staff continues to be in conversation with
the Buckley Air Force Base regarding route 169. Bruce Abel added that the
conversation includes route 169 L.
Director Deadwyler shared the angst from some of the constituents in her
District because it seems that RTD is forcing people to use the train by
eliminating routes and trips. She would like staff to assure her that people
will get to their destinations without the problems encountered during the
opening of the W rail line. Jessie Carter replied that he cannot promise that
everyone will be happy. He added that the University of Colorado A Line
will be more reliable with frequent service to the area. Director Deadwyler
noted that she is not worried about the train; she is worried about the buses
that will take them to the train. Jessie Carter gave the example that the trip
on route 47X from Montbello to Denver Union Station (DUS) currently is 47

minutes. The trip from Smith and Peoria to DUS on the University of
Colorado A Line will be 16 minutes. Even when factoring in the bus transfer
the trip from Montbello will be significantly shorter. Director Deadwyler
noted that not everyone will be on the 47X and they would be at other
stops, like Airport and 40th. Jessie Carter replied that this is where other
routes come into play, for example, the AF, which also has significant time
reductions when utilizing the University of Colorado A Line. Bruce Abel
added that staff continues to engage the community to get the message out
on the advantages of the new lines as well as listening to the concerns of
the public, revisiting changes and fleshing out a better service timeline.
Jessie Carter added that the proposed 3 routes that would replace the
current 4 routes in the Montbello area will have a longer span of service and
will operate more frequently.

 16th Street Mall Update (no back-up)
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager for Bus Operations, mentioned that
staff has been working with the City and County of Denver (Denver) as well
as the Downtown Denver Partnership (DDP) to evaluate what they are
calling the “revisioning” of the 16th Street Mall. He noted that RTD
participated in the 5 Meet in the Streets Sundays that were meant to
activate the 16th Street Mall.
He added that during the meeting with Denver and their consultants to
debrief the 5 Meet in the Streets, the consultant concluded:
 RTD Free Mall Ride ridership decreased from 18,000 to 6,000 to
7,000
 Pedestrian traffic on the Mall was 30% higher, which is approximate
weekday traffic
 There was a 40% increase of children participation.
 90% of merchants reported equal or better sales volume.
He added that one of the items Denver has been forthright about is
wondering how the Free Mall Ride ties in with the revisioning of Downtown
Denver. RTD believes that the Free Mall Ride is the backbone of the
agency’s operations with 45,000 boardings a day. RTD is willing to look at
what Sundays may look like. Denver may ask RTD what it would look like
for the Free Mall Ride to run on 15th Street and 17th Street on Saturdays and
Sundays from Memorial Day weekend to Labor Day weekend. RTD’s
position is that a lot of studies would need to take place in order to arrive at
that place.
Committee Chair Anderson said that her question for Denver would be if
they are willing to pay for the road repairs in order for the Free Mall Ride
buses to run on 15th Street and 17th Street.

Director Menten asked staff to get more specific numbers as 90% of
merchants reporting equal or better sales volume does not really give much
information.
Director James reminded the Directors that the DDP will have a forum on
Wednesday, October 21st, at 7:30 a.m. to discuss the future of the 16th
Street Mall.
Director James asked if the increase of pedestrian on the Mall was due to
the removal of the buses or to the promoting of the activities being held.
Bruce Abel replied that those points are part of the conversation: what does
the 16th Street Mall look like when it is activated with programing versus not
activated. RTD wants to make sure that we protect our customer base
while collaborating with Denver. Director James noted that he is glad RTD
is part of the conversation.
Director Folska pointed out that RTD just bought Mall buses that could only
operate on the 16th Street Mall. She wondered if there were any statutory
penalties for not operating on the Mall. Bruce Abel noted that the recently
purchased buses will be able to operate at two levels, making them
functional on both 16th Street as well as regular streets. Marla Lien, General
Counsel, said that there were no statutory implications as the 16th Street
Mall is a Denver public right of way, thus what RTD does on the Mall is up
to Denver.
Director Walker pointed out that he is not married to the idea of the bus on
the 16th Street Mall. He noted that RTD needs to provide transportation
during the week. He added that if Denver is willing to provide another type
of environment for our customers to be transported throughout Downtown
then he is willing to work with them.
Director Bagley said that there are many other issues that affect the 16th
Street Mall beyond the Mall Ride buses: urban camping, homelessness,
marijuana, general overall security at the light rail stations, and the design of
the transit way. He does not think that he will ever support the removal of
the Free Mall Ride from 16th Street.

 College Pass Program Update (no back-up)
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager, reminded the Directors that the
College Pass Program was up for review under the Fare Study Task Force.
The program was evaluated using the same methodology as the EcoPass
program: average revenue per boarding. He said that the findings conclude
that the average fare received based on the contract amount and utilization
of services fulfills the expectations of the program. Given this information,

the consultants, CH2M Hill and staff are not recommending any changes on
the College Pass Program to the Board.

• Safety Campaign Update
Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager for Communications, mentioned that
safety is a focus of everything that we do. He added that “gloom and
doom” messaging does not resonate with today’s audience.
Steve Reilly, Manager for Marketing Communications, noted that safety is a
huge concern and consideration especially with the opening of 5 new lines
and introducing of new modes of transportation. This campaign would be a
system wide campaign that takes a more humorous and disarming approach
to safety. He noted that RTD partnered with Metro Melbourne of Australia
to adapt their successful campaign for the Denver audience. The program
as used in Australia and other European countries has produced:
 30% reduction in preventable accidents
 127 million online pledges to be safe around transit
 100 million video views
 150 million digital downloads
 5 million shares on social media
Steve Reilly proceeded to play the video for the campaign as well as a 30
second edited video which highlights the transit elements. He added that
the methodology is to use the online pledge to engage the public. The
campaign will kick off with a social media blitz which will send the
characters from Melbourne to Denver on October 28th. RTD will invite the
local media on October 29th to the characters overnight takeover of the
Denver Union Station bus concourse. The campaign will include train wraps,
bus wraps, print media, character/mascot interaction, etc. The campaign is
expected to grow by introducing Denver based characters. The campaign
will be translated into Spanish and the website will be translatable. The goal
is to cater to as many people as possible.
Scott Reed added that the campaign is a proven product. He noted that it
would have been impossible for RTD to create an original campaign without
spending hundreds of thousands if not millions of dollars. He pointed out
that the challenge will be getting through the thousands of messages that
people are bombarded with in a day.
Steve Reilly pointed out that the launch is intentionally planned around
Halloween as people in costume draw more attention during this time. The
characters will be present at Boo at the Zoo and the Children’s Museum,
among other places, as it will be a portable installation.

Director Folska thanked staff for the very well thought out and integrated
campaign. She noted that she can sense the passion from staff. She thinks
the campaign will be a great success.
Director James asked if there are any measurable results from the campaign
and what could RTD expect as a result. Steve Reilly replied that the
campaign worldwide has produced the results noted earlier. In addition to
those metrics, the program has generated 700 news stories providing $15
million in “ad value” if they had to pay for that media exposure.

D. Other Matters
Director Bagley asked Dave Genova, Interim General Manager, for a report on the
State Audit of RTD Hearing held earlier in the day. Dave Genova noted that the
audit concentrated around the use of electronic devices by operators, fitness for
duty, and drug and alcohol policy. The audit looked at how RTD handles these
issues internally as well as how RTD manages our private contractors on these
matters. The audit made 3 recommendations related to electronic devices and 3
recommendations related to private carrier oversight for documentation. He noted
that RTD worked closely with the audit committee and agreed with all 6
recommendations with pretty reasonable implementation time. During the
presentation the committee asked questions about the disciplinary process and how
it works progressively as well as drug testing policy, consequences and how these
are all negotiated with the Collective Bargaining Unit.
Marla Lien, General Counsel, mentioned that the audit report was released by the
committee. Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager for Communications, noted
that there are copies available at the Board Office.
Dave Genova told the Directors that the State released a press release on the audit.
Chair Sisk noted that the most egregious act cited during the audit hearing was a
bus operator driving at 75 mph in a 45 mph zone while on his cell phone. That
instance stuck with the legislators as it should have. The operator was suspended
for that action and later terminated for being absent. He added that that kind of
incident does not look good on RTD.

E. Next Meeting Date - November 10, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Anderson adjourned the meeting at 9:27 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

