Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, March 2,
2010
Page 1 of 2

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

March 2, 2010

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, March 2, 2010 at 5:30 p.m.
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Chair Kemp, Director Daly, Director James, Director Martinez, Director
McMullen, Director O’Boyle, Director Pulliam, Director Tayer, and
Director Tobiassen.
Directors Bagley, Busck, Brohl, Christopher and Cohen.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jenny Barket, Rick Clarke, Jane Donovan, David Genova,
Mike Gil, Genevieve Hutchison, Marla Lien, Jerry Nery, Paula Perdue,
John Perry, Scott Reed, Daria Serna, Cal Shankster, Dave Shelley, John
Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Stan Szabelak, Pauletta Tonilas,
Lisa Trujillo, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

None
****

Call to Order:

Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m. and indicated a
quorum was present. Chair Christopher and Vice-Chair Bagley were both
absent.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, March 2,
2010
Page 2 of 2

I.

Recommended Action


Approval of the 2010 contract for 16th Street Mall Transitway Granite Paver
Chair Kemp announced that further discussion needs to take place regarding the
low bid on this item; therefore, it is removed from the agenda. This item will be
placed on the April 6 Planning & Development Committee agenda.

II. Updates


E-clips
John Shonsey, Senior Manager Engineering/Chief Engineer updated the board on
the e-clips which holds the track to the street or pavement. RTD went out for
bid and five were received. The low bid came from United Rail Service at
approximately $600K; RTD will be awarding them the contract. There was
originally just under one million budgeted. Approximately twenty jobs will be
generated as a result of this award.



US 36 and Broomfield PnR
Stan Szabelak, Engineering Project Manager, updated the board on the status of
the following three items:
o

Construction activity continues.

o

Currently on a completion schedule to commission facility on May 2nd.

o

The name of the PnR is US36 & Broomfield PnR.

III. Other Matters
No other matters were discussed.
IV. Next Meeting Date – April 6, 2010.
V. Adjourn to FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Hearing no objections, Chair Kemp adjourned the Planning & Development Committee
meeting at 5:37 p.m.

