1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
January 15, 2015 at 12:00 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Sisk called the Executive Committee to order at 12:02 p.m.
Executive Committee Present:
Other Board Members Present:
Others Present:

II.

Chair Sisk, 1st Vice-chair Tobiassen, 2nd Vice-chair
Menten, Treasurer Hoy, Secretary Walker
Directors Bagley and James; Director Folska (remotely)
General Manager Washington, Paula Perdue

January Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Sisk reviewed the January Board Meeting Agenda. He noted the unanimous agenda
was pretty straightforward and reviewed some of the items on the recommended action.
Chair Sisk discussed some of the questions or concerns expressed on the radio-CAD/AVL
Owner’s Representative Contract Amendment. Director Tobiassen shared he is working on
putting a tour of the radio shop and IT together and would let the Board members know
when it is scheduled. Director Bagley inquired as to the purpose of the tour. Director
Tobiassen responded it is to give interested people a full scope of the work and the people
who work in the shop. This could aid in their decision making. He is a proponent of
keeping people informed.
Chair Sisk inquired about the SMART card real time applications and when they would be
ready. He spoke of the importance of the “next bus application.” General Manager
Washington indicated it is important to get the basic foundation in place first. The
CAD/AVL provides that foundation before the applications can be available. He anticipates
we are 12-15 months away from getting real time applications. He also emphasized that
what RTD is providing is the foundation and the format from which others can build the
applications. The applications may not necessarily come from RTD. Director Hoy asked if
it is possible for the transit industry as a group to have consistent applications. General
Manager Washington commented that it is and cited the work going on at LA. Director
Tobiassen commented that one of the things the industry is working toward are standards
that will allow for this type of consistency. Director James elaborated on the question and

asked if there are best practice standards that have uniformity. General Manager
Washington replied that APTA is working on some nationwide standards now.
Chair Sisk asked if there were questions related to item E, 5311 Cost Share. Director
Menten responded there were some questions on this that related to how was the amount
determined (i.e. is there a formula?) General Manager Washington noted they have
information on this they could share. Director Walker commented that in his knowledge of
this, there are formula grants. The DRCOG website can provide that information.
Pertaining to item F, DRCOG Vanpool, Director Hoy inquired if we know the cost of
passenger in our investment in DRCOG. What is the bang for the buck? Director
Tobiassen responded we currently get this data in our service plan. The vanpool service is
one of the most cost effective services. Chair Sisk asked about the vanpool option for the
replacement of the DD route that had been discontinued. Some conversation ensued
around this option. Director Menten inquired about how much we put into the guarantee
ride component of this service. She also reflected on the promotion and noted that in
some areas, the promotion was not good or relevant and she thinks we can make better
use of the signage. Director Walker pointed out this is a CDOT tool and for various
reasons, their preference is to use signage for unusual conditions such as weather or
traffic rather than to use it for more static data. Director Folska indicated how excited she
is about vanpool and asked if it is a possibility to use for access-a-cab/access-a-ride type
services with an app in conjunction.
Paula Perdue reminded the committee that we will receive a report out from Rubin Brown
on the GM 2014 Cost Contract at the January 20 Board meeting.
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion to approve the January
Board meeting Agenda for the January 20, 2015 Board
meeting.
Director Hoy seconded the motion.

Vote on
The motion: The motion passed with all committee members in agreement.
Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED.


Unanimous Consent
A.

Station Naming Plan for U.S. 36 Bus Rapid Transit

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors accept and approve the proposed U.S. 36 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) Station
Naming Plan, codifying final name and nomenclature changes for the U.S. 36 BRT
Line as follows:

a. Boarding locations shall be referred to as “stations” for U.S. 36 BRT.
b. The current U.S. 36•Westminster Center station shall be renamed to US
36•Sheridan station.
c. The current Table Mesa station shall be renamed to U.S. 36•Table Mesa
station.
d. All other station names shall remain the same as existing (U.S. 36•Church
Ranch; U.S. 36•Broomfield; U.S. 36•Flatiron; and U.S. 36•McCaslin)
B.

Sale of 1,384 Square Feet of RTD Property at Yale Station

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute
all documents necessary to sell approximately 1,384 square feet of real property
located generally at Yale Circle, City and County of Denver to Yale Station
Workforce Housing, LLC for $26,000.00 or $18.79 per square foot.
C.

City of Boulder Hop Cost Share Agreement

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of
Boulder to provide RTD financial support for the operation of the HOP circulator bus
service in the commercial areas of the City of Boulder, the University of Colorado at
Boulder and adjacent business and residential areas. This agreement is for calendar
year 2015 and is for an amount not to exceed $1,459,687.00.


Recommended Action
D.

Radio-CAD/AVL Owner’s Representative Contract Seventh-Year Amendment

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all
documents necessary to amend the contract with IBI Group (IBI) as the Owner’s
Representative to Support Replacement of RTD’s Radio and Computer Aided
Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle Location (CAD/AVL) Systems (Contract
18DH016). This contract amendment is for the seventh year, which is an
additional option year of the contract. The scope and fee are renegotiated annually.
The seventh-year fee is not-to-exceed a limit of $2,600,000 for a total contract
value to date of $14,622,000.

E.

5311 Cost Share Agreements

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to enter into funding agreements with Via Mobility Services
and the Seniors’ Resource Center to provide RTD financial support for the provision
of FTA Section 5311 (non-urbanized) services for Boulder County, Adams County
and Jefferson County. These Agreements are for calendar year 2015 and for
amounts not to exceed $353,990.00 for Boulder County, $348,398.00 for Adams
County and $107,948.00 for Jefferson County.
F.

Denver Regional Council of Governments Vanpool Cost Share Agreement

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to enter into an Agreement with the Denver Regional Council
of Governments (DRCOG) to provide RTD support and expansion of the DRCOG Way
to Go vanpool program in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for
calendar year 2015 and shall be in an amount not to exceed $760,000.00.
III.

Board Committee Assignments
Chair Sisk indicated that he has spoken to a number of Directors and hopes to make the
committee assignments by Monday of next week.

IV.

Other Matters


Director Bagley passed out two documents on issues that he wanted to discuss.
Copies of those documents are included in the minutes file located in the Board office.
1. Fare Study—Director Bagley proposed having a methodology to tape the Fare Study
public hearings for viewing on PBS Channel 8 or streaming on the world wide web.
The purpose would be to become more transparent, and provide increased public
access and public involvement.
2. RTD Committee and Board meetings—Director Bagley also proposed similar
technology for video streaming or live taping of Board meetings. Reasons quoted
included transparency, accountability, disclosure, reduction in improper activity,
enhanced record of all public meetings, reduction of requirement for typed and
transcribed meeting and a better understanding of the issues being debated by a
wider range of the public. Paula Perdue clarified that under Open meetings and
Open Records Act, there is still a requirement for minutes to be taken, recorded and
made available to the public.
The Committee discussed these proposals with general consensus that video
recording of the meetings is a good idea. Director Menten suggested investigating





V.

using college interns as a cost effective means of performing the video recording
and associated work with making these available on the world wide web or Channel
8. Chair Sisk requested the General Manager to have his staff explore this request
and provide options and costs relative to implementation. Director Tobiassen
recommended that an ad hoc technology committee be established which will
consist of two Board members and staff to further analyze these options. General
Manager Washington will report back to the Executive Committee on his findings.
General Manager Washington shared that he had attended the TRB Annual Conference
and he had spoken on a panel with USDOT Secretary Foxx on workforce development.
He shared there were approximately 12,000 participants at this event. Several staff
members of RTD are actively involved on this committee: AGM Rick Clarke and Marla
Lien. AGM Bruce Abel participated in a Peer Review last week which is the reason he
was also absent from the Committee meeting.
Chair Sisk indicated that he wholeheartedly supports General Manager Washington in
accepting these speaking engagements. He thinks this enhances RTD as well as the
development of the General Manager.
General Manager Washington shared that the APTA webinar for “Stand Up for
Transportation” will be held on January 23. This webinar is available for all members
of APTA. So far, they have 25 cities who have committee to this national call for
action. The purpose of the webinar will be to share objectives, logistics, and resource
tool kit. Director Hoy inquired if TMO’s could be involved in this webinar. General
Manager Washington responded yes.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 1:00 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

