Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
January 15, 2015 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
I.

Call to Order

II.

January Board Meeting Agenda Review

III.

Board Committee Assignments

IV.

Other Matters

V.

Adjourn

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - January 20, 2015
I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
William Cagle – Bus Operator – 23 years
Wayne Daiker – General Repair Mechanic, Bus Operations – 30 years
Michael T. Dunn – Body Mechanic – 30 years
Ronald Haake – Unit Shop Mechanic – 20 years
Kenneth L. Johnson – LRV Maintenance Supervisor – 30 years
Louis Lawrence – Supervisor, Equipment Maintenance – 38 years
John P. Martinez – Light Rail Operator – 24 years
Scott D. Myers – General Repair Mechanic, Bus Operations – 31 years
Nicholas J. Romero – Light Rail Operator – 23 years
Mary Ann Swank – Service/Vault Puller, Bus Operations – 42 years

Richard Wertz – Bus Operator – 30 years
Gene Wisch – Unit Shop Mechanic – 16 years
V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Folska
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Anderson/Director Solano
Northwest Parkway – Director Hoy
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
Rubin Brown Report on Cost of GM Contract - 2014

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of December 16, 2014

IX.

Approval of Special Board Meeting Minutes of January 6, 2015

X.

Chair's Report

XI.

General Manager's Report

XII.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Station Naming Plan for U.S. 36 Bus Rapid Transit

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors accept and approve the proposed U.S. 36 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) Station
Naming Plan, codifying final name and nomenclature changes for the U.S. 36 BRT
Line as follows:
a. Boarding locations shall be referred to as “stations” for U.S. 36 BRT.
b. The current U.S. 36•Westminster Center station shall be renamed to US
36•Sheridan station.
c. The current Table Mesa station shall be renamed to U.S. 36•Table Mesa
station.

d. All other station names shall remain the same as existing (U.S. 36•Church
Ranch; U.S. 36•Broomfield; U.S. 36•Flatiron; and U.S. 36•McCaslin)
B.

Sale of 1,384 Square Feet of RTD Property at Yale Station

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute
all documents necessary to sell approximately 1,384 square feet of real property
located generally at Yale Circle, City and County of Denver to Yale Station
Workforce Housing, LLC for $26,000.00 or $18.79 per square foot.
C.

City of Boulder Hop Cost Share Agreement

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of
Boulder to provide RTD financial support for the operation of the HOP circulator bus
service in the commercial areas of the City of Boulder, the University of Colorado at
Boulder and adjacent business and residential areas. This agreement is for calendar
year 2015 and is for an amount not to exceed $1,459,687.00.
XIII.

Recommended Action
D.

Radio-CAD/AVL Owner’s Representative Contract Seventh-Year Amendment

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all
documents necessary to amend the contract with IBI Group (IBI) as the Owner’s
Representative to Support Replacement of RTD’s Radio and Computer Aided
Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle Location (CAD/AVL) Systems (Contract
18DH016). This contract amendment is for the seventh year, which is an
additional option year of the contract. The scope and fee are renegotiated annually.
The seventh-year fee is not-to-exceed a limit of $2,600,000 for a total contract
value to date of $14,622,000.
E.

5311 Cost Share Agreements

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to enter into funding agreements with Via Mobility Services
and the Seniors’ Resource Center to provide RTD financial support for the provision
of FTA Section 5311 (non-urbanized) services for Boulder County, Adams County
and Jefferson County. These Agreements are for calendar year 2015 and for
amounts not to exceed $353,990.00 for Boulder County, $348,398.00 for Adams
County and $107,948.00 for Jefferson County.

F.

Denver Regional Council of Governments Vanpool Cost Share Agreement

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to enter into an Agreement with the Denver Regional Council
of Governments (DRCOG) to provide RTD support and expansion of the DRCOG Way
to Go vanpool program in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for
calendar year 2015 and shall be in an amount not to exceed $760,000.00.
XIV.

Executive Session

XV.

Old Business

XVI.

New Business

XVII. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

2.12.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: December 31, 2014

From:

Richard F. Clarke, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

December 31, 2014

Board Meeting Date: January 20, 2015

Subject:

Station Naming Plan for U.S. 36 Bus Rapid
Transit

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors accept and
approve the proposed U.S. 36 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) Station Naming Plan, codifying final name and
nomenclature changes for the U.S. 36 BRT Line as follows:
a.
b.
c.
d.

Boarding locations shall be referred to as “stations” for U.S. 36 BRT.
The current U.S. 36•Westminster Center station shall be renamed to US 36•Sheridan station.
The current Table Mesa station shall be renamed to U.S. 36•Table Mesa station.
All other station names shall remain the same as existing (U.S. 36•Church Ranch; U.S.
36•Broomfield; U.S. 36•Flatiron; and U.S. 36•McCaslin)

BACKGROUND
This action meets the 2015 RTD General Manager goals of Advancing/Completing FasTracks and
Improving Service Delivery. In advance of the opening of the U.S. 36 BRT, staff recommends the
following modifications to the existing naming and nomenclature of the corridor stops, consistent with
the RTD Board Station Naming Policy (attached). Establishing the names will allow the project team to
move forward with the sign fabrication and installation to coincide with the completion of the station
work in fall 2015. There are two components to this staff recommendation: first, to change the
nomenclature for the boarding areas and second, a change to the names for two stop locations in the
corridor. The U.S. 36 BRT Station Naming Plan was discussed with the U.S. 36 stakeholder group on
November 25, 2014, and there was general consensus and support from the stakeholders for the
recommendations.
Staff Recommendation: Rename BRT stops “stations”
Staff recommends referring to the BRT passenger boarding areas “stations” to remain consistent with
RTD practice on other rapid transit lines, which happen to currently be rail technology.
Station names are recognized destinations for RTD patrons. This enables travelers to easily identify
station locations and destinations, and to efficiently complete trips. RTD’s standard naming protocol
defines the name of a station, Park-n-Ride (PnR) or transfer center based on its geographic location.
Along U.S. 36, these names have historically been based either on the nearest major road such as
Church Ranch Boulevard, Flatiron Crossing Drive/96th Street, McCaslin Boulevard and Table Mesa Drive,
or on locations such as Broomfield and Westminster Center. These names have been used on plans, fact
sheets and the RTD web site.
In the past year, the stations along the U.S. 36 highway have had “U.S. 36” added to their names: U.S.
36•Westminster Center, U.S. 36•Church Ranch, U.S. 36•Broomfield, U.S. 36•Flatiron and U.S.
36•McCaslin.

Packet Pg. 5

2.12.A

Staff is recommending name changes for two of the U.S. 36 stations.
Staff Recommendation: Rename Table Mesa Station to U.S. 36•Table Mesa Station
Staff recommends renaming the Table Mesa Station to the U.S. 36•Table Mesa Station for both clarity
and consistency with the standard naming protocols. There are several PnR’s along Table Mesa. The one
associated with the U.S. 36 BRT should be denoted as such by following the same naming convention
as the other BRT stations in the corridor by having U.S. 36 as part of the name.
Staff Recommendation: Rename U.S. 36•Westminster to U.S. 36•Sheridan Station
Staff recommends renaming the U.S. 36•Westminster Center Station to the U.S. 36•Sheridan Station.
When stations and transit centers have the same or similar names it can be confusing. For instance, the
new station for the Northwest Rail Line is under construction and will be called the Westminster Station.
Having a Westminster Station and a Westminster Center Station will lead to additional confusion. By
renaming the Westminster Center Station as the “U.S. 36•Sheridan” Station, it will be named based on
its geographical location. It is easily recognizable and makes sense to the customer.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
RTD has already established a project budget in the FasTracks program to place new signage at the
stations for the implementation of the new BRT service. Any changes to the station naming will be
incorporated into this effort. It is expected that these all of the recommended changes can be done
within the established budget.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the Board of Directors accept and approve the proposed U.S. 36 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) Station
Naming Plan, codifying final name and nomenclature changes for the U.S. 36 BRT Line as follows:
a.
b.
c.
d.

Boarding locations shall be referred to as “stations” for U.S. 36 BRT.
The current U.S. 36•Westminster Center station shall be renamed to US 36•Sheridan station.
The current Table Mesa station shall be renamed to U.S. 36•Table Mesa station.
All other station names shall remain the same as existing (U.S. 36•Church Ranch; U.S.
36•Broomfield; U.S. 36•Flatiron; and U.S. 36•McCaslin)

2. Do not accept the Recommended Action. Instead, leave the names as is. This is not recommended as
the Table Mesa station name would not be consistent with the other BRT station names in the
corridor. Also, it would not address the issue of multiple stations in Westminster. Additionally, if the
passenger boarding areas are continued to be called “stops,” it would not be consistent with the RTD
practice of calling passenger boarding areas “stations” for RTD’s rapid transit lines.
ATTACHMENTS:


2011-05-17 Station Facility Naming Policy Board Report

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Nadine Lee, Project Manager, Engineering
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 6

2.12.A

Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: 2011-05-17 Station Facility Naming Policy Board Report (2200 : Station Naming Plan for U.S. 36 BRT)

2.12.A.a

Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: 2011-05-17 Station Facility Naming Policy Board Report (2200 : Station Naming Plan for U.S. 36 BRT)

2.12.A.a

Packet Pg. 9

2.12.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: December 31, 2014

From:

Richard F. Clarke, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

December 31, 2014

Board Meeting Date: January 20, 2015

Subject:

Sale of 1,384 Square Feet of RTD Property at
Yale Station

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of Directors authorize
the General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute all documents necessary to sell
approximately 1,384 square feet of real property located generally at Yale Circle, City and County of
Denver to Yale Station Workforce Housing, LLC for $26,000.00 or $18.79 per square foot.
BACKGROUND:
This action meets the 2015 General Manager goal of Fiscal Sustainability. The property was acquired in
December 2003 as part of the T-REX project and consisted of 46,255 square feet of vacant land at
5281 E. Yale Circle and a two level 12,600 square foot office building located on 16,614 square feet.
An eminent domain process resulting in a Certificate of Ascertainment and Report of Commissioners
issued after a three day Commission Hearing to determine value of the property acquired from Walter A.
Koebel in RTD v. Walter A. Koelbel, et al Case No. 01-CV-2025, District Court, City and County of
Denver resulted in RTD’s ownership of the property. The vacant land was determined to have a value of
$18.00 per square foot. The property was used for the development of the Yale Station and associated
park-n-Ride.
In 2011, Koelbel and Company, Mile High Development and the Urban Land Conservancy with support
from RTD developed a Transit-Oriented Master Plan for the Yale Station area including parcels of land
owned by each of the aforementioned parties.
DISCUSSION:
The Urban Land Conservancy and Yale Station Workforce Housing LLC, a joint venture of Koelbel and
Company and Mile High Development desire to acquire approximately 1,384 square feet of real property
from RTD to support their development of the Yale Station Family Apartments consisting of 66
affordable, income-restricted housing units in a four story multi-family building. Yale Station Family
Apartments will be constructed immediately west of the existing Yale Station park and ride on land
purchased from the Urban Land Conservancy through the Denver TOD Fund. Yale Station Family
Apartments will reserve 3 three-bedroom units, 18 two-bedroom units, and 45 one-bedroom units for
families earning 30%, 40%, 50% and 60% of the area median income (AMI).
RTD’s sale of this small piece of undeveloped property supports the development and demonstrates
RTD’s support and cooperation in the development of transit oriented development and affordable
housing. In addition to receipt of revenue from the sale of the property, RTD has the benefit of
increased ridership at this location.
The property was appraised by Barrett D. Johnson, MAI, SRA and Brad A. Weiman, MAI, FRICS of
Integra Realty Resources in Denver in November of 2014. The property appraised at $18.79 per square
foot.

Packet Pg. 10

2.12.B

FINANCIAL IMPACT:
RTD will receive purchase price at closing, however, the Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between
RTD and CDOT related to acquisition of property required for the T-REX Project provided that the cost of
acquiring property would be shared on a 50/50 basis and the disposition of any property would be
shared on the same basis.
ALTERNATIVES:
1. Accept the recommended action.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate
and execute all documents necessary to sell approximately 1,384 square feet of real property
located generally at Yale Circle, City and County of Denver to Yale Station Workforce Housing,
LLC for $26,000.00 or $18.79 per square foot.
2. Do not authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute all documents
necessary to sell 1,384 square feet of real property.
ATTACHMENTS:


YaleStation

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Susan Altes, Manager, Real Property
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 11

R
Attachment: YaleStation (2185 : Sale of RTD Property at Yale Station)

2.12.B.a

Packet Pg. 12

Subject property location

December 9, 2014

2.12.C

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: January 7, 2015

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

January 7, 2015

Board Meeting Date: January 20, 2015

Subject:

City of Boulder Hop Cost Share Agreement

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to enter into a Cost
Sharing Agreement with the City of Boulder to provide RTD financial support for the operation of the
HOP circulator bus service in the commercial areas of the City of Boulder, the University of Colorado at
Boulder and adjacent business and residential areas. This agreement is for calendar year 2015 and is for
an amount not to exceed $1,459,687.00.
BACKGROUND
The City of Boulder has funded and provided circulator bus service, known as the HOP, within the City
of Boulder since October of 1994. This service provides mobility and access to the commercial areas of
the city, the University of Colorado at Boulder, and adjacent business and residential developments.
RTD also provides extensive bus service to/from and within the City of Boulder. RTD and the City of
Boulder have worked together to assure that these services are complementary and work together to
provide attractive and effective transit service for people living, studying and working in the area.
The HOP currently operates from 7:00 AM to 10:00 PM on weekdays, from 9:00 AM to 10:00 PM on
Saturdays, and from 10:00 AM to 6:00 PM on Sundays and holidays. In addition, Night HOP service is
provided and funded entirely by the University of Colorado. Currently, the HOP provides approximately
2,800 passenger trips per weekday.
DISCUSSION
RTD shall contribute funding to the City of Boulder to support the operation of the HOP in an amount not
to exceed $1,459,687.00 in 2015.
This Agreement will be for a period of one year. HOP performance will be assessed at the end of the
year to determine if performance expectations have been met and to determine if continuation of the
cost sharing agreement is warranted. Performance will be evaluated in terms of RTD’s service standards.
If it appears that service performance does not warrant continuation, RTD and the City of Boulder will
confer on modifications to the service in order to bring it into conformance. The provision of HOP service
through 3rd Quarter in 2014 resulted in 28.7 passengers per hour and an RTD subsidy per HOP
passenger trip of $1.66. For comparison, the boardings for RTD local fixed route service in 2012 ranged
from an average of 34.6 boardings per hour for CBD local routes to an average of 17.7 boardings per
hour for suburban local service.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funds for RTD support of the HOP service were included in the approved 2015 RTD budget. Nothing
herein obligates the RTD to renew or extend this Agreement.
ALTERNATIVES
1.
Approve the cost sharing agreement with the City of Boulder for the HOP circulator bus service so

Packet Pg. 13

2.12.C

2.

that the City of Boulder can continue to provide this service to the residents, students and
businesses in the City of Boulder.
Do not approve the cost sharing agreement. This course of action is not recommended as it may
result in a reduction to or elimination of the heavily-used HOP circulator service.

Prepared by:
Brian Matthews, Manager, Special Services
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 14

2.13.D

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: January 8, 2015

From:

Doug MacLeod, Controller

GM

Date:

January 7, 2015

Board Meeting Date: January 20, 2015

Subject:

Radio-CAD/AVL
Owner’s
Representative
Contract Seventh-Year Amendment

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to amend the
contract with IBI Group (IBI) as the Owner’s Representative to Support Replacement of RTD’s Radio and
Computer Aided Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle Location (CAD/AVL) Systems (Contract 18DH016).
This contract amendment is for the seventh year, which is an additional option year of the contract. The
scope and fee are renegotiated annually. The seventh-year fee is not-to-exceed a limit of $2,600,000
for a total contract value to date of $14,622,000.
BACKGROUND
RTD has replaced our radio and CAD/AVL system, which was originally implemented in 1993 and was
past the last years of the industry’s common 15-year service life. The project is expected to complete
System Acceptance Testing in the second quarter of 2015. There are many remaining efforts required
as a foundation for the extended operations and maintenance of the systems, processes and
infrastructure. Changes to the system are needed to improve functionality and adapt the system to
address Smart Media Technology (SMT) changes required by the new fare policy. The INIT system
provides the driver interface and onboard computer for the SMT system. Having a single interface saves
RTD money by eliminating cost and maintenance of duplicative hardware. Additionally, the extension of
this CAD/AVL system to provide Real-time Passenger Information (RTPI) to RTD’s Traveler Information
Systems (TIS) is an extremely complex and challenging task requiring experience and expertise that IBI
Group provides.
RTD requires extension of the services of an Owner’s Representative (OR) for the Radio-CAD/AVL
Replacement Project to provide highly technical, managerial, business services to support the agency
through the final stage of the project, planning for moving into operations, implementation of required
changes and design and implementation of RTPI. The OR will provide unique technical skills unavailable
internally to RTD.
RTD issued Contract No. 18DH016 to obtain an Owner’s Representative for the Radio-CAD/AVL
Replacement Project. IBI was selected in 2009 by competitive procurement to be RTD’s Owner’s
Representative for the Radio and CAD/AVL Replacement Project. The contract requires eight (8) percent
Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) participation. IBI is currently exceeding their goal.
This is a complex and dynamic project. IBI has successfully completed the work anticipated for the
earlier years and it is in RTD’s interest to authorize a contract amendment for the seventh year of the
contract to continue needed support.
DISCUSSION

Packet Pg. 15

2.13.D

This is the start of an optional seventh year of a Board-approved contract. Due to the complexity and
changing conditions of the project, each year’s scope of work and fee are reviewed and negotiated
annually.
Although implementation for the CAD/AVL project is winding down, significant work remains to
complete system acceptance testing, review and finalize as-built documentation, complete planning to
move into operations and maintenance of the system, implement and test system changes such as the
SMT interface adjustments for the new fare policy. Additionally, providing real-time information to
passengers is a complex and challenging next phase for the CAD/AVL project.
The anticipated seventh-year activities are:
 Final system acceptance testing, which will extend into the second quarter of 2015
 Detailed review of project record documents
 Implementation of pending INIT contract amendments, addressing elements such as the interface
changes with SMT required for changes to fare policy
 Radio system capacity expansion for improved FasTracks and mountain coverage
 Integration and testing of subsequent phases of Smart Media Technology
 Developing scope of work for hardware replacement on Access-a-Ride buses
 Analyzing RTPI prediction accuracy and providing recommendations
 Disaster Recovery (DR) and Continuation of Operations Plan (CoOP) update and implementation
 Requirements development for RTPI foundation for light rail
 Requirements development for RTPI delivery to General Transit Feed Specification (GTFS)-RealTime (RT), Passenger Information Displays (PIDs), RTD website and interactive voice response
(IVR) systems
 General Intelligent Transportation System / CAD / Communications consultancy demands in
support of RTD operations and FasTrack activities.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The cost to the District for amending the Owner’s Representative contract with IBI Group for the
seventh year is a not-to-exceed cost of $2,600,000. Funding has been included in the 2009-2015
Finance and Administration Department’s Information Technology Division capital and operating budget.
The contract values for the first six years is cumulatively $12,022,000 and with this 7th year addition
total award is $14,622,000.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Approve the request for the Radio-CAD/AVL Replacement Project Owner’s Representative
contract amendment which will reduce risk and allow current RTD employees to continue
focusing on operating and improving the system. This is the staff recommended action.
2. Attempt to accomplish the project with in-house staff. RTD staff does not have the necessary
skills or available resources to undertake this project.
If the IBI agreement is not approved and these resources are not available, the project would proceed
with a combination of Work Order contractors and RTD staff. It is likely that Alternative 2 will incur
additional cost for another vendor’s learning curve.

Prepared by:
Eric Farrington, Program Manager, IT

Packet Pg. 16

2.13.D

Approved by:

Packet Pg. 17

2.13.E

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: January 7, 2015

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

January 7, 2015

Board Meeting Date: January 20, 2015

Subject:

5311 Cost Share Agreements

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to enter into
funding agreements with Via Mobility Services and the Seniors’ Resource Center to provide RTD
financial support for the provision of FTA Section 5311 (non-urbanized) services for Boulder County,
Adams County and Jefferson County. These Agreements are for calendar year 2015 and for amounts
not to exceed $353,990.00 for Boulder County, $348,398.00 for Adams County and $107,948.00 for
Jefferson County.
BACKGROUND
The Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEALU), along with previous transit legislation, provides for the funding of transit services in non-urbanized,
or rural, areas. The section of the Act that addresses the provision of services in non-urbanized areas is
Section 5311 and thus these services are often referred to as “5311 service.” In 2013, SAFETEA-LU
provisions moved under the new Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (MAP-21). Since
1991, RTD has provided funding to various private, non-profit agencies to assist with the provision of
transit services in non-urbanized areas of the District and to provide local match money for federal
grant funds to support the provision of 5311 services in the District. RTD has provided financial
assistance for the provision of non-urbanized service in Jefferson County since 1991 and has provided
financial assistance for the provision of non-urbanized service in Adams and Boulder Counties since
1993.
DISCUSSION
RTD shall contribute funding to Via Mobility Services to support the provision of non-urbanized services
in Boulder County in an amount not to exceed $353,990.00 in 2015. RTD shall also contribute
funding to Via Mobility Services to support the provision of non-urbanized services in Adams County in
amount not to exceed $348,398.00 in 2015.
RTD shall contribute funding to Seniors’ Resource Center to support the provision of non-urbanized
services in Jefferson County in an amount not to exceed $107,948.00. in 2015.
This Agreement will be for a period of one year. 5311 performance will be assessed at the end of the
year to determine if performance expectations have been met and to determine if continuation of the
funding agreements is warranted. Performance will be evaluated in terms of RTD’s service standards.
If it appears that service performance will not warrant continuation, RTD and the affected party(s) will
confer on modifications needed to bring it into conformance. The provision of 5311 service in 2014
(current numbers available) resulted in monthly performance that ranged from 1.7 to 2.5 passengers
per hour and an RTD subsidy per passenger boarding ranging from approximately $2.01 to
approximately $4.63 (subsidy reflects only the RTD contribution). As a comparison, RTD Call-n-Ride
monthly performance averaged 4.4 passengers per hour in 2012 while RTD Access-a-Ride service
performs at approximately 1.2 passengers per hour. Call-n-Ride performed at an average subsidy per
passenger boarding of $15.88 in 2012 while Access-a-Ride performed at an average subsidy per
passenger trip of approximately $49.80 in 2012.

Packet Pg. 18

2.13.E

FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funds for RTD support of the 5311 services were included in the approved 2015 RTD budget. This
Agreement will be for a period of one year. Nothing herein obligates the RTD to renew or extend this
Agreement.

ALTERNATIVES
1.
Approve the 5311 cost sharing agreements with Via Mobility Services and Seniors’ Resource
Center so that these organizations can continue to provide transit services to individuals in the
non-urbanized, rural areas of Boulder, Adams, and Jefferson counties.
2.
Do not approve the cost sharing agreement. This course of action is not recommended as it may
result in a reduction to or elimination of transit services in the non-urbanized, rural areas of
Boulder, Adams, and Jefferson counties.

Prepared by:
Brian Matthews, Manager, Special Services
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 19

2.13.F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: January 7, 2015

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

January 7, 2015

Board Meeting Date: January 20, 2015

Subject:

Denver Regional Council of
Vanpool Cost Share Agreement

Governments

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to enter into an
Agreement with the Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG) to provide RTD support and
expansion of the DRCOG Way to Go vanpool program in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is
for calendar year 2015 and shall be in an amount not to exceed $760,000.00.
BACKGROUND
Vanpooling is a transportation option in which commuters/employees whose residences are
geographically clustered ride together to and from their work sites in a van that is driven and maintained
by one of the vanpool participants. Typically, the vans carry from six (6) to twelve (12) riders and are
provided by the vanpool program. Vanpools are organized to be sustainable and to render regular, ongoing service to vanpool members on a break-even, cost sharing, fare basis. Vanpools eliminate the costs
associated with dedicated drivers and expensive equipment.
As a transportation mode, vanpools provide personalized transportation at low cost and offer greater
opportunities for increased capacity as compared to carpooling. Vanpools also offer a cost-effective
alternative to conventional transit service in areas of low population density and longer commute
distances.
DISCUSSION
RTD has supported the DRCOG Way to Go vanpool program since 2001. The vanpool program had
previously experienced limited participation due to perceived high fares, insufficient funding for van
acquisition, difficulties in recruiting drivers, and the lack of funding to support necessary marketing
activities. In order to help overcome these barriers, the RTD and the DRCOG entered into a partnership in
April of 2001 to expand vanpool service in the Denver metropolitan area. In doing so, RTD and DRCOG
believed that the organizations could make meaningful advances toward meeting shared goals of offering
desirable mobility options, reducing traffic congestion, and improving air quality in the Denver
metropolitan area. Benefits for RTD include substantial cost savings from avoidance and/or replacement
of marginal bus routes with vanpools. Benefits to both RTD and DRCOG include complementary
marketing programs and increased commuter transportation alternatives.
RTD financial support is used to help underwrite the vanpool pricing structure in order to make vanpool
fares more competitive in the transportation marketplace. By subsidizing vanpool fares, vanpools are able
to compete with other transit alternatives and are perceived as a more attractive alternative for area
commuters. In addition, RTD support is used to provide incentives to attract and retain vanpool drivers
and to provide capital funding to acquire necessary rolling stock to provide vanpool services. Since the
advent of RTD support for the vanpool program in late 2001, the number of vans in service has grown
from 11 to 105 active vans.
In 2009 the vanpool program became difficult to manage due to a shortage of DRCOG personnel.
DRCOG looked outside their agency at private companies currently operating vanpool services in other
metropolitan areas. After a competitive bid process, DRCOG choose VPSI to operate the vanpool

Packet Pg. 20

2.13.F

program. VPSI took over all operating aspects of the vanpool program. Currently the vanpools carry an
average of 5.9 riders per van and the fleet is at 80% capacity.
DRCOG vanpool performance through October in 2014 resulted in an RTD subsidy per passenger trip of
approximately $2.36. For comparison, the subsidy per passenger for RTD fixed route service in 2012
ranged from an average of $2.88 subsidy per passenger for CBD local routes to an average of $6.61
subsidy per passenger for suburban local service and an average of $5.22 subsidy per passenger for
regional service.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funds for RTD support of the DRCOG Van pool program are budgeted in the approved 2015 budget.
Nothing herein obligates the RTD to renew or extend this Agreement.
ALTERNATIVES
1.
Approve the financial support of the DRCOG Way to Go vanpool service in order to continue to
provide and expand this transportation option for residents of the Denver metropolitan area who
work/commute in the Denver metropolitan area.
2.
Do not approve the cost sharing agreement. This course of action is not recommended as it may
result in a reduction to or elimination of the DRCOG Way to Go vanpool program which would
result in an increase in single occupant commuting.

Prepared by:
Brian Matthews, Manager, Special Services
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 21

