1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, February 11, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Judy Lubow

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Lubow called the meeting to order at 5:53 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Absent

Arrived

Kent Bagley
Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present
Remote

5:51 PM
5:52 PM

Claudia Folska

Director, District E

Present

5:51 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James

Director, District J
Director, District A

Present
Present

5:52 PM
5:53 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Present

5:52 PM

Judy Lubow

Committee Chair

Present

5:52 PM

Natalie Menten
Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District M
Director, District C

Present
Present

5:51 PM
5:52 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present

5:52 PM
5:53 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:53 PM
5:51 PM

Director Deadwyler participated via phone. Director Anderson was absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jeff Becker, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke,
Carolyn Conover, John Elias, Heather Ellerbrock, David Genova, Mike
Gil, Kenn Hardin, Terry Howerter, Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop, Austin
Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod, Tony McCaulay,
Robin McIntosh Jr., Barbara McManus, Brenden Morgan, Kevin
Parker, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Richard Rost, Zamy Silva, Walt
Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van Meter, Michael
Washington, Phil Washington

Others Present:

Marshall Crawford, Jennifer Eckert, Adrina Gibson, Rita Kahn, Dan
Pearsall, Pedro Ramos, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn

B. Recommended Actions

• Contract Award for the District Shops HRU Project.
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
award a contract to the low, responsive, responsible bidder, JCOR, in the
not-to-exceed amount of $2,669,400 for the District Shops Heat Recovery
Unit (HRU) project. In addition, a transfer shall be made from the State of
Good Repair federal grant to the project budget in the amount of $322,103.
Motion:

Director Rivera-Malpiede made the motion to
move this item to the full Board at the February
18, 2014 Board meeting.
Director Bagley Seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Dave Genova, Assistant General Manager of Safety, Security
and Facilities, explained that project is a contract award to
replace the Heat Recovery Units (HRUs) at District Shops that
are part of the heating, AC, and ventilation system. He said
that these units are beyond their useful life. He stated that
this project is mostly grant funded with a small local match.
Director Bagley commented that he is very excited that there
is only a 20% local match with grants taking care of the rest.
He thinks it is very good work on the part of staff to get the
grants necessary for this project and they should be
recognized for their work on something that is really
important.

Director Deadwyler noted that several years ago there were
funds in the budget for this project. She wonders why staff
kept putting this project off and what happened to the funds
that were originally allocated for the project. Dave Genova
said this project has been on the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP)
list for a number of years. He explained that this project was
originally funded through RTD budget money but a grant
became available that staff is in the process of
reprogramming. Dave Genova said this grant was originally to
be used to put in a CNG detection system; however, this
project has been put on hold because at this time it is not
needed since RTD is not purchasing any CNG buses. Dave
Genova stated that the money originally budgeted for the HRU
project is being held in the SBP should the need for the CNG
project arise.
Director Menten noted some of the funds are coming from
federal grant CO-04-0043. She asked what program the grant
falls under. General Manager Washington said this is part of
the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA). Terry
Howerter noted that the funding expires September 30, 2014.
Director Daly asked if staff had determined the cause of the
structural issues at the Platte garage. He also wondered if the
buses had been moved back in. Richard Rost, Manager of
Facilities Engineering, explained that the structure is designed
to move through expansion and contraction. He said currently
it is performing like it should but there are some tolerances
that are getting close so it needs to be addressed. Richard
Rost noted that buses are being moved as work needs to be
done. Dave Genova said that his department was working
with Bus Operations to minimize the impact but keeping safety
at the forefront.
Director Deadwyler wondered if the grant funding being used
for the HRU project might be better spent repairing the Platte
facility. She also asked how much the repairs would cost.
Dave Genova stated that staff has identified funding within
the facilities engineering budget so staff is confident moving
forward with the HRU project. He said that a final cost will
not be known until all the duct work has been moved out of
the way but staff is estimating $300-400K for the repairs.
Director Solano asked the following questions:

1) What the useful life of the units? Richard Rost stated 25
years.
2) What the efficiency of the units? He noted that in houses
you can buy systems with 80 or 90% efficiency. Richard
Rost said that the HRUs are an efficiency based unit but he
will have to check on the percentage.
3) Are the HRUs covered by building insurance? Richard Rost
explained that they were not covered for replacement;
these are the original units from 1989.
4) Were the units damaged? Richard Rost said they were not
damaged but are old. He noted that it is also very difficult
to get repair/replacement parts.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 2]
MOVER:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
SECONDER: Kent Bagley, Director, District H
AYES: Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Barbara Deadwyler, Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Lorraine Anderson
Committee Chair Lubow declared the motion PASSED.

• Transfer of Funds from Light Rail Capital to Light Rail Expense
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
approve the transfer of $703,000 in approved 2014 capital to an expense
line to facilitate the development of revised Light Rail Vehicle specifications.
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the February 18,
2014 Board meeting.
Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Austin Jenkins, Assistant General Manager of Rail Operations,
explained that this action is a housekeeping item to move
approved funds from the light rail capital budget to expense
budget so RTD can develop and update our specifications for
our next purchase of light rail vehicles. He said that we will
need more light rail vehicles as I-225 opens and demand
increases. This is part of the process of cleaning up our
specifications.
Director Lasater asked if we would end up with different
vehicles or if the goal is to keep everything the same. He

expressed concern over having different parts, needing
additional mechanic training, etc. Austin Jenkins noted that
while all our vehicles look alike there are actually 7 versions.
He said that the intent is to continue to purchase Siemens
vehicles. The vast majority of parts and equipment are
compatible between versions and that will continue with this
version. Austin Jenkins explained that there have been a lot
of modifications made to our light rail cars that we want to
incorporate into our specifications going forward.
Director Lasater believes that $700K seems steep just to
tweak specifications. Austin Jenkins commented that $700K
was the not-to-exceed number but staff did not think it would
go that high. He explained that it does involve more than just
tweaking and he would work with Director Lasater offline to
review the entire process.
Director Hoy asked if these would be replacement vehicles for
our current fleet or to support new rail lines. Austin Jenkins
stated that these would be needed for service on I-225 and
future extensions.
Director Tobiassen shared that he just heard from a
constituent that travels with little people. The constituent
expressed that the straps for people standing were too high
for them to use. He asked if that could be looked at as part of
this process. Austin Jenkins said that staff had also received
an email regarding this and would be discussing it further.
Director Solano wondered if the mechanics would need to be
retrained since the vehicles were not identical. Austin Jenkins
said that there will be some training needed but the vehicles
will be very close to our current vehicles.
Director Deadwyler wondered if any housekeeping would be
done on the old vehicles to incorporate any improvements that
are done as part of this process. Austin Jenkins said that staff
is always looking at how to improve vehicles. He noted that
his team is engaged in an overhaul project of the oldest fleet
right now. General Manager Washington stated yes. He
explained that within the limits of the existing budget staff will
work to bring the older fleet up to the specification of the
newer fleet.
Director Menten asked what the acronyms LTK and FRSC in
the Board Report stand for. Austin Jenkins explained that LTK

stands for Louis T. Klauder which is the parent company of
FRSC which stands for Front Range Systems Consulting.
Director Folska agreed with Director Tobiassen that the
consideration of the strap placement in the vehicles would be
good to consider so people can have a safe ride.
Director Bagley noted that RTD has had some of these light
rail vehicles for close to 20 years. He believes this is part of
the natural progression once RTD moves into maintenance and
operations. RTD is not an agency that only does capital
projects so the change in thinking has to be to maintenance
for the long run. He said that in 10 years RTD will not be a
capital system but a maintenance system and that is
something the Board needs to start thinking about. Director
Bagley stated that specifications of any vehicle are absolutely
critical when looking at maintenance so he is very supportive
of this action.
Director Solano asked what the lifecycle is for a vehicle. He
wondered if vehicles could be retrofitted to go beyond their
useful life. Austin Jenkins said that the useful life of a vehicle
was 30 years. He stated that staff is engaged in an overhaul
project right now; the goal is to make our vehicles work for us
as long as they can.
General Manager Washington reiterated Director Bagley’s
comments about capital programs versus maintenance and
operations. He said this is something staff thinks about every
day which is why the State of Good Repair (SOG) division is
so important. He highlighted the Platte facility as an excellent
example of SOG. General Manager Washington noted that the
reason New York neglected their SOG for a number of years
and are now trying to catch up.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [13 TO 1]
MOVER:
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
SECONDER: Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
AYES: Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Menten,
Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Gary Lasater
ABSENT:
Lorraine Anderson
Committee Chair Lubow declared the motion PASSED.

• Access-a-Ride Budget Transfer
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize a budget transfer in the amount of
$5,271,915 to re-allocate previously approved Access-a-Ride 2014 funding
from budget accounts associated with the expired Access-a-Ride service
provider contracts to budget accounts associated with the new Access-aRide service provider contracts.
Motion:

Chair Sisk made the motion to move this item to
the full Board at the February 18, 2014 Board
meeting.
Director Folska seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations,
explained that during the preparation of the 2014 Budget,
RTD’s service provider model still contracted with four
companies for the Access-a-Ride service. He said that the
procurement process that was occurring at the same time
resulted in RTD selecting three service providers instead of
four. This action is a housekeeping item to reprogram the
monies approved at part of the 2014 Budget from four cost
codes to three.
Director Folska wondered if there were any plans to support or
encourage other businesses to take up the fourth space in the
future. She also wondered why Freedom Cab was not one of
the taxi companies that we contracted with. Bruce Abel
stated that the agency and staff are always open and
amendable to working with anyone who wants to work with
us. He said in the case of this Request for Proposal (RFP)
there were 12 different proposers. He explained that the
evaluation was structured so that the panel could select what
was most cost effective for RTD. In the case of this review,
that resulted in three rather than four service providers. Larry
Buter explained that during the roll-out of Access-a-Cab,
Freedom Cab was a provider but asked to be excused from the
program a few years later.
Director Folska asked if staff thought the same level of service
could be provided with three rather than four providers. Bruce
Abel stated that the level of service would be identical. He
noted that the service will also be supplemented with
dedicated cabs as well.

Director Bagley asked if it was correct to assume that the
funds originally allocated to the fourth provider were now just
being reallocated to the other three. Bruce Abel stated that
was correct; the total expenditure does not change.
Director Deadwyler expressed that her biggest concern is
service. She wonders if three service providers will be able to
provide service in all areas. She thinks that Access-a-Ride is
underperforming for the amount of money RTD spends. She is
concerned that if the demand for service cannot be handled
now then three firms will not be able to manage going
forward, especially with the high employee turnover rate.
Director Deadwyler wonders if the information the Board is
receiving is accurate as to how Access-a-Ride is performing.
She believes there are a lot of issues that no one is paying
attention to. Bruce Abel stated that staff did their due
diligence as part of the RFP process when the decision was
approved to select three providers. He noted that this was
also discussed with the Board at that time. General Manager
Washington said that staff will continue to update the Board
on a quarterly basis and will be sure to address Director
Deadwyler’s concerns.
Director Tobiassen shared that in his experience, the quality of
the Access-a-Ride program has improved greatly. He said he
gets very few complaints and when he does, staff moves on
them very quickly to resolve the issue with the constituents.
He thanked staff for their efforts. Director Tobiassen
commented that he will be very interested in monitoring the
quality as we switch to non-dedicated vehicles since that is a
new service. He hopes that it will provide a better level of
service. Bruce Abel stated that staff shares his interest.
Director Folska asked if the Telephone Information Center
(TIC) now has an appropriate coding mechanism for taking
Access-a-Ride complaints. Larry Buter shared that he has
been working with the TIC staff to appropriately enter the
complaints; this will allow his team to better monitor service
and respond to the customers.
Director Folska wonders how staff thinks route match is
working. She has had many constituents tell her that route
match takes them very far out of their way during trips. She
expressed concern that this program might not be as efficient
as possible. Bruce Abel said that the program seems to be

working; however, if routing issues are brought to staff’s
attention they will be thoroughly investigated.
Director Deadwyler shared that she has noticed the route
match issues as well. She said that several times coming from
her house to RTD the drivers will take her out of the way. She
indicated that even if she suggests a route, the drivers refuse
to take it. Director Deadwyler stated that often this adds an
additional 15 to 20 minutes to her trip. She had heard similar
comments from her constituents.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [13 TO 1]
MOVER:
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Barbara Deadwyler
ABSENT:
Lorraine Anderson
Committee Chair Lubow declared the motion PASSED.

• Access-a-Cab Program
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager, or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to extend Agreements with Metro Taxi,
Yellow Cab, and Union Taxi Inc., to provide Access-a-Cab services. In
addition, as long as the program remains successful and beneficial to RTD,
the General Manager, or his designee, is hereby authorized to negotiate and
enter into agreements with each participating cab company in subsequent
years, hereafter.
Primary
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the February 18, 2014
Board meeting.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel noted that RTD has been engaged in Access-a-Cab
service with various cab companies since the late 1990s,
entering into contracts on an annual basis. He stated that this
action is to secure the Board’s approval to have these
agreements in place for as long as it is beneficial to RTD. He
said staff would continue to keep the Board appraised through
the annual budget process.

Director Folska stated that she loves Access-a-Cab. She
thinks this is a great model and really helps RTD and the
constituents. She believes it is even more efficient than
Access-a-Ride; however, Director Folska shared that she is not
comfortable with the language in this action. She noted that it
is inconsistent with the procedures the agency uses when
entering into contracts. She said she has never heard of an
action that allows for continuous renewals without the Board’s
approval. Bruce Abel pointed out that this is not a contract to
provide service. This contract allows RTD to pay the cab
companies a user side subsidy.
Director Hoy asked if these companies all receive the same
subsidy. He wonders why RTD does not ask the cab
companies to bid on the service. Bruce Abel stated that all
companies are paid the same subsidy. He explained that there
are many factors that go into determining the subsidy that
RTD pays. Bruce Abel said that the reason this does not go
out to a competitive bid has to do with dedicated versus nondedicated service. In the Access-a-Cab program there is not a
pool of operators dedicated to the service. He noted that a
dedicated cab component was added as part of the Access-aRide component which will cost RTD $39 per trip versus the
$12 subsidy for Access-a-Cab. Bruce Abel said regulatory
requirements of contracts for service versus paying a subsidy
changes the cost.
Committee Chair Folska asked why staff was recommending
that this action’s renewal terms be different than our standard
contracts. Bruce Abel said that staff could continue to do this
on a year-by-year basis. He explained that staff was
attempting to streamline the process because for this service
RTD does not go out to bid. RTD determines the subsidy and
any company that would like to participate can. He stated
that this is just a formal documentation process so RTD can
legally pay the participating companies. General Manager
Washington said that staff was trying to be efficient and
innovative but if the Board wishes they can continue to come
for approval every year.
Director Deadwyler shared that she has reservations about
Access-a-Cab. She noted that cab drivers work as
independent contractors who while the company says they
want to work with RTD, the drivers decide if they want to
pick-up the passenger. She said that there is a history of a
two hour wait to pic-up a passenger. Director Deadwyler

stated that while this might work for someone wanting to go
shopping, it does not work for someone who needs to be
somewhere based on a schedule. Director Deadwyler said
that the program needs to work properly before she can
support this action.
Motion to
Amend:

Director Folska made the motion to amend the recommended
action to read as stated by Legal Counsel Marla Lien:

“It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager, or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to extend Agreements with Metro Taxi,
Yellow Cab, and Union Taxi Inc., to provide Access-a-Cab services. In
addition, as long as the program remains successful and beneficial to RTD,
the General Manager, or his designee, is hereby authorized to negotiate and
enter into agreements with each participating cab company for three (3)
years with two 1-year options.”
Director Solano seconded the motion.
Discussion:

Director Folska stated that this action affects the most
vulnerable people in our population. She thinks it is something
that is worthy of the Board’s attention.

VOTE ON MOTION TO AMEND
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [8 TO 6]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Paul Solano, Director, District K
AYES: Deadwyler, Folska, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk,
Solano
NAYS: Bagley, Daly, Hoy, James, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Lorraine Anderson
Committee Chair Lubow declared the motion to amend PASSED.
VOTE ON MOTION AS AMENDED
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [8 TO 6]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Folska, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano,
Tobiassen
NAYS: Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Walker
ABSENT:
Lorraine Anderson
Director Lubow declared the motion as amended PASSED.

Director Bagley requested that a red-lined copy of the changes be included
with the final version of the recommended action.

• May 2014 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the May 2014 Service Change package as
revised and summarized in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost
increase of approximately $1,440,000 and, further, to authorize the General
Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for
private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
Motion:

Director James made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the February 18, 2014
Board meeting.
Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel reminded the Board that the primary focus of this
action is to implement the changes necessary to move routes
from Market Street Station to Denver Union Station (DUS) and
focus resources on improving on-time performance.
Jessie Carter shared that staff received a good amount of
input during the public hearing process. He noted that a
number of changes have been made to the initial plan. The
key changes are as follows:
 New alignment for Route 8 to allow for an ADA
accessible stop
 Route 16 extension has been canceled as further
analysis proved is was not practical
 Due to a request from TSA employees, the early
morning Route AB trips were adjusted
 At the request of a large employer in Aurora, one Route
130 trip will be converted to Route 130H
Jessie Carter highlighted the changes to Route 15L and 20.
He explained that staff had heard from the residents of the
Wynkoop and Icehouse Lofts asking RTD to try to reduce the
number of trips by their homes. He shared that staff did this
and through a new plan was able to balance out the trips in
the area better. Jessie Carter said that staff met with the
community and had received positive feedback on the
changes.

Bruce Abel reminded the Board that the plan originally included
changes to the light rail schedules to increase the
maintenance-of-way windows. He said that staff is still
conducting some technical analysis so they are holding off on
the original recommendation.
Director Bagley noted that the anticipated cost for the Free
MetroRide is $826K and for the MallRide it is $148K. He said
that these two changes make up the greatest percentage of
the cost increase. He wonders if this funding is coming from
the FasTracks or Base Systems budget. Jessie Carter stated
that the MetroRide will come from FasTracks and the MallRide
from Base Systems.
Director Menten asked for further information about why the
Route 16 extension was cancelled. Jessie Carter explained
that the cancellation has to do with the proposed alignment.
There was a turn that looked doable on the map but when the
route was tested with an actual bus, it just was not feasible.
Director Menten asked what was meant by the public
comment related to Route 86X with regards to very confusing
waiting lines. Jessie Carter believes this has to do with
consistency in payment for express routes. The constituent
wants to make sure that everyone pays as they leave the bus
versus sometimes paying as you board.
Director Menten wondered about the specifics of the W-Line
changes. Jessie Carter explained that three peak round-trips
between Federal Center Station and Unions station to add to
round-trips after 9 p.m. between Jefferson County
Government Center-Golden Station and Union Station.
Director Daly commented that there were not any changes to
the MetroRide Route. Jessie Carter shared that there was a
request from the Art District to extend the route. Staff will be
looking at this for a long term service change.
Director Tobiassen thanked staff for the changes to Route
15L. He thinks this will open a lot of opportunities for people
from the east to access Auraria campus as well as Federal and
Colfax for transfers. He believes this is a great change.
Director Deadwyler asked for further information on Route 20.
She expressed concern that the changes might force people to
transfer buses to get to the VA Hospital. Jessie Carter

explained that Route 20 will now end at Denver Union Station
to compensate for the Route 15L changes. He said that this
will provide connection with routes from the north and west
with the hospitals in the eastern portion of downtown. Jessie
Carter stated that this would have no impact on the riders
coming from the east. He also believes the added
connectivity at DUS will really benefit riders.
Chair Sisk recognized that the Route AB change helps the TSA
and airport employees but he is concerned about the early
morning travelers. He asked staff to continue to look at the
timing of this early morning trip. Jessie Carter said his team
will continue to evaluate this schedule.
Committee Chair Lubow expressed her gratitude that staff was
able to have such productive meetings with the Wynkoop and
Icehouse Loft residents; however, she noted many of them
were surprised that changes were happening that they were
not aware of. She believes it might be helpful to put
responses to public input on the website so people understand
what happens to their comments. Jessie Carter noted that
there is a service change brochure that includes this
information. He expressed that while we are able to make this
information available, we cannot make people read it.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Bill James, Director, District A
SECONDER: Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
AYES: Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Menten, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Lorraine Anderson
Committee Chair Lubow declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates

• Service Performance 2012 Networked Family of Services
Jeff Becker, Senior Manager of Service Development, reviewed a Power
Point presentation with the Board that is available in the February 11, 2014
Operations and Customer Service Committee Agenda Packet.
Director Menten asked why there is such a difference in the subsidy per
boarding for the BroncosRide versus the RockiesRide. Bruce Abel stated
that the BroncosRide carries more people per hour of service so it is more
cost effective.

Director Hoy believes there is some magic in meeting the minimum
productivity for various frequencies. He noted that if a bus runs every hour
it may not meet the minimum productivity for half hour service; however, if
service was changed to every half hour it might then meet the frequencies.
He asked how staff decides when to make those types of changes. Jeff
Becker said that with new routes staff ties to make the best estimate as to
ridership and frequency of service. He stated that usually ridership builds
and service is added in response. Jessie Carter explained that staff tries to
look for grants to experiment with service. He commented that in staff’s
experience, hourly service often does not benefit from a change to every
half hour. Director Hoy asked to speak with staff further regarding specific
route questions.
Chair Sisk asked how fare revenue is calculated. He wonders how Eco,
College, Monthly, etc. passes factor in. Bruce Abel explained that revenue
figures are a combination of fare box revenue and revenue from passes that
is distributed per ridership statistics. He said if a passenger boards with
some type of pass the driver pushes a button on the fare box for that pass.
The pass revenue is then distributed among the routes proportionate to the
ridership.
Director Tobiassen feels very fortunate that the 169L runs from Arapahoe
and Parker to DIA at a local fare of $2.25. He noted there is also a similar
service in Brighton. He expressed concern that everyone else is stuck with
the SkyRide at over $9.00 per trip. Director Tobiassen believes this makes
taking public transportation difficult for people making only minimum wage
working at DIA. He wonders if there is some way to address the cost to
workers versus travelers. Bruce Abel said that this is an issue that will be
looked at as part of the Fare Task Force.
Director James asked if staff could comment on the responsiveness of
ridership when headways get to the 10 to 15 minute level. Jeff Becker
stated that headway is king. He said that when frequency gets to be at the
10 to 15 minute level people feel this is comparable to being able to get into
their car at any time. They no longer feel like they need to look at a
schedule but can just go and wait for the next bus.
Director Folska wonders if there is the opportunity to utilize technology to
assist with demand management. She wonders if there is an application
that can tell riders where the bus is in real time. She thinks this would really
help engage our riders. Bruce Abel stated that the technology is available
and staff is looking at what is necessary to make this type of technology
work with the new CAD/AVL system.

D. Other Matters
Director Folska said that she thought Director Bagley had an outstanding idea with
his request related to the Access-a-Cab Board Report. She asked that this
information be provided for every Board Report.
Director Walker noted that Director Bagley’s request was to see a redline copy of
the Board Report outlining Director Folska’s amendment. He stated that if there are
no changes to a recommendation there would not be anything for staff to show.
Director Folska stated that she believes that should be done as a standard,
consistent policy for every action item that comes to the Board. Marla Lien
explained that Director Bagley’s request was because there was a change to the
original recommendation. This could not be done for every Board Report because
often they are not changed.
Director Bagley believes that any decision that affects policy should come through
the Executive Committee. It is the Executive Committee’s prerogative to make
policy changes, not one Director that makes the recommendation. He noted that
his request was not related to policy but one specific item.
Chair Sisk agrees that staff should not be doing additional work. He said it was his
understanding that Director Bagley’s request was simply a redline copy of the
recommendation so the Board could compare.
Director Menten stated that she did not see anything wrong with Director Folska’s
recommendation for an amendment but she also appreciates Director Bagley asking
for the changes to be outlined clearly in a redline copy.
Director Solano believes Director Folska’s request for an amendment and
subsequent motion was relevant. He does not see how this relates to the
Executive Committee.
Director Bagley agreed that the amendment was not related to the Executive
Committee. He stated that his comment was simply that policy changes needed to
come through the Executive Committee.
Director Deadwyler commented that in the past she has asked for more information
when a recommendation comes to the Board. She would like to see the pitfalls,
risks, etc. better outlined. Director Deadwyler thinks the Board needs to
understand this before voting on an item. She feels that the Board only hears the
positives of a recommendation.
Director Walker noted that staff does provide alternatives in the Board Reports.

General Manager Washington believes that two issues are being confused. He said
that when staff recommends something to the Board it is very rarely changed.
Today, the Board did change the language of the recommendations. He said that is
the issue at hand. He stated that since the recommendation was changed, Director
Bagley requested a redline copy to show the change, which staff will provide.
Committee Chair Lubow said that she believes discussions about information
contained in the Board Reports can occur at the Board/Staff Advance. She does
not believe that is a discussion for the Committee meeting.
Director Deadwyler stated that she did not like the tone of the conversation related
to Board policy.
Director Daly congratulated Committee Chair Lubow for a great first meeting.

E. Next Meeting Date - March 18, 2014
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Lubow adjourned the meeting at 7:49 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

