2024-10-07
Performance Committee
PEGGY CATLIN: Good morning. The Monday, October 7 Performance Committee will now come to
order. We are convened as of 8:31 AM Mountain Daylight Time. I would respectfully ask anyone
attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this morning. Please note that committee meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings,
along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's
website.
During today's meeting, we are also providing communication access real-time translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com and a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript can be
automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like access to a live transcript of this meeting
in Spanish. A live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
I'd now like to call the roll of the committee members. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'm here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Lewis.
JACK KROLL: He'll be joining soon, it seems.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I am Chair Catlin and I am present. So at this point, we have six committee
members in attendance and one pending. Will you let me know, Jack, when, for the record, Director
Lewis has joined us? Thank you.
And maybe I will wait. I was going to acknowledge Director Lewis, who was appointed, but I'd like to wait
until he comes.

I'd like to open up public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any
topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. If you wish
to speak and have not already done so, please raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone.
During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would
like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
Mr. Kroll, are there any hands raised for public comment?
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Catlin, at this time, there are no hands raised.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So at this point, then we will close the public comment period. Were there any
email comments received, Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Catlin, there were no email comments received in advance of this
meeting.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. We'll then close the public comment period at this time.
We do have one recommended action on the agenda, and this is for the strategic plan scorecard, the
financial metrics portion. This is for the Board of Directors to adopt to the strategic plan agency
performance scorecard, thereby incorporating revisions to metrics related to the strategic priority of
financial success. Do we have a motion?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, so moved.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Second, Guzman.
PEGGY CATLIN: I have the mover as Director Buzek and a second by Director Guzman.
Now I would like to ask Debra Johnson, our GM and CEO, and Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer, to
present this item to the committee. Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Good morning to all that are
assembled. I'm Debra Johnson, serve as the General Manager and CEO.
At last month's Performance Committee, there was a discussion item in which we talked about various
metrics that we were going to incorporate to our strategic scorecards to ensure transparency and to
leverage implementation strategies that we agreed to pursuant to the Office of the State Auditor's audit
that just took place.
With that being said, we walked through those elements. And here I will yield the floor to Doug McLeod to
speak in more specificity to refresh those that weren't in attendance at last month's meeting in relationship
to what we're doing going forward. With that, Mr. Cloud, I yield the floor to you. Thank you.
DOUG MACLEOD: Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. MacLeod, please. Thank you.

DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Good morning. Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer. Yes, and as
General Manager Johnson mentioned, there are nine financial metrics that are used consistently
throughout the state audits by the Office of the State Auditor to evaluate the financial adequacy and, I
guess, fiscal sustainability of agencies. Those were looked at with the audit that concluded, the
performance audit of RTD that concluded on August 5th of this year.
Those nine metrics are listed within the board memo-- excuse me, the Performance Committee memo.
Each of those metrics, I feel, are very good measures of financial position as well as fiscal sustainability.
We would report those measures on a regular basis. Some of those measures don't lend themselves
necessarily to monthly reporting because they do have some volatility in them. But each of those
measures, the data used to support and calculate those measures are audited numbers. So we can have
some trust that those numbers will tie back to our financial statements and also be audited.
So there are those nine financial metrics that are used by the state. That would be 50% of the weighting
of this financial measure or financial metric. Standard and Poor's bond rating, 20% weighting. Standard
and Poor's was chosen out of the two credit rating agencies that RTD utilizes for refinancings. The other
one being Fitch. Standard and Poor's is more widely recognized, perhaps, as a credit rating agency. So
that would be tracked as well. That would be reported on more of an annual basis or on basis of any
changes that occur with that rating.
And then average community survey responses would be the final 30% of that weighting totaling 100%.
And those would be generated from community survey responses. So those would happen periodically.
The combination of all those weighted would provide a metric and an index that could be used by the
Performance Committee to evaluate the performance of the agency and the general manager.
So with that, Madam Chair, I conclude my comments. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: --MacLeod. Are there any directors who have any comments or questions? If so, I will
call on you to speak. Chair Davidson, please.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thanks, Madam Chair. I'll just keep it brief. Thank you for putting these forward
for consideration and to measure. I think having these come before us regularly is, it's a maturing and an
improvement. So yeah. Thank you very much. Appreciate it.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Davidson. Director Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Just a general question on the second bullet point there, which is the Standard and
Poor's bond rating. It's 20% of the rating. If we've already achieved the maximum bond rating, that only
looks to go down. How are we rating that if it continues to remain where we currently are? Does that
make sense? If you already have an A-plus, you can't get an A-plus-plus is what I'm trying to say. So is
that considered at all in this?
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. MacLeod, would you like to respond?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes. And thank you, Director Guzman, great question. Periodically, the credit rating
agencies not only will issue a letter rating, so in our case, we have the highest rating for RTD at AAA,
they will also issue ratings for negative outlooks, positive outlooks, et cetera, that kind of inform on a
regular basis regarding the outlook going forward.

So for instance, during COVID, virtually every transit agency was put on negative outlook and a watch list,
perhaps, without getting their rating needs or without getting their credit rating agency, credit ratings
changed per se. So that would certainly go into the calculation.
So, yes, the goal would certainly be to maintain that credit rating agency, the highest credit rating agency
going forward, which lends itself to the prospect of trying to maintain fiscal sustainability and how we are
viewed as an agency. Very important to not only project how we're seen to the public and community
value for our financial wherewithal, but also, if we do need to borrow, it lowers RTD's rating costs, or
borrowing costs. So essentially, yeah, we would take into account any of those types of adjustments that
happen along the way. Hopefully, that answers your question.
PEGGY CATLIN: Did that answer your question, Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Are there any other questions? Comments. I would like to point out that the
audit that was done by the state was very favorable for these metrics. So I think it's really important that
we continue to report them. So well done. Excuse me.
Sorry, I just lost my place. Oh, OK. Are there any no votes on this item? Seeing none, we have six votes
in favor and one absent. So the action item passes.
There are two discussion items this morning. The first item is for the General Manager and CEO 360
degree assessment tool and final assessment tool project check in. Jack Kroll, Executive Manager, Board
Office, and Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer, will you present this item to the committee and
introduce our guests from RKL?
JACK KROLL: Yes. Good morning, Committee Chair Catlin. This is Executive Manager of the Board
Office, Jack Kroll. Real quickly, I just want to update everyone that Director Lewis has been trying
diligently to join the meeting. He apologizes that he's not here. He's having some internet issues at his
house and we expect him to join over the phone at some point here, at which point we'll let everybody
know.
Getting to the discussion item at hand, we're going to try and cover two things today. Let me say it this
way. The first is to provide you all with an update on the 360 assessment tool. And then the second is to
provide you all with an update on the final board assessment form that you all will complete.
As a reminder, these are two distinct things. The 360 will be completed by, as you'll see in the
presentation, a series of external raters/peers, direct reports, and then three Board members. The second
project that we're going to go over is the final assessment form, the board assessment, if you will. That's
going to be completed by all 15 directors, or rather, all 15 directors will have an opportunity to complete
that.
The 360 form will be sent out shortly to the agreed upon raters, whereas the final Board assessment
form, as you'll see in the presentation, is not going to go out to the board until the end of this month. And
that is very much still a work in progress. And we're looking for final consensus on the 360 today and
some additional input on the draft board assessment.
And with that, I'll yield the floor to CPO Polege to see if she has anything else she wants to add.

CHARLENE POLEGE: Thank you, Jack. Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer. At this time, you have
covered everything. I have nothing further to add.
JACK KROLL: Great. Then if I could, Committee Chair Catlin, hand the floor over to Lauren Stricker from
RKL.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. Welcome, Lauren.
LAUREN STRICKER: Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Committee Chair Catlin. As always, I've
prepared a presentation here, just to, visual person, just to walk us through today's discussion. So I'm just
going to share my screen and get that queued up.
All right. Can everyone see the presentation?
JACK KROLL: Yes.
LAUREN STRICKER: Great. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: And information, it starts on packet page 11.
LAUREN STRICKER: Thank you, Committee Chair Catlin.
OK. For the record, my name is Lauren Stricker. I am a senior analyst with the Workforce Strategies team
at RKL Virtual Management Solutions. And today I'll be providing an update on the 360 performance tool,
as well as the Board assessment tool, as Mr. Jack Kroll mentioned.
Today's agenda. We're just going to do a very quick overview of the scope. That should look pretty
familiar with all of those who have regularly attended the Performance Committee meetings over the last
few sessions. Then we'll dive into the 360 assessment tool. We'll stop there to open the floor for any
additional feedback or comments related to the 360. We'll move on to just a quick snapshot of the
process from the Board perspective to provide an outline of timeline and the tasks associated with each
one of those major milestones. And then we'll move on to the discussion of the Board assessment tool.
There will be time for questions at the end, but please feel free to pause or stop me at any time with any
questions or comments.
Again, this should look pretty familiar to you if you've been regularly attending these meetings. The key
objective of this project, as Jack mentioned, is twofold. First, to create a custom 360 assessment to
evaluate the performance of the General Manager and CEO over the past year. And this assessment,
obviously, to be used moving forward. And the second, to develop a Board assessment tool that will be
completed by the directors of the board, or everyone would have opportunity to complete that, again, to
assess the performance of the GM and CEO over the past year.
There should be a more detailed project plan and timeline enclosed in the committee meeting packets,
but just have a few key dates there. We'll be going through the key dates throughout this presentation, so
I'm not going to, for the sake of redundancy, I'm not going to review them right now.
All right. Beginning with the 360 degree assessment. The objective of this assessment was to be utilized
as a methodology to collect feedback from external stakeholders, direct reports, and directors to inform
the Board's evaluation of the General Manager and CEO's performance over the past year. The benefit
being that this type of feedback being collected from unique perspectives and being offered to the board,

but inform the board especially in areas where they may not have regular observation on a day-to-day
basis about certain performance areas of the GM and CEO's position.
Additional benefits, the GM and CEO, include gaining feedback from different perspectives that could be,
again, utilized to provide more context to the Board's evaluation and just self-informed on strengths and
opportunity areas. The 360 assessment was designed to measure role responsibilities and values or core
base job responsibilities and values. Core base job responsibilities have been categorized into three
major job functions, general transit management and internal relationships, Board interaction, and
external relationships. Values have been interwoven amongst those within the 360 as far as organization.
Now, one thing to review is that the items of the 360 will be evaluated on a Likert scale, a 7-point Likert
scale, with an NA option, so folks can decide to select NA if they feel like they do not have enough
information to adequately rate on that item. So every item will be assigned a quantitative value. However,
the 360 final value will not hold any point value in the overall performance process. Again, this
assessment is to be used to inform the Board's evaluation. There will be 12-PEGGY CATLIN: Excuse me for interrupting, Lauren. For the record, I wanted to note that Director Lewis
has arrived by phone. Welcome, Director Lewis.
OK, Lauren. I'm sorry to interrupt. Please proceed.
LAUREN STRICKER: No problem. Thank you, Chair Catlin.
There will be 12 raters. There'll be 5 direct report raters, 4 external stakeholder raters, and 3 directors
from the Board GM and CEO Johnson will also provide a self-evaluation along the same 360 assessment
tool. We have selected all raters at this time.
As far as the process, where we're at, we did send out a draft form of the 360 assessment to the Board,
CPO Polege, as well as GM and CEO Johnson. Everyone had the opportunity to provide feedback on the
360 assessment items. And as a result of that feedback, we did make some modifications to the
terminology used. So we made some language tweaks to the items. We removed redundant items. There
was some changes to identification of which raters would receive which items. And the rating scale now
does include definitions for each one of the seven points as well as the NA option.
As far as timeline goes, we have asked GM and CEO Johnson to send out an initial communication to all
raters, explaining that an assessment will be conducted on her behalf to collect data of her performance
and to invite them to participate. We've asked that she send that out today or tomorrow to the raters just
to give them a heads up. Again, we found that this helps to get buy-in in the process, that the individual
receiving the feedback wants them to submit feedback. And then we hope that this process does the
same to get their buy-in and participation.
We will then follow up that communication on Wednesday, October 9 by distributing the survey link, the
assessment link via email to all raters. We will provide them with instruction of the assessment, do a very
short recap of the purpose of the assessment, and provide them with our contact information, RKL's
contact information, should they need any support or have any questions as they complete the
assessment through the secure online platform. All responses will be collected electronically. So
everyone will be completing the form electronically through the secure platform.
They will have until October 23. So all raters will have until October 23 to submit their responses. At that
time, the 360 assessment will close.

We will be putting together, analyzing that data, preparing a report, and that will be presented, the results
of the 360 will be presented to the Board during the Executive Session that will be held on November 18.
Before I move on, any comments, questions, additional feedback related to the 360.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Lauren. Are there any directors who have questions or comments? And
General Manager/CEO Johnson, do you have any comments that you would like to add?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Madam Chair, at this time, I do not. I believe Ms. Stricker covered all the elements
that are germane to this discussion. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I would like to send thanks to all those who provided input into the 360 tool.
I know there was quite a bit of back and forth and work that was done. I'd like to thank Mr. Kroll. I'd like to
thank Chair Davidson, Director Guissinger, Ms. Johnson, and Ms. Polege for all of your input. I think it
was very helpful. And as we move forward, I think this is a process and a document that we can use now
and into the future.
So I wanted to thank everybody for all your efforts. And Lauren, thank you for your patience in dealing
with all of us. But I think at the end of the day, it's a much better process.
I don't see any hands raised. We can move on to the second item, which is for the Board assessment
tool.
LAUREN STRICKER: Great.
PEGGY CATLIN: Go ahead.
LAUREN STRICKER: Thank you, Committee Chair Catlin. And again, I will second Committee Chair
Catlin's statement, the collaborative process for which you've all shown and your patience and working
with our team to develop this product, I think, has just made it a better 360. So again, very appreciative of
all the feedback that we have received.
Before we move on to the details of the Board assessment, I do want to just quickly outline some of the
major milestones as far as timeline and tasks. And again, this is from the Board's perspective. So these
would be tasks that the Board would be involved in and/or should be noting.
So the first would be October 28. The on October 28, all directors of the board will receive an invitation to
complete the Board assessment evaluation of the GM and CEO's performance. At that time, when we
send over the Board assessment, all directors will receive GM and CEO's Johnson's self-evaluation. So
that, along with the Board assessment, on October 28. All Board of Directors will receive an email with a
link to access the Board assessment. Again, just as the 360, the Board members will have opportunity to
complete the assessment electronically through our secure platform.
The directors will have until November 6 to complete the Board assessment of the GM and CEO's
performance. After November 6, the Board assessment will close so that we can start preparing the
results and the report that we will be sharing on November 18. So November 18, during Executive
Session, we'll be presenting the results of the 360 assessment as well as the Board assessment.

The date, as far as the fourth item there, I don't believe has been solidified at this time. But towards the
end of November, beginning of December, the Board will set or take formal action to adopt the final
assessment score.
Again, because I'm a visual person, just to explain how all of this is working together, because there is
some various components here. On the 28th, the Board will receive the evaluation form to provide
GM/CEO feedback on her performance. At the same time, GM and CEO Johnson will also be providing
her self-evaluation to the Board so that they can utilize that while they are completing their performance
evaluation of GM and CEO. The Board will not receive the 360 assessment results at that time. They will
receive the results during the Executive Session on November 18.
One thing to note is the GM and CEO Johnson's self-evaluation that shall be providing to the Board on
the 28th is not her self-evaluation. Using the 360 assessment tool, that will be included in the results that
are shared during the Executive Session.
The Board evaluation form-- I'm sorry. At that time, at the Executive Session, the Board will have all
results from all evaluations. So that way they could use the 360 assessment tool in their final
determination that would occur towards the end of November, early December.
Now moving on to the specifics regarding the Board assessment tool. The Board assessment tool is a
separate assessment that will be distributed to all Directors in order to collect their feedback on of GM
and CEO's performance over the past year. So again, that is separate than the 360.
The Board assessment as it currently is is in draft format. We are still working through finalizing that. As it
currently is, there are three sections. The first section is evaluating or has assessment items related to the
core job base functions of the GM and CEO role. The second section is related to the short-term goals.
And the third has open ended feedback items. There are point values assigned to each one of these, or
to sections 1 and section 2, per the framework that was approved earlier this year.
In section 1, which, again, is core job and base responsibilities or functions, there is a total maximum
point value of 64 points allocated to those items. And then those 64 points are broken into the three major
job functional areas, which is general management, transit, and internal relationships being the first, the
second being external relationships, and third being Board interactions. Short-term goals is allocated 36
points, maximum of 36 points. Open ended feedback is just to provide context or additional feedback
opportunity. There's no points allocated to open ended feedback.
We are currently working towards, in accordance with the framework that was approved, we're working on
incorporating values into this assessment. So that's to come.
Again, the items that were created reflects the framework that the Board approved earlier this year. The
timeline for distribution, just to really hammer this home, because I know that we've mentioned this
multiple times, or I've mentioned it multiple times, but the assessment will open October 28, close
November 6, and the Board will receive the results in Executive Session November 18.
As far as process or the status of where we currently are, we did send out a draft assessment to the
Board, CPO Polege, and GM and CEO Johnson in September, earlier in mid-September, and asked that
everyone provide feedback by October 2. We are currently working through that feedback in collaboration
with Jack and Performance Committee Chair Catlin to evaluate how we can improve the assessment
moving forward and finalize for distribution later this month.

Thank you to all who have submitted feedback so far. I did want to provide some opportunity for Board
members and Performance Committee directors that are attending today, if they wanted to provide any
additional feedback for me to note. I can open the floor now for that feedback.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Lauren. Are there any comments from Directors regarding the assessment
tool? I see Director Tisdale's hand is raised.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I am curious. I note that the 360 degree
assessment reviewers are accorded two weeks to provide responses. The Directors have one week to
provide their responses. And I was just wondering if there was some particular reason that we gave the
360 degree reviewers twice as long as the Directors.
PEGGY CATLIN: Lauren, would you like to respond to that? I have some observations about that. But
first of all, we have outside or external reviewers and we have direct reports. And they were actually
selected randomly out of a slate of potential candidates. And I would suggest that just out of respect for
their time, we would afford them some additional time to complete the 360 review. I know they were
taking this job seriously, and I really appreciate their willingness to participate in this process.
Jack or Lauren, do you have any comments about the difference in the one week and the two week?
JACK KROLL: Sure. Committee Chair Catlin, this is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. I
think that's primarily a function of the timeline that RKL needs to get the results in, analyze them, and put
them together in the final report.
One thing to note here is there was some initial confusion on all sides' parts, I would say, and we had to
get back on the same page. Originally, there was some thought of using the 360 in a broader sense, so
using the 360 as a way to drive at some of the performance outputs, so the final ratings. It was ultimately
decided, however, that wasn't the route that was going to go and there would be a need to have a final
assessment form created by RKL. And so in some senses, we're inputting that process back. We're
inputting a new form and a new assessment and an analysis process for RKL, and we had to fit that into
the timeline.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I know we have a tendency, on occasion, to overcomplicate things. And we
did this. But I also believe that in the process it's making it better.
I noticed that Director Guzman had his hand up, but it's down now, except that I do see GM/CEO
Johnson with her hand raised.
Director Tisdale, did your question get answered?
DOUG TISDALE: Well, it's addressed, and I would like to hear General Manager's thoughts on that, too,
because I assume that's why she's raised her hand. And I do have another question that I wanted to
pursue as well before we proceed with Director Guzman, with his kind permission. But I would yield to the
General Manager/CEO first.
PEGGY CATLIN: Ms. Johnson, please.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Madam Chair, thank you so much. I was just listening to the dialogue and I had
the same question as Director Tisdale. From my perspective, I don't think that really matters. These are
all raters and it's all feeding into the same 360. And so I'm just offering that up. I had no understanding

that the timeline was different because everybody's doing the same rating. And as I'm in the process of
doing performance reviews externally as well. Traditionally, you try to give people as much time as
possible and alert them.
So on the face of it, I don't have a problem with it. And I just wanted to state that for the record. So there
you have it. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Just one other thought, and that was I'd like to get a further
expansion on the thoughts regarding the fact that we will not have, as Directors, the benefit of the 360
while we're doing our evaluations. I know that the timing is such that all of it, our evaluations and the 360,
will be reported in Executive Session on November 18.
And I was just wondering if there was a thought about, we don't want Directors to see the 360 evaluation
while they're doing their own evaluations, perhaps for fear that it might color or taint how they come up
with their ratings, as opposed to if it's an informational function, isn't that beneficial for everyone? So I
don't have strong feelings on it. I would just like to hear from the experts, and particularly from Lauren,
what the thoughts are on that. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Lauren?
LAUREN STRICKER: Thank you, Committee Chair Catlin. And thank you, Director Tisdale. It's an
excellent question.
So I think that the function of the 360, as we're currently discussing, the timeline still remains the same.
The Board of Directors will receive the results of the Board assessment, as you mentioned, not tainted by
the results of the 360. Alongside the results of the 360, at that time, they will be afforded the opportunity
to compare and contrast the results from the various perspectives that the 360 provides, but also from the
deeper assessment or the deeper perspective of the Board. And then the Board will have the discretion to
make any changes to the ratings Based. On the 360 assessment, or not, in order to inform the final
performance rating.
Does that answer your question?
DOUG TISDALE: It does. And I thank you. And I think it's a perfectly appropriate approach. I just wanted
to have something expressed further for the sake of the record so that we had a contemplation of why
we're doing it this way. So I appreciate your comments. Thank you.
LAUREN STRICKER: Yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for the opportunity to clarify that, Director Tisdale.
Are there any other questions? Director Guzman, did you have anything to add?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Tisdale asked the question that was on my mind, and the answer would
have been my follow-up, which is, will we have an opportunity to adjust scores, if we need to, once we are
better informed from the responses, if something is not in alignment. So I feel confident we can proceed.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Mr. Kroll.

JACK KROLL: Yes. I just wanted to clarify and remind everyone, too. A couple years ago, the Board had
provided feedback anonymously. It was determined last year that that was really not a best practice in
assessing and providing employee feedback. And so last year there was no option to provide anonymous
feedback. And that is going to be the case moving forward as well. All responses will be tied to the
directors who shared that feedback. So I just wanted to make sure that that was clarified for everyone and
they knew that going in.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And our Executive Manager's comments actually triggered
another question in my mind. The 360 evaluations, will those be rendered anonymously or will they be
ascribed to the various reviewers?
JACK KROLL: To that, Committee Chair Caitlin, I'd have to yield to Lauren for her insights on that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. Lauren?
LAUREN STRICKER: Thank you all. They will be anonymous. So the results will be aggregated amongst
the rater groups.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you. I appreciate that. And I think it is appropriate, because we're telling
people going in and doing the Board evaluations, that these are not anonymous, that they will be credited
to whomever makes the comment. And I think that's fair. We're all grownups and we're used to dealing
with these issues. As long as it's made clear going in that that's the case. I think the problem we had last
year or the year before was that it was not particularly understood in advance.
So I appreciate that. And I just wanted to make sure that we all understood how it's being done so that
people will be comfortable going forward. Thank you. Sorry for going on so long.
PEGGY CATLIN: Not a problem. Thank you, Director Tisdale. And think we will have opportunities to
remind Board members in subsequent meetings that that would be the case, as we go forward. OK. Are
there any other questions regarding this process or the questions.
Seeing none, We will move to our second discussion item. And that is for-- thank you, Lauren, by the
way-- that is for the 2024 customer excellence survey results for bus and rail. John McKay, Executive
Business Partner, would you please present this item?
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you, Madam Chair. As introduced, I am John McKay, Executive Business Partner,
and with us is Chris Tatham. He is the CEO of the ETC Institute. ETC is our contractor partner for
conducting rail and bus intercept survey results here. So he will be-- sorry. He will be going over the
results.
There are no surprises in this particular presentation. I think we are all anticipating some impacts from the
preventative maintenance and state of good repair efforts that went on downtown this year. So we will
see those in the presentation. Not to bury the lede here, but Chris will give a fulsome overview of all of the
things that we've learned from our customers. And there'll be plenty of opportunity for questions and
comments after.
So Chris, with that, I will yield the floor to you.

CHRIS TATHAM: Great. Thanks, John. Madam Chair and Directors, it's great to be back with you. You
might remember I was here last month and gave you some really positive news about the overall trends
with paratransit satisfaction. And the regional perceptions that just the community has of RTD have
improved significantly compared to year ago.
Today, I'm going to walk you through what we learned from the onboard customer satisfaction surveys.
I'm going to start off on just giving you what I'd say are the high level takeaways. So there's lots and lots
of data here, but kind of what themes should you probably carry with you forward. Then I'm going to walk
you through some specific aspects of each of the two surveys that we did for bus customers and rail
customers. I'll walk you through things like their overall satisfaction, net promoter score, and perhaps
most importantly, what are the things to really focus on to keep satisfaction ratings high. And then at the
end, if there's any questions, I'll be happy to answer them.
So as far as the big level takeaways, is overall satisfaction for RTD customers continues to set the
standard for both bus and rail performance. I'm going to show you a number of benchmarks how your
ratings compare to national averages. And if you don't recall, ETC Institute actually does work for more
than 50 transit agencies across the country. We have more than 1,000 local governmental clients, and we
do our own annual national surveys on a wide range of topics, including satisfaction with rail and bus
services. So I'm going to share some of those comparisons to you, how you stack up.
The overall satisfaction decreased slightly on the rail service because it was negatively impacted by some
of the rail reconstruction projects that's been going on. But overall, bus improved and the overall net
promoter score for the entire system is actually higher as well. So there's some really good findings in the
midst of all the work that was taking place.
Keep things and continue to meet the expectations of your customers for both bus and light rail. It was
focusing on travel time, how long it takes people to get to their destinations. And commuter rail service, it
was the frequency of service that topped the list of things to focus on. So that's where we're going to
head. I'm going to just start off with the high level overall satisfaction ratings.
First of all, when it comes to the way that we collected the data, we actually put teams who randomly
select customers on all routes in the system. And the sample's designed to make sure that the distribution
of the surveys, both for the rail and the bus system, are pretty much done in proportion to the actual
ridership. Our goal was to get approximately 1,200 completed surveys. We actually ended up with over, I
guess, it was 1,274. So the data is not perfect, but the way the survey is designed, it has an accuracy of
plus or minus 2.8% at the 95% level of confidence. And all that means if we did the survey the same way
100 times, we'd probably get the same results within about plus or minus 3% or less 95 times out of 100.
So it's very good sample similar to what we've done in the past. And there were no real surprises in that
regard.
One of the things that's always nice, though, is to take a look at the demographic characteristics of your
ridership to see if it's changing. But in today's era, it's also important to see, are all types of people being
included in the service that you provide. So one of the things that we took a look at, you'll see on the left,
you'll see the bus-- anytime you see the little blue bus logo, those are the bus survey results. And then
you'll see the train or the rail survey results with the little green logo. And you can see there's a lot of
similarities between the two.
One of the things that struck me is that you have, the overall distribution of your ridership is actually pretty
similar to the region's population. We have about one in five people in the region are Hispanic. About one

in five riders are Hispanic. We have slightly higher percentages of Black and African-Americans, a little
lower with whites and Caucasians. But overall, you do have good representation when you look at the
actual census data for the region. The one distinction is is riders tend to have lower incomes. You can
see almost two out of three folks who use the bus or so ride a bus had incomes of less than $50,000,
compared to about half of those who use rail.
But when we look at some of the other things is the frequency of use. You can see bus and rail is being
used by people very regularly. Three out of four said they used bus or rail at least three or more days a
week. Two out, or three out of four also reliant on the services that they use. And more than half use it to
commute to and from work. And I think that's one of the things it's important to remember is that the
region's transit system is helping lots and lots of people get to and from work. And that's actually one of
the number one people, reasons they're using it. And you can see, last month I shared some of the data
from the paratransit customer survey.
As far as overall customer satisfaction, you can see this chart is for the ratings for the survey respondents
on bus. The green is the satisfaction ratings. A neutral is OK. And then if you look at the orange and
yellow on the far right, those are people who are dissatisfied. Nationally, you can see that about 58% of
riders give positive ratings for their system. You can see for RTD at the top this year, we actually had
68%. So you're 10% above the national average, a little bit lower overall compared to last year but about
where it was two years ago.
When we looked at the rail service, you can see the combined is at the top, with 25% giving very satisfied
and 38% satisfied. You can see that the overall commuter rail average was a little higher than light rail,
but altogether the combined rating is higher than the national average of 61% there in the middle. And
this year, the rail ratings are where we saw some of the decreases. And a lot of that has to do with some
of the reconstruction that was going on downtown, as John mentioned at the beginning of the
presentation.
One of the most important tools that we use is called the net promoter score. And part of this is to really
assess, are people likely to keep riding and are they going to actually invite other people who they might
know to ride as well. And the way it's calculated is we take a look at the people who are what you're
called promoters. And this is a really high standard, because it means that you're giving a 9 or a 10 on a
10-point scale, and that number is then actually, the number of people who are called your detractors, or
give a rating from 0 to 6, are subtracted from that. So oftentimes, this can be a negative rating even if a
lot of people are kind of in the middle, giving you 4, 5s, 6s.
But we look at RTD's scores this year compared to last year. You can see the overall combined score is
actually up two points from 2023, from 11 to 13, and it's higher than it was two years ago. So we did see
some decreases, as I mentioned, a little bit with rail. But the overall system is higher because of the
improvements in bus and also your paratransit component.
When you see the bus changes, you see last year, it was at 7, that dark blue in 2023. This year it's up to
13, which again is higher than it was two years ago. What's really unique about RTD is your ratings are
40 points above the national average. Most systems actually have a negative net promoter score, you
can see at negative 27 nationally. So again, moving in the right direction compared to last year and
definitely setting a standard compared to the rest of the nation.

When it comes to rail, you can see that decrease slightly. Again, some of the impact of the reconstruction
that you're doing. It's about where it was back in 2022, from 14 to 12. But again, compared to national
averages, you're 29 points above the national average. So still a lot to be proud of.
And then we looked at things across the board, the differences between light rail and commuter rail. You
see the main difference that we saw this year was the decrease in commuter rail from 47 to 15-- excuse
me, [INAUDIBLE]. 47 to 15 is the light rail, on the other hand, actually improved from negative 2 to 8,
which was a 10-point increase. All in all, some really good findings there.
As far as how you stack up nationally, I'm going to go through a lot of things, but hopefully I'll do it at a
pace that you can keep up because we have lots of statistics. The big-- excuse me-- the big takeaway
here is that when you see how you stack up nationally, which is the gray bar, you're generally significantly
higher. When it comes to performance-related items, you'll see the bus usually running on time for RTD's
at 57%. Nationally is at 48. And you can see when it comes to the items on the right, which are your rail,
you can see the combined average is 53 compared to 50.
Getting people to their destination in a reasonable amount of time, almost 20 points above the national
average when it comes to your bus service. And you can see 7% above the national average when it
comes to rail service. And even the frequency of service is better, you can see, both for the rail, or the
bus on the left is four points above the national average, one point above the national average when it
comes to rail.
When it comes to access issues, you can see the fare price being reasonable significantly above in both
areas. Also, bus stops being conveniently located are significantly higher, as well as your train stops
compared to what we see in the rest of the country. So a lot of this may seem like a broken record, but it's
something to be proud of.
When you look at safety and comfort, feeling safe and secure for buses and also for waiting for trains, you
can see, are both about 20 points above the national average. Feeling safe and secure on buses, again,
similar, 20% or more above the national average. And the buses being clean, you can see 50%, 54% for
RTD compared to 37% nationally. Again, very similar numbers, 54 to 39, for the rail system. So lots of
good findings as we go through the data.
When it comes to information, this is a bit more on average. It's not necessarily bad, but not standing
heads and shoulders above other systems. Being easy to find out if buses are running or rail and trains
are running on schedule is about average. Same thing with being aware of RTD, if they experience
disruptions, people feeling they're adequately informed is about average across the board compared to
other systems.
One of the highlights, I think, and strengths for RTD, and I mentioned this when we talked last month with
your paratransit service, which we see here in the rail and the bus service, is that your employees, the
ratings that you get for operator behavior are extremely good. And these tend to be areas that rate better
in most systems. But you're really doing exceptionally well when you see how your customers rate your
bus and train operators, perceptions that they operate the system safely, both nearly 10 or more than
10% above the national average.
The courtesy of your drivers, significantly better. And particularly if you look at your train drivers, almost
20 points above the national average. And even the perception that bus drivers and train drivers are

helpful also rates above the national average. So I think your employees and the work that they're doing
is certainly adding to the overall positive perception that your employees have.
And another great finding, too, is just that, like the community as a whole, your current customers are
using rail and train service. Both think that RTD provides value to the community. You can see it's 87%
for bus customers, over 80% for your rail customers. And in both cases, it's significantly above the
national average.
When it comes to service information, we don't have national benchmarks for all of these. But you can at
least see how the overall score is rated. People feeling that RTD has provided adequate information
about the services provided is about three out of four of your customers for both bus and rail. And then
feeling that people, the scheduled service changes, how they feel about them is a little over half. And so
that's one of the things we have that information. We don't necessarily know how to interpret it because
we don't have any benchmarks, but at least we don't have a lot of negativity in those areas.
As far as information about routes, schedules, and maps being easily available, information about
schedules is accurate and overall RTD's communication materials, all of those received 2/3 or more of the
customers that were rated gave them positive ratings for both the rail services and for bus services. And
when it comes to your mobile applications and social media, you can see that the perception that they're
easy to use and they provide useful content on social media is a majority of the people gave those
positive ratings for both the bus and rail customers who were assessed.
And then finally, on the customer questions related to customer service, about half the people, a little over
half the people feel like if whatever complaint or concern they had was resolved. We don't necessarily
have a national average for this, but we do ask this question for local governmental clients when people
interact with their call centers or ask for help resolving a problem or complaint. And nationally that runs
around 32% to 33%. So usually when people call him with a problem, they don't always get resolution.
When you get the majority of the people giving positive ratings, that's actually positive. But we don't have
a direct head to head when it comes to transit riders.
The resolutions being timely resolved. Your customer service people are certainly responding well. You
can see over 90%, particularly on the bus, gave positive ratings. And the overall perception that your
people who are working in customer service are courteous. You can see over two out of three, nearly
three out of four of both your bus and rail customers who had contact felt that way.
And when it comes to perceptions of your buses being safe, the trains being safe, the trains and buses
operating on the days that people need them, and the overall perception that buses operate at the times
that people need them, all of those areas had ratings of 70% or more across the board. And when we ask
people about their ability to get to destinations and the funding that's provided, you can see that 80% or
more of both the bus and the rail passengers thought that RTD provides access to key public service
destinations and also felt good about private entities, nonprofits, and local governments should consider
increasing funding.
So in other words, usually when people feel better about funding increases, they believe you're using the
resources you have wisely. And that was very consistent on the community value survey that we did last
month, or I shared last month, is that residents feel that they're getting good value for the money that's
being invested in transit in the region. So I think that's a lot of things there to feel real good about.

What impresses me about RTD is that you're willing to go and ask the hard questions from your
customers when things maybe aren't going so well. I've been doing this for 30 years, and oftentimes when
there's a big project going on or something that might disrupt normal service, a lot of times people say,
let's not ask the customers now. Let's wait until we're done. But your survey was scheduled and you went
ahead and did the survey of your customers while you had reconstruction going on. And I thought that it
was very bold and knowing that it would probably have some negative impact.
But we did ask them what kind of impact it did have. And so people who are riding the bus, you can see
about 31% of them said it was negative. You can see the percentage that actually had a positive impact
was 19%. So just because the reconstruction efforts were going on, they did impact people who used the
bus, a rather significant number of them. People generally were not that negatively affected as a result.
You'll see when it comes to the rail construction had a bigger impact. For the light rail riders, about 41%
said they were negatively impacted. For commuter rails, it was 33%. But you can still see there were
some people who felt better and think that has to do a lot with some of the changes that RTD made in its
service to help people get around some of the challenges that were caused by the reconstruction. So
again, the fact that your ratings for bus, light rail have generally improved, commuter rail went down
slightly in the midst of a project that affected a lot of people, I think is something to be really, really proud
of.
We asked those people who were affected what adjustments they had to make. And for bus customers,
you can see they started using more buses more often. That was one out of four people who were
affected. One in five people didn't make any adjustments at all. Others were walking more often. We had
about 1 in 10 who were either riding their scooter or using Uber and Lyft-type services more than they
had previously as a result of the construction.
For light rail customers, you can see 1 in 4 started using RTD buses more often. About the same number
didn't make any adjustments. And you can see a higher percentage, 1 in 8 were walking, perhaps even
driving their own vehicle more and using Uber or Lyft rideshare-type services.
And when it comes to commuter rail services, about 1 in 4 people didn't have to make adjustments, but
we had about 1 in 5 use buses more, and then 1 in 7 walk more. Others who were driving more and
traveling just less as a result of it. But all in all, it appears that you got through the construction very, very
well, given some of the disruptions and changes it caused many of your customers.
In addition to assessing satisfaction, another important part of this analysis is really to identify what are
the key drivers, what are perhaps the most important things to be focusing on moving forward so you can
sustain high ratings and even improve in the future. So we asked the respondents to the survey for both
the bus and rail what the most important attributes are of all the areas they rate.
So I've showed you the satisfaction scores. Now I'm going to show the importance for each of those
services that were assessed. And last year, you can see for the bus, the top five were frequency, hours of
operation, personal security, fare, price, and travel time. And you can see the other 20 items are listed in
descending order to the right. This year, frequency and fare price, hours of operation, convenience of the
stops, and then travel time were the top five. You'll notice that personal security actually dropped to seven
this year. Last year, it was in the top five when we looked at the bus ratings.
And one of the tools that we use that I've shared with you before is our matrix that shows from left to right
the overall importance of items, and from the bottom to top, the overall satisfaction ratings. And typically

what we're taking a look at are items that are in the bottom right. These are more important. They get
slightly lower ratings. And then we also do regression analysis to see which factors are actually most
correlated with the overall satisfaction ratings that people give. And you can see the items that are there
in blue are those that are more important than average.
When we actually look at which factors actually are the best predictors of satisfaction, right now, it's travel
time and personal security on bus is still important, though it's less important than it was in the past. It's
still-- excuse me, this is from last year, I was reading [INAUDIBLE]. These were where it was for last year
in 2023. 2024, you'll see the personal security is still in the list as an important driver.
But this year, the only item that was strongly correlated with the overall satisfaction rating is travel time.
And you can see that's at item E. So again, the overall ratings and factors, their importance didn't change
a whole lot, but travel time is now the number one thing to focus on as far as bus customer satisfaction.
In 2023, we did the same thing for light rail. You can see that frequency, fare price, hours of operation,
convenience of train stops, and travel time were the top five items. This year, in 2024, you can see
frequency's at the top, and it's a very similar rating. In this case, personal security was a little bit higher
this year than last year. But overall, the top items are pretty much the same as they were for 2023 to
2024.
And you can see last year for the key drivers, it was frequency of service was the number one thing for
light rail. You can see the A that's over to the far right. But those other items that were important, fare
price, hours of operation, convenience of stops, and also the travel time. This year, in 2024, you can see
travel time is again at the top of the list, the most strongly correlated when it comes to the regression
analysis. And we have a similar list of items that are still important to folks to focus on. So no radical
changes in what those priorities are for either bus or light rail compared to a year ago.
Last items I'll share with you are just for commuter rail. You can see the things that were most important
to people last year were frequency, fare price, travel time, hours of operation, and the convenience of
locations. This year, you can see it's a very similar list. You can see personal security again for commuter
rail was slightly higher this year. So while it dropped on bus, it went up a little bit on rail. But the overall
sequence of items from first to last didn't change that radically from 2023 to 2024.
And when we looked at the key driver analysis in 2023, travel time was the number one factor for
commuter rail. This year, it's actually frequency of service. So we've seen a little bit of change there. You
can see travel time's still one of the most important factors, those items in blue. But the frequency of
service has actually become a bigger deal this year compared to last year.
So all in all, the ratings are very good. RTD continues to set the standard. I went through I'm not sure how
many dozens of items and you were above the national average in just about every single one of them for
both your bus and rail performance. I think the result of this survey, having been done during a period
when you had a lot of construction going on that impacted people, many of which were impacted
negatively, really shows your commitment to customer satisfaction. And the overall net promoter score,
even though you had that actually improve system-wide, that was down slightly for commuter rail. It was
up for light rail, bus, and also your paratransit service.
But to continue doing well, I encourage you to continue focusing on travel time for bus and light rail and
looking at the frequency of service for commuter rail.

So with that, I don't know if anyone has any questions, but it's great to be with you again this month.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chris. I see John McKay has his hand raised.
JOHN MCKAY: I think I'm going to yield to our General Manager and CEO first, if I could.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly, Madam Chair. Thank you, Mr. McKay. Just for point of
clarification, Chris, in your closing comments, you said that the commuter rail NPS was down. IT'S
actually the light rail that was down, due to the fact that we had the near term real reconstruction on light
rail, not commuter rail. So I just wanted to ensure that I clarified that for all assembled.
Thank you very much and I'll yield the floor back to the Chair. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Mr. McKay. And then I see Director Lewis has a comment.
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you, Madam Chair. Just a couple things. I wanted to call out the tie between some
of these survey results and our agency performance scorecard and the annual scorecard, which is we
use these data to inform how we adjust from year to year. So, Chris, if I could have you go back to slide
21 briefly. Thank you very much.
I just wanted to call out that the price of fares is reasonable is one of the items that we are calling out for
the agency performance scorecard with respect to the financial metrics. This is just showing that
customers find that our fares are reasonable. That's something we're tracking year over year. And just to
note that we weren't cherry picking this number. It went from 74 to 76, I believe, this year, compared to
the national average of 63. I think RTD is doing spectacularly well in that area.
And just to note that this is something we'll be tracking year over year and making decisions based upon.
Also, if you could now fast forward to slide 47. Actually, one less, it's 46. And one more, 45. Apologies.
That's what I was looking for. Thank you.
So travel time, we see by far and away there's no clear indicator that people are interested, based on the
satisfaction rating people are saying to us that they're not satisfied with the timely arrival of trains in item
B there. I just wanted to note that the coping panels project was actually one of the factors that impacted
the timely arrival of trains more so even than the downtown rail reconstruction.
So we know that in 2025, we're probably not going to be experiencing that same level of thing. So that's
something we'll keep taking, keeping an eye on. But just noting that, as Chris pointed out, that the key
driver of travel time is important to people and it's about mean importance right there and it's mean
satisfaction. So we do know that that's something that we will take a look at. As we adjust our strategic
initiatives for 2025, that's something we'll be monitoring.
And just to note that these data, as I said, do factor into when we do strategic planning for the year, that
we're taking a look at what people are telling us are the important things to them so that we know where
to adjust our efforts. And with that, I will yield the floor.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. McKay. Director Lewis, please.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you. It might take away from this report is that our riders are very resilient. They're
committed. And it just seems there's this unspoken partnership between our riders and our service. I

would hope our marketing department would pick up on that and maybe use that as a tool for more
recruitment. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. A couple of observations relative to the customer
satisfaction survey. If you look at page 83 of the packet, the conclusion that I draw from those data is that
47% of the people who took the survey say that our rail is late. That's 40. That's almost half. Now it's
better than 50%, which is the national average, of people who say that the rail is late. But I hardly view it
as a brag point when we have 47% of our customers saying that rail is late.
And then on page 85, 45% of our customers who took the survey said that they feel unsafe. Again, that's
better than the national average, but it's hardly a brag point. And I think we need to be aware of those
observations as we look at these data.
And then relative to the Net Promoter Scores on rail, I am a little confused, because I hear General
Manager/CEO's observations, and I heard what Chris said, and looking at page 81, the light rail net
promoter score actually is up by 10 points, but the commuter rail is down by 32 points. So I'm just trying to
put that into context in looking at page 81 of the report. So I suppose the last one is a question. The first
two were observations. And this is a question relative to the Net Promoter Score. Am I reading that
correctly?
CHRIS TATHAM: Yeah, the Net Promoter Score did actually go up for the light rail, though it was more
heavily impacted by the construction. And I think that's the CEO's comment is the takeaway from that is
your light rail folks were highly impacted, but you managed it really, really well. But there were a lot of
commuter rail people who were impacted as well. It wasn't just affecting light rail and the impact on
people who probably were not in the area as much or at least perhaps weren't using the light rail service
as their primary method. They actually were hit perhaps harder as a result.
So the impact of the construction had wider ramifications than just the one place that it was happening.
And I think that's what my takeaway was. There's a lot of times, you did a really good job of managing
light rail, and so it did actually go up 10 points, but there were some negative impacts on commuter rail
and other customers as well that may not have been ready for the construction and how it would affect
them as much. Hopefully that makes sense.
And the other thing I would commend is that your high standards. I mean, sometimes just being above
the national average isn't what you want to be, especially when you're striving to be one of the best transit
services in the country. And so I think that's one of the reasons RTD does well, is you're not settling just
to be above average.
PEGGY CATLIN: GM/CEO Johnson, would you like to respond to that?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you so much. And thank you, Chris, for clarifying that. And that's
exactly the point I was trying to make, Director Tisdale. But what's more important, as we talk about
commuter rail, just as a gentle reminder for all of you, that we endured some unfortunate circumstances
relative to copper wire theft that impeded our signalization on the rail network. And we were working with
the concessionaire as well. So that feeds into the commuter rail, especially when you think about the
transferability.

And in light of what you said, Director Tisdale, with your observations, they're spot on. We leaned into the
moment and we continued to basically ascertain the opinions, perceptions, and attitudes, recognizing that
there was single tracking. So yes, our trains were late because we were doing that manually and not
doing that by our automated system. So of course, we knew we were going to lose trips. And we all were
very cognizant of that going forward.
With that as a backdrop, piggybacking on what Director Lewis said, that, yes, for those that are utilizing
our service, we do have this partnership with them in reference to being highly communicative. And as
referenced to safety, security, one's personal safety and security, we're interwoven in the fabric of the
communities that we're serving. So if people are utilizing illicit drugs or they're having other
circumstances, it's going to spill over to transit. And we're trying to do the best that we can regarding our
opportunity to enhance our system. But of course, we're going to have to rely on third parties.
Thank you so much for the opportunity to explain my comments.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Mr. McKay, please.
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you. Just a quick note. I think these data indicate that RTD's customers are
consumers of all of our modes. You can see that there are similar impacts across commuter rail, light rail,
and bus. And these were conducted via intercept. So what happens is the ETC team, they have folks who
go out on the system and contact folks who are using the system. You can see that based on the
impacts, because of how similar they are in terms of impact for each of the different modes, you can see
that something that, like I said, for commuter rail to have about the same level of impact as rail with
respect to the downtown rail reconstruction, we can see that somebody who's on a bus may transfer to a
commuter rail or vice versa, or even light rail. So it's encouraging to see that there is a similar level of
impact in that we are servicing people who use all of our modes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. McKay. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. And thank you, Chris. This is super interesting and helpful.
And I believe that I noticed that 75% of the respondents use RTD more than three times a week. Is that
right?
CHRIS TATHAM: Yeah, it's about 3/4 of the folks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I was just curious, does that say anything to you? Is that what you would see in
other agencies that you've worked for?
CHRIS TATHAM: It occurs when you have a high percentage of your ridership using it for work. That
tends to be the key, because oftentimes some systems are more social service oriented. People are
trying to get to the hospital, go run errands. But this is not that uncommon for systems that are highly
geared to getting people to and from work. And you can see that here, where three out of four of both
your rail and bus customers are using it three or more times a week. So that's a really good, healthy
indicator.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Are there any other questions from Directors? Director Guzman.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. We're at the end of our current strategic plan. So this is top of mind for
me generally. When we talk about doing a comprehensive operational analysis, which we've branded as
the strategic operating optimization, the System Optimization Plan. Thank you. Sorry. This is what I'm
thinking, based on this information.
Debra has quite a few times stated this, that transit is the great societal equalizer. Education, food,
medicine, shelter, and employment. This is telling us that the hotspot on our map that we really have to
pay attention to, and something that I've heard discussed in multiple arenas, is that public transit to
employers is going to be something that we need to keep our eye on. So when and how are we going to
have that conversation going forward, knowing that this is what people are using it for, especially folks
that are making less than $50,000 a year, which in Denver puts us at an extreme poverty category, based
on the current numbers given to us by the mayor and the city council?
It is a key factor in whatever service development and service provision that we go forward with to ensure
that we can get people to work and home. And that frequency and the hours of operation did not slide
past me in that top category for all of the modes, because people work when they work. It's not an 8 to 5
job for everybody in the system, especially hourly employees that are most likely making less than
$50,000 a year.
So I put that out to everybody to say, we need to consider that going forward. And I don't know as a-we're coming to the end of the 2026 System Optimization Plan, when we start planning for the new
comprehensive operational analysis. But I think that needs to be a top of mind factor for everybody going
forward. It's adjacent to this conversation, Madam Chair. Thank you for indulging my opportunity to say
that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for your observation. Ms. Johnson, would you like to reply?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And thank you very much, Secretary
Guzman, for your observations and your comments.
One thing that's gravely important is when we talk about a comprehensive operational analysis, one thing
that takes place when you do one and create a scope is to try to discern where people are trying to go,
looking at land use and development and things along those lines. So quite naturally, we have a laser-like
focus on that. As we look at these data and we're intentional relative to the individual performance goals,
division, departmental goals, we're looking at how people are getting to employment sites, and that's
incorporate into the departmental work plans. And there's been discussion around that.
And chiefly speaking, as we look at leveraging a CoA, which we're already in the process of discussing as
we move forward, it's very intentional relative to ensuring that we from an operability vantage point what
needs to happen. And so we'll be very focused utilizing these data points as we scope out where we're
going.
So thank you for those observations. I'm glad you broached it because it brings it full circle, because
we're not just using this information idly. It's very intentional and focused throughout the organization.
Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. I see John McKay has his hand raised. And I wanted to
acknowledge that he was providing the nexus between our annual scorecard and our strategic goals and

setting those for the future with these data to inform. So I think, Director Guzman, you were spot on in
your tying those together.
But Mr. McKay, please.
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you. Just one last comment, just a note that these are the last surveys that we're
doing in relation to the strategic plan for 2024. Moving into 2025, we'll be doing surveys earlier in the year.
So the employee survey, bus and rail, paratransit, and community surveys will all be conducted in the
spring time so that we can take those results and take action on them earlier in the year. We'll be able to
incorporate those into our strategic planning process for 2025 into 2026.
And these can also be factored into the budget moving forward. Whereas right now, since we're just
getting these survey data now, we can't really actually put them into action for the 2025 fiscal year
budget. So we'll be a lot more nimble, a lot more flexible once we're able to move our surveys early in the
year and look forward to working with ETC in the coming year. So thank you, Chris.
CHRIS TATHAM: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. McKay. That's good news moving forward. Are there any other
comments from Directors? Seeing none, are there any other matters to discuss? I guess we don't have
any other matters to discuss.
So for this month, this Performance Committee meet will be meeting twice. Our next meeting is scheduled
for Monday, October 21 at 8:30 AM. And at that meeting, we're going to have further discussion around
the data this committee wishes to share, see shared regularly by staff. We had talked about having a
cadence for some of these reporting. I know that Mr. McKay has worked really hard on developing the
scorecard, and I think we can look at those results and develop priorities for discussing with this
committee.
I wanted to acknowledge the work that Board Chair Davidson, who had to drop off this call, Committee
Vice Chair Guissinger, GM and CEO Johnson, and Executive Business Partner John McKay have put in
over the past year to move this conversation forward. I think we're making a lot of progress. Any
comments on that?
OK. Well, with no further discussion or agenda items, I'd like to adjourn this meeting as of 9:53 AM
Mountain Daylight Time. Thank you all. Good discussion.
JACK KROLL: Bye, everyone.
PEGGY CATLIN: Bye-bye.

