1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lynn Guissinger, District O
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Erik Davidson, District I
Secretary – Marjorie Sloan, District M
Treasurer – Bobby Dishell, District D
Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Vince Buzek, District J
Michael Guzman, District C
Ian Harwick, District L

Paul Rosenthal, District E
JoyAnn Ruscha, District B
Troy Whitmore, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Finance and Planning Committee
Tuesday, May 9, 2023
REMOTE MEETING
5:30 PM
To join the meeting Register Here
(connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 826 2566 9380#
Passcode: 1660#
Public Comments can be emailed in advance to be
included in the record to
RTD.BoardOffice@rtd-denver.com

Finance and Planning Committee
Chaired by Doug Tisdale

A. Call to Order
B. Public Comment
C. Information from External Entities
D. Recommended Actions

• Grant Agreement with Colorado Energy Office to Implement 2023 Ozone
Season Transit Grant Program

E. Discussion Items

• Zero Fare for Youth Pilot Program Proposal
• Board Retreat Summary

F. Other Matters
G. Next Meeting Date: Tuesday, June 6, 2023
H. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.D.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Committee Meeting Date:
Grant Agreement with Colorado Energy Office to
Implement 2023 Ozone Season Transit Grant Program

May 9, 2023
Board Meeting Date:
May 23, 2023

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to enter an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the Colorado Energy Office and to authorize the transfer of up
to $2,200,000 from the Unrestricted Fund to effectuate the 2023 Ozone Season Transit Grant
Agreement.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer
Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer
PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes
BACKGROUND
Enacted in 2022, Senate Bill 22-180 created the Ozone Season Transit Grant Program (grant program)
within the Colorado Energy Office. The grant program allows RTD and other state transit agencies to
apply for funding to implement a minimum of 30 days’ zero-fare transit service for all transit services
offered. House Bill 23-1101, which was subsequently enacted in 2023, made changes to the grant
program, removing the 20% match requirement for RTD and increasing the amount of available funding
during the 2023 grant cycle.
In August 2022, RTD implemented a Zero Fare for Better Air period, whereby the agency offered zerofare transit across all transit modes. Compared to July 2022 data, ridership increased 22% during the
fare-free period in August 2022. Additionally, the agency did not experience any major operational
impacts during the Zero Fare for Better Air period, nor did quality-of-life or crime-related incident reports
increase.
Overall, RTD experienced a 22% increase in ridership during the Zero Fare for Better Air period, which
ran from August 1 through August 30, 2023. Furthermore, customers and stakeholders expressed
satisfaction and provided positive feedback regarding the experience of utilizing the agency’s services
during the Zero Fare for Better Air period.
DISCUSSION
Staff is recommending the transfer of up to $2,200,000 from the Unrestricted Fund to be used to
implement a Zero Fare for Better Air period during the months of July and August 2023.

Packet Pg. 3

1.D.1

Through the removal of the 20% match requirement for RTD and the availability of additional funding in
2023, RTD is able to invest a similar amount of funding as compared to 2022 and fully fund a Zero Fare
for Better Air program to deliver two months of zero-fare transit services in 2023.
As outlined by the feedback received following the 2022 Zero Fare for Better Air period, seeking to
utilize all available grant funding to deliver an additional month of zero-fare transit services would align
with the agency Strategic Priorities of Community Value, Customer Excellence, and Financial Success.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The financial impact associated with the provision of two months of zero-fare transit, in July and August
2023, is estimated to be up to $2,200,000 in RTD funds, which will be combined with those derived
from the grant program. The funds will be used to offset a portion of fare revenue not collected during
the zero-fare period. Further, these funds will be used for marketing and advertising expenses and
expenses related to gathering customer feedback.

Prepared by:
Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 4

1.E.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Committee Meeting Date:
Zero Fare for Youth Pilot Program Proposal

May 9, 2023

STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Bill Sirois, Senior Manager, Transit Oriented Communities
Carl Green Jr., Director, Civil Rights Division
Chris Quinn, Planning Project Manager
PRESENTATION LENGTH
15 minutes
BACKGROUND
In April 2022, RTD launched the Systemwide Fare Study and Equity Analysis (study) to reexamine the
agency’s fare structure holistically, with the goals of simplifying fares to make services more equitable
and easier to understand while aligning fares with the service value provided.
The study has taken a customer-centric approach, focusing on equity, affordability, and simplicity. The
study team has leveraged extensive public outreach efforts beginning in late April 2022 and continuing
through May 2023, with the intent of seeking Board consideration of a final fare structure and
corresponding equity analysis in July 2023. Should the Board approve a final fare structure at that time,
implementation of the new fare structure and related programs is expected to occur in early 2024.
Staff provided updates to the Board regarding the study on February 14, March 24, and April 11, 2023.
On those dates, staff presented draft recommendations for simplifying the fare structure, lowering fares
overall, enhancing existing programs and policies, and introducing new programs. One such new
program, which has received broad community support, is a proposed zero fare for youth pilot program
(pilot program), to be implemented as a key component of the overall fare system strategy.
DISCUSSION
In conducting the study, and in developing a proposed pilot program, the agency demonstrates its
commitment to meet the Strategic Priorities of Community Value, Customer Excellence, and Financial
Success.
As noted above, the public has expressed strong support for a pilot program. Staff has suggested that,
rather than postponing the commencement of the pilot program to align with the implementation of the
study recommendations and programs in early 2024, it would be beneficial for the pilot program to align
with the academic calendar for the 2023-24 school year and to commence in August/September 2023.

Packet Pg. 5

1.E.1

In order to consider accelerated implementation schedule for the pilot program, staff will begin
coordinating with relevant internal groups, key stakeholders, and vendors ahead of any Board action on
study recommendations. Along with the final study recommended action, staff will report on the
progress of zero fare for youth pilot program in the July 2023 meeting cycle.
Next Steps
To ensure timely implementation should the Board decide to proceed with the pilot program as a
component of the overall study recommendations, staff will initiate the following key activities:
• Engage with the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) and request approval of a 12-month pilot
program
• Establish a data collection plan to determine effectiveness of the program as well as to conduct
the requisite fare equity analysis pursuant to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964
• Develop an outreach plan to coordinate with school districts and non-profit organizations that
work with youth
• Initiate internal communication with the relevant work groups involved with the administration
and implementation of the pilot program
• Begin discussions with potential funding partners to sustain a zero fare for youth program beyond
the proposed12-month pilot program period
• Determine the proof of eligibility requirements with the intent of optimizing accessibility
During the July 2023 meeting cycle, as a component of the final study recommended action, staff will
update the Board on these activities, along with recommended pilot program elements, including the
program’s duration and implementation timeline.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Staff estimates that the initial 12-month pilot program would cost up to $5 million. To continue the
program after the pilot program has concluded, RTD would seek partnerships with outside entities for
funding. No additional service, beyond what is feasible with current staff resources, is anticipated to be
provided as part of this pilot program.

Prepared by:
Bill Sirois, Senior Manager, Transit Oriented Communities
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 6

1.E.1

Packet Pg. 7

1.E.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Committee Meeting Date:
Board Retreat Summary

May 9, 2023

BOARD/STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Erik Davidson, Director
Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer
PRESENTATION LENGTH
15 minutes
BACKGROUND
The RTD Board held a Retreat on March 25, 2023, which resulted in a decision to narrow efforts to a
set of policy goals to pursue for the remainder of 2023 and 2024. One of the goals emerging from the
Retreat was to seek to shore up RTD’s financial position with a policy goal to create a long-term,
sustainable and resilient funding model for RTD.
RTD’s sales and use tax collections currently account for approximately 2/3 of RTD’s total annual
revenues. These tax collections are susceptible to economic fluctuations which could impact RTD’s
ability to maintain certain service levels, asset state of good repair and commitment to RTD’s Strategic
Priorities. The remaining 1/3 of RTD’s annual revenues are comprised of federal grants, fare revenue,
investment income and miscellaneous collections, in order of large to small magnitude. Furthermore, the
Taxpayer Bill of Rights (TABOR) revenue growth limitation provisions are currently expected to
negatively impact RTD’s overall revenue retention beginning after 2024.
DISCUSSION
RTD seeks to diversify its current revenue portfolio, through policy modifications, to provide enhanced
stability and certainty of future funding sources. As shown below, RTD is highly dependent on sales
and use taxes which increases financial risks associated with economic conditions.

Packet Pg. 8

1.E.2

The above policy goal includes the following tasks for Board consideration:
•

•

•

•
•

Benchmark RTD’s funding structure and model against peer US-based transit agencies to inform
opportunity identification and help communicate funding needs to public partners
Review previous and existing RTD reports, research efforts and knowledge regarding revenue
diversification opportunities
Identify creative solutions and research potential alternate sources of funding, such as:
o Fees
o Public funding sources
o Private funding sources
o Foundation funding sources
o Additional advertising opportunities
o Funding swaps or volatility mitigation measures
o Monetization of parking
o Other opportunities
Create and research the feasibility of various TABOR impact mitigation strategies, such as:
o Creating an Enterprise Fund to separate fare revenues from other revenue sources
o Consider “de-Brucing*” measures for public transit, possibly statewide
o Extend the current Base System “de-Brucing” period from 2024 to 2026 through a
refinancing
Consider all opportunities to strengthen RTD’s mid-term and long-term financial position
Collaborate with RTD Communications and Engagement and Government Relations departments
to pursue the most-promising opportunities

Each of the above will consider the potential funding opportunities allowed under RTD’s enabling
legislation.
* “de-Brucing” is a reference to the author, Douglas Bruce, of the Colorado constitutional amendment approved in 1992, for
which the term relates to an entity being protected for a period of time from some or all provisions of TABOR

Next Steps
The TABOR Ad Hoc Committee was reconvened on May 4, 2023, after last meeting July 18, 2022, in
which the subject matter primarily related to refreshing the Committee members and attendees in
relation to TABOR constitutional provisions, potential TABOR impacts specific to RTD and potential
mitigation strategies identified thus far. The TABOR Ad Hoc Committee will continue to meet regularly
to continue to develop recommendations for the Board’s future consideration. The TABOR Ad Hoc
Committee will regularly report its activities to the Board and develop a timeline for providing
recommendations.
The Board of Directors will collaborate with staff to outline next steps to identify and pursue revenue
diversification strategies and tasks.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The range of financial impacts to RTD’s current revenue structure can fluctuate significantly and TABOR
impacts will likely have a material negative impact to annual growth. These effects will be dependent on
future economic conditions as well as population and District property valuation growth. Policy

Packet Pg. 9

1.E.2

decisions regarding RTD’s future revenue portfolio will therefore be a key contributor to RTD’s ability to
manage and maintain a sustainable financial position.

Prepared by:
Erik Davidson, Director
Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer

Prepared by:
Erik Davidson, Director, District I
Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 10

