Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Thursday, May 14, 2009,
Page 1 of 2
Regional Transportation District

Memorandum
To:

RTD Board of Directors

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

May 14, 2009

Subject:

Minutes of the Meeting of the Legislative Committee meeting held on
Thursday, May 14, 2009 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Committee
Members Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Chair Daly, Directors; Cohen, Pulliam, James, Chacon, Busck,
Tayer, Kemp, Martinez, O’Boyle, McMullen, Tobiassen, Brohl and
Bagley.

Director Christopher

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Brian Middleton, Jerry Nery, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill
Sirois, Cal Marsella, Sherry Ellebracht, Bill Van Meter, Marla Lien,
Cal Shankster, Dave Genova, Rick Clarke, Henry Stopplecamp,
Daria Serna, Scott Reed, John Shonsey, Greg Straight, Liz Telford,
Julie Skeen, Lisa Trujillo, Paula Perdue and Mike Scott.

Others Present:

Jeff Leib – Denver Post, Bill Shockley- Owens Corning,
Paul Courtois – Owens Corning, Maria Garcia-Berry, Roger
Sherman, Jennifer Brandeberry - Brandeberry~McKenna Public
Affairs and Julie McKenna - Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs
****
Chair Daly called the meeting to order at 5:36 p.m.

Call to Order:
I.

State Issues
 General Assembly Legislative Wrap-up for 2009 Session
Jennifer Brandeberry and Julie McKenna were both present. Jennifer told the
Board that it was a great year for transportation and gave a brief update of
the Bills that were significant to RTD in 2009 Session.
Director Daly thanked them both for their expertise.
Director Kemp also thanked them personally for their hard work and for
taking the extra time to make sure the Board was well prepared.

Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Thursday, May 14, 2009,
Page 2 of 2
II.

Recommended Actions
State Legislative Liaison Services
It is recommended by the Legislative Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to enter into an agreement (for state legislative
liaison services) with Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BMPA) to exercise a
one-year option (July 1, 2009 through June 30, 2010) to extend Contract No.
17-DX-001, at a cost of $98,000.
Motion:

Director Busck made a motion for
approval by the Board.

Second: Director O’Boyle seconded the motion.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.
RESOLUTION NO.____, SERIES OF 2009 -Colorado Principles for SAFETEA-LU
Reauthorization
Sherry Ellebracht, RTD Government Relations Officer introduced this item to the
Board. There was a group of statewide individuals that came up with very
general principles that everyone could live with – this took place over a two year
period of time. CDOT chaired the committee. It was the consensus that more
money is needed.
Motion:

Director McMullen made a motion for
approval by the Board.

Second: Director Bagley seconded the motion.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.

Director Tayer asked that this item be listed under Recommended Action on the
May 19th Board Meeting Agenda since the back-up was not included in the board
packets and it is the first the Board had seen the documentation.
III.

Other Matters
No other matters were discussed.

IV.

Date for Next Meeting – Not discussed

V.

Adjourn to Planning and Development Committee - Chair Daly adjourned the
meeting at 5:49 p.m.

