2024-01-30
Board Meeting Part 1
ERIK DAVIDSON: Good evening, everyone. I will now call the Tuesday, January 30 RTD meeting to
order. We are convened as of 5:31 PM Mountain Standard Time. I would respectfully ask everyone
attending this meeting to please mute themselves, if attending virtually, or on your microphone, unless
you are acknowledged to speak.
Thank you for joining us this evening. The Board has reconvened, as of last year, to in-person meetings
for our monthly full Board meetings, but please note that our committee meetings have continued to be
held remotely via Zoom and have been audio and video recorded. The meeting minutes, along with the
unofficial meeting minutes, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. You can visit rtddenver.com. And a live stream of this meeting and our other meetings are also available on RTD's
YouTube page.
I would now like to ask Secretary Guzman to please lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Thank you. At this time, I'll now ask Treasurer Bouquet if you would please read the land
acknowledgment.
JULIEN BOUQUET: The RTD Board of Directors acknowledges that the land on which our buses and
trains operates is the traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and other contemporary tribal
nations that are historically tied to these lands. We honor our indigenous elders who have traveled,
inhabited, and stewarded these mountains, hills, and plains throughout generations. May this
acknowledgment demonstrate a commitment to working to dismantle the ongoing legacies of inequity of
the Native and all historically oppressed peoples and recognize their current and future contributions in
the District as we move forward.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, sir. I will now call the roll. Treasurer Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second Vice Chair Guissinger.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I am present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And this is Erik Davidson. I am present. With all members present and zero absent, we
have a quorum.
At this time, I'd like to ask Director Tisdale if you would please read out our Statement of Employee
Appreciation.
DOUG TISDALE: The Regional Transportation District Board of Directors recognizes that RTD's
dedicated workforce is the lifeblood of the agency. Every day RTD employees do extraordinary things to
make lives better through connections. We honor their work of delivering transit excellence, service, and
value to the community, especially demonstrated during difficult and stressful moments. May the actions
taken by the Board of Directors demonstrate our profound gratitude commitment and support for all RTD
employees.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, sir. We'll now move on to the next item on our agenda, which is the retiree
awards.
One of the many rewarding duties of serving on this Board of Directors is acknowledging and recognizing
our RTD retirees, and the time has come for us to do so this evening and congratulate all those who have
decided to move on from RTD at this time.

At this time, all at once, I'd like to read the names of our employees who have retired since December.
Don Allensworth, parts clerk for 16 years, Bernard Celestine, a bus operator for 15 years, Diane
Cartwright, a talent acquisition partner for 16 years, Uriel Hernandez, a bus operator for 16 years, and
finally, Robert Stanfel, a mechanic for 20 years. Do we have any of our retirees present?
Unfortunately, with our retirees not here, I would just like to simply thank them again for their hard work
and their commitment and long years of dedication to this agency and to the public. A brief round of
applause, please.
Thank you. At this time we're going to move to a bittersweet portion of our agenda. We're presented with
an opportunity to celebrate the accomplishments of one of our former directors who has long served this
agency and the public well. I'm speaking of former Director Kate Williams, who has resigned her seat on
this Board earlier this month.
I want to take some time for us to share our collective appreciation for all that Director Williams has done
for RTD and for our region during her tenure as an RTD Director from District A. This evening we'll be
recognizing a passionate, a dedicated and honorable public servant who has left an indelible mark on this
Board and this agency. I'll be reading the proclamation for former Director Williams that we have drafted
and then I'll ask for any Directors who would like to say a few words, after getting a motion and a second.
At that time we'll open up for some further discussion.
At this time, I'll read the proclamation. In recognition of the contributions made to the Regional
Transportation District from 2017 to 2024 by Director Kate Williams, whereas the constituents of District A
elected Director Kate Williams to represent them on the RTD Board of Directors in 2016 and again in
2020, and whereas Director Williams served faithfully and dutifully on the Board for over seven years,
pushing and inspiring RTD to be the trusted leader in mobility delivering excellence and value to RTD's
customers and community while making lives better through connections.
And whereas Director Williams served with distinction on many committees during her tenure and always
brought a voice to champion the needs of transit riders, especially the elderly and disabled, in her terms
as Chair and Vice Chair of the Operations and Customer Service Committee, Chair of the Operations and
Safety Committee, Vice Chair of the Planning Capital Programs and FasTracks committee, as well as
serving on the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee, the Zero Emission
Vehicle, or ZEV, ad hoc committee, the DRCOG Regional Transportation Committee, the Northwest
Parkway Public Highway Authority Board, and the RTD CDOT liaison.
And whereas Director Williams championed RTD's Zero Fare For Youth pilot program to create a new
generation of transit riders and help close equity gaps in the District and worked with her Board
colleagues and RTD General Manager and Chief Executive Officer Debra Johnson to ensure its
successful implementation, and whereas Director Williams served on the Board during a time of
tremendous progress for RTD during which she helped guide the organization to ensure its long-term
viability and sustainability.
Now therefore, be it resolved by the RTD Board of Directors that we, the Board of Directors, hereby
extend our deepest gratitude and commendations to Director Kate Williams for her many contributions to
this Board and the residents of the District over her years of service and recognize her steadfast
dedication to RTD and its customers. Dated this 30th day of January, 2024.
Is there a motion to approve this proclamation?

IN UNISON: So moved.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: So moved. Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Let the record reflect that everybody has moved and seconded this. I'll leave it to the
Board Office to help determine the nature of the record.
Colleagues, at this time, I'd like to open the matter up for further discussion and comment from Board
Directors at this time on the Board to acknowledge and discuss Director Williams' commitment and
dedication and contributions specifically to this Board and this agency of RTD.
I'd like to just kick this off by personally thanking Director Williams for not only being dedicated to this
agency and to transit but doing so while also not on the Board and continuing to be a voice before and
after her position on the RTD Board. Thank you for always being and remaining a courageous full-time
transit champion.
With that, I'll open up for my colleagues to share any remarks they have regarding Director Williams'
service here. Director Rosenthal, please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you, fellow members, for doing this proclamation.
And so RTD is not just losing a Director. And for me, I'm also losing a colleague here on the Board. I'm
losing a friend and I'm losing a confidant, somebody I would call, always after a meeting, and say, oh,
wow, what about this and that and the other thing, and somebody who would talk me down and
somebody who would give me feedback and perspective from her many years of service. And so thank
you for being that colleague, for being that friend, for being that confidant, and for being a Director for
RTD. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments, sir. Director Sloan, please.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I would just like to say the proclamation doesn't say it all,
but all it says is absolutely correct. Kate, your voice and your vote has been of great value to the Board,
to the agency, and the Metro area as a whole. Thank you, Kate.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Sloan. Director Whitmore, please.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So it's been my honor to serve with Kate on a couple of
different functions with Operations and Safety, and I'm pleased to be the Chair. I will not be able to fill
your shoes by any means.
One of the things that I'm probably most sad about your departure is we're losing the director of fun.
[CHUCKLES]
So many times you said things we were all thinking and you got by with it, because you're smooth. I'm
going to miss you so much. Two words to describe you, as I did two weeks ago in the Ops Committee,
passion and compassion. Godspeed.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Director Dishell, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Director Williams, I think, thank you doesn't quite cut it. And I
think one of my first interactions with you was, we were a group of us looking to run, and you said, look,

this is a lot of work. And if you're not ready to do a lot of work, you shouldn't run. And at the time, it kind of
rubbed me the wrong way. But I think it emphasizes, I think, your dedication and the level to which you
hold yourselves and your colleagues.
And whether it was while I was running or different issues on the Board or as my family and I progressed
the last year, you've always made sure to check in with people both personally and professionally, and I
have a tremendous amount of gratitude and admiration and respect in a way that we all should try to live
of recognizing people for who they are and with their flaws and with their greatness and being able to still
work hand in hand with people. And it's evident the impact you've had on all of us and I think on the
greater transit community.
For folks who go out in the community, there's very few people you run into who, when you say you're
with RTD, oh, you know Kate? Of course. So thank you and we'll miss you, and thank you so much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell. Director Harwick, please.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you. So I haven't known Kate for particularly long, about a year now. But she is
one of the most joyful people, so funny, and she just has this spark of, I don't know, a lot of things. It's all
sort of just built into one. But she just, once you meet her, you can't-- you're forever changed by her
presence.
And everyone has spoken about her, Board. I just more want to talk about her as a human and just how
amazing she is and how lucky we all are to have known her and know her right now. And I'm proud to call
you my friend. And I think we all are proud to call you our friends as well. So thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Harwick. Treasurer Bouquet, please.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much. So there's one thing that I know with Kate. And what's so
incredible about that is there's three things that I think of with Kate when it comes down to a transit rider,
which is amazing, being on our Board and being a transit rider and a supporter, caring about our future
when it comes down to our youth. I'm a full-time teacher and I know I share in the same values that you
come down to when it comes down to future riders. And the third is environment and the future of our
planet.
And it's incredible. It's incredible how you've been able to mix all three of those. And my work with you for
the last almost four years has really inspired not only myself, not only your fellow Board members, but
everyone around you in your community. And what is incredible is you're creating that legacy, lasting, with
our free pilot program for our youth. We have no idea how many transit riders are going to ride for the first
time because of that.
And we know this. And we know when people actually get on transit and they leave their cars, as Kate
was so passionate about, that it's better for our future and it's better for our environment. So all I can say
is thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Treasurer Bouquet. First Vice Chair Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. A lot has been said and I concur with all of it. I would like to say that I met
Kate for the first time six years ago this next month. Excuse me. And it was really eye opening for me.
Because I was a candidate for an appointment to fill a vacancy. And I attended the Board retreat. And

one of the first people I met was Kate. And we had a great discussion then and we've had many, many
great discussions afterwards.
And so it's been a privilege to serve with you but also to have regular conversations, sometimes late at
night, and solving all the world's problems. You've been a wonderful friend and a wonderful colleague and
I know you're going to be a transit advocate for the foreseeable future and beyond. And we just really
appreciate everything you do.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, First Vice Chair Catlin. Second Vice Chair Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Hearing all of this, I'm reminded of, I had a warm and generous aunt.
And at one point when we were young adults, my sisters and cousins and I were all talking and
discovered we each thought we were Aunt Sarah's favorite. And you've touched so many of us, all of us,
individually. And that's a real talent. And last year when I was Chair, there were so many times when I
would say, I need to call Kate, see what she thinks. And Kate would say, here's how you want to think
about it, Lynn, and was always really helpful.
My favorite part of the proclamation was saying that she was pushing and inspired RTD to be better all
the time. And that is so true. I see Debra Johnson nodding and I see former Board members and former
staff here who have all turned out, because I think they all feel the same way. Thank you, Kate. You've
been a great friend.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Second Vice Chair Guissinger. I'm going to jump to Zoom, because it can
be a lonely world. The hand goes on a different screen. So I see Director Buzek. Please go ahead.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Mr. Chair. And thanks, Kate Williams, for your dedication, compassion, your
passion, your wit. You brought so much to this Board. And you'll know what I mean when I say every time
I put on a pair of socks, I think of you. Thanks, Kate.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Buzek. I think that was one of the first stories I heard when I joined
the Board. Director Broom, please, go ahead.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I thought I was signing up last, but I think a standing ovation would be in
order right now.
[APPLAUSE]

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Broom. I appreciate-- that speaks volumes. I'd like to continue the
comments. So I'll call on Secretary Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Katarina, gracias. [SPEAKING SPANISH] Thank you so much from the bottom of
my heart. You were my first Board buddy. We had coffee at Union Station, talked about our district. You
filled me in on what I was getting into, as you have done with others, and held me in serious regard as a
Board member and helped me find my way and maneuver through committees and discussions and
debates with a kind hand and a gentle countenance, but always with a mother's stern talking to if I
stepped out of line.
And I appreciate it so much, because that's what real aunties, real titis do for their nephews. And your
wisdom will not be forgotten. And I carry the sense of joy that you bring to this Board forward with all of us

and a strong sense of service and admiration of the work that you've done. And I just want to tell you that.
Muchisimas gracias. Thank you so much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary Guzman. Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Director Williams, there were words that were
used to describe my mother. And then years later, those same words were used to describe my late wife.
And I thought those words are particularly appropriate for you. Often right, sometimes wrong, but never in
doubt. And that passion, that fire, that commitment, that incredible dedication to the pursuit of what you
saw as the right result is something that will assuredly live on with all of us.
I wanted to take this seat when we did our annual musical chairs that we do when we have a new Chair
elected and a new Executive Committee, because I wanted to sit here. The fire that lived here, I swear to
you, will continue to burn on. It will serve as a flame in honor of you and it will be here long after all of us
are gone. Because what you have done, what you have meant to us will be here with RTD. But more
importantly, it will be here with all of the people you have touched long after all of us are gone. God bless
you and thank you, Kate.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: For the first time, I don't have any words. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. I'd now like to call upon our General Manager and CEO,
Debra Johnson, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr, Chair, Director Williams, you and I have had a great
relationship. We both are passionate about what we do because we just do it. We also stay true to our
convictions and stand in our truth and are imperfectly perfect.
And recognizing that we've always advocated for those that often don't have a voice, being the voice of
the voiceless is extremely important. And I want to thank you, personally and professionally, for
partnering with me when I came into this role, for ensuring that we could invest in future generations of
transit customers, and to create a sense of freedom for those that are chronologically advanced. Because
oftentimes, those two demographics that are different, but very similar in a sense, are often not factored
into the equation.
So on behalf of the nearly 3,000 employees that comprise the Regional Transportation District, thank you
for being you. And most definitely, as Director Tisdale said so eloquently, the fire will remain. So thank
you for your service, ma'am.
[APPLAUSE]

ERIK DAVIDSON: I'd like to thank my Board colleagues and our General Manager and CEO for providing
comments. I think as we all sit here and as we do what we do, serving the public, we often ask ourselves,
am I helping? Am I making a difference? Are we helping? Are we making a difference? And I think what
we hear here tonight is that Director Williams, you've helped. You've made a difference and continue to
do so.

At this time, I'd now like to open up the floor for anyone in attendance who would like to say a few words
regarding Director Williams' contributions to RTD and to the community. If so, you are welcome to please
come forward to the podium, state your name, and be recognized.
There is a button that says Push on your microphone. You can go ahead and push that.
GEORGE MICHAEL WILLIAMS: How about that? Oh, super. My name is George Michael Williams. I
have known Director Williams for 64 years, since the day I was born. She has been an amazing sister.
But when she came to me and asked that myself and my children would help her collect signatures so
that she could run for an office at RTD, I said, are you kidding me?
Little did I know the impact that that would have not only on my children but on all of you and given the
words that you have said this evening. Every one of those words in my heart is true. I have seen it my
whole life. And I just would like to express my appreciation for the fact that you have come together to
honor Katherine in this manner.
She's been a wonderful sister. Thank you for thinking she's a wonderful Board member. And we'll just
keep her as long as we can. So thank you very kindly. It's been a pleasure to meet all of you as well as to
know my sister. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very kindly.
[APPLAUSE]

And if the next speaker can-- thank you, Director Rosenthal.
CHRIS HINDS: Press. There we go. Hello. Director Williams, I'm supposed to address the body, aren't I?
Apologies.
Hello, everyone. I'm Chris Hinds. I serve on Denver City Council. And I have the wonderful pleasure of
representing this area, but also the wonderful honor of being able to create a proclamation for Director
Williams. So I'm very happy to have the honor and opportunity to recognize you again.
So apologies, as I talked with the Director in the past, she said, we'll see each other down the road. I see
you again. And I hope I can continue to see you. But I just want to thank you for all you've done for me
personally, all you've done for the disability community, being the Executive Director of Denver Regional
Mobility Access Council, representing people with disabilities here on the RTD Board, and being an
awesome leader servant in our community. Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Well, not -- Oh, yes. OK. Here we go.
DOUG REX: Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board. Thank you for the opportunity to be
here this evening. I rise to celebrate the career of one Katherine Williams. We're so appreciative. On
behalf-- oh, I'm sorry. I'm Doug Rex, Executive Director of the Denver Regional Council of Governments,
2900 Inca Street in the great city of Denver.

I just wanted to take a minute just to share. Listen, the first time I met Kate, she was working at DRMAC
at the time. And I'm sure this is not going to surprise you, but she was strongly advocating for mobility
service for services for older adults. And she wasn't shy. And I'm like, god dang, I really like this woman.
I'm really going to enjoy this relationship. But through the years, I don't know how many times I just said,
oh, my god, Kate, you can't say that. But she did. But she's so passionate about what she does, and
we're so appreciative.
What I like about Kate most, obviously she always got that grin on her face, but she understands
relationships. She understands the importance of relationships. And there were plenty of times-- I'm
serious, about half the folks that I know in this industry is due to Kate and those relationships. Every now
and then she'll send me a text or something, you have to meet such and such. And I'm like, all right, I'll
check my-- no, you have to meet this person.
And I'm just so appreciative she understands that. Whether it's that garage party that she has, or maybe
you're lucky enough to have an actual dinner party inside of her house. It was always so much fun. And
we're so appreciative.
My wife, who's a bit of an introvert in herself, I mean, I think Kate has really helped her break out of her
shell. So we're so appreciative of knowing you and continuing that relationship, and we're looking forward
to seeing you soon. Thank you all so very much. Appreciate you.
[APPLAUSE]

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. And our next speaker, please.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Hello, everyone. Barbara McManus, past Board Executive Manager. Jack is now
my replacement.
I had the pleasure of working with Kate for many years. I can say that she's an inspiration. She's a force
to be reckoned with. She's a true friend. She's a collaborator. She's a builder of bridges. And she should
be proud of everything she's done every day in her life. Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]

ERIK DAVIDSON: Finally-- oh, another speaker. Please go ahead.
TINA FRANKLIN: Good evening. Tina Franklin, former RTD Director. And what a privilege to be here
tonight to honor Kate and her accomplishments. Her unwavering commitment to this community and to
transportation in general is unmatched.
On a personal note, Kate's been a personal friend. She's come behind me. She's come alongside me.
She's held my hand and been in front of me. And so just, I can't say enough good things about Kate. And
her efforts here in this industry will be missed, but I'm guessing she still has a pot to stir or two.
So thank you for the opportunity. And thank you, Director Williams, for everything you've done.
[APPLAUSE]

ERIK DAVIDSON: And our next speaker, please.
CHUCK SISK: Good evening, Chair, members of the Board, General Manager Johnson. My name is
Chuck Sisk. And I had the privilege of serving with Kate for a couple of years. And it was such a privilege.
Because when you see people that are as genuine as Kate and as loving and lovable as Kate, it really
does bring back the issue of public service. She did it because of the people, not because Kate was trying
to be a resume builder.
And there's so many lessons that we've heard about Kate tonight, but one of the things I take away is her
genuineness. She loves people. She's an advocate. But she is so measured and she is so willing to make
people feel better. And that's something that I think all of us can gain from Kate throughout this.
And if I could leave with anything, it's the fact that this is a lovely, lovely person. And she was lovely on
the stage and she's even more lovely when she's at the street fair dancing. So Kate, we love you. And it's
so great to be here to celebrate Kate Williams and her service to RTD, but really, Kate Williams as a
person. Thank you so much.
[APPLAUSE]

ERIK DAVIDSON: And our next speaker, please.
JOSHUA SPERLING: Hi, everyone. Joshua Sperling. I'm at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory.
I've had all sorts of wonderful interactions with Kate for many years, probably seven or so. It was
observing her in DRMAC meetings with rooms of 40 people late at night. It was meeting at DRCOG and
talking about veterans and older adults in the outskirts of our Metro region and in the mountain
communities.
It was talking with entrepreneurs coming from outside of our country and being invited to our region to
come up with new solutions for on-demand transit, her taking me up to Loveland, Colorado to have a
lovely lunch with two of her colleagues from Carepool, RideCo, and we were visiting Lightning eMotors,
looking at conversions of different types of vehicles to look at affordable ways to create electrification.
And she most recently, right around Thanksgiving, wrote us a letter of support for our US Department of
Transportation Climate Change and Transportation Research Center centered on equity, vulnerability,
climate risk, and environmental impact. And we just found out last Friday that we were selected as a
finalist.
I reread Kate's letter this evening before coming here. And I thought it was just a wonderful letter about
RTD and the role that they could play in supporting this proposal. So I don't know how many are left, but
we are one finalist. We'll be interviewed end of this month. And I'm sure there's a lot I'd love to be able to
carry forward from Kate.
I propose to the team in her honor to look at and study the impacts of this fare free for youth option, which
directly benefited my family. We had twins in March. And I've been riding transit every day with my fiveyear-old and two 10-month-olds to get to school, to take them downtown.

And I think I recall several years back being at a Rail-Volution conference here in Denver and just asking
the audience, all of you that are passionate about transportation and transit, please raise your hand if you
remember an experience being a young person and your parents or your grandparents or someone in
your life taking you on public transit and that being a part of your childhood. And I would say people at
this conference, almost 95% raised their hands. And I think it just speaks to where influence from a very
early age in terms of positive life experiences when we take on a certain mode choice and it's associated
with being with our parents.
For me, I'll share, this is emotional in some ways, because I lost my father two years ago to an aggressive
cancer. And he had a career of public service working at the US Department of Housing and Urban
Development in affordable housing and linking it with health and with transit. And it was a surprise then.
And hearing this news about Kate was a surprise now. And I think for me, I'm still reflecting two years
later, as of Martin Luther King Day, about the passing of my father and all the wonderful memories.
And I think I'm feeling like Kate will be another person in my mind a lot over the next few years. And I'm
hoping we'll be able to continue having these conversations about playing for the good stuff and how it
impacts each of our work. So thank you, Kate.
[APPLAUSE]

One last thought. And this wasn't prepared at all. But I just joined Frank Bruno's Via Colorado Board. And
I delayed it a year or two, saying I'm busy, just lost my father, I just had twins. But I think the timing is
right. I talked to him in December. And I'm joining with Bill VanMeter as the two new Board members. And
I think Kate's passion for supporting those with disabilities, older adults, using technology, coming up with
new business models, and bringing the community together in many ways, including someone who's at
the National Renewable Energy Lab thinking about transit, energy efficient transportation systems, I really
appreciate all that I've learned. So thank you.
[APPLAUSE]

ERIK DAVIDSON: So finally, I will call on. And Kate, you taught me when I got on this Board that once
you're on this Board, everybody has the same first name and you have that first name. So with that,
Director, I'd like to open the floor to you, if you would like to say any words to the Board or to the group.
KATE WILLIAMS: Very weird to be over here.
GEORGE MICHAEL WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director, that was great.
[LAUGHTER]

KATE WILLIAMS: My brother. I want you guys to know that everything that I've heard tonight is amazing.
And I'm grateful to all of you for all that you have all done in this place and in this community. And you're
going to laugh when you hear what I had already written down.

It says, if you have the social and economic privilege to have come here tonight in a car, then your
responsibility is to support those who are unable to exercise that privilege. The differently abled, those
who are underage, those who have emigrated here, older adults, and our neighbors who are
economically challenged, RTD supports all of them. It gets them to school. It gets them to work. It gets
them to the grocery. It gets them to the doctor. You need to support RTD. It's a huge part of the fabric of
our community.
Thank you all for electing me and for helping me to make a difference. Good night.
[APPLAUSE]

ERIK DAVIDSON: So at this time, we do have a motion at hand for this proclamation. So at this time, I'll
now call for the vote, which I will do with a roll call vote.
Treasurer Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: I am here and a yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Hell yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: I was going to say that, Doug. He does this to me all the time. Hell yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And this is Director Davidson. I am a yes.
So with 15 yes votes and zero no votes, the motion carries for the proclamation. 14. Thank you. I'm so
used to 15.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You can vote.
ERIK DAVIDSON: This is what I'm saying. Thank you for continuing to help in matters of RTD, Director.
Thank you. With 14 yes votes and zero no, the motion carries.
At this time, we're going to take a brief break for some photographs. People can also use the restroom at
this time. I will call us back to order at 6:19. So please be in your seats by 6:10, at which point I'll call us
back to order. Thank you.

2024-01-30
Board Meeting Part 2
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, everybody. I will own the naivety of calling for 6:19. So thank
you for the patience. Appreciate it. We're going to move on to the next section of our agenda. We are
reconvened as of 6:25 PM.
We're moving into our public participation portion of the agenda. This is for anyone who would like to
address the Board of Directors. As we do have in-person and remote attendees, in person comments do
go first, followed by any that are participating remotely.
For those attending in person, please come up to the podium when your name is called. If you have not
already signed up to speak and would like to do so, please approach the podium when I call for any
additional speakers.

For those attending virtually, if you wish to speak and have not done so, please raise your virtual hand, or
if dialing in by phone, press star 9. Staff will unmute you if you're joining by phone when it is your turn to
speak. And if you are dialed in, you may press star 6 to toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this public participation process, you are being recorded. If
you do not wish to be recorded, then your comments can be submitted to the Board in writing. If any
speaker has documentation or reference materials for the Board, or if any member of the public would like
to submit written comments, please email those materials to the Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtddenver.com.
During this time, I'll just remind everyone that the Board does not offer any direct comments or responses.
However, if you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment, again you may email the
Board Office at the same email address I had just listed.
Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names and please acknowledge that we'll have up to
three minutes to provide their comments. I'll go ahead and call up our in-person folks who have signed
up, starting with Jaime Lewis, please, from the Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition. Thank you, Mr. Kroll.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you. Again, my name is Jaime Lewis and I'm the Transit Advisor for the Colorado
Cross-Disability Coalition. I live at 1135 Broadway, Denver.
Tonight you will begin discussions about naming or a supplemental naming of the Civic Center Station.
This is not a decision to be taken lightly. Renaming a building has to be done for extraordinary
circumstances.
Wade Blank was extraordinary. Not only did he help establish a legacy for RTD but the entire nation. RTD
personnel and riders can take special pride in the fact that in 1983, the Board of Directors directed staff to
make its fleet accessible to everyone. In essence, Wade Blank is our Rosa Parks in the disability
community.
CCDC is here to assist you. And if you have any questions, feel free to reach me. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Lewis. Now I'll next call on James Flattum from Greater Denver
Transit.
JAMES FLATTUM: Thank you, Chair Davidson. Good evening, everyone. My name is James Flattum. I'm
with Greater Denver Transit.
My first comment this evening is going to be an acknowledgment of RTD staff and management for a very
smooth transition to the new fare structure on January 1. This was something that our group was
extremely excited about happening, about simplifying RTD's fare structure, making, especially for those
who have monthly passes being able to go back and forth to the airport, especially for airport workers, for
less than $100 a month is something that we were terrifically thrilled by. So congratulations to RTD
management for accomplishing that very smoothly.
The other item that I wanted to raise tonight is in regards to the Board packet that went out that includes
information on the RTD headcount data. I had a comment at the end of last year that was encouraging
management, encouraging the Board to call for greater transparency and clarity on headcount trends at
RTD. This continues to be the largest challenge that RTD has to restoring service to pre-COVID capacity.

And the report that came out today had data that was at best confusing and at worst a little bit misleading.
The headcount number for bus operators appeared to increase by over 34 people, which we would
applaud as a great achievement, as a great step in the right direction. However, the higher number
inferred that there was only a net increase of 4 people.
And again, and I come to the Board with sympathy is that there's a lot of information that the Board is
responsible for combing through to be able to provide transparent accountability for RTD. And I think just
examples like this is a challenge that we have a long way to go. And I hope that in 2024, right, we can
continue to make progress, have the agency make progress. But one of the key things that we need to do
is we need to simplify and improve the information that you guys are given in order to provide proper
governance.
So I hope that in 2024, especially over the next couple of months, I'd continue to encourage you to call
upon management to simplify and improve metrics that are most essential for RTD to recover to preCOVID levels of service.
That concludes my comments for this evening. Thank you very much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Flattum. I'd now like to call on Chris Nicholson, please.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Board members. So I want to talk a little bit today about access. And I'd be remiss
if I didn't start out by thanking Director-- recognizing and thanking Director Williams for her incredible work
over the last seven years. I'm a resident of District A and she's been the only Director that I've ever had
living in Denver. And specifically for the work that she did on access for people with disabilities, for
paratransit, for access for youth.
And I want to speak today about an access issue that I've seen over the last few months, that I've seen
get, honestly, worse that she even called out during her remarks. And that is access for those who are
immigrants. I am a full-time transit rider. I go through Union Station on a regular basis. I live downtown so
I see people needing to get around on the 15, on the 43, on the 38, to get up to the shelters at Zuni.
And the number of times that I have been asked by someone who does not speak English, how do I get
to the shelter, what bus should I take, who've been looking around in Union Station for information, for a
guide, for what to do, for how to get a bus pass, if there are any available for free, and who maybe don't
know even how to communicate with the bus drivers to ask them those questions the way that most of us
would.
I've also spoken with members of city council about this, with Sarah Parady, and there's interest. There's
willingness on the part of the city to work with RTD to do more to solve this problem. I know there's
already a lot of work being done to improve wayfinding and to make it easier for people to get around the
city.
I think it's, rather than just focusing on the moments when we get a large new group of migrants and
making sure that they can get to where they need to go, which I think is already being handled reasonably
well, the off hours, the folks who are standing outside Union Station who are hungry and who literally are
just asking for food because they have no, they have nothing to eat, but don't know how to get to the
shelters and the soup kitchens and the restaurant I know that is in downtown that can basically give you
food if you work for a little while.

These are resources that people who live here, people who've been here for a long time know about,
know how to get to. I think we should see what we can do in terms of leaflets in Union Station in Spanish
and other resources so that folks who are here when nobody else is can have an easier time finding their
way. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Nicholson I'd now like to call on Keith Brooks, please.
KEITH BROOKS: Hello. I'm Keith, also from Greater Denver Transit. Not to put a downer on what has
been a very heartwarming meeting up to this point, but I would like to address the recent derailment on
the H line.
I need not belabor how unacceptable this is. Suffice it to say for those of us who regularly use the
Southeast alignment, the train is no longer a means of transportation. It is a gamble. It is a roll of the dice
of whether you will be able to get to work or to school or just simply not. Or just not attend class that day,
to skip that meeting. Because you don't know when the next train is going to come. And it might be
another hour on what should be a 15-minute schedule.
But I feel two questions must be asked, generally, rhetorically. One, what does it say about the state of
capital programs in RTD that while the line was disrupted for, god, IT felt like several years, or a decade,
to repair and maintain retaining walls along the line? The tracks that they are meant to protect are older
than I am. You can read on the rails when they were manufactured. They're from 2002.
Now I won't speculate as to the cause of what caused the derailment. I love a good NTSB report when it's
done. I can wait. But it does make me worry about the state of basic infrastructure. And though we had a
real wake-up call with the rails in the downtown loop being corroded all the way through, I worry about the
basic catenaries and basic tracks and bread and butter that makes a train run.
My second point, or question, is if derailments are just going to be a fact of life, which, given the last few
months seems they will be, what can be done to get clean up and recovery quicker? It should not take
four days to rerail a train that's still standing upright. Freight railroads do that all the time to just get it out
of the way.
I know, because there's an ongoing investigation, you want to leave it in place so pictures can be taken,
stuff can be recorded. But please, I hated seeing that train sitting there for four days. And if it's going to be
an ongoing recurrence to have completely avoidable derailments, please get the train out of the way and
get them moving. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Brooks. At this time, I'll now call if there's any other in-person speakers
that did not sign up.
Seeing none, we will move to our online speakers. I am told there are four. And I'd like to ask Board
Executive Office Manager Mr. Kroll if you could please assist in calling those names out. Go ahead,
please.
JACK KROLL: Yes. The first individual who raised their hand is Joe Beaver. Please go ahead
JOE BEAVER: OK. I'm here. Good evening. And thank you for allowing me to speak in support of
renaming the Civic Center Station to the Wade Blank Memorial Station at Civic Center.

My name is Joe Beaver and I'm an ex-officio member of RTD's Advisory Committee for People with
Disabilities. When those of us with disabilities work together with RTD, we can create some remarkable
achievements. We've come a long way since July the 5th, 1978, when the Gang of 19, a group of
disability activists led by Wade Blank, blocked the buses in front of the Capitol.
Wade Blank not only fought for accessible transportation, he was the man who broke down the
institutionalization of throwaway kids, kids whose parents didn't want them because of their disability. The
Heritage House nursing home housed several of those youngsters, adults, young adults at that time, and
saw an opportunity for recruiting more of this population by hiring Wade Blank as a activities director. He
was chosen from a list of ministers. He was young, hip, had long hair, and would fit right in with the
Heritage House marketing plan to recruit more young people to join the Heritage House youth wing.
Wade Blank did recruit several young residents, turned off the Hallmark movies, put on some rock and
roll, and ordered pizza. The nursing home rocked like a college dorm. But the nursing home managers
didn't like it whenever he took a group of residents to a Grateful Dead concert and especially didn't like it
whenever he took them to the Capitol to describe the deplorable conditions in nursing homes.
Wade Blank got fired for that, but he didn't leave his young folks behind. He found apartments that he
modified to accommodate wheelchair users, and with the help from Barry Rosenberg started Denver's
first home health care agency, a model being followed today.
RTD should be very proud of its partnership with Wade Blank. His tireless advocacy for accessible
transportation led to significant improvements in RTD services. His vision and dedication have shaped the
RTD that we know today.
In recognition of his immense contributions, I propose renaming the Civic Center Station to the Wade
Blank Memorial Station at Civic Center. I want to do this on July 5, 2024, 46 years after the sit-in, by
Adapt. This should be a national event showcasing our public transportation system from DIA to Union
Station to the Capitol and to the suburbs. We have a great city. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, sir. Mr. Kroll, if you'd please call and unmute the next speaker, please.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Next we have Aaron Chaleff.
AARON CHALEFF: Good evening. Thank you for the opportunity to speak here. I just want to say that I
question the revenue that's being brought in by advertising on the wraps from buses and trains. I
understand that revenue is key for RTD's viability, but I also want to stress that riding transit when you're
being part of an advertising platform does not contribute to an environment where you want to utilize
transit, if you have the choice.
I would like RTD not to be merely a last resort for people who could not drive. I would like for it to be a
pleasurable experience. And someone, I grew up experiencing motion sickness quite often when driving,
and having limited visibility is something that would contribute to that. So I just want to raise that issue to
the Board. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Mr. Kroll, if you could please call the name of the next speaker
and unmute them, please.
JACK KROLL: Next we have Paolo Solorzano.

PAOLO SOLORZANO: Hi. This is Paolo Solorzano with the RTD Riders Alliance. And I'm here to support
CCDC, the Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition, on RTD's considering renaming the Civic Center Station
for Wade Blank.
There are many good reasons for this. And I'm just going to quote the American Hospital Association's,
their material and what they've been saying is that transportation barriers can affect a person's access to
health care services. These barriers may result in missed or delayed health care appointments, increased
health expenditures, and overall poorer health outcomes. Transportation is interrelated with other social
detriments of health, such as poverty, social isolation, access to education, and also racial discrimination.
The data from the AHA here is that each year-- this is from 2017, but I'm sure it's about the same-- each
year 3.6 million people in the United States do not obtain medical care due to transportation issues.
Transportation issues include lack of vehicle access, inadequate infrastructure, long distances, and
lengthy times to reach needed services, transportation costs, and adverse policies that affect travel. They
affect all of us.
And so I think just want to say that, yeah, the Gang of 19, we have a good opportunity to really, RTD, if
they can get the name right, and like Wade said, let's roll, like let's roll. Like let's do this. Let's make RTD
symbolic. We can lead the way to get us all where we need to get to healthy.
And I just want to echo, yeah, that like yeah, the immigrant situation, I myself, I can't talk much about it.
But like I am working at the migrant, as an emergency service worker at the migrant shelters. And yeah,
they don't know where to go. And even our own citizens are having a hard time getting around right now.
And there's been four derailments on the coping panels.
Yeah. Let's actually try to-- let's lead the way. That's what I'm trying to say. And hopefully we can do that.
So that's all I have.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your remarks. Mr. Kroll, please call on the next speaker.
JACK KROLL: Yes, right now we have two speakers left. Next is Christina Johnson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I do see that Ms. Johnson is muted. Ms. Johnson, if you're able to unmute on your
side, you can go ahead, please.
Ms. Johnson, you are still muted. We will come back to Christina Johnson in a moment. Mr. Kroll, can you
please call on our next speaker and unmute them, please?
JACK KROLL: Yes. Next we have Barry Rosenberg.
BARRY ROSENBERG: Am I unmuted yet?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, we can hear you. Thank you.
BARRY ROSENBERG: Yeah, my name is Barry Rosenberg. I worked with Wade Blank back in 1973. We
worked at a nursing home where there were young people with disabilities, as young as 10 years old,
many who used wheelchairs for mobility.
I also at that time had a Volkswagen bus. We'd take out the middle seats of the bus to accommodate
people with disabilities in wheelchairs. They were much smaller and not as custom made as they are

now. And I could get four people in wheelchairs, didn't need tie downs because there was no place to fall.
It was crammed in. And someone would ride in a seat and transferred.
Wade and I-- mobility was-- and I was very touched by what Katherine Williams said about not everyone
is able to have their own vehicle or have the resources to get Uber or any of those kind of things. So
public transportation is really important.
I was very proud of the fact that, I think it was in 1973 or '74, Wade and I organized a demonstration
directed toward RTD because there were no plans to make buses accessible. The meeting was, I believe
it was in Colorado Boulevard, when RTD was, before it was operational, I believe. And the Board was an
appointed Board not a elected Board.
And we got there about an hour and a half before the meeting started. There were chairs, fold out chairs.
We moved them all. And roughly 60 people in wheelchairs sat right in front of the Board of Directors. We
had some amazing speakers to talk about the need for transportation. And it made the front page of either
the Rocky Mountain News or the Denver Post.
And as a result, we had a paratransit, not like the present system, Handy Ride. It was along the major
corridors like Colorado Boulevard, Colfax, Broadway. I remember this friend of mine who had never
really-- his sister lived in town, never was able to visit her. And it took him to see her three hours getting
there and three hours back. He was crying. He was so excited. But that was hardly a viable system for
most people unless they lived along those corridors.
There are some amazing people in the Denver disability community. Wade stands out for many things,
but particularly transportation. And let me also say that I was a co-founder of Atlantis with Wade. And we
were the first program in the United States to get people in nursing homes, young people in nursing
homes, out into the community. We were able to get subsidized housing. And I think we started that
trend. And it was not easy.
And I need to say, before the system became operational, I used to meet with the RTD staff and talk
about the need for transportation, the importance of it. And the irony is people who need it the most were
getting it the least. So although I lobbied, I wasn't very effective. And hence, that's what led to some of the
demonstrations and eventually the situation on Broadway and Colfax, where the Gang of 19, 19 people
who were using wheelchairs for mobility, blocked two RTD buses for two days. It was quite an event.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Rosenberg, thank you for your comments. Could you please wrap in the next 10
seconds, please?
BARRY ROSENBERG: Ten seconds? Of all the people involved in getting transportation in Denver,
Colorado, and throughout the nation, Wade was the most tenacious and Wade deserves to have a
memorial be part of the Wade Blank Memorial Center. Thank you for the opportunity.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments, sir. Mr. Kroll, is Ms. Christina Johnson still present and
is she available to speak?
JACK KROLL: We still have Christina Johnson here. We've put her live. And then we did have one
additional hand raise from Kelly Tobin. But we'll go next to Christina Johnson to see if she can chime in.
CHRISTINA JOHNSON: Good evening. Can you hear me?

ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, we can. Thank you.
CHRISTINA JOHNSON: Thank you. My name is Christina Johnson and I'm one of the founders as well
as a proud member of Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition. We started CCDC back in 1990 when the
concept of cross-disability was really new. People with disabilities had been divided into different areas by
their disability in general. And instead of seeing the unity of the movement, people felt isolated and felt
that they weren't able to have any effect on changing the world.
I also want to stress the influence that Wade Blank had. And I think using his name at the Civic Station
would send a strong message to people with disabilities as well as other people using RTD. Thank you
for your time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments. Mr. Kroll, please call on the next speaker.
JACK KROLL: Kelly Tobin.
KELLY TOBIN: Hi there. So my name is Kelly Tobin, as you know. And I am also a member of the
Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition. In addition, I'm an appreciative RTD passenger, having moved to
Denver from Colorado Springs about 15 years back for the Regional Transit District's system.
On July 18, 2022, I saw a sign on an RTD bus. I took a picture of that bus as-- excuse me, of that sign-as it disturbed me. I never expected to return to that picture. But with the opportunity to speak tonight
about the issue of the naming of the downtown station, I called upon that picture. And the sign said,
accessible by choice, not by chance.
Now I know a bit of my disability rights history, namely downtown at the corner of Broadway and Colfax
here in Denver, where 19 people with disabilities surrounded a bus and detained it to capture the
attention that less dramatic measures could not. So that sign plastered above me on the bus struck me at
best as a partial truth. I had felt quite moved this evening to hear the warm and generous mention of my
community multiple times. How the tenor has changed over the decades.
So to return to that sign above me on the bus that read, accessible by choice, not by chance, a very
interesting claim more than three decades post passage of the Americans with Disabilities Act. I'd like to
echo my fellow members of the disability community to say that one way in which RTD can willingly
support the disability community at present is to choose the moniker Wade Blank Station for the
downtown transit hub. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments. Mr. Kroll, are there any further speakers?
JACK KROLL: There are not.
ERIK DAVIDSON: With no other participants in the queue, we thank all of those who have participated
this evening to share their comments with this Board. We will close the participation period at this time.
We will now move to the next item on our agenda, which is external entities reports. This month we have
one external entity report. That report is from the Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee,
commonly referred to as APAC. We're joined by Ms. Julie Jennings to please begin your report when you
are ready.
JULIE JENNINGS: Thank you for having me. I present to you a summary for the December APAC
meeting.

Fare changes. LiVE discount applied to Access-a-Ride. Monika Treipl-Harnke, the Senior Manager of
Revenue, provided information on the LiVE program and application process.
QRyde Software, the RouteMatch replacement. QRyde developers are finalizing the data transfer
conduits between QRyde and RouteMatch to allow RTD to retain and transfer data between systems.
Once complete, RTD will test QRyde on Saturdays, transferring back to the RouteMatch system on
Sundays. If tests go well, RTD will start testing Sundays and then roll out testing to weekdays.
Access-on-Demand, clarification on multi-stop trips. A request was made to allow customers to use
Access-on-demand for multi-stop purposes. Currently, Uber is the only company who has the technical
ability to accommodate the request. RTD will continue to explore this ask and reach out to the other
vendors for comment.
Community engagement process on vehicle satisfaction for future vehicle purchases. The RTD marketing
department will embark on a robust year-long community engagement process to gather feedback from
all types of RTD customers on the current Access-a-Ride vehicles in order to decide on their next
purchase.
From the APAC membership. Request members to encourage others to apply to fill two empty seats on
the committee. RTD requested APAC members to reach out to the community and let people know that
there are two APAC seats available which they can apply for.
The effort to rename the Civic Center Station after Wade Blank. Joe Beaver from the Colorado CrossDisability Coalition updated the group that 24 state legislators signed on to support renaming the Civic
Center Station.
APAC concern. When pick up is late, clarification was added to the customer guide. The Access-a-Ride
customer guide was edited to clarify that if a vehicle is or will be delayed outside the pickup window, a
customer may cancel the trip without it being considered a service abuse.
APAC suggestion. Build in a real-time feedback mechanism for Access-a-Ride trips. RTD asked for APAC
suggestion regarding real-time feedback. RTD will work with marketing and the survey departments to
develop draft ideas.
APAC suggestion. Improve sensitivity of staff to customer needs and experience of the service. Most
recently, operators received training on Title VI and serving non-English speakers. The training included
best practices for working with non-English speakers and translators, connections between civil rights and
the public, non-discrimination, and the complaint process.
APAC contractor liaisons. Currently the liaisons are service contractor general managers. The general
managers use their regular driver safety meetings to share APAC suggestions and concerns with drivers
and to gather feedback.
This concludes my summary. Thank you for your time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Jennings, for your report and your service on the Advisory Committee.
I'll now move to the Audit Committee report. Committee Chair Dishell, do you have anything to report?
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I don't think we did committee reports earlier this month, right? It
was just the election.

So the Audit Committee met on December 20 to briefly review internal audit plan to date. And most of it
was focused on cybersecurity and held in executive session. The Audit Committee will again meet on
February 15 at 10:00 AM.
As a reminder, we have internal audit. We will be receiving an update on our internal audit plan and how
that is progressing, including the items which staff has agreed to already meet by that date certain. We
will be receiving an update from external audit, who is going to be kicking off, or will soon be kicking off
their annual external audit.
And then some Directors may have received outreach from the Office of the State Auditor. Thank you to
those of you who have participated. That is an audit against prior state audits and recommendations
evaluating Board governance and compliance with state law. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Dishell.
I'll now turn to the Finance and Planning Committee report. Committee Chair Tisdale, do you have
anything you would like to report?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The Finance and Planning Committee met on
January the 16th. The minutes of that meeting are found at pages 29 and 30 of your Board packet. At that
meeting, we elected committee officers and discussed the draft work plan. Thank you, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Tisdale. And now to the Operations and Safety
Committee. Committee Chair Whitmore, do you have anything you would like to report?
TROY WHITMORE: Briefly, sir. Thank you. Just like to say congratulations to Treasurer Bouquet, who
has a second role in leadership as Vice Chair of the committee, Operations and Safety, and look forward
to working with him.
We had two items of action. The group of 32 fixed route contract Transdev, which was passed by a 4-3
vote and is on our recommended action agenda later this evening. We also unanimously passed the
revised drug and alcohol policy that was needing updated from 2013. And that is on unanimous consent
agenda.
We did some brainstorming on work plan matters. And we will meet as a small committee on the 5th of
February with staff to proceed with adding agenda items to the work plan for that committee. And our next
meeting will be a real sweetheart, Wednesday, February 14, 5:30 PM Mountain.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Whitmore. We will be there.
And finally, we'll move to the Performance Committee report. Committee Chair Catlin, do you have
anything you would like to report?
PEGGY CATLIN: Briefly. We do have one item on the unanimous consent agenda, which is the sixth
amendment to the employment agreement with General Manager and CEO Debra Johnson. And then we
have two recommended actions. One of them is for the Board to approve the GM and CEO performance
assessment framework. And the other is the seventh amendment to the GM/CEO contract, which moves
to a performance-based framework, or compensation framework consistent with the GM/CEO
compensation philosophy.

We also have not calendared it yet, but we will be working with GM/CEO Johnson, as well as Chief
People Officer Polege, Vice Chair Lynn Guissinger and myself, to work on-- and Jack Kroll, excuse me-to develop this committee's work plan for the year. That's all, Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Catlin.
We'll now move to the approval of the Board meeting minutes and committee reports. The Board and
committee minutes were included in the Board packet. Are there any corrections from Directors for the
minutes to be approved this evening?
Unless there's any objection to considering the minutes all at the same time, may I please have a motion
to approve the minutes for the following meetings? It's quite a bit. November 28, 2023 Board meeting.
December 4, 2023 Performance Committee. December 4, 2023 special Board meeting. December 20,
2023 Audit Committee. January 9, 2024 special Board meeting. January 11, 2024 Executive Committee.
January 16, 2024 Finance and Planning Committee. January 16, 2024 Performance Committee. January
17, 2024 Operations and Safety Committee. January 17, 2024 Performance Committee. And January 24,
2024 Executive Committee. Do I have a motion?
JULIEN BOUQUET: So moved, Bouquet.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I hear Treasurer Bouquet. Do I have a second?
BOBBY DISHELL: Second, Dishell.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell as the second.
Director Guissinger has noted a couple clerical changes that the Board Office will be making with respect
to these minutes. Is there any further discussion on this motion?
I'll now call for the vote to approve the minutes with the-- and are there any no votes on this action? All
right, seeing none, with 14 aye votes and 0 no votes, and 0 abstentions, the motion passes.
We'll now move on to the Chair's report, followed by the General Manager's report.
Colleagues, I'd like to keep this relatively simple and general this evening. First of all, thank you for
entrusting me with the leadership and stewardship of this Board in the year ahead in 2024. As we are all
accountable to the people who placed us in this Board room, so too will I be accountable to each of you
and to everybody across our RTD team and family.
General Manager and CEO Johnson has been continuing to motivate the entire RTD team to view itself
as one RTD. I thank her for that this call and I'd like to take the moment to remind all of us on the Board
and on the RTD family that we are indeed one team. We will not achieve perfection this year, nor will we
in any year. And if it's anything I've learned, it's that a destination or a finish line is often an illusion. It's our
unified pursuit of greatness and continual pursuit where we may shine.
I'd like to highlight that from January 13 through January 16, we had an interesting event. Average
temperatures for consecutive days remained below 0 degrees Fahrenheit and actually in some parts of
our District reached -20. During this time, RTD acted as one. Whether it is increased staffing levels or
folks being available to double down and go the extra mile, we worked across this team to ensure the
safety of our customers as well as to minimize service impacts.

This may not look like much from afar but it is a great deal. Our team did accomplish both of these
objectives, maximizing safety and minimizing inconvenience. It's times like these that our team shines
and I'd like to thank all of those who were involved in that effort.
We also heard during public comment tonight the implementation of a new fare structure. Not only was
this an historic first for the agency, given that we lowered it, it's noteworthy that it went off without any big
problems. Again, this comes from the team working truly as one RTD. We all sit in different seats. We all
do different things. We all have a very small part of this. And I thank you to everybody for being a part of
that.
Unfortunately, we live in times of very heightened perceived division and I find that the word they is often
being used when the word should in fact be we. Let us remember that this group at RTD is in fact a we.
I'll go further. We are not alone. Our regional community, which continually shares its views around transit
with us, as it should, is also part of our collective we. I'd like to just note that this past month I had the
privilege of working with Second Vice Chair Guissinger in the collaboration of drafting an op ed that was
published in the Denver Post, the Boulder Daily Camera and the Longmont Times Call. In it, RTD is
reminding our community that not only have we had recent successes, but we face a great many
challenges, and the only way we can get through them is together with our community.
Throughout the year this Board and this team at RTD has my commitment that I will continually remind us
here on this Board, as well as our entire community, the collective us, of the big issues we face in this
near term that are threats to our long-term success. One is ensuring the well-being and personal security
of our team members out there delivering service every day.
Another is tackling vital deferred maintenance projects that I wish I could say we were alone on in the
United States, but that need to be addressed to ensure the investments of our community remain intact
and to safeguard our system. And finally is to encourage this region to engage in a robust dialogue
around how we can diversify and bolster the resources that come into transit to ensure a transit future.
We are fortunate here that we are not one of the transit agencies facing a fiscal cliff. However, our time is
limited. Looking out on a long-term horizon, we have challenges to address to ensure that we maintain
our service and increase it. I think we need to engage in that discussion as opposed to falling into tired
arguments about how we continually reallocate and reallocate the precious resources that we have.
Speaking to that latter point, finally, this past month I've had the pleasure to continue working with our
revenue diversification group and I'm pleased to confirm that we will have some recommendations and
thoughts coming forward as to where to take that group to this Board forthcoming to our Finance and
Planning Committee meetings.
With that, I'd like to, again say a sincere thank you to my colleagues for entrusting me here and again
state that I intend to be fully accountable to each of you. Please hold me as such.
I will now hand off to our General Manager and CEO, Debra Johnson, for her report. Please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And first and foremost, thank you for your report
and acknowledgment of this collective effort. We're all people that comprise this agency and we do so
with the utmost intent of being good fiduciaries, delivering public transportation services as the residents
of this region expect. So thank you. We're here with you.

With that, good evening, once again to everyone, Board members and to all who are assembled. I am
Debra Johnson, the General Manager and CEO. This evening I will share with you a few highlights of
activities and strategic endeavors in which I have engaged since the most recent monthly Board meeting,
our regular scheduled Board meeting on Tuesday, November 28, 2023. This report and the activities I'm
citing herein are centered around the agency's strategic priorities as well as the 2023-2024 strategic
initiatives of back to basics, people power, and a welcoming transit environment.
Regarding community value, I will share an overview of meetings and events in which I have engaged,
including a quarterly progress review meeting related to the East Colfax Avenue Bus Rapid Transit
project, the annual retreat of the Front Range Passenger Rail District Board, on which I serve as a exofficio member, the Commuter Rail CEO Seminar hosted by the American Public Transportation
Association, the Aurora Rotary Club's 2023 State of the City luncheon, the annual legislative breakfast
held by Commuting Solutions and the Northwest Mayors and Commissioners Coalition, and a meeting
with representatives from Sage Hospitality Group regarding renovations of Denver Union Station historic
building that are currently underway.
Regarding customer excellence, I will discuss recent efforts to restore service on the Southeast light rail
corridor following an incident wherein a light rail train became disabled while in revenue service. Speaking
to employee ownership, I will share information regarding operational details related to the extreme cold
weather event that occurred two weeks ago. And rounding out, I will briefly touch upon Law Enforcement
Appreciation Day.
Relating to community value, on Wednesday, November 29, representatives from the Federal Transit
Administration Region 8 met with project partners for the East Colfax Bus Rapid Transit project to conduct
a quarterly progress report. I, along with Cindy Terwilliger, who serves as the Regional FTA administrator,
Adam Phipps, the Director of Denver's Department of Transportation and Infrastructure, discussed
overarching project updates and staff presented more granular information regarding the project status,
including the status of procurements, third-party agreements, project controls, and a 90-day look ahead
and the overall roadmap for that critical project.
From Thursday, November 30 through Friday, December 1, I participated in the Front Range Passenger
Rail District Board's annual retreat, which took place right down the street at the Oxford Hotel. The
purpose of the meeting was to further develop an approach to the Board's process regarding forthcoming
decision making relative to the 2024 district work plan implementation that includes the service
development plan and where there's a nexus quite naturally with our Northwest Rail Peak Feasibility
Study in relationship to other elements in bringing intercity passenger rail full circle to the Front Range.
The following week I traveled to Washington, DC from Tuesday, December 5 through Thursday, Friday
8th to attend the Commuter Rail CEO Workshop hosted by the American Public Transportation
Association. Participants in the workshop engaged in discussions related to commuter rail legislative
priorities, community partnerships, safety challenges, and resiliency, and the future of commuter rail,
among other topics, and took part in informational sessions offered by representatives from the FRA,
which included the Deputy Administrator, Jennifer Mitchell, and representation from the Passenger Rail
Advisory Council.
As Vice Chair of the Commuter Rail CEO Committee, on Thursday, December 7, I participated in
meetings, along with other seminar attendees, on Capitol Hill with congressional committee staffers
whereby I had the opportunity to engage directly and speak about our, our being a collective RTD,
regarding the need for legislative action for insurance premiums as well as operations and maintenance
grant funding pursuant to positive train control systems.

On Friday, December 15, I, along with Directors Broom and Tisdale, Government Relations Officer
Michael Davies and Board Office Executive Manager Jack Kroll, attended the Aurora Rotary Club 2023
State of the City luncheon in which we heard from the mayor about what lies ahead for 2024.
On Tuesday, January 9, I, along with then Chair Lynn Guissinger and Second Vice Chair Erik Davidson,
and Peggy Catlin and Director Michael Guzman, and Government Relations Officer Michael Davies, as
well as other very critical staff members who are engaged along that area in the Northwest attended the
15th annual legislative breakfast hosted by Community Solutions and the Northwest Mayors and
Commissioners. Governor Polis presented the keynote address and Transportation Committee Chair
Senator Faith Winter and Representative Meg Froehlich both gave remarks.
Additionally I, along with CDOT Executive Director Shoshana Lew and Ann Rajewski, who serves as the
Executive Director of the Colorado Association of Transit Agencies, better known as CASTA, participated
in a panel discussion moderated by Kathleen Bracke, representing Boulder County. And the panel was
entitled "Transit Aspirations for Colorado." I, along with fellow panelists, engaged in conversations related
to the future of transit here in Colorado, talking about the different elements that have impacted us and
how are we working collectively to bring greater mobility options to the region, as well as, quite naturally,
the synergies with commuter rail and intercity passenger rail service.
Related to customer excellence. As we heard during the public comment period and as I previously
reported to the Board, this past Wednesday, January 24, at approximately 1:25 PM-- I remember this
because we were in the Executive Committee-- I was made aware of a light rail consist incident on the E
line on the Southeast corridor north of Southmoor Station. Given that both the E and H line trains traverse
the segment of the corridor between Southmoor and Yale stations, where the consist was immobilized, in
order to safely coordinate bidirectional train movements along a single-- I want to emphasize-- a single
length of track in this area, service frequencies for both of those light rail lines along the corridor was
reduced to 45 minutes at that time.
Considering that this incident is currently being thoroughly investigated, it is too early at this point to draw
conclusions as to any causal or contributing factors. As such, I am here not to discuss details related to
the investigation but rather to share details regarding service restoration and the impacts.
So long as I serve as RTD's General Manager and CEO, I will continue to err on the side of employee
and customer safety over transit service delivery. Safety is paramount. And I must stress that none of the
17 customers aboard the consist nor the light rail operator were injured as a result of this incident.
That said, following preliminary review by a cross matrix team, it appears the light rail consist may have
struck debris on the track causing damage to the vehicle such that it could not be towed back to the light
rail operating facility by another operable vehicle. Preliminary plans to recover the vehicle were developed
over the course of Thursday, January 25, the day following the incident. At that time, I, in consultation
with the Assistant General Manager of Rail Operations, made the decision to keep the consist in place
throughout the revenue day on Thursday, until such time as a comprehensive recovery plan could be
developed with the intent to commence the work the following day.
As nature would have it, however, snow accumulations from the evening of Thursday, January 25 into the
morning of Friday, January 26 delayed any recovery efforts. Note that each light rail vehicle, a light rail
car by itself weighs 90,000 pounds. The average standard automobile weighs 4,000 pounds. So moving
one of these vehicles is the equivalent of moving 22.5 standard automobiles, a task that cannot be done
haphazardly.

As one might imagine, moving a 90,000 pound vehicle that has become immobilized on a segment of
light rail track requires significant people power and to do this safely requires tremendous coordination
and effort. Suffice to say, attempting to do this in an environment with suboptimal weather conditions
would not be a prudent course of action.
Additionally, weekend staffing levels are not conducive to this type of major endeavor, so the schedule for
recovery was slated to commence during daylight hours on Monday, January 29 and Rail Operations
personnel continued to meet frequently over the weekend to refine vehicle and service recovery plans.
Conditions do not allow for the vehicle recovery effort to continue-- excuse me, conditions did allow for
the vehicle recovery effort to continue on the morning of Monday, January 29, which was just yesterday.
As part of this monumental effort, crews were able to lift the damaged vehicle by way of a specialized jack
following which a brace was erected around the vehicle for support, and the damaged wheelset was
removed and replaced with a new set so that it could be towed back to the light rail maintenance facility.
For the Board's awareness, the wheelsets, known as trucks, each weigh approximately four tons on their
own. The crews began to move the vehicle at 4:00 PM and safely returned it to the yard at approximately
5:30 PM yesterday.
I am pleased to report regular revenue service resumed this morning, Tuesday, January 30 with the start
of revenue service. And I would like to publicly acknowledge the crews who safely accomplished this
heroic feat without additional incident. Further, I extend my thanks and appreciation to the customers for
the patience that they have displayed during this time.
To round out this report, I will now speak to the strategic priority of employee ownership. And Mr. Chair,
you made reference to this during your report, but I would just like to add some additional thought or, if I
may. Related to both customer excellence and the 2023-2024 strategic initiative of back to basics, as I
shared with this body on Friday, January 26, I extend my thanks and commendations for the tremendous
effort of employees and contractors in preparing for and responding to the historic cold weather event that
took place beginning on Saturday, January 13 and stretching through the morning of Tuesday, January
16.
Average daily temperatures, as we heard from you, Mr. Chair, during this time remained below 0 degrees
Fahrenheit and at one point dropped to record lows of -15 degrees at Denver International Airport and -20
degrees Fahrenheit in other locations in the agency's service area. Despite the severity of the weather
conditions, employees reported experiencing predominantly minor challenges during this time and crews
performed admirably. And while minor weather-related vehicular accidents did occur, no known employee
on the job injuries occurred as a result of the weather conditions.
Throughout this time, the Bus Operations division was able to cover all runs except for three on Saturday,
January 13, one on Sunday, January 14, and five on Monday, January 15. Contracted bus service
providers were able to cover all of its scheduled work despite a slight increase in employees unable to
report for their scheduled shifts due to the inclement weather.
Regarding Rail Operations, overall delays were minimal and ridership was light. The Rail Operations
division and Denver Transit Operations, our concessionaire, collectively operated 3,215 of the scheduled
3,395 trips. This equates to 94.7% overall on-time performance or service availability. Regarding public
facilities, staff and contractors experienced a myriad of challenges due to the cold weather period, though
most occurrences were minor, such as problems with the elevators and things of the like due to the
temperatures.

Related to the strategic initiative of welcoming transit environment, I and members of the leadership team
went to RTD's district shops on Wednesday, January 10 to celebrate Law Enforcement Appreciation Day
along with members of the Transit Police and Emergency Management department. We collectively
welcomed several new members of the sworn police force who had recently graduated from police
academies and celebrated the rapid expansion of the Transit Police and Emergency Management
department.
And with that, Mr. Chair, I will conclude my report. Thank you very kindly for the opportunity to present
this to all of you this evening.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Madam General Manager and CEO, for your report. I'll briefly ask if any
Directors have any questions for our General Manager and CEO, given her report.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I just have one clarification. I was trying to write down the numbers for the rail
division and DTO operation of the trains. Did you say 2,315, or did you say 3,215 trips were operated?
The first number.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I stated that 3,215 of 3,3,95 scheduled trips, which equates to 94.7% overall service
availability.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Treasurer Bouquet, please.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. So I had the firsthand experience of riding the 45
minutes service of the E line this weekend. And I wouldn't be doing my job if I wasn't getting several
emails from my own constituents regarding the derailment. And I appreciate you speaking upon it. I just
had a couple questions regarding it.
So the first thing I would ask is regarding communication to our customers about those who would be
stopping at the E line or stopping at one of the stations at the E or H line go to the Southeast corridor.
How were we communicating with customers that we were going on 45-minute delays?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Ms. Johnson, please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And thank you very much for the question,
Director Bouquet.
A couple of different elements in which we did. If one were to go to RTD's website and you look at
schedules and there's a landing page that talks about service disruptions, there was information
pertaining to the delays there. More specifically, we disseminated press advisories. We were coordinating
via the media. And if in fact, somebody subscribes to the notification via RTD's app, they would get those
notifications as well going forward.
And Mr. Summers is present. And if I have misstated anything or-- no. So those are the different conduits
in which we leverage. Thank you.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Could I continue-ERIK DAVIDSON: Questions.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much. So obviously, weather was a major factor when it came down
to the delay of the recovery of the vehicle. Do we have a timeline when it comes down to, in general, if
this were to occur in the future, how long would it take, in general, if weather wasn't a factor? It's hard to
talk with several factors, but in the case of a derailment such as this, what is our timeline with trying to
actually get back to regular service?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Ms. Johnson, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly. And so I want to qualify my response by offering some
context. Derailment is qualified as when the trucks or the wheels on the train leave the track. And so there
could be a myriad of different derailments. So if I were to answer this question, I'm going to talk
specifically about the incident that occurred last Wednesday. Because if, in fact, we had weather
conditions that were more conducive, we would have removed that rail car Friday morning, considering
that this incident took place on Wednesday afternoon.
We had to discern what was happening relative to what we could do to go in and get that rail car moved.
And so optimally, in reference to strategizing with the recovery plan, conversing with the myriad of
different individuals within the organization from our safety, environmental compliance, from maintenance
of way personnel relative to rail operations personnel, we would have most likely removed that Friday
morning, recognizing the time of day. Now if it happened at 4:00 AM in the morning, one day, we have
had an opportunity with daylight and optimal weather conditions of moving a car. So I can't give you-- it's
not a cookie cutter approach.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, final question. Thank you very much, Chair. What efforts did we use in this case
scenario, or potentially a future case scenario, where we would start having the conversation of, oh, we're
on 45-minute service, do we start looking into options for rubber tire service via shuttle or via bus? Was
that in consideration? And/or would that be in consideration for future incidents that would be similar to
what had occurred? And that's my final question. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So it's a multitude of different things that come into play when we talk about
leveraging a bus bridge. Quite naturally, we had a track-- it's not as if we had a single track. We had
double track. So we were able to have throughput in that area. When the incident occurred, we were still
moving trains through that area. If, in fact, we had no other means of redundancy, then we could possibly
leverage a bus bridge, but that comes down to people power. Because what we need to do in order to
leverage supplemental service, we would have to ensure that we had readily available operators on extra
board. We have to identify vehicles. In light of where we were at that point in time, it was most prudent to
actually adjust the headways and have throughput in that area of a single track.
So all those different issues come into play when we make an informed decision relative to service
interruptions.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Treasurer Bouquet. Thank you, Ms. Johnson.
Seeing no more questions, we'll move on. I just again would like to thank you for 94.7%. That's wonderful.
Thank you.
With that, we're going to move to the unanimous consent agenda listed under Section 16, actions A
through-- oh sorry, I see Director Broom. Sorry, sir. Go ahead, please.
BOB BROOM: Oh, pull 17 B.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. So on the unanimous consent agenda, Actions 16 A through B, B has been pulled
from the agenda. Our unanimous consent agenda therefore is the drug and alcohol policy amendments,
one action.
Are there any further changes, discussion, or questions about these items that would have pulling, I
guess the one item now, would anyone like to pull that item from the unanimous consent agenda? Seeing
none, may I have a motion to approve the consent agenda?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved, Whitmore.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second, Bouquet.
ERIK DAVIDSON: The movement is Whitmore, the second is Bouquet. Are there any no votes on this
action? All right, seeing none, we have 14 aye votes, zero no votes, and zero abstentions. The motion
passes.
Given that the request was made to item B, I would like to note that we have several related items on our
agenda. So while we would typically move what was item B to our immediate next recommended action,
I'm going to go ahead and make an insertion. I will hearken back to it and name the recommended action
when we are there. So with that, and that specifically is our sixth amendment to the General Manager and
CEO employment agreement.
We're going to now move into our recommended actions section. There are now seven recommended
actions on the agenda tonight. And I'm going to go ahead and start with the 2024 committee
appointments. This is for the Board of Directors to ratify the 2024 standing committee appointments. Do
we have a motion?
BOBBY DISHELL: So moved, Dishell.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have the Dishell as the movement, Catlin as the second. Is there any discussion on
this motion? Seeing none, I'll call for the vote. Are there any no votes on the motion? Seeing none, again
we have 14 aye votes, zero no votes, and zero abstentions. The motion will pass.
The next action is item D. This is the Group 32 Fixed Route Service contract. This is for the Board of
Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her designee, to enter into a contract with
Transdev Services Incorporated for the provision of fixed route services as described herein. This
contract is for three years with two one-year options for a total of five years at a total not to exceed cost of
$155,545,539.

Additionally, RTD will reimburse the contractor's direct fuel costs in an amount estimated to be
$13,085,531 over five years. The total five-year not to exceed cost for services and fuel is $168,631,070.
Do we have a motion?
BOB BROOM: Move approval.
DOUG TISDALE: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I heard the movement as Broom and the second as Tisdale. Is there any discussion on
this motion? Director Dishell, please go ahead.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, thank you. If we could just get a recap from the Chair or the Vice Chair as to-- 43 is a pretty narrow pass out of committee. If we could just get a quick recap on the pros and cons or if
those Directors could speak to that, that would be appreciated so we could have the full understanding of
something when it passes on such a narrow margin.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Director Dishell. And I'll note that we had a number of folks present
for that discussion. I'll first open to the Chair of the Committee, Chair Whitmore, for his feedback, as well
as I'd like to, after him, open the floor to our General Manager and CEO Johnson to provide her remarks
recapping some of the discussion as well. So first, Chair Whitmore, please go ahead.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you very much. I believe, and I will summarize in the best way I know
how, but I certainly would ask my Vice Chair to opine as well. But yes, 4-3 vote. Most of the concern in
the negative side of the tally was on the kind of quick decision making process and lack of perhaps more
discussion time by those that voted in the opposition.
So I'm going to keep it very brief. I would defer to Vice Chair Bouquet for his comments as well. Or at
least correct me.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I'll move to Treasurer Bouquet, please.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah. Thank you very much, Chair. And then, thank you very much, Director
Whitmore, for that comment. I believe that summarizes it pretty well is when it just kind of regards to-- I
want to speak for the Directors who were voting no on this, but just regards of the idea of transparency
when it comes down to it. Again, our main job when it comes down to Directors is to be good stewards of
our bosses ultimately, which are our taxpayers. I don't want to speak for all the Directors who voted no on
that.
But again, I think it was more of a conversation of going with transparency and then also with a
conversation of how quickly maybe the process was. I'll defer to Director Harwick, though.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick, please go ahead.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you. So I voted no. And I will also vote no tonight. I'm sure the contract is perfectly
fine, but it does deal with the timeliness of it, for one. And two, also, it's nearly $160 million contract. And I
get that it's number 32. We've had 31 prior. But I still think it's important for us to ask hard questions and
also just voice concerns, even though it is something we've done repeatedly before.
And also, my other thing is, should we continue to be contracting out all of our service? Can we do this in
house and are we better suited to be doing that? And should we consider doing that in the future? So

maybe not everything in house, but I do think it's something we should continue to do that when possible
instead of giving the business out to a private corporation.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Harwick. And before turning to General Manager and CEO
Johnson to see if there's anything you'd like to add, I would like to note on Director Harwick, your point
that one of the items in discussion that came up, aside from the timeliness of contract review by this
Board, was the policy matter and consideration regarding our contracted services themselves.
I'd like to just offer my comments as Chair that I believe this is a valid question for us to ask on a goforward basis, on a look-ahead basis. I believe in the committee, for those who weren't present, a
question was asked around what is the cost-benefit analysis. I do think it's incumbent upon this Board to
always be looking at those things, looking through the windshield and what we might look at ahead.
So I would certainly ask the Committee Chair Whitmore and Vice Chair Bouquet, to the extent that there
is availability in the work plans this year to consider how that may be able to fit as a discussion on a goforward basis. So thank you, Director Harwick, for your comment.
At this time, I'd like to open the floor to our General Manager and CEO Johnson, if there's anything you
would like to add to the discussion.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair, for the opportunity to offer some comments. I am in
alignment with the comments that were made by the Chair, the Vice Chair, and Director Harwick. I think
those were spot on relative to looking at from a policy perspective, a cost-benefit analysis of what may be
best for the organization holistically. I think that would be very prudent to do so. If, in fact, at this point in
time, RTD directly wouldn't be able to provide these services due to the lack of facilities and things of the
like, while we may own the vehicles in and of themselves, we still need the people power and we need
facilities in which to house them.
So I think it would be prudent to assess going forward. While it's written in statute that we can contract up
to 58%. That is the ceiling, not the floor. And recognizing that we are undertaking a comprehensive
assessment relative to facilities and fleet, this is a springboard that gives us a great opportunity. And I
referenced that during the course of the committee discussion as well. And I will yield the floor with that.
Thank you very kindly for the opportunity.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. And thank you for noting the fleet and facilities transition
plan, as now is an important time to look at that. Director Rosenthal, please go ahead, sir.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And ordinarily, I wouldn't pipe in. But I would like to say that
this contract comes, as was mentioned, that this is a contractor that we've been working with for quite
some time. So there is that track record of working with this contractor.
And secondly that it's not just, quote, unquote, last minute. This is something where there has been a
deliberative, systemic approach to the bidding process, that there is a system within RTD for bidding. This
was reviewed by a panel. These are experts with decades in the field at RTD who have made the
decision and the recommendation to the CEO and to us.
So this is something where there's a lot of process behind this that maybe doesn't meet the eye or doesn't
maybe make it onto the page of a memo. Thank you.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Rosenthal, for noting the process. I think key questions for a
Board such as ours is was there a process, was it fair, was it followed, was it reviewed? So thank you for
noting that. Director Dishell, I'll go to you next.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. And thank you, for those of you for entertaining, I think it's important,
especially when something's tight, we have the full picture for the full Board.
Question for whomever would like to take it, which is, give more contracting out, 45% of fixed route
service, do we separately track on-time delivery between the two, between what we own in-house versus
what we-- do we have the ability to do that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may? Yes, we do. And I believe I referenced that in my report. I
appreciate the clarification. But yes, recognizing that we may have a contractor on the side of those
vehicles that says RTD so we're ultimately responsible. Hence, I appreciate the due diligence of this
Board and in light of discussions that have ensued. But yes. But when we report out on time performance,
when you look, it'll say contractor. And we can delineate that because we get that information from our
contractors. And we are aware, because there are goals in which we have established, as we do
internally as it relates to KPIs and what we do for mean distance between failure, on-time performance,
service availability, and a myriad of others that I won't bore you with. But yes, we do.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Thank you, Director Dishell. Treasurer Bouquet, please.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah. I just wanted to put on the record, and I think Director Whitmore also noted
this, that putting this in our work plan going forward as a committee for Operations and Safety is, again,
just to help mitigate the concerns. I think that's going to be a discussion we have when we plan our work
plan. So I just wanted to put that on the record. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Treasurer Bouquet. Seeing no further discussions or hand raised, I'm
going to call for the vote. Given the nature of the discussion, of course, I will do a roll call vote for this
particular item.
Treasurer Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell.

BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Respectfully no.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And this is Chair Davidson. I am a yes. I have 11 yes votes, 3, no votes, and zero
abstention or absent. With that, the motion does pass.
At this time, we'll move back to our previously on the recommended-- or I'm sorry, unanimous consent
agenda, what was previously item B will move into the sixth amendment to the General Manager and
CEO employment agreement. This is for the Board of Directors to adopt a sixth amendment to the
employment agreement with General Manager and Chief Executive Officer Debra A. Johnson to increase
her base salary by 1.8%, from $395,120 to $402,325 effective November 9, 2023, consistent with the
Board adopted General Manager and CEO compensation philosophy and compensation base range.
Do I have a motion?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek. So moved.
ERIK DAVIDSON: A second?
TROY WHITMORE: Second, Whitmore.

ERIK DAVIDSON: I have Buzek as the motion, Whitmore as the second. I'll now open up for, is there any
discussion or further questions on this item?
Director Dishell, I see your hand first on the screen.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, this is just a-- is there a reason when we have two amendments to the contract
that they're being considered separately as opposed to together, with two related items?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, sir. Thank you for that question. They are two separate items, although they did
happen to coincidentally occur at the same time.
The first is with what came out of the comp-based compensation range adoption as well as the
compensation philosophy adoption. The second, specifically the seventh amendment we'll be considering
this evening is with respect to the performance framework, which we'll be visiting here. So two separate
amendments were required to do this, given that there were two fundamentally different concepts. Thank
you for the question and clarification.
Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Per the most recently available data which is in the Board
packet, I think it's reasonable to infer that our General Manager and CEO would receive this year, even
without the amendment before us, about $420,000, plus or minus in cash compensation alone, and that is
in addition to other benefits. Our compensation philosophy when referencing a midpoint does not say
base salary but rather a compensation package.
Additionally, for the Office of the State Auditor's recommendations, it was noted that Directors should
receive tally sheets listing the total contract costs before entering into a contract or a contract amendment
with our General Manager and CEO. And to be clear, I'm not talking about this specific General Manager
and CEO. That auditor's report was made in March of 2010. Unfortunately, while we did get a snapshot of
some of those costs, we were not afforded that full picture. And that is a departure from previously
established Board policy.
And so with those data points in mind, I'm going to respectfully vote no tonight. I do commend the
General Manager for her work. This is not about a performance appraisal. It is just-- this is about the
motion on the table and it shouldn't be interpreted as anything else but that. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. And just for the sake of the record, I believe the table
being referenced was the packet page 103. And thank you for your comments. Are there further
questions or discussion items before us on this?
Director Rosenthal, please go ahead.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I am a strong supporter of this sixth amendment. I do
believe that our GM and CEO has been doing an admirable job and definitely does "demonstrate internal
equity, fairness, and transparency." And I think that we need to make sure to continue "externally market
competitive." And I think that in order to retain and encourage our CEO to continue to be our CEO that we
should at least reach the midpoint.
And as you can see in the memo, the minimum is 292.6 thousand. And then the maximum is 512. So we
do need to get to at least to that midpoint and make sure that we are compensating her fairly. Thank you.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Rosenthal I'll just note, as I've noted in the performance
committees that we've discussed this at numerous times, this is an important move towards a data driven
approach, which is a start not a finish. So I thank everybody for the work on that effort.
With that, I will call for a roll call vote, starting with Treasurer Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Respectfully no.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And this is Chair Davidson. I too am a yes. That is 12 yes votes, with 2 no votes, zero
abstentions or absent. The motion will pass. Thank you. Please bear with me for a moment while I get
back to our regularly scheduled recommended actions.
The next action is for the 2024 General Manager and CEO performance assessment framework. This is
for the Board of Directors to adopt a General Manager and CEO performance assessment framework for
the calendar year 2024. Do I have a motion?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: So moved, Rosenthal.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Second, Sloan.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have the movement as Rosenthal, the second as Sloan. I'll ask if there's any
discussion or questions on the item.
I'd actually like to just start. We did a full presentation of this item and the recommended action came
through the Executive Committee this past month. Performance Committee did have a discussion around
this. The framework was then refined and brought forward to the Executive Committee for approval and
now the appearance on the agenda this evening.
Again, I think this is an important step in the right direction of improving our General Manager and CEO
performance assessment framework. I would remind everybody that there was some robust discussion at
the Executive Committee, as well as at the Performance Committee, on this. I would certainly encourage
those with any questions after the fact to refer back to that. I think those will actually be important
meetings for us to refer to as the Performance Committee continues its work ahead.
With that, I'll open up the floor for any further discussion or questions on the item. Seeing none, and with
Director Rosenthal's-- oh, sorry. Oh. Director Ruscha, go ahead. I'm, yeah, way too dependent on this
screen. Please go ahead, Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. My mouse froze.
So I did attend the Executive Committee last week and asked some questions. I had some concerns. I
won't repeat them here. But one question that I did ask was, will the Board participate in the 360 review
process? And I also was seeking some more information as to our role in the review moving forward, as
well as employee role.
From that meeting, there was differing opinion. And I personally am not comfortable voting yes tonight on
this framework. Because while I 100% respect the work that is being done by the Performance
Committee and our Chair and that's been done by our immediate past Chair, I'm not comfortable on
something that I feel is still a moving target. It's a work in progress. So because this is also contractual,
I'm going to vote no tonight.
And the other concern that I think I've shared, perhaps not on the record, is that I think we have-- and not
with poor intention-- I think we have removed the customer and service delivery from this framework. We
were not specific enough in how that was going to be addressed. And as a person whose family lived and
died by the bus for many years, I just wasn't comfortable with that.

But again, I do thank you for your work and I'll respectfully be a no tonight.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Director Rosenthal, please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And as I look at this proposal, this amendment, I think it's
important for us to keep in mind that we too are trying to do our best by the agency, by our General
Manager and CEO, that we are also improving this process, that it's a work in progress, as was noted.
However, I differ on the end result.
This is something that both Board members and Ms. Polege and our General Manager and CEO have all
worked collaboratively. We have heard this out in committee. This is not something that we do lightly. I
think it really drills down on so many different expectations we have for our General Manager and CEO,
whether it's short-term, long-term, performance goals that actually does keep our customers, our riders in
mind. We don't exist except for our riders. So I don't know how anybody could look at this and not see
that.
So I am so fully in support of this. I think it drills down. It has a point basis, a value basis, and many other
ways that we can look to analyze this. So I ask that we please support it.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, thank you. I have just a practical question. A lot of the goals, which I appreciate
are binary, right, you either did or did not. The rail either is replaced or is not replaced. However, the point
attributed to them are meets expectations or exceeds expectations. And so you have the 12 points, 6 of
which are only there if you exceed. From my perspective and from what I can tell, if you do what you said
you were going to do, you met expectations.
And so I'm just curious as to how you all decide on that. Because another interpretation would be, there's
12 total points available, 50% of the goal you hit, the other 50% of the goal you didn't, you would get 6
points. And so just from a practical standpoint, I'm curious if there was more discussion on how that works
when you set sort of binary goals, which I appreciate, you hit your goal, you don't. I'm not a big fan of inprogress goals at the company level.
So if we could just hear her little bit on that and what that would actually look like, that'd be great.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for the question, Director Dishell. I'm happy to take the first portion of that.
And because I'll reference General Manager and CEO Johnson, I'm happy to open the floor to her as
well.
But I would note that the key discussion we had was that our General Manager and CEO shared that the
intent of her goals was that she was presenting a met expectations. And one thing that was heard very
loud and clear, I think, last year by this Board was that we wanted a framework that allowed for a met and
exceeds expectations and some flexibility there, for which there is still, while this is an objective measure,
there's still some subjectivity at each individual Director when the assessment comes as to how you might
exceed expectations.
There was a discussion around perhaps it's a matter of timing. Perhaps it's a matter of overachieving in a
number of different areas. And this allows, the framework is attempting to embrace where we previously
had strictly binary math tied to strictly binary goals, which were our net promoter score, more long-term

metrics, this framework was contemplating having still specific and measurable goals but allowing some
flexibility in the assessment of those.
So I'd like to just open up to General Manager and CEO Johnson, if there's anything she'd like to remind
the Board of of what she had presented when discussing the goals and how they meet expectations.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Director Dishell for the question.
Chair Davidson captured it, because it's the expectation. Here it is. You meet the goal, right? And so to
the point that he further raised there could be extenuating factors whereby I don't meet the goal, then I
didn't meet expectations.
But I think what's pivotal here and what's being presented is that there are discussions that ensued
relative to what is my core job, right. Because these goals are for naught if in fact, I am not doing what
you all hired me to do on a day-to-day basis, which is general transit management, internal and external
relationships, Board interaction and things of the like. Because we are a people-driven business. We are
people serving people and people in the people business.
So recognizing where we are, there is flexibility with some of you relative to assessing what that may be
relative to i.e. welcoming transit environment, aggressively pursuing legislation, or vigorously-- I should
qualify it as, not aggressively. So that may not be met. That's fine. But let me be clear that I am going to
raise, in every instance possible, in every forum, which I have done continuously is that I can't provide an
optimal work environment for all the transit employees. And that plagues me.
And so as we talk about the other portion of the goal, which I could only meet halfway, would be
assessing our operating facilities. And what I mean by that, I'm not talking about an intermodal transit
hub. I'm talking about whereby we have employees that have voiced their concern and fear about trying
to get to their workplace. So I give that as an example to say that I may not meet that goal, but I am going
to do everything in my power by being adamant about providing an optimal work environment and rallying
others to have increased penalties or what we can do within our control, which is utilizing CPTED, Crime
Prevention Through Environmental Design, when somebody is going through their work location.
Does that help? Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Manager and CEO Johnson. And Director Dishell, thank you for
the question. And did that answer your questions?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. I'll now move to First Vice Chair Catlin and Chair of the Performance
Committee.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to, with regard to the 360 review, the discussion that
ensued would be that those people that would be canvassed for this review would be mutually agreed
upon by General Manager/CEO and the Board.
Furthermore, by default this Board is responsible for the performance evaluation of the General Manager
and CEO. So we have the final say, regardless of how we participate-- and I suspect there will be
participation among Board members in the 360 review-- we will still have the ultimate say. So that's my
comment.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, First Vice Chair Catlin. Second Vice Chair Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Yeah, I just wanted to-- I appreciate your comments, Director Ruscha.
And I think this is such a big improvement of where we were before. And I think so many of us have been
very unhappy with it and with the way, the original way the reviews were set up. We traded out in the
contract, General Manager Johnson was entitled to an uncapped COLA. And that's not happening
anymore. We've moved to a performance review.
And I believe, and again, I'm speaking for myself, but what we'll be doing at the retreat and early this year,
I think, is looking at KPIs for the agency and performance for the agency. I think that's a really important
piece. I think the fact that we'll be having the Performance Committee meeting with Ms. Johnson along
the way to talk through the performance of the agency is also a very important piece.
But it's a work in progress. And I think not perfect, but we shouldn't let it be the enemy of the good, in my
opinion. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Second Vice Chair Guissinger. Secretary Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Recognizing the amount of negotiation that probably went into this to get to this
point, I would just like to extend an invitation and a request from our General Manager to inform us about
whether she feels confident in this motion that faces the Board, as she is the employee to whom it refers.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary Guzman. General Manager/CEO Johnson, anything you would
like to share?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much. I appreciate your comments, Secretary Guzman. Could you
qualify what I mean by confident relative to what's before you?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Do you find it acceptable?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I find it acceptable or we would not be presenting it this evening.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I want to get that on record.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. At this time, seeing no further discussion, I will call again for a roll vote,
starting with Treasurer Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.

ERIK DAVIDSON: First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Abstain.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Is that an abstention or a no vote? It's an abstention.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Abstention.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: This is Chair Davidson. I am also a yes. That is 12 aye votes, one abstention, and
none absent, and one no vote. The motion will pass.
BOBBY DISHELL: But point of order.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.

BOBBY DISHELL: Historically, the Board's received different-- or maybe I'm just not recalling correctly-around abstentions, at certain points we've been told you can only abstain if you have a conflict of
interest. At other points we've been told you can abstain regardless. Can we just-- I'd like to better
understand when you can and cannot abstain.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I'd like to call on General Counsel Snyder, if you're comfortable answering the
question, please. Thank you for the question, Director Dishell.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair. This is Melanie Snyder, General Counsel.
Yes, typically a Board, A Director would only be abstaining in the event of a conflict of interest. And we
don't want to necessarily go into details. If a Director has decided to abstain, I don't think it's appropriate
to talk through the basis for the abstention because that could essentially void the fact why they're
abstaining in the first place. But yes, that would be the general recommendation in practice.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Councilor Snyder. Thank you for the question, Director Dishell.
With that, that motion will pass.
We will move to the next recommended action. This is for the seventh amendment to the General
Manager and CEO employment agreement. This is for the Board of Directors to adopt a seventh
amendment to the employment agreement with General Manager and Chief Executive Officer Debra A.
Johnson to establish the 2024 pay for performance framework consistent with the Board adopted General
Manager/CEO compensation philosophy. Do I have a motion?
JULIEN BOUQUET: So moved, Bouquet.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Second, Sloan.
ERIK DAVIDSON: The motion as Bouquet, the second as Sloan. We'll open up for discussion. I just
would remind everyone, this really works hand in hand with that framework. The intent here was to codify
the framework that we just passed into a contract amendment with the General Manager and CEO. With
that, any questions or discussion on this item? Seeing-- Director Tisdale, please go ahead.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Sorry, let me turn off my assisted listening device.
I still do not like the write up that there's a 1% salary increase if the General Manager scores zero points.
And that's at page 140 of the Board packet. And that's-- I just think the optics of that are bad. And so if
you look at page 140, you will see, it says zero points, you get a 1% raise. And if that could have been
tweaked somehow, I would have been happier with it.
Secondly, I have not-- but it's because I don't think I've given this enough time-- I have not seen that
everything that is recited in the Board report and articulated as you have addressed is somehow
encapsulated in the 12 lines of text that are included at page 143 of the Board report and the operative
section 2 of this seventh amendment. But I will take that on faith.
But I do express my concern over, as I say, the optics. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. I'd like to just briefly respond. Certainly appreciate that.
And this is the point where I would mention what Second Vice Chair Guissinger had alluded to with the

release of the uncapped automatic cost of living adjustment. And this was a byproduct of negotiation. In
moving the adjusted base salary computation to strictly the pay for performance model, excuse me, which
was what that came from. So thank you for noting that for the record.
And now I'd also just like to address that in the agreement itself-- thank you for that-- there was some
discussion with General Counsel Snyder around how to best capture some of these changes. And what
we identified was the short-term incentives which are contemplated by the agreement include an adjusted
base salary, a long-term incentive. The Board has the ability to set that long-term incentive payment-- I'm
sorry, not long-term, excuse me, the one-time incentive payment-- has the ability to set that at zero and
set the adjusted base salary at the numbers that are provided by the scoring system.
So that's ultimately what was done. It ended up being a simpler amendment because of some of the other
tools we had available in the contract.
General Counsel Snyder, just I'd open the floor to you if there's anything you'd like to add to that or clarify
for the sake of the record.
MELANIE SNYDER: [SQUEAKING SOUND] Pardon me. Yes, thank you, Mr Chair.
Yes, so to address the concerns raised by Director Tisdale, the contract, so the Board report on packet
page 140, we have three bullet points there. So one talks about establishing the pay for performance and
the adjusted base salary range. That's captured in exhibit D to the contract, or proposed contract
amendment on packet page 147.
The second bullet point with respect to the requirement that the Board conduct a total compensation
study and take appropriate action by October 31, that is reflected on packet page 143 in the red line to
subsection 2. And then the last bullet point, with respect to removing the automatic uncapped COLA,
that's captured in packet page 144 at the top of that page.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Counsel Snyder for, reading that into the record.
MELANIE SNYDER: You're welcome.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Rosenthal, please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So speaking of the study that we would conduct, or contract
for someone to conduct, sort of my question is also actually for you, Mr. Chair, and also the Chair of the
Performance Committee. If you don't mind describing a little bit more why that study is necessary, and the
prior study that has been done and why this one is necessary.
I fully support doing it. I'm just saying, could you maybe describe a little bit more why we need to do this in
order to update the data on which we're doing our compensation?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. I think you're referring to the compensation study that
would be done as part of what's being amended. Yes, thank you.
So the reasoning for that is to ensure we remain in alignment with our compensation philosophy of
remaining market competitive. It's also in response to things that have been flagged, as previously noted
by the Office of the State Auditor. This is bringing a data-driven approach to how we set our base salary
range and also our total compensation package.

What we had ultimately agreed to in the seventh amendment with the General Manager and CEO is to
conduct another compensation analysis this year and to act, meaning that we will convene and review the
results of that compensation analysis, as well as how it fits with our compensation philosophy. The reason
for the need for it is that the market is moving and continually moving and changing. The Gallagher
Report, by which we acted for the base salary range and ultimately the move to midpoint, is now quite
aged in terms of this market.
Also, several questions have been raised by members of this Board and members of the Performance
Committee regarding how the compensation analysis was conducted. Our Chief People Officer, Charlene
Polege, who has been a tremendous ally in helping the Performance Committee in its work, was actually
not even here when we first did the last compensation analysis.
So there's some opportunity to improve how that's done. It's also very critical because of how quickly
these things are aging in a competitive market and also very important to General Manager and CEO
Johnson. Moving in a strict pay for performance and not looking at automatic cost of living adjustments,
the intent of the cost of living adjustment really at the General Manager and CEO level is, are we
remaining competitive, not looking at consumer price index.
So that's the reason for needing to update it. And certainly for future Boards and this Board, the work will
never be done with this. It would be to continually revisit this data.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for the question. It's an important one. Director Ruscha, please go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Requesting two points of information from Counsel.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. So as noted, this potential-- let me rephrase. Our General Manager and
CEO could receive between 1% and 7% of a performance based increase under this amendment. And
just so that I understand, our current existing contract is 6% right now? Or-- Thank you.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Mr. Chair, if I may.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please.
MELANIE SNYDER: So the answer to your question is, that's correct. Under the amendment, the GM and
CEO would be eligible for between a 1% and 7% increase. The current contract, you're probably referring
to that exhibit B, that was referring to some prior performance periods. So under the contract each year,
the Board is supposed to consult with the GM and CEO and identify the proposed goals and as well as
the distribution between the base and any incentive pay.
So that's the action that you're taking right now. So the 6% is not-- there's nothing that's currently in place
for performance year 2024.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Counsel, and please, Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, General Counsel. So if, very hypothetically, if the
Board did not take action tonight or this were not approved, does this mean that it would stay at the
current status quo?

ERIK DAVIDSON: General Counsel.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Or-- sir, may I rephrase my question?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Oh, please. Yes. Please, Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you. Are we required to renegotiate every year these terms under the
current contract?
MELANIE SNYDER: So the answer to that question is, no, you're not required to renegotiate the terms of
the contract by any means. So your prior action was based on-- so not the amendment to the contract.
We're talking about the adoption of the framework. So that prior action was required by the contract
amendment that you all did in last year, so the fifth amendment. You had to do that by the end of this
year.
This amendment that's before you is not a required amendment. It was something that was negotiated
between the Board and the GM and CEO. So things like removing the uncapped COLA, for example,
that's absolutely not required. That was something that the parties negotiated.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Counsel. Director Ruscha, further questions?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, one more. If-- I guess-- because there are certain parts of our framework that
have yet to be determined and there's reference to mutual agreement, what happens if we cannot come
to an agreement? And are there certain deadlines, aside from the October deadline for the compensation
analysis, that we would have to meet? And I also just-- I'm also asking because 2024 has already started.
ERIK DAVIDSON: General Counsel, please go ahead.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Again, thank you for the question, Director Ruscha.
So yes, under the contract, annually this Board has to provide an annual performance appraisal. So that
still stays. Nothing changes. You all need to do that by the end of 2024.
I'm trying to think what the second part of your question. Sorry
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah. So what I was asking was considering that there are some parts of the
framework or the appraisal, the appraisal process that are still being worked out, are there specific
deadlines that we have to meet? Because it would not be fair to a General Manager to move goalposts or
not be clear on how we measure. And I think how we measure is still a little bit to be determined. I didn't
see a specific date in the contract. I wanted to make sure that there was not some other document that I
had missed.
And then the other part to that question is, if we are not able to reach an agreement, then what happens?
Is there a mediation process or some such?
MELANIE SNYDER: So thank you for that clarification. So you'll-- as I said, the Board has to adopt the
appraisal. What you're talking about with respect to-- and you've already adopted the framework. That
was the last action. So that's the framework by which the GM and CEO will be appraised.

The process and the tool, so sort of the 360 tool that you all are talking about, that is just the tool that
you're going to be using to make that assessment. But ultimately, as Director Catlin was noting, it's this
Board that will be responsible for the appraisal. So there's not really necessarily agreement that needs to
be had with the GM and CEO. The Board will be conducting that appraisal obviously through the process
that's established in the contract.
There's not a deadline by which the 360 contract has to be put in place. And I think that might be
something the Chair is maybe potentially going to talk about next steps, about how that contract will be-how those services will be procured. The only other deadline in the contract or the proposed amendment
right now, of course, is that October 31 deadline. And that is the deadline to actually conduct the
compensation analysis, as well as for the Board to review that analysis, review any information that the
GM and CEO wants to provide in connection with that, and then take action.
I will note, actually, the proposed amendment also does make very clear that the Board is not required to
take any action to increase the adjusted base salary as a result of the compensation analysis that will be
conducted.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And I'd just like to add as well-- thank you, General Counsel Snyder, and thank you,
Director Ruscha, for the question-- some of the deadlines were unchanged from existing within the
contract, which is the adoption of the performance evaluation itself, which remains as December 31, at
the end of the calendar year, and as amended, the adoption of goals and the framework for assessment
being done by January 31 of the performance period with which we would be in. That was an amendment
that came last year. So those two dates still exist as deadlines within the contract unamended by this
seventh amendment.
Thank you, Director Ruscha. Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Just for the sake of the record, because I believe
that there could be some confusion generated by Counsel's comment, when I thought Counsel said that
these are terms that were negotiated between the Board and the General Manager/CEO.
They have not been negotiated by the Board. They were negotiated by the Chair of the Performance
Committee and the Chair of the Board and not the balance of the Board. And I just don't want people to
think that somehow we already negotiated all this and now why are we all talking about it? It was
negotiated by the Board Chair and the Performance Committee Chair, and it's presented to the Board
now for review and approval.
And that was my only comment, just to kind of help clarify for the benefit of those who don't know how this
all works. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Thank you, Director Tisdale. Any further discussion? I'll go ahead and call for a
roll vote at this time once again.
Treasurer Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Respectfully no.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: This is Chair Davidson. I too am a yes. That is 2 no votes, 12 yes votes, and the
motion will pass. Thank you very much.
At this time, we do have two additional actions, as well as we'll have two discussion items. However,
given just the time of the meeting, I'd like to call for a brief break for restroom. Please, let's keep this-- this
time we're actually going to do the five-minute thing.
So we will start exactly at 8:28 Mountain Standard Time. Thank you.

2024-01-30
Board Meeting Part 3
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right. We are reconvened after a five-minute break at 8:28 Mountain Standard
Time.
We're going to move to the next recommended action on the agenda. This is for a bylaw change to create
annual committee work plans. This is for the Board to amend the bylaws to add article 6 committees of
the Board, section 4 work plans, to create annual work plans for each standing committee. Do I have a
motion?
DOUG TISDALE: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Tisdale as the motion, Bouquet as the second. At this time, I'd like to just briefly call
upon our Board Office Executive Manager, Jack Kroll, if there's anything he would like to note with
respect to this action.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Davidson. This is Board Office Executive Manager Jack Kroll. The only
item I want to direct your attention to, given that you all saw this bylaw change in November and there
was not any further input on it that time, it was re-presented to the Executive Committee-- no, excuse me- it came up in your discussions at your committee meetings in January about your work plans for the
coming year, the idea of how to make changes to this.
Based off of that feedback, I included some additional language that clarifies how changes can be made
to the work plans once the committees approve them. And it states, adjustments and additions to the
work plan can be made by the Committee Chair in consultation with the Committee Vice Chair and
responsible RTD staff. So other than that, this is the same bylaw amendment that you all saw in
November.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. Are there any questions or is there any discussion on this item? I
see Director Ruscha's hand and then I'll-- Please go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: So thank you, Mr. Kroll, for all of your work on this. I'm really excited about this new
process. I just wanted to note that there is still nothing that would preclude three Directors from adding
something to the agenda, either as an action or a discussion item. I just wanted to put that out. Thank
you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Important note, Director Ruscha. Thank you very much for that. Director Whitmore,
please.
TROY WHITMORE: I'd like to thank Jack for his work with putting together our minutes, if you will, from
our three committee meetings.
My one question is, I don't see a real hard timeline on this. I think we can get to, to where we're ready to
go in February. This year, maybe not so much. We got some work to do. And I know our time as Chair

and Co-Chair with Mr. Ford is limited, with our three goofy schedules. And I'm sure it's the same for the
other two committees.
So I'm just throwing out a little-- thank you for the smile-- note of caution is this may have to go into
March. And I hope not. But is that amenable to the group and in this language? I think it is, but-- so just a
question to the Chair and other Chairs, and Vice Chairs.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Director Whitmore. I do see that-- I'll let Mr. Kroll speak first, and
then I'll follow on with the answer there. I see Mr. Kroll is offering a comment.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Thank you for the question, Director Whitmore. The bylaw amendment here states
that the committees would approve their work plans no later than March of each year year. There was
some thought that we could get it done by February.
However, in a conversation that the Chair and I had with GM and CEO Johnson earlier, it sounds like the
better and more prudent course of action for this year is to target March-- [AUDIO OUT] -- the first year
that this has been done and that there is some desire amongst the Board at large to have a
comprehensive view of all the work plans. And giving ourselves some more time here would allow for that
comprehensive view to take place to ensure certain agenda items are slotted in the right committee and
at the right time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. And Director Whitmore, I would just like to say, we're very much
aligned on that. I think we have some work to do to figure out how this will work. And I think at the retreat
this will also be a topic of ours to talk about how we want this to work. And I also think that after we do a
year, we'll take a retrospective look at this as well.
Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just seeking clarification. This language says that the
committee will create, approve, and forward to the full Board for review. And I'm not asking for an
amendment clarification. But does that mean vote? Will we vote on these at the March Board meeting?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Kroll, if you'd like to clarify intent there.
JACK KROLL: Yeah. Director Dishell had actually raised this same question at the October study
session, or I believe it was in the November meeting when this was first presented. The idea is that the
Board would simply review them, not approve them, that each committee would be responsible for
approving their own work plans. But the Board would be provided them for the Board's review.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Thank you, Mr. Kroll. Any further questions or
discussion?
I would like to note that given that this is a bylaw amendment, it can only pass with 10 or more votes in
favor. So with that, I'm actually going to call, go back to asking if there are any no votes. Are there any no
votes on this action? Seeing none, the motion will pass with 14 aye votes, zero no votes, and zero
abstentions.
All right. We're going to move to our final recommended action. This is for the bylaw change to set a time
limit on Board and committee meetings. This is for the Board of Directors to amend Article IV, meetings,

section 8, recesses and adjournments, to set a time limit on the length of the meetings of the Board and
its committees. Do I have a motion?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: So moved, Rosenthal.
TROY WHITMORE: Second, Whitmore.
ERIK DAVIDSON: The movement as Rosenthal, the second as Whitmore. At this time, I'd also like to
invite, first, if Mr. Kroll, if there's any comments you would like to make.
JACK KROLL: Chair Davidson, I don't have anything additional to add, other than this is the second time
this bylaw has been presented to you all. It was first presented at the October study session. It had been
slated for the agenda in November. But given the budget item, the Chair and I at the time, with her
behest, decided it would be best to consider this in January, so now it has come back before you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll, for that clarification. I'll open the floor for discussion at this time,
starting with Secretary Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great leaders don't lead others with bitterness or resentfulness of past mistakes.
They lead with hope and knowledge of the past to inform greater decision making in the future.
I think this is a foolish bylaw and I don't think we need it. Our bylaws already allow us to use Robert's
Rules of Order and there are several steps to take to end a meeting and pick up business at a later date.
This bylaw, although it does say that it will automatically forward any unfinished business to the proximate
meeting, does not require it to be placed at the beginning of that meeting for business and therefore is
faulty, because it can continually be pushed to the end of a four-hour meeting and it ends our business.
The bylaw does provide in its current state that the clock begins running at the gaveling in of the meeting.
But that's not when we begin our work, and we all know this. We do ceremony before we get to business.
We do need to hear the people and do the people's work. That's why we're here.
So I've also received several comments from constituents. Surprisingly, about this whole agenda, this
was the topic of discussion, that I cannot vote in favor of this bylaw amendment because it does limit our
ability to do the work that we were elected to do here. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary Guzman, for your comments. Other questions or points of
discussion from members of the Board. Yes, Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. On everyone's desks there is a cheat sheet of some common
Robert's Rules motions. And there is also, as you'll note, a page detailing how one can adjourn the
meeting when there is business on the table. As Secretary Guzman noted, we already have these options
in front of us in Robert's Rules. And when we do not specifically have a governance rule in our bylaws.
Robert's Rules applies.
To that end, I would also like to offer that there are other ways that we could be a more effective and
efficient body getting through our business. I think the work plan is an excellent first start. But even in our
meetings, I've noticed that sometimes we can't follow Robert's Rules or standard parliamentary
procedure.
If I could share an example. When someone says, I have a question and then a comment, one is
speaking and one is a point of information. But we don't have a process in this body to separate the two.

And unlike the other legislative bodies that Mr. Kroll shared with us that are also in our Board packet, we
don't have hearings and we don't have first and second readings. It was noted earlier in the meeting that
some Directors felt that they were given too much at once, too fast to get through. And often in this body
there is an action item of significant importance with very little heads up.
So I 100% agree that we don't want to be here longer than we have to. But I do share the concern that
this bylaw proposal, while it's well intended, does not address the root cause of what brought us to this
point.
And so I will be a no vote tonight. And I would just implore our Executive Committee, irrespective of how
this vote goes, to please work together and with our Executive Board Office Manager to figure out how
might we move business in a way that is efficient, affords everyone the respect of having their voice
heard, and also getting the information they need without ignoring or absconding our duty to do the
people's business.
And if there is anyone who is exceptionally qualified to lead that charge, I think it is Mr. Kroll. And if I may
also note that Mr. Kroll was a former Regent. They had some colorful meetings, and also its past Chair.
So I fully trust that he can help us herd the cats that we are. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Director Buzek, I saw your hand up, but I did see it come
down. Was there a comment you wanted to make, sir?
VINCE BUZEK: It was going to be snarky, so I'll withdraw it. But I'm in support of this proposal. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Buzek. I'll move to Director Sloan, please.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. I am definitely in support of this manner. And I'd like to approach it from two-matter-- and I'd like to approach it from two ways.
One is there's been a lot of research lately, mostly prompted by COVID and all the Zoom meetings that
go on, to determine about fatigue that sets in at meetings. And it's definitely shown that the longer the
meeting, it's difficult to be attending a meeting as well as being attentive at the meeting. And it's important
to keep that in mind. My favorite phrase that I came up with from the University of Texas at Houston
Medical School was that long meetings lead to cognitive dulling.
So that is the objective research. Also, I have had personal experience. I was totally against a proposal
for a very similar kind of thing, to change the default for a meeting in city council. I voted against it.
Everybody else was wiser than I was, voted for it. It tightened our meetings. We got more done and we
were not afraid to vote to extend the meeting. It's a very quick proposal.
So as one of our emails said, it's only changing the default. It doesn't really change the need to work
together on the public's business. But I don't think any members of this Board would have the expectation
that we would be making decisions, important decisions for the public, having discussions while we were
undergoing cognitive dulling. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Sloan. Director Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: I think I would support this. Maybe we could put in some kind of a sunset that it'd be
reviewed after six months to see what kind of an impact it's had on the Board. But let's give it a try.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Broom. Director Tisdale.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Before I was elected Mayor in Cherry Hills
Village, I served on the Council for eight years. And during my first term, my late wife was the city attorney
in Lafayette. My meetings were held one mile from my house. Her meetings in Lafayette were held 45
miles from our house. She always got home before I did on Council nights. We had no rule. Lafayette did.
And so just be based upon that memory, I'm in support of the bylaw. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Harwick, please.
IAN HARWICK: If I'm not mistaken, the bulk of the meetings that ran long last year, my only year here,
were because of executive session. We can't take a vote during executive session. So how are we going
to vote to end the meeting early if we can't take a vote?
ERIK DAVIDSON: It's a great question, Director Harwick. General Counsel Snyder, do you have any
procedural advice on that consideration with the bylaw in front of us?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. I think you can handle that on a case-by-case basis. I mean, certainly if you
are-- typically, it's become the custom of this Board, within the last year or so, to when you're making the
motion to go into executive session to also vote to adjourn. You wouldn't necessarily have to do that. You
would also be able to come out of executive session and you could make your motion at that time.
So I think there's flexibility that can be had. It's not going to tie your hands to be able to adjourn.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Counsel. Director Harwick, does that answer your question? First
Vice Chair Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. You know, I'm kind of ambivalent about this. And quite frankly, I
see persuasive arguments on both sides. I really appreciate yours, Director Guzman, and yours, Director
Ruscha. And I also appreciate Bob Broom saying, let's give it a try.
I think a lot of this stemmed from needing to maybe impart some more discipline on behalf of Board
members to try and become prepared to the meetings and ask questions in advance for clarification and
be prepared for a good discussion in the meeting.
I was reminded by Director Tisdale, when I was a consultant having to present to Boulder City Council,
and my agenda item came up at 1:30 AM and then I had to drive home. So that was an extreme case, but
I am inclined to be supportive of this, with the knowledge that we do have the ability to extend the meeting
when we're discussing important business. So thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, First Vice Chair Catlin. Director Ruscha, please. Oh-- sorry, Mr. Kroll, you
had a comment.
JACK KROLL: Yeah, I just wanted to draw Director Harwick and everyone's attention to the way the
bylaw language, proposed bylaw amendment language is structured. And it says, in committee meetings
of the Board of Directors shall be adjourned at the conclusion of the agenda item under consideration.
One way to look at that is if you're in executive session, typically you have gone into executive session to
discuss a single topic. There are times where you could address additional topics, but for the most part,
it's just one single topic. And the way it's structured is you would finish that discussion and then adjourn.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. It's a great point. Thank you for that. Director Ruscha, please.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. Actually, I need a moment to formulate my question.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you. Director Rosenthal, please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So quite frankly, so we are not a debating society. We are not
the state legislature. We are not Congress. We are a Board of Directors. This is a very different dynamic.
We don't have filibustering and that sort of dynamic. It would be of great concern if we had way too much
discussion by one or more members who basically would drive a certain topic. And so we need to make
sure that we all, as mentioned earlier, that we are thoughtful in how we speak, how we try to work on
these various issues, and so that we can have more discipline with how we approach our meetings.
Additionally, some of our Board members do take transit home, and we need to make sure that they are
able to obtain that transit. And the later we go, it makes it more difficult for them. And so let's be respectful
of our fellow RTD Board members.
Additionally, some of Board members work in the morning. And as mentioned earlier, we have a teacher
among us who gets up probably earlier than all of us. Probably not our GM and CEO, probably. She's
probably two hours on emails by then. So it is important to also respect that some of us do work very
early the next morning as well.
So those are additional perspectives to bring, and why I'm supportive.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. Secretary Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'll be a little self-effacing in the moment. I'm a barista and I have to get up at 3:00 or
3:30 in the morning to get to work on time. So a late meeting is not desirable outcome for me either. I do-and I have heard Director Bouquet refer to being up early for school in the morning, but I'm there to give
you your coffee on the way to the school. We've
Had other comments about having early morning meetings. So I do understand. And this has been my
struggle all along. I was ambivalent when we brought this up as a study session item last year. And at no
point in time has anybody given me a solid concrete answer for why we can't use what exists in our
current bylaws to maneuver and adjust meetings. We can always adjourn early. Section 21 of Robert's
Rules is all about adjournment and the rules that go with it.
So again, the reason you would change a bylaw is if something is actually broken and it needs to be fixed
or you are not in line with statutory law. None of those reasons exist. And so although I can understand
that there may be plenty of reasons to, when we get to the cognitive dulling that was spoken about earlier,
I think one or more of us may have the cognitive ability to ask for adjournment and to set aside topics until
a later date.
So again, I would just encourage us to vote no on this. Maybe we could also take an action to put it back
to committee and work on it a little bit more so it's a little bit more palatable, for some of those reasons
that have been expressed here. But although we are not a deliberative body, we do have processes to
have this discussion. And by limiting ourselves to have the proper discussion before it comes here, we
would never have this issue on anything that comes to this Board if we took the time to get that work done
before it got here.
This is one more rushed thing that we are in disagreement about, demonstratively, that probably, in my
opinion, means that we are not ready to deal with this yet. And we could make a motion to commit it. I'm

not making that motion right now, but that means to send it back to the committee, work on it further, and
then bring it when it's more fleshed out. That's also an option. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary Guzman. Director Sloan, please.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair, for providing me a second bite at the apple.
Of course, it's great to get home. Everybody knows that. But it's not purely self-interest to have this bylaw
that gives us expectation of when a meeting is going to end. And I understand that Robert's Rules of
Order would let me just raise my hand and make a motion to adjourn. But I think it would be shocking.
This provides some structure so that we all understand what our system is going to be.
And I would also like to emphasize that we want to get things right. We don't want to just keep forging
ahead and not making a good decision. So for that reason, or reasons, structure and good decision
making with expectations of when a meeting will end, I think this is a helpful thing. And as Director Broom,
said and everyone understands, we can always change this if for some reason it doesn't work out. I
believe it will and we will have better meetings for it. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Sloan. I am sure there is an awesome joke about a Board of
Directors discussing the amount of time they spend at a meeting. There's a great joke somewhere in
here. I'd like us to get close to-- I'd like us to get closer to the vote if we can. Again, it's going to be a
bylaws change so it will require 10 aye votes. But Director Ruscha, please go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair, for permitting me another bite at the apple as well. If I may, I
have a clarifying question on the motion, the language.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, please go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. The language says, a meeting may be extended by a majority vote of
present and voting members. A motion to extend a meeting may or may not state a time when the
meeting will conclude. If such time is set, a motion may be made and a majority of the Board may pass an
additional motion to extend.
And I apologize if it's just 9:00 and I'm tired, but could someone explain, do we need two motions to set a
time or to determine the items still on the table? That would be my first question. And then, this motion-or excuse me, this bylaws change-- also does not specify if these motions are debatable.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. I'm going to turn to Board Office Manager, Executive
Board Office Manager Mr. Kroll, who raised his hand there.
JACK KROLL: Yeah. And I'll qualify this, that if General Counsel Sander has anything else to add, it might
be good to hear her thoughts. But my sense of this is that the language you referenced in the bylaw
amendment, a motion to extend a meeting may or may not set a time or state a time when the meeting
will conclude. If such a time is set, a motion may be made and a majority of the vote, Board may pass an
additional motion to extend.
All that's saying is, you can extend it once and then you can extend it again. And I would assume that
those motions would be debatable. I mean, they're not the standard procedural privilege motions that are
not debatable as outlined in Robert's Rules. I don't think it would be too controversial, though, to talk

about how long you want to keep going for, and you might have some good ideas that come forward as a
result of that discussion.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. Director Ruscha, does answer your questions?
JOYANN RUSCHA: It does. May I be permitted a final comment? Thank you, sir.
If this were a resolution that had an end date, I could vote yes to try it. I do believe, however, that this
could easily be weaponized. In my experience in dealing with legislative bodies with a clock, a filibuster
doesn't have to be literal. It can be figurative. And it can be a tactic to run the clock down so people get
tired.
Our bylaws also have the effect of law. And I'm personally uncomfortable with testing really important
things in our bylaws. I would prefer that we test this as a body and trust our Chair. I'll be a no vote. And I
will also accept what the majority decides.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Director Dishell, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I think this may be a clerical item that could be cleaned up after. But the initial
motion is based on a majority of the present and voting members. However, the motion to extend after
the set time is a motion of the majority of the Board, which would indicate if we had 12 members present
at a meeting, the initial motion to extend would require 7 but the subsequent motion would require 8,
because it doesn't specify that it's-- and I just wanted to make sure that was not-- the intent is it's the
same majority both times. It's not that it's steps up from-If that is clerical and can be cleaned up afterwards, that would be appreciated. If I have to move to
amend, that's fine too.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell, thank you for pointing that out. I believe that it is likely a clerical issue,
but I'll turn to General Counsel Snyder whether that would require an amendment.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, I think that's a clerical issue.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Counsel. And thank you, Director Dishell.
All right. I would like to move on to the vote. I will just state that I am a yes on this. And for the sake of the
record, that has everything to do with discipline. That has everything to do with how we prepare for the
meeting, how we engage with staff, how we engage with the Board. And it takes a long-term view of our
work plans, bringing things forward as discussion items before they become recommended actions when
they are items that are going to warrant deep discussion. It also calls upon committees to really be
efficient and bring forward fully completed recommended actions as well as leveraging the committee
chairs' reports to highlight important issues.
So I think, as has been noted, we can test this, we can try this. If it's not serving us, we can always revisit
it. But for me, this has as much to do with discipline, how we show up, how this Board engages with staff,
as it does anything else, certainly more the priority than ending business.
So with that, I will call for the vote. I'm going to do a roll vote. I'll try to go through this as quickly as
possible. Treasurer Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Ooh, I'm torn. Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: This is Chair Davidson. I am also a yes. That is an 11 yes vote. And we have-- sorry,
forgive me-- 3 no votes, zero absent or zero abstention. The motion does pass.

I'd like to address, Director Ruscha, your comment about trying this out. Certainly, everyone has my
commitment here that we will get the business done that the people need done. We will partner with staff
to make that happen. At no point will we cut that short. We'll work on this. We'll try it out. If it's not serving
us, we'll revisit it. Thank you.
With that, we are going to move to our discussion items this evening. First discussion item is for the Board
and committee meeting accessibility and policy consideration.
First of all, I would like to acknowledge Mr. Carl Green Jr., our Director of Civil Rights Division, as well as
Mr. Gabe Christie, our ADA Manager, and Mr. Jack Kroll, our Executive Manager of the Board Office, for
their work on this. I would also be remiss if I didn't say thank you to Mr. Green and Mr. Christie for
remaining here, for being patient with us as we get to this item. It's a very important one.
I'd like to highlight before opening up to discussion-- and certainly would invite Mr. Green, Mr. Christie,
and Mr. Kroll to add any additional information, if they would so choose-- I'd like to just highlight, this did
come before Executive Committee. We were joined by Executive Committee as well as other members of
the Board. And we engaged in a discussion around what our general accessibility options may be by
default to increase the accessibility of Board meetings and committee meetings.
Staff presented us with two fundamental options, one of which is where the consensus of the committee
was, as well as other Directors that were present, which was to pursue two things to enhance the
accessibility of our Board meetings and committee meetings by default. One is the addition of CART
services and two is the addition of Spanish language translation services.
We were presented with not only benchmarks of other transit agencies and other public entities that staff
had researched and presented to us, but we were also provided with information about the demographics
of our customer base and our community whom we serve. It was very informative. It was extremely
helpful. And Executive Committee ultimately asked for more information to come before Executive
Committee and ultimately this Board, contemplating a policy that this Board may adopt, including any of
the financial impact related to this adoption, which would be the addition of the CART services by default
and the Spanish language translation services. So thank you to staff for that.
I would note that those who had presented are here to answer questions. First I'll open the floor to see if
any of those who did present have any comments that they would like to offer. Please don't feel obligated
to do so. And then I'd like to open up for any Director's questions. So any comments from members of
staff?
All right. Seeing none, I'll open up to members of the Board for any questions or discussion. Director
Dishell, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. I appreciate the fiscal note on CART services, as well as Spanish language
services. I don't think you can put a price on accessibility. I don't think you can put a price on people being
able to interact with our business and the people's business at hand. So to me, there's no question in my
mind. Each of us has a local budget that undoubtedly these services are, at least from my perspective,
significantly more important than any coffees or conferences or any other matters that we might be able
to go to. You have to take care of your home first. So no question in my mind that these are necessary
and long overdue.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Well stated, Director Dishell. Thank you very much. Other comments or questions?

All right. Thank you very much. Oh, sorry, Mr. Kroll, please go ahead.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Davidson. The only thing that I would note is that to add to your
comments, Chair Davidson, is that the policy we would bring back for you all to review in February will be
based on a pilot timeframe. So we would provide these services automatically. That's the direction we've
received, to come back with a policy that states as such. And we would set a timeline for when you would
reconsider it, likely at the end of this year, if not the beginning of next year. And that way we can have
some data to back up how well utilized were these services and you can make an informed decision
about where you want to go for the long term at that point.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. Director Rosenthal, please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So this measure directly relates to services for Board
meetings. And I'm curious as to the accommodations for our town halls, the meetings we have in the
community, whether it's for service changes and things like that, what services we provide.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I can address that briefly and then open up, if anyone would like to fill in any gaps I
might leave. So thank you for the question.
Generally speaking, our ADA accommodations are requested by members of the public with 48 hours
notice for being provided. That would continue for anything that's not a Board and committee meeting.
Likewise, any member of this Board that may have individual requests, again, may be submitted with
respect to those types of events.
What I would say, this is really more directly addressing the default of the committee meetings and the
Board meetings and taking the onus off of the public needing to request two services, which is where the
Executive Committee had a good chance to take a look at, again, the members of the public who we
serve and what would make sense to be by default.
So if there's anyone that would like to clarify, please feel free to raise your hand. I'll take a look around.
But Director Rosenthal, does that answer your question? Thank you very much.
Other questions, discussion? I also should have noted that I know I framed consensus. Formal action's
not taken on this when it's a discussion item. But it was unanimous consensus at the executive session.
So just for the sake of the record there.
All right. Thank you. With that, seeing no further discussion on that discussion item, and again, thank you
for spending the time here with us and being available, we'll move to our final discussion item of the
evening. This is with respect to station naming policy review. At this time, I'm going to ask, again, Mr.
Jack Kroll, our Executive Manager of the Board Office, to please present this item. Mr. Kroll, we'll pause
for you to approach the microphone and then the floor is yours when you arrive. Thank you.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Davidson. So you all heard a significant amount of public comment
earlier today about renaming of Civic Center Station. This discussion is not exactly at that point, by any
means. All we are looking for direction for, and we asked of the Executive Committee earlier, is three
things.
One is, do you even want to open the door to having a policy by which stations can be renamed after
individuals? If you've taken the opportunity to read the Board report, you'll see that the current policy,
which is an amalgamation of three actions the Board took, one in '94, one in 2003, and one in 2011,

simply doesn't even contemplate the concept of naming a station after individuals. Instead, it mirrors what
is nationally done, which is to name stations after their geographic locations for purposes of allowing
people who are using the system to navigate it with optimal ability. So that's question number one.
Question number two is, or the ask is, if you went down the route of opening the door to renaming
stations after individuals, what are some general thoughts you might have about what the policy should
look like? And then the third question has two parts, which is, if you open the door and you give us some
feedback on what you might like to see, I have recommended that the Board Office work with two
Directors, that Director Davidson is Chair, asks to work with us, as well as senior staff identified by the
GM and CEO to bring back those policy recommendations for you all in March.
So the third question tonight is, do you agree with that timeline and that approach for addressing this, if
you even open the door to it? So that's the framework for the conversation, and I'm happy to take any
questions.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. Very much appreciate it. So at this time, we did discuss this at
Executive Committee, excuse me. But we're bringing this forward here for feedback from Directors from
the full Board as how to proceed. And to summarize, the immediate next step in front of us would be,
should we decide that this is something we would want to explore, whether we would have a policy for
station naming, then identifying two members of the Board, for which I do have a recommendation to
engage and liaise with staff on the development of such a policy. So that's the discussion at hand. Open
up to Directors now at this time, starting with Director Whitmore, please.
TROY WHITMORE: Jack, which work plan would this fall under? Just kidding.
I think this is a very worthy cause and I think we need to explore it further. So I'm in full agreement with
the model that the two of you have discussed. So let's move forward.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Second Vice Chair Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. A lot of requests here, a lot of interest in the Wade Blank. And we need to
have a policy. We need to consider this. And I think having two Directors work with the staff and the
Board Office is the right way to go.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Director Dishell, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. It strikes me that the question is, why wouldn't you rename Civic Center
Plaza Reverend Wade Blank Plaza, if that's the intended effect? To me, you achieve much more through
that avenue. And then we would also therefore be required to change the name to Reverend Blake
Station, because that would be the name of the plaza.
I think it's something worthy of exploring. I think people are complicated. Not speaking of Reverend Blank
in particular, but there's a number of instances where people have erected statues or memorials or
named streets or mountains after individuals who they believed at the time were honorable, were doing
the right thing, were comemorable. And I think when you name something, it lasts for a long time. And I
think we're sort of trying to go about it the wrong way, right. To me, why wouldn't the push be to rename
the plaza, as opposed to rename the station? Has a much more limited effect. I think it's worth exploring.
I also, to the extent we do explore it, would be inclined to take an approach similar to LA Metro, which still
provides the wayfinding for where you're actually going. I think it's incredibly important to honor people,

especially people like Reverend Blank, who have made these incredible contributions. I think, for the
reasons I've stated, I think we're not approaching it correctly and you can have a much greater impact if
we just renamed the plaza itself and worked with everyone to do that in this particular instance. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Director Dishell. I would note that I think this is exactly where it's
helpful that for us to engage on looking at a broader policy and what our threshold would be, which could
be the markers themselves. So I would ask if we do proceed here and have Directors working with
members of staff to take that into consideration. And thank you for your comments. Secretary Guzman,
please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Just quickly, I do appreciate that this is not a hard no, because we are not
supposed to be the agency of no, and it does give us an opportunity to consider it. And so I think working
with staff and Board mitigates the problem of not managing expectations. We can understand the fiscal
potential to this, consider things like working with the city to rename areas so that we have the
geographical wayfinding sort of commitment that we have always had.
So I would just encourage us to go forward with this. And I think the March deadline is probably a
sufficient amount of time to get it done. But if it turns out that there are some snags along the way, I would
be open to receiving something later. I just think that we can get this done in the name of efficiency.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary. Director Rosenthal, please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I do think it's necessary to have process. And as
someone who's actually worked on a naming, I gathered the signatures and worked with Denver City
Council to name our courthouse for Judge Ben Barr Lindsey, who was the very first juvenile court judge
and a progressive hero in the early 1900s. And the City Council named the new courthouse after both
Lindsey and Judge Flanagan, who was the very first African-American judge in Colorado.
And so I am certainly-- I know how important process is. It was frustrating for me at the time. I'm like, well,
why do I have to get all these signatures and why do I have to go through this process? But I think what it
does is it helps us consider the gravity of what we're doing, but also that everyone in the community
understands that when we go through this process, that we have done our homework and that the
decision we arrive at has been through a thoughtful process.
So I do support this, that we go through the process and we consider names both, you know, whether it's
Reverend Blank and others, or just Reverend Blank, or what have you. So I think it's important that we
have a process that is better defined for the future. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. And agreed. In fact, I would just offer my comment
that-- thank you, Mr. Kroll, for identifying what ultimately was a policy gap. I think sitting in the position
we're in now, we'd all have liked if we had a policy to fall back on to ask a specific question.
So hearing the nature of the discussion, I think it does make sense for us to proceed with two Directors to
liaise with staff and engage with the Board Office, with Mr. Kroll, to research and recommend what a
general policy would be prior to considering any general questions.
I'll share with the Board now that the two Directors that I have spoken to ahead of this meeting and asked
for their participation, given their experience and given their passion in this area, are Directors Ruscha
and Director Sloan. So if the two of them are amenable to carry this forward and work with staff, it would

be very much appreciated, certainly by me and this Board. Given that I have named the two of you right
now, you're welcome to make a comment if you'd like. If not, we can move on.
MARJORIE SLOAN: I think it's an important endeavor. And I appreciate Paul's comment. I think he's got
some information for the committee working on this about how Denver goes about the naming process.
Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Anything you'd like to offer, Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you for the opportunity. I'm also looking forward to working with Director Sloan
on this.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. And General Manager and CEO Johnson, thank you for the
willingness to engage with members of your staff and engage and help us make progress on this area.
All right. With that, we will move to our report of Director activities. At this time, I'd like to ask if any
members of the Board would like to report on activities of the months of December and January, being
mindful of our approaching four-hour mark.
[LAUGHTER]
Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Just wanted to point out that I did conduct the Board Talk live
session that was presented by the APTA TBM committee on making the economic case for transit. I'm
happy to say that several of our Directors did participate, in that it is available online for your viewing,
should you like.
And today we had the American Public Transportation Foundation Board new member orientation. The
principal task of the foundation is reviewing applications and awarding scholarships. So if you're
interested in helping youth who want to go on in an education in transit, please talk to me.
And we did have the meeting of the Denver Downtown Development Authority, which I chair, in
December. And I'm happy to say, and I was re-elected as Chair, and I'm happy to say, it looks like we're
going to retire our debt for the Downtown Development Authority in 2025, ahead of schedule by far.
Thank you. That's all.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I've certainly had a number of activities in the
community. But one I'll call attention to is I attended a luncheon with the Colorado Business Roundtable.
And in that occasion, and many other occasions, I have an opportunity to speak about the work that our
General Manager and all the staff and all of our drivers, our operators, and our mechanics, and so many
others who work for RTD, and the good work they're doing, the admirable work, and in the cold and in the
night and the difficulty and the fatigue, they still plow through. And so I'm always promoting RTD in the
community and everyone at RTD. We are one. We are we. And that does not mean, however, that we are
perfect.
I appreciate Director Ruscha for referring me to some constituents who wanted to chat last weekend from
the National Coalition for the Blind. And so passed along to our Board Office some of their perspectives
and feedback. But they were also-- there was a woman who was from Albuquerque and she said, I am so

happy to be in Denver, because of the transit options that she has. And so I just wanted to pass along
that feedback, number one.
Number two, that I hear a lot of discussion in the community about Front Range Passenger Rail and how
it intersects with RTD, and that RTD is a strong partner in that effort, both-- I know we're looking at our
peak service and how that intersects with the Front Range Passenger Rail, but also commending our
General Manager and CEO for being an ex-officio member of that. And that's yet another thing that she
has on her plate, and her team, obviously, who assists her in that effort. So thank you for this opportunity.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. Seeing no other Directors' hands raised, I'll touch on
other matters. Are there other matters to discuss?
BOBBY DISHELL: Someone took away my speak, but great work first meeting, Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Oh, thank you. Thank you, Director Dishell. And thank you, everybody, for your
patience this evening and for working through this. Very much appreciated.
Seeing no other discussion, I will entertain a motion to adjourn.
JOYANN RUSCHA: So moved.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I had Broom as the movement. Any objection? All right. The meeting-PAUL ROSENTHAL: I object, actually. I actually believe that Director Ruscha, I had heard her voice first.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Oh. Thank you. All right. Director Ruscha.
[LAUGHTER]
All right. Thank you. This meeting is adjourned as of 9:21 PM Mountain Standard Time. Thank you for
joining us. Have a good night.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

