2021-06-15
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
PAM HILL: Good evening.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Hi. Welcome.
PEGGY CATLIN: Can everyone hear me?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. As Director Tisdale mentioned, I'm also having some trouble with my toggle
settings, so the toggle switch.
I'd like to call the order the Financial, Administration, and Audit Committee on June 15, 2021 at 7:16 PM
Mountain Daylight Time. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless
you are recognized to speak. Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that under the current
circumstances, the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely in the interest of
public health, safety, and well-being. For the immediate future, the official meetings of the Board of
Directors will be held via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with
the unofficial minutes of the meeting, will be posted as soon as practical on the Board's website. Visit rtddenver.com and scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to the Board of Directors page.
Directors and member of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceedings, I would ask you to please raise your virtual hand, wait for me to call you before
proceeding to speak. Speaking out of turn will only add confusion to the record and to the proceedings.
Directors and staff participating by phone can also use their virtual hands to indicate that they would like
to speak by pressing star 9. To toggle settings on the phone, press star 6.
Note that we will not be taking public commentary during this meeting. Members of the public interested
in speaking directly to the Board are encouraged to do so during the month before. For future meeting
dates, please refer to the Board's meeting portal, located at rtd.iqm2.com.
We have already had our safety briefing that was delivered very [INAUDIBLE] by Director Williams. So we
will not repeat that again. But we do have two recommended actions on the agenda this evening. Our first
recommended action is for the Board of Directors to adopt Regional Transportation District's annual
comprehensive financial report that includes audited financial reports relating to the year ended
December 31, 2020. Do I have a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: So moved, Tisdale.

PEGGY CATLIN: Is there a second?
BOB BROOM: Second, Broom.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
And now we'll have our staff presentation. For that we have our Chief Financial Officer, Doug MacLeod,
and Byron Aten, Senior Manager of Accounting. And they can introduce our guests from Plante Moran to
present-- to give tonight's presentation. Doug?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you very much, Madam Chair, and good evening. So this action item is a
culmination of completing the audit, the financial statement audit for 2020. So as Chair Catlin mentioned,
joining me tonight is Byron Aten, who is our Senior Manager of Accounting, as well as Pam Hill, who is a
partner with Plante Moran, our external auditors, and finally, Sean Hickey, excuse me, from Plante
Moran, who is the Assurance Senior Manager.
A couple of items, just housekeeping items I'd like to cover just quickly is that just a reminder that the
audit team of Pam and Sean were here back in February to give their pre-audit communications. And this
meeting, they are here to talk about their required communications for closing out the audit.
I'd also like to mention that this is our first year with Plante Moran. We previously had a different
contractor for prior fiscal years. We've been very impressed and very happy with the service and the
support that Plante Moran has given us through this audit process. It was also new for them, learning the
ropes with RTD and our nuances here at the Regional Transportation District. Want to thank them and
their teams for all their hard work and all the hours they put in, as well as Byron's team here at RTD. A lot
of hours, a lot of work. I think we had a successful outcome.
So without further ado, I would like to turn it over to Pam to walk through a short presentation and give
her required communications to the Board as the governing body of our RTD. And then we'll be happy to
answer any questions you might have. So Pam, please go ahead.
PAM HILL: Thank you very much, Doug. I appreciate that introduction. And thank you to the Board of
Directors for allowing us to present here tonight. I believe, Sean, you are going to be sharing your screen.
So if you want to go ahead and pull up the presentation. And Sean, I don't know if you're not muted or
muted, but I cannot hear you.
SEAN HICKEY: I thought I was not muted.

PAM HILL: Oh, OK, now I hear you. Thank you.

SEAN HICKEY: Can you see that, can you see my screen?
PAM HILL: No.
SEAN HICKEY: Oh. Try that again. OK. Let's try that again.
PAM HILL: There we go, starting to pop up now. All right. Thank you very much.
So as Doug mentioned, we're back here, talking to you back in February. So we wanted to just kind of
give just a brief introduction to the team that's here today. Sean, if you want to go to the next slide.
Just talk a little bit about the audit process, how that went. And then we're not going to spend a lot of time
on the numbers today. It is June, so the numbers are about six months old. And I know your team
internally keeps you updated monthly on the status of the financial progress that you've made since
12/31.
So again, just wanted to give a quick introduction. My name is Pam Hill. I'm Audit Partner with Plante
Moran. I head up Plante Moran's national transportation practice. And Sean Hickey, who is a Senior
Manager at Plante Moran, both of us are part of the national transit practice at Plante Moran. And we
actually, at Plante, have a dedicated team of governmental experts that have chosen to further specialize
in transit agencies. And so all the members of your team that Doug spoke of from Plante, all are a part of
that group and work with other transit agencies across the country. So excited to be here and really
appreciative of the opportunity to work with the District.
So just a little bit about our team structure. So besides Sean and I, we actually do have another, a partner
who was involved and did an additional review on the District's financial statements in order to assist the
team. And then also we have a transit technical specialist who work closely with Doug and Byron and
team as they maneuver through some new accounting pronouncements that were required to be adopted
by the District this year. We also had our single audit specialists that helped on the federal compliance
side, and then a few other staff that helped with all the day-to-day work.
As Doug mentioned, we did spend over 800 hours this year auditing the books and records of the District.
So we really do appreciate Doug's kind words, but we do really appreciate the hard work of Doug, Byron,
Tom, and really the entire team. We know they spent a lot of time getting ready for the audit but also
working with us throughout all those items as we worked through the course of the audit. So Sean, if you
want to go to the next slide.
So there are a few deliverables within your packet today that I just wanted to make sure to touch on. So
the first would be the annual comprehensive financial report, which is the largest of the PDFs in your
packets, 100-plus pages. So within that deliverable, I did want to point out the first few pages, pages one
and two, and that would be our opinion letter. So that would be what the District hires Plante Moran to
provide. We did provide an unmodified opinion this year, which is the highest level of assurance that you

can receive from your auditors and basically means that you can rely on the numbers as they are
presented within the financial statements.
You may have noticed, if you were to kind of compare this year's statements to last year's statements,
that they looked a little bit differently this year. And that is because the District did implement a new
accounting standard this year related to fiduciary activities. This did require quite a bit of extra work for
both teams, and two new funds were added to the financial statements, the 401(a) plan and the salary DB
plan. So these activities have always been a part of the District's financial information and have been in
the back in the footnote disclosures in the past. But in order to allow for more consistency and
transparency in reporting, this new accounting standard required them to be more prominent within the
financial statements. So you would have noticed that difference as you kind of compare last year to this
year.
Next we also have an end of audit letter addressed to the Board, which we will go through in a little more
detail over the next few slides. And we did have a single audit report, or a federal compliance report, you
can think of it that way. And we are happy to report that we did not have any findings related to the
internal controls over financial reporting, nor did we have any findings related to compliance with federal
grants. And we do have a slide later just to show the increased amount of federal spending in fiscal year
2020 due to some of the CARES Act funding, I believe. Mr. Ford talked about that earlier. So you will get
to see some numbers related to that and related to fiscal year 2020.
We also were hired to prepare the agreed upon procedures report related to the General Manager's
contract. During fiscal year 2020, there were actually three different General Manager contracts that we
reviewed. And that report was also included for your review.
And lastly, we are currently working through the procedures related to the National Transit Database,
which is reporting up to the FTA, that the District is required to do every year. We have made some really
good headway on that, and we are working with Doug, Byron, and their team to finalize that over the
coming weeks. So Sean, if you want to go to the next slide.
So this is, if you recall back when I was visiting with you back in February, we talked about the plan for
the audit. And as part of the audit process, we're required to brainstorm around any potential risks that
may require us to do additional audit testing. And so these were the risks that we had identified during our
brainstorming. We did perform additional procedures around these transactions, as you'll see on the slide.
And we are happy to report that we did not have any additional findings as a result of those procedures.
And I believe, Sean, you are going to take it from here.
SEAN HICKEY: Sure. Thanks, Pam.
So the next few slides that I'm going to go through is really the required communications that auditors
need to report to those charged with governance. Much of this information is included in the letter, end of

audit letter that Pam referred to. But what we do is we like to just highlight it here and just kind of go
through those required communications.
So the first one is our responsibility under audit professional standards. We express an opinion on the
fairness of the financial statements by testing and coming up with reasonable assurance to form our
opinion. And as Pam mentioned, the District received an unmodified opinion for their financial statements
for December 31, 2020.
The planned scope and timing of the audit, all of our planning, risk assessment, and the rest of our
procedures. The time frame was conducted from January through May. And as Pam mentioned, we work
closely with Doug and Byron and the team, especially through March, April, and May, to get the bulk of
the work done. And of course, there was significant additional work due to the implementation of a new
government accounting standards.
Any significant accounting policies and practices, we are required to let you know that there were no
transactions that lacked authoritative guidance or no transactions that were recognized in the period
different than when the transaction occurred.
We're also required to point out significant accounting estimates. And one of the most significant
accounting estimates is pension liabilities. As Pam mentioned, there are two new funds within the
District's financial statements relating to pensions. And those pensions have what we call long-term
liabilities. And mainly, what that is is there's certain aspects of the future obligations that need to be
estimated and recorded in the District's financial statements. And each of the funds has an actuary that
projects out those long-term estimates. And that's something that we have to audit as part of our audit of
the District.
Some other required communications. Again, we'll mention they adopted a new government accounting
standard, GASB 84, which related to what they call fiduciary activities. And we had to work, again, closely
with Doug and Byron, and we determined that two of those pension funds under this new accounting
standard were required to be presented in the District's financial statements.
Happy to report that there were no difficulties encountered in performing the audit. We didn't have any
disagreements with management. We did have one identified, what we call a past disclosure. Because of
the new accounting standard, there were certain disclosures that are required under the new accounting
standard specific to, in this case, the long-term money weighted rate of return.
And the standard requires 10 years of that to be presented in a supplemental schedule. But because of
the implementation of the standard in the current year by the District, to go back and try and historically
recreate that to get it in the financial statements we felt was not a cost benefit and didn't feel like that
would be material to the financial statements as a whole. But we just have to let you know that that was
one past footnote disclosure from the new accounting standard.

We did receive a management representation letter dated May 27, 2021. And that representation letter
was management's assertion that they provide us with full and open access to all their accounting records
and they asserted to the fact that all the information that they provided to us that we audited was accurate
to their best of their knowledge.
This is just some additional information that we like to provide to the Board. And this is information that
we also provide to management of the RTD. We have a COVID-19 Resource Center. So internally, our
professional standards group monitors closely the activity that's coming from the federal government. So
we like to monitor available federal funding. In addition to that, there is a new government accounting
standard, number 87, leases. And I know Doug and Byron are happy that this actually doesn't have to be
implemented until the fiscal year 2022. And that will give them a break for this 2021 year, after having to
implement GASB 84 in the recent fiscal year.
We also have resources for information technology controls and cybersecurity. And then also, just to
mention, the District will be applying for the GFOA a certificate of achievement. And that process is
automated, where they will submit their annual comprehensive financial report to the GFOA to get that
certificate.
And then we'll also keep in contact for any other upcoming accounting standards, to make sure that we
work closely with Doug and his team to address any sort of issues up front that might affect the District
and their financial statements.
As we mentioned, we just thought, the next two slides really we thought would be beneficial to the Board
just to bring it to your attention, because the pension information is now recorded in the financial
statements of these two funds, as well as footnote disclosures. So we just decided to give you an excerpt
of the funding progress of two of the pension plans.
I would like to point out, though, as you probably are aware, the pension plans are really administered,
and they have a separate Board that really monitor and keep track of the funding progress for each of the
separate pension plans. But because this is in the District's financial statements, we thought it would be
something just to point out, especially because this is the first year that a lot of this pension information is
being presented in the District's financials.
So this is just a funding progress for the ATU 1001 pension plan. And you can see it shows a funding
percentage over the last five years.
The second one is the salaried employees. Again, this has a separate Board who monitors the activity
and the funding progress of the pension plan. And this is just, again, the historical funding percentage.
And this information is presented in the District's financial statements.
Pam mentioned earlier about the federal awards, which would fall under what we call our single audit
report. And we thought it'd just be a good opportunity to kind of show you historically over the last five, six

years how much federal expenditures the District has had. And as you can see, there was a significant
increase of over $200 million in the current fiscal year. And as you're all aware that that had to do with the
CARES Act. Because of significant shortfall in the revenue because of the pandemic, the transit agencies
all received CARES Act funding. And so much that funding, obviously, was spent for operations and
payroll and services to continue the District to continue performing.
And I think that's it. Pam, did you want to wrap up?
PAM HILL: Sure. Thanks, Sean. I think, so that was all we had planned to cover today. But again, happy
to answer any questions, or also, I'll probably turn it back over to Doug then.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Pam and Sean. And that concludes our comments and we'd be happy to
take questions, Madam Chair, if you're ready.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes I'd like to ask the Directors to raise their hand if they do have any questions. I
would like to reiterate that next on the agenda is a discussion about some technical details on the pension
plans. So I would ask that since Pam and Sean were just auditing and required to report those two items
on the financial-- the District is required to report them in the financial statements tonight, so they
subsequently audited them, but they're really not here to answer questions about those pension funds.
I don't see any hands raised for our guests. Does anyone have any? I would like to thank—
KATE WILLIAMS: I see Director Rosenthal has his hand up, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I did not see that. Paul.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. So I do have a question. As I recall from the
APTA sort of analysis that they had done, there was a question about the number of internal auditors that
we have at RTD. And my question is is-- and I don't know how the auditors work, the ones who just
presented. Do they actually work together with our auditors? Or do they work directly with senior
leadership team? Or who do they work with on a daily basis getting the information that they need?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. This is Doug MacLeod. And great question.
So we actually have two sets of auditors. We have our internal audit team, which is the team that the
APTA peer review reviewed their responsibilities and what you heard about. Those are actual employees
of RTD. With Plante Moran, we have contracted with them for a specific scope of work to audit our
financial statements and provide an independent view, an independent opinion of our financial statement
presentation, as well as the other items that were listed. So really two separate groups looking at two
separate things.

But in regard to your question as to who they work with, Plante Moran comes in and works with our team
to get information. That begins in the fall time frame with the pre-audit work and then rolls into this time
frame where we complete the audit, whereas they're primarily looking at our financial statements and our
presentations and our disclosures that are required by many regulatory bodies. On the other side, we
have our internal auditors, which primarily report to the Board of Directors of RTD and are under their
direction for their work.
So basically two separate functions there is how I would characterize that. Hopefully, that makes sense.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yeah. So just summarizing what you're saying, Doug, is that they work directly with
you and they do not work with our auditors internally. They work directly with you and the other senior
leadership team, and your members of the team. OK, I just wanted to see how that relationship is. Yeah.
DOUG MACLEOD: Oh, I'm sorry, Director Rosenthal. What I would add, though, is although they work
with us, they do have a professional responsibility to provide an independent opinion report directly to the
client. Yes.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I mean like they request documents from you, they have questions for you about the
documents and the files and the data. What I mean is the interaction is between you two. OK.
And then I'm not trying to be critical in my questioning. This is for the auditors. Just want to say, so they
were responsive and everybody was great to work with. And would you say that it was on par with other
companies you worked with, the responsiveness, the time frame, and the amount of information that you
got? Miss Hill and Mr. Hickey?
PAM HILL: Yes. Yes. Yes, definitely. And especially a first year, whenever you switch auditors-- and Doug
mentioned this a little bit-- it takes them a little while to get used to what we're asking for and us to get a
little bit used to your processes and obviously your controls and things like mas is we get into those
details. But definitely more than responsive. We had many calls, almost daily, especially during the end of
the audit.
And so I think our teams worked together really well and really kind of complemented each other. So I
think it went very well.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Great. And that answers my question. Thank you, everyone. And thank you to our
senior leadership team for working so closely with the auditors as well. Good job on that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. Director Broom, I see your hand is raised.

BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. Will we receive a hard copy of the CAFRA? It's a good
reference document.
PEGGY CATLIN: Doug.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. Absolutely. So we wait for the final Board approval
before we go to print. However, that hopefully will happen next week. And certainly, we will provide that
hard copy to each Board member. We also provide extra hard copies. We have a lot of external parties
that also receive those hard copies, such as credit rating agencies and investors. We do make the CAFR
available, once it's approved by the Board, on the RTD website. And we also follow up with the-- file it
with the state. So yeah, definitely we will get you a copy.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Are there any other Directors who would like to speak? I don't see anyone else.
Director, Broom, your hand is still up, but thank you.
OK, it's time to take a vote. And in keeping with Director Williams' process, let's first ask if there are any
no votes. I do not see any no votes, so the motion carries unanimously, 15 to 0, with Director Tisdale
being the mover and Director Broom being the second. Thank you very much.
And thank you, Plante Moran. We know that the time zone's a little bit different for you, but we really
appreciate you coming in.
PAM HILL: Not a problem. Thank you, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Our second recommended action it is for the Board of Directors to approve the
changes contained in the attached plan documents for the RTD Salaried Employees' Defined Contribution
Plan. Mr. MacLeod, do you want to-- or no, do I have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Williams. Is there a second?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second, Rivera-Malpiede.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So Mr. MacLeod, if you will like to give the presentation.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes. Thank you, Chair Catlin. Joining me this evening is Stephen Weinstein. You're
all familiar with Stephen, who is the attorney from Spencer Fane that works on the trust for the salaried
employees. We generally refer to our employees that are non-represented as salaried. However, it also

includes hourly employees that qualify, full-time employees who qualify for benefits. But our plan happens
to be named, our pension plan happens to be named the Salaried Pension Plan.
This item tonight we're bringing to the Board for approval, the Board actually approved-- assigns the
members of the trust. So we have six trustees on the salaried pension plan, as well as the salaried health
and welfare plan. Back in December of 2020, at the Finance Committee we asked the Board for approval
to renew terms for existing trustees, as well as appoint new trustees. The Board approved those. We
have four RTD employees serving on the trust as trustees, as well as Directors Catlin and Director
Broom.
So I wanted to point that out that to let you know that this item has been through many reviews, took a lot
of work from the trustees to adjust language, with Mr Weinstein's help. Really appreciate his work on this.
We've provided a red line copy that shows you the changes, as well as a final copy. The last time this
plan for the DC plan, the Defined Contribution Plan, also referred to as a 401(a) plan, very similar to a
401(k) plan in the private sector, in which the employer contributes to that plan based on a percentage of
salary. In this case, we contribute, RTD contributes 7% currently to employees participating in that plan.
Qualifying salaried employees are employees that were hired after January 1, 2008 or thereafter.
Employees that are on the salary side that were hired prior to that time are in the Defined Benefit, or DB
plan, which is a pension plan as opposed to a retirement 401(a) style plan.
So what we've provided to the Board in your packet is that marked up version. Many of the changes that
are in there were to primarily update that plan. It was last updated in 2014. And a lot of it is bringing it up
to current standards with some of the newer legislation promulgated for retirement plans, as well as
clarifying some issues, all of which are beneficial to the employees participating in that plan.
So I will stop there. And Mr. Weinstein and I would be happy to take any questions at this point, Madam
Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. Weinstein, did you have anything to add to that about the details?
STEPHEN WEINSTEIN: Well, I don't think so. But I'd be glad to answer any questions.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. We do have a few Directors that have questions. I'll start with Director Broom.
Director Broom, did you have—
BOB BROOM: Director Broom failed to take his hand down.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh. No problem. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you, Doug and Stephen, Mr. MacLeod and Mr.
Weinstein, for your guys' work on this. It's great to see the inclusion of women in our workforce as well as

in our compensation plan. I was wondering if you all would be open to adding their or a different gender
neutral pronoun to that list to include those employees who may not identify as male or female but who
may qualify for a salaried plan.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you for your question, Director Dishell. I'll refer that question to Mr. Weinstein
with his legal knowledge.
STEPHEN WEINSTEIN: We would have no problem with that. You know, we could either do it with an
additional amendment, if you want to proceed with this. Or if you went ahead and approved this subject to
us doing that, I'd see no problem in that.
BOBBY DISHELL: My only preference is for whatever is most efficient.
STEPHEN WEINSTEIN: I think most efficient is to get this one done. It's been a struggle. But follow up
with a simple amendment that could be done just by the trustees of the plan. It wouldn't have to come
back to the Board, et cetera.
BOBBY DISHELL: Well, I'll take you at your word for it. And that works for me.
PEGGY CATLIN: So to summarize, Director Dishell, you prefer to see that a simple amendment, if we
pass this, it would be subject to the change of pronoun, is that what you're suggesting?
BOBBY DISHELL: That is what I am suggesting, yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Do other Directors have thoughts about this? Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: I don't have a thought about this. I had another question, if you wanted to see if other
folks wanted to weigh in on this particular question.
PEGGY CATLIN: I do not see any other hands raised. So if you have another item, feel free. Oh, I do see
Director Lewis. Was that to this-- to Director Dishell's point?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes, it is. And I'm happy to provide some language, if it's helpful, the pronouns, if
that's helpful to you, Mr. Weinstein.
STEPHEN WEINSTEIN: That would be terrific.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. I can send that over to you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Lewis.
So Director Rivera-Malpiede, do you want to speak to this point or another?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. You know, just as a point of clarification, I'd like to make sure that our
General Counsel hones in on this to make sure we're doing this correctly, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Miss Snyder?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. I think it's appropriate. I would be helpful to get, to
just poll the Board to see if there is general consensus to direct Mr. Weinstein to, and authorize the
trustees to separately make these adjustments that we're talking about. I think that would be helpful for
the record.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I will do so. I guess just in order that I see you on my list. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: That's fine with me. If it doesn't impede the timeline too much, it sounds like a good
addition.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I think I know Director Lewis. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: I echo Director Cook's thoughts. Fine with it, as long as we don't delay, as Mr.
Weinstein had mentioned.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Forgive me if I'm missing anyone, but my Zoom order is a little bit confused.
MELANIE SNYDER: If I may, pardon me, Madam Chair. Just for clarification, you could also just call and
ask whether anyone opposes that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Why don't we do that? Is anyone opposed to the language as suggested by Directors
Dishell and Lewis?
Seeing none, we'll proceed with that. And thank you, Director Lewis, for offering up some suggested
language.
Director Cook, to your other point.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Thank you. And I'll ask for a little liberty, if you deem it appropriate. It's not a
question specifically about the Defined Contribution Plan. In fact, I'm really thinking more about the
Defined Benefit plans. But since the prior presentation had in the CAFR had brought up the unfunded
liabilities, do we know-- and this is probably for staff-- do we know if, are we clear enough now on the
guidelines for the stimulus spending, to the extent that benefits payments are included in the qualified
amounts that the stimulus can be applied toward? And if we are not funding at the full level of actuarial
recommendations, could it be an option of ours, not necessarily that we should, but would it be an option

of ours going forward to close that gap sooner using some of the ARPA funds? That's the question I have,
if it's OK to ask that in this action item here.
PEGGY CATLIN: General Manager Johnson, would you like to speak to that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And I'll ask Mr. MacLeod to opine as well.
As I sought clarification in relationship to the Federal Transit Administration as relates to operating costs,
considering we're talking about salaries and benefits, I believe this would be permissible as we talk about
what we're doing holistically as it rounds out compensation from an employee. Or for, not from an
employee, for an employee. I'm tired. So thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: I understand. And Mr. MacLeod, do you want to add anything to that?
DOUG MACLEOD: That is the case, yes, absolutely. And we would need to consider that with the Board
as well as we go through the budgeting and forecasting process as to how those funds will be applied.
General Manager Johnson has referred to in the past that the term swapping funds, we do have budgeted
money set aside to fund the plan based on the current status.
Regarding some of the other plans, such as the ATU plan, that would come through negotiations with the
union. But yes, I do believe that if that is an opportunity and an option to consider, that we will be
considering as we go through the budgeting process to apply some of these funds to make up some of
that gap. Obviously, there's trade-offs in applying those funds, so that would be part of the discussion.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Did that answer your question, Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes. Thanks so much.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I guess I would like to remind those Directors who were on the Board previously,
there was quite a spirited discussion about the Board's contribution to the fund in the past. And so I would
suggest that we have that on the agenda for a future meeting during our budgeting process.
Are there any other comments before we take a vote? I don't see any virtual hands raised. So I'll ask now
if there are any votes in opposition of this motion that was moved by Director Williams and seconded by
Chair Rivera-Malpiede? Do I see any objection? Then this motion passes unanimously, 15 to zero. So
thank you.
Moving on, I believe we are moving to Other Matters. And we do not have any discussion items. So we
are moving to Other Matters.

I have one, but I'll let other Directors speak before I bring up one other matter. Would anyone like to bring
up any other matters?
I'll go ahead, but I may need some help from General Manager Johnson and also possibly Director
Davidson, if you'd like to chime in. We have a small working group for our internal audit division that is
comprised of General Manager/CEO Johnson, the Board Office staff, Director Davidson, myself, and our
internal audit manager, Ann Marie, and we have been starting to sort through some of the documents that
will be required.
And based on the standards which we are moving toward, there is an internal audit charter. And because
we were having trouble with some of the nomenclature, we have elected to call it the internal audit
functional charter. And that is based on the standards. And that will be the document that we will bring
forward to you, by which the other documents will be built. And those documents include our internal
Audit Committee charter, as well as the cascade effect which results in a revised charter for the Financial
and Administration Committee, because they will be separated out, as well as a change to the Board
bylaws that result in those committees being separated.
So it's a cascade effect, and there are a number of documents that we will be receiving. We were not
ready to bring that first internal audit functional charter to you yet, but we will be bringing it to you likely in
a special meeting later this month.
Did I capture that correctly, CEO Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Just a point of clarification. Most likely as relates to the internal audit function charter,
most likely that will be July, as that's the foundation upon which we will build the Audit Committee charter,
recognizing that the recommendations we received specify that should be a stand-alone committee;
hence, the idea of having it carved out as a special committee. So that's the only thing that's agendized
so we can deal with that business.
And so then subsequently, as you stated, Madam Chair, that the other documents remaining would be
the modification to the bylaws, due to the fact that everything just references the Finance, Administration,
and Audit Committee. And also a point as well as in relationship to recommendations we have received
from both the state auditor as well as the APTA peer review is that the Audit Committee should not be a
committee of the whole, which is something else that I think is important to share in this venue as well as
we go forward.
So that's what I had to add as related to your comments. So thank you, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And I did forget that we were going to carry that into July. Director
Davidson, did you have anything to add to that?

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Chair Catlin. No, I really don't. We're making progress here. It does take
time. And I think it's important to get it right. So beyond just assuring everybody here that we are making
progress on this matter, I have nothing to add. And thank you to CEO Johnson and Chair Catlin for
summarizing.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Davidson. Are there any other matters to come before the
committee tonight? I do not see any hands raised at this point.
So it is now 7:59 PM and I call this meeting adjourned. Thank you all very much.

