Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, April 11, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Lorraine Anderson

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Anderson called the meeting to order at 9:20 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Committee Chair
Present

Arrived
9:20 PM

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Absent

Bob Broom

Director, District F

Present

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Absent
Absent

Tina Francone

Director, District N

Present

9:23 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

9:23 PM

Judy Lubow
Ken Mihalik

Director, District I
Director, District G

Present
Present

9:23 PM
9:23 PM

Natalie Menten
Doug Tisdale
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District M
Director, District H
Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present
Present
Present

9:25 PM
9:19 PM
9:24 PM
9:23 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

9:26 PM

9:19 PM

Kate Williams

Committee Vice-Chair

Absent

Directors Archuleta, Deadwyler, Folska, and Williams were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tonya Anderson, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Steven
Butcher, Gina Callahan, Carolyn Conover, Lou Cripps, John Elias,
Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, Eric Farrington, Steve Gieske, David
Genova, Dough Gragg, Lou, Ha, John Hersey, Ali Imansepahi, Ariane
Le Roy, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, John McKay, Heather
McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mindy McNair, Ray McNamara, Mike
Meader, Allen Miller, Ed Neuberg, Tai-Shrae Parish, Scott Reed,
Jenifer Ross-Amato, Zamy Silva, Greg Smith, Lindsey Smith, Kevin
Steele, Henry Stopplecamp, Greg Straight, Mark Tieman, Monika
Treipl-Harnke, Enuma Udokwu, Bill Van Meter, Brian Welch

Public Present:

Kent Bagley, Brian Gebhardt, William Gross, Diane Isler, Bill James,
Brian Lewandowski, Tina McDonald, Robert McNown, Dan
McKeehan, Keith Nobles, Kenta Okuyama, Dave Sachs, Roger
Sherman, Susan Spray, Vivian Stovall, John Thompson, Krystin
Trustman, Gary Van Dorn, Rich Wobbekind

B. Recommended Actions

• Award of “Group 27” Contracted Fixed-Route Services
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
enter into a contract with First Transit for the provision of contracted fixedroute transit services “Group 27.” This contract is for three years, with
two one-year options for a total of 5-years, for a 5-year cost of
$128,033,723.00. In addition, RTD will reimburse the contractor’s direct
fuel costs in an amount estimated to be $13,804,915.00 for the total 5-year
term. The total 5-year not-to-exceed amount for the contracted fixed route
transit service and fuel is $141,838,638.00.
This recommendation represents the most responsive and responsible
proposal received in response to Request for Proposals (RFP) 16-DH-055 to
provide “Group 27” Public Transportation Services. The contract to provide
this service is scheduled to be effective on May 13, 2017.
Motion:

Director Solano made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the April 18, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Tisdale seconded the motion.

Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED unanimously

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [10 TO 0]
MOVER:
Paul Solano, Director, District K
SECONDER: Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
AYES: Anderson, Broom, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Tisdale,
Sisk, Solano
ABSENT:
Ernest Archuleta, Barbara Deadwyler, Claudia Folska, Kate
Williams
AWAY:
Jeff Walker

C. Updates

• 40' Bus Seating Configuration
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations, stated that over time, staff,
received a number of comments from the disabled community regarding the seating
configuration on buses. He commented that last year staff was preparing for a new bus
order and before that order was finalized, staff met with members of the disabled
community. He stated that he wanted to discuss some of the comments brought to staff,
note the environment in which RTD is working, and highlight the process and outcome for
the seating configuration of the new 40’ transit coaches.
Mr. Abel noted that staff was anticipating two bus orders for 2017: 40 buses were
ordered April 1, 2017, and another 15 would be ordered in the fourth quarter. A number
of issues were brought to RTD from the disabled community, and in order to address those
issues, staff convened a meeting with representatives from the disabled community on
December 20, 2016. At that meeting, RTD staff met with Douglas Howie, Colorado
Cross-Disability Coalition (CCDC), Tina McDonald CCDC, Vivian Stovall, Citizens Advisory
Committee (CAC), Andrew Montoya, CCDC’s Attorney, Dr. William Gross, and Kurt Miller.
The purpose of that meeting was to discuss the issues communicated to RTD and provide
information concerning the regulatory, physical, and customer service environment in
which RTD operates. He noted that staff informed the group at that meeting that two
new bus orders would be placed 2017, the first in April and the second in the fourth
quarter. Staff also had conversations with Gillig, Inc., the manufacturer of the new buses
to determine if they could alter the first bus order with the new seat configuration.
Mr. Abel explained that RTD operates within a regulatory environment from the Americans
with Disabilities (ADA) Act, which sets forth minimum requirements that RTD must meet
in terms of the design of the 40’ coaches. A few of those requirements include:
 Ramp design load must be able to hold 600 pounds and it must be 30 inches wide.
 Securement devices must be able to hold 4,000 pounds for each mobility aid.
 There must be two 30”x 48” securement areas near the accessible entrance as
practicable. At least one securement area must be forward facing. Additional
securement areas may be forward facing or rearward facing.
 Common wheelchairs and mobility aids must be accommodated.
 Vehicles must have seatbelts and shoulder harnesses.



Priority seating signage and securement location signs must be visible.

Mr. Abel added that there are a variety of issues laid out in the ADA that RTD must
comply with, at a minimum, and it is another regulatory environment in which RTD exists.
He noted that there is also a physical environment, and the Colorado Department of
Transportation (CDOT) limits the maximum width of any vehicle on Colorado roadways to
102” wide, and noted that RTD’s transit coaches are 102” wide. As a result of
transportation laws throughout the nation, bus manufacturers only make buses 96” or
102” wide. Another element of RTD’s physical reality is that the interior walls of buses
are not perpendicular, and they do not meet the floor at a right angle. If buses are 102”
on the outer wall, the inside wall at the shoulder is 96” and 86-88” at the floor. The
original seat design had two 30” x 48” securement areas located at the front of the bus,
meeting the minimum ADA requirement. The primary issue brought to RTD was that, due
to the securement areas being immediately opposite of each other, it was difficult for a
mobility device to swing into a vacant securement area if the other was occupied. Also, if
both securement areas were occupied, it created a narrow aisle way that would not be
sufficient to accommodate a walker. Secondary issues centered on the folding seats
behind the securement areas. On the curb side of the bus, there is one center facing seat
behind the securement area, and it was brought to staff’s attention that not only was the
seat useless, but it made the seats behind it useless as well.
Mr. Abel stated that prior to the December 20, 2016 meeting, staff asked Gillig to provide
floor plans that are currently in use by other transit agencies across the county. In
response to that request, Gillig provided RTD staff with two dozen options. Staff vetted
and reviewed the plans and narrowed the options down to four floor plans that staff
presented to the group for conversation and discussion. The outcome of that conversation
and discussion was consensus that floorplan C, as it was known at that time, was the
best variation available for RTD to address the issues that had been articulated to staff.
After the December 20th meeting, staff went back to Gillig to determine what could be
done with floorplan C. The result was the new design seat layout. The new seat design
layout addresses:
 The swing issue. The curbside securement area will be expanded to 58”x 30”
which exceeds the ADA requirement.
 The two securement areas have been offset to provide maneuverability and to
minimize the narrow aisle way.
Mr. Abel remarked that part of RTD’s reality is that it has a limited amount of space on
buses with which it can work. He highlighted that buses are 102” on the outside, 96”
inside at shoulder height, and 88” inside at the floor. RTD’s job is to balance competing
demands from a variety of customers, because RTD is a single public transit agency that
has to meet many needs. The new design seat layout was staff’s balancing act to address
the securement area space.
Mr. Abel noted that Tina McDonald suggested that RTD utilize thin profile flip seats at the
front of the bus, and she provide information from the manufacturers. He stated that

using these seats, when flipped up, will allow for the maximum clearance space available
and provide a few extra inches to the securement areas.
Mr. Abel commented that, on the new design layout, the floor of the securement areas
will be blue. He stated the blue color will outline the securement area, and wheelchair
symbols will be added to the bottom of the flip seats to further visually reinforce the
securement areas to others.
Mr. Abel remarked that, after working internally and with Gillig, staff met with the group
from the December 20th meeting again on March 6, 2017, and provided the new design
layout. Attendees at that meeting were staff, Douglas Howie, Tina McDonald, Dr.
Williams Gross, and another individual unfamiliar to staff. He stated that staff
communicated that the new design layout was the path RTD would be moving forward
with based on the previously presented issues. The vast majority of the people in
attendance provided feedback that was positive, but there was not universal acceptance
of the new design. The main complaint from those opposed to the new design was that
the street side of the bus still had a securement area of 48” x 30”.
Mr. Abel reiterated that RTD’s job is to find a balance between numerous competing
demands. He added that 2.6% of RTD’s daily bus ridership are ramp events where the
ramp is deployed. In the course of a day, with 256,000 passenger boardings, there are
over 6600 ramp events. Ramp events could be a wheelchair boarding, a walker boarding,
or any other boarding where the ramp is requested. Staff, in its attempt to balance a
number of competing needs, made the modifications that it felt were appropriate. He
added that he was pleased to inform the Board that Gillig was able to accommodate the
new design layout modifications in the April assembly run that just began.
Director Broom asked how this layout compares with what is currently on light rail or
commuter rail.
Terry Emmons, Assistant General Manager of Rail Operations, commented that newer light
rail vehicles have the 60” maximum turn around area on both sides. He noted that
existing vehicles will be updated with the same configuration, and added that light rail cars
have a bit more room than buses, and the walls are straighter.
Director Solano stated that he had met with a couple of advocates from the CCDC and
they said that the offset of the securement areas would not allow the operator to go to
the back of the bus, or passengers to go to the front of the bus in the event of an
emergency.
Mr. Abel stated that, with the new seat layout, the front door has the exit ramp for the
securement areas. In addition to the two door exits, all windows on the bus, per federal
motor vehicle safety standards (FMVSS), push out so that people can exit the bus through
the windows in the event of an emergency. There are also two ceiling exits that double as
ventilators/emergency exits.

Chair Hoy noted that he liked Ms. McDonald’s suggestion about the thin profile flip seats
and asked if the seats are designed to automatically flip into the upright position.
Mr. Abel remarked that nothing would preclude RTD from operating with those flip seats in
the upright position.
Lou Ha, Manager of Technical Services, stated that currently, seat manufacturers do not
make automatic flip up seats. They are considering designing them, but they are not
available yet.
Chair Hoy asked how much the reconfiguration would cost.
Mr. Abel said it would be an additional $1200, which is eminently reasonably.
Director Walker stated that not everyone with disabilities uses wheelchairs or walkers, and
he would be interested to see how the new seat design works.
Mr. Abel commented that staff’s perspective is that this is a constant balancing act to
manage a variety of articulated requests.
Committee Chair Anderson stated that she appreciated all of the work staff put into this.
Director Solano asked about the metal secure brackets, as the two measure differently.
Mr. Abel stated that there is a metal bracket that is mounted to the floor and the mobility
devices are secured to that bracket. In existing vehicles, staff is reviewing if that bracket
intrudes into the 48” x 30“securement area. He added that staff will be working with the
disabled community to fix any additional issues that arise.

• Lost Service Hours 4 11 17
Mr. Abel said that in March 2017 there were 283 lost service hours, compared to 1127 in
March of 2016. He commented that there has been a dramatic improvement, but RTD is
still challenged internally because it requires staff to mandate operators in order to meet
service requirements. He noted that customers are seeing better service on the street and
staff will continue to work with Human Resources (HR) to get additional operators.

D. Other Matters
Director Menten commented that a constituent asked her about RTD’s policy where
someone could call in and ask for a three-minute courtesy hold for local bus service. She
stated that she was unaware of the policy and hoped that RTD was not continuing the
practice.

Gina Callahan, Deputy Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations, stated that RTD will
do a three-minute courtesy hold for a bus if a customer calls in time. She added that RTD
will be adding an additional feature called “Connection Protection” to help bus operators
know that a transferring bus is coming within a three-minute window to help customers
make connections. However, the service will not be available on a snow day or during
sporting events. She noted that staff has observed that the three-minute hold does not
effect on-time performance.
Director Menten asked how many calls RTD typically receives requesting a courtesy hold.
Ms. Callahan remarked that 30 calls a day come in from bus drivers who have a customer
asking for a hold and 400 calls come in through dispatch.

E. Next Meeting Date - May 16, 2017
F. Motion to Move into Executive Session
There was no Executive Session.

G. Adjourn
Committee Chair Anderson adjourned the meeting at 10:15 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

