Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, July 3, 2012
Page 1 of 2

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue

Date:

July 3, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
July 3, 2012.
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Bagley, Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Cohen,
Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Williams and Walker
Director Tobiassen arrived late.

Board Members
Absent:
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Skip Brown, Frank Buczkowski, Jessie Carter, Rick
Clarke, Susan Cohen, Libby Cox, John Dawson, Kevin Diviness,
Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Terry Howerter, Brian Iacono, Austin
Jenkins , Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Paula
Perdue, Scott Reed, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Walt Stringer, Pauletta
Tonilas, Phil Washington, Brian Welch,

Others Present:

Rod Brown, Mac Callison-City of Aurora, Matt Christianson-Kiewit,
Leonard Dinegar, Jane Donovan, Greg Fischer, Sherman Hamilton,
Ken Hampshire, Seth Hoffman, Tom Howell-Kiewit, Erika KampeTransportation Solutions, David Lewis-CAC, Tim Madden, Peter
Mueller-PRT Consulting, Jim Poggemeyer-Kraemer, Jeanne Shreve,
Julie Skeen, Danielle Smith, Karen Stewart, Hunter Sydnor-Kiewit,
Jacob Riger - DRCOG, Susanne Wilson-Zann&Associates,
****
Committee Chair Bagley called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

Call to Order:
I.

Update
Status of Denver Union Station USA Negotiations
Marla Lien provided a status update on this item. She shared they are proceeding
with the documents. They have a signed early work agreement. The USA team is
still awaiting approval from the park service which she reminded the Board that our
agreement with USA is contingent on them obtaining this approval.
Bill Sirois added that this delay will result in a phased opening. Amtrak will open
before the planned hotel.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, July 3, 2012
Page 2 of 2

Director Bagley summarized that things are still moving ahead. It may take a little
more time than anticipated and Team USA is awaiting the approval from the park
service related to the proposed modifications.
II. Other Matters
Director Bagley shared that the GM Oversight and Performance Management
Committee had received a response to the contract term sheet offered to the
General Manager. He and Chair Kemp will meet with Brett Painter, employment
attorney, but the responses are very favorable.
The General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee will meet
next Tuesday, July 10th to review the formal proposed General Manager’s 2013 Task
and Core Goals. This will need to be approved by the full Board in July.
III. Next Meeting August 7, 2012
IV. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 5:35 to the FasTracks Monitoring Committee.

