Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

January 20, 2010

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
January 19, 2010 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:33 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Eleven (11) Board members were present at roll call. Directors Brohl and McMullen arrived
after roll call. Directors Chacon and Pulliam were absent.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
There were two retirees present to receive their awards. Mike Gil, Acting Bus Operations,
introduced Gerald Hanns, Master Technician who worked for RTD for 29 years. Gerald
thanked the management and especially the excellent management team that he worked for.
His parting remarks were to keep on keeping on and to take care of the workforce for it is truly
a team effort.
Mike Gil also introduced Jim Misek, Operating Division Transportation Manager who had over
39 years of service. Jim’s wife was present to watch him receive his recognition and he
credited her with having guided him well and kept him on the right path. Mike Gil talked about
his illustrious career that included everything from bus support to transportation manager.
Special Recognition Award
Chair Kemp presented the “Spirit of Teamwork” award on behalf of the Board to the 16 th
Street Mall Shuttle Rehab team for their excellent work and bringing this project in 25% under
budget and by using internal expertise and ingenuity. Dean Shaklee accepted the award on
behalf of the team and introduced the team members, most of whom were present.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Jennifer Osborn spoke about the difficulties she is having in getting dropped off at her church
located at 72nd and Simms. She is an access-a-Ride user and asks if she can be dropped off
directly at the church instead of down the street where members of her church have to cross
Simms to help her. This is a dangerous situation for her and the people who help her.
Several other speakers spoke in favor of trying to find a good solution to this issue: Burt Fraser,
Jillian Richardson Rohrschneib and Deborah Raus. Burt indicated he has made several calls to
RTD but without response or callback. Deborah Raus pointed out the bus goes right pass the
church so what is the problem with dropping her off. She wanted to know what can be done in
this situation. Deborah also pointed out another issue that she has related to a couple of her
developmentally challenged clients. She shared that she can have two people going to the
same address but often will be dispatched with two separate access-a-ride vehicles. How can
we improve this process?

Mr. Jack McCroskey, former Board member, spoke about what he termed the disastrous new
APE shortfall projections for FasTracks and challenged if the previous forecast came from the
State. He stated that the State does not provide forecasts for other districts and does not
make long term forecasts. He made references to previous forecasts and quoted an adage “it
would be pretty if it is true”, but unfortunately it is not.
Rick McNeal, Denver, spoke to the access-a-Cab situation and indicated that he had taken the
Union cab through the month of December and found them to be less costly than the other
taxis under contract. He wanted to know why they were not under contract for the access-aride service. He also spoke about the difficult that physically challenged riders have getting the
bus drivers to stop at a conveniently located spot. He asked what do they need to do? Wave a
flag to get support on this issue?
Mr. Russell Greear commented on the challenges that the ADA riders were appearing to be
having with services and stated that if RTD did not stop violating the rights of the handicapped,
he would petition them to file a suit and have the Board investigated for abuse of the
handicapped per ADA statutes.
Mr. Robert Wilson spoke as a friend of Jennifer Osborn’s who had made several phone calls to
the City of Arvada, RTD, and Larry Buter looking for possible solutions to Jennifer’s issue with
drop off. Both the City of Arvada and RTD staff has responded and are looking for possible
options.
Mr. Doug Connor spoke about the need for bus shelters at various locations including eastbound
Colfax at Sheridan, Colfax and Perry (both directions) and other locations. Staff is following up
on this issue.
V.

SPECIAL PRESS ANNOUNCEMENT
Chair Kemp made a special announcement that Director Juanita Chacon who represents
District C had announced she is vacating her seat as Director of District C and would be
leaving the Board of Directors. He read a press release which had been authorized by
Director Chacon. A copy of that press release is attached.
Several Directors provided comments about Director Chacon:
Director McMullen reflected on how she as a North High Graduate had represented them
well and still lives in that same community.
Director Martinez commented how Director Chacon challenged other Board members to
think outside of the box and was not afraid to ask the difficult question about the white
elephant in the room. He would like to challenge the remaining Board members to embrace
diverse thinking, a trait that she fostered. She has certainly left her mark on the DBE/SBE
community and focused on making sure our processes are inclusive of everyone.
Director Brohl commented on Director Chacon as a very accomplished, roll up her sleeves
type woman who contributed greatly to the GM Executive Search process. She was a
great listener of our constituents and encouraged others to give that same type of courtesy
to our constituents.
Phil Washington commented on behalf of the staff and especially the DBE/SBE community,
they wanted to show their appreciation to her for her advocacy with a couple of plaques
which he read aloud. He also noted that no one had commented on her unique sense of
fashion and style.

VI.

COMMITTEE REPORTS

There were no changes to the Committee reports.
VII.

METRO MAYOR TASK FORCE
Chair Kemp commented that in the last Metro Mayor Task Force meeting, the APE was
received well by the Task Force. They thought the approach and numbers appeared sound.
The big issue is what we do to make up the $2.2 billion shortfall. In the study session on
January 26, 2010, more details will be provided on the APE and members of the Task Force
are anxiously waiting to see these details.
On a side note, many of the members were congratulatory on the appointment of Phil
Washington as the new General Manager.
Director McMullen added that when he attended the MMC meeting last month, he was greatly
enlightened.

VIII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF December 15, 2009
MOTION:

Director Busck moved for the adoption of the December 15,
2009 regular board meeting minutes.
Director James seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in favor and 0
against. Directors Chacon and Pulliam were absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

IX.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
 Obama Administration Transit Project Policy Changes
Interim General Manager, Phil Washington referenced a previous email that had been
sent to the Board related to the Obama Administration’s new rules on “defining
Economic Benefits to all Commitments.” Mr. Washington and the staff are evaluating
these changes and possible impacts to RTD.
 Local Partnership between Regional Housing Offices, State Workforce Development
Councils, EPA and RTD
Interim General Manager Phil Washington related back to a recent tour by the
Administration Cabinet Secretaries from HUD, EPA and FTA to Denver and several
other select cities. He stated a good foundational relationship had been started and he
wanted to emulate that model on a local basis by creating partnerships with the
regional housing office, EPA, and adding the State Workforce Development Councils to
this mix. The State Workforce Development councils have begun to establish a pipeline
for young people to prepare and get them ready for the new workforce that includes
construction and other transit related skills.
 APE Presentation to US 36 Commuting Solutions Group
Interim General Manager Phil Washington shared that he, Directors Tayer and
Christopher provided an APE presentation to the US 36 Commuting Solutions Group
which was well received.



FasTracks Presentation to Denver Kiwanis Club
Interim General Manager Phil Washington reported that per a request from Director
McMullen, he made a FasTracks presentation to members of the Denver Kiwanis Club,

a kind but rather rowdy club. The presentation went well.


APE Presentation and FasTracks Discussion with Denver Post Editorial Board
Interim General Manager Phil Washington reported that he briefed The Denver Post
Editorial Board on the APE presentation and where RTD currently stands. He
emphasized that the Board has not made a decision to go out to ballot and that the
Board and staff are really trying to think outside the box.



FasTracks Presentation to members of Colorado Congressional Delegation
Chair Kemp, Director Busck and Interim General Manager Phil Washington met with
some of the staffers from Senator Bennett, Senator Udall and Representative
Perlmutter’s offices. The meeting was very good and hopefully productive.



Roundtable Discussion at Senator Bennett’s Putting Colorado to Work Job Forum
Interim General Manager Phil Washington participated at a roundtable discussion at the
University of Denver. Senator Bennett included comments about job creation by RTD.
Secretary of Transportation LaHood mentioned FasTracks, specifically the line to DIA.



Emphasis on Customer Service
Interim General Manager Phil Washington shared that staff was putting a big emphasis
on customer service and would be having discussions with Board members to obtain
their input.



Radio Interview on KOA 1/18/20
Interim General Manager Phil Washington participated in a radio interview with KOA.
His key message is RTD has challenges but we are working our way through them.



Memo on APE and Key Dates
Interim General Manager Phil Washington referenced a document that had been sent to
the Board on key APE dates and the decisions they will need from the Board.



Corridor Managers Specific Instructions to Build to Budget
Interim General Manager shared that he had given his corridor managers a specific set
of instructions to manage to the budget. All of his corridor meetings begin with budget
and schedule updates. In some cases, it may mean having to say no to the
municipalities or special requests from the elected officials.

Director Tayer thanked Interim General Manager for this outreach on the APE and
expressed optimism that we are moving ahead in a more holistic way.
X.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
MOTION:

Director Christopher made the motion to approve the
unanimous consent agenda items A through J.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 12 votes in
favor and 0 against. Chair Kemp had left and Directors
Chacon and Pulliam were absent.
Chair Pro Tem Martinez declared the motion PASSED
unanimously.

A.

Selection of Location for Posting of Board Notice

The Board hereby designates the entry way of the RTD administrative offices at 1600
Blake Street as its location of for posting of notices of all public meetings in 2009 as
required by C.R.S. 24-6-402(2)(c). In addition, to the maximum extent feasible, notices
of public meetings will be posted on RTD’s website.
B.

Vanpooling Agreement with NFRMPO
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Agreement with the North Front Range Metropolitan Planning
Organization (NFRMPO) to provide RTD support for the expansion of the NFR VANGO
vanpool program in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year
2010 and shall be in an amount not to exceed $463,500.

C.

Vanpooling Agreement with DRCOG
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Agreement with the Denver Regional Council of
Governments (DRCOG) to provide RTD support for the expansion of the DRCOG
RideArrangers vanpool program in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for
calendar year 2010 and shall be in an amount not to exceed $585,000.

D.

Cost Sharing Agreement – City of Englewood/art shuttle
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Englewood to
provide RTD financial support for the operation of the art circulator bus service in the
City of Englewood. This agreement is for calendar year 2010 and is for an amount not
to exceed $382,804.

E.

Cost Sharing Agreement – City of Boulder/HOP
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Boulder to provide
RTD financial support for the operation of the HOP circulator bus service in the
commercial areas of the City of Boulder, the University of Colorado at Boulder and
adjacent business and residential areas. This agreement is for calendar year 2010 and
is for an amount not to exceed $1,352,745.

F.

Cost Sharing Agreements – FTA Section 5311 funding
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all the documents
necessary to enter into funding agreements with Special Transit of Boulder and the
Seniors’ Resource Center to provide RTD financial support for the provision of FTA
Section 5311 (non-urbanized) services for Boulder County, Adams County and
Jefferson County. These Agreements are for calendar year 2010 and for amounts not
to exceed $325,532 for Boulder County, $133,955 for Adams County and $99,270
for Jefferson County.

G.

May 2010 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve moving the proposed May 2, 2010 Service Changes (Attachment A)
on to public review and comment.

H.

Certification of Contribution Rate for the RTD Defined Contribution Plan – 2010
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that The RTD Board of
Directors certify a 2010 contribution rate to RTD’s Salaried Employees Defined

Contribution Plan of 9% of each participant’s eligible compensation.

XI.

I.

Radio-CAD/AVL Owner’s Representative Contract Second Year Amendment
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to amend
the contract with IBI Group (IBI) as the Owner’s Representative to Support Replacement
of RTD’s Radio and Computer Aided Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle Location
(CAD/AVL) Systems (RFP 18DH016) in the second-year amount not-to-exceed limit of
$1,850,000 for a total contract value of $2,722,000. IBI was selected through the
competitive proposal process. This is the second year of a Board approved 5-year
period of performance with an additional one-year option to extend the period of
performance available as needed. Due to the complexity and changing conditions of
the project, each year’s scope of work and fee are reviewed and negotiated annually.
The Request for Proposal (RFP) required eight (8) percent Disadvantaged Business
Enterprise (DBE) participation. Kenn Hardin, Business Opportunity & Outreach Officer
identified that IBI exceeded their DBE goal and intends to exceed it again in this secondyear. The contract value for subsequent years will be determined based upon RTD’s
need for services.

J.

Budget Transfer for Cherry Creek LRT Bridge Repairs
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the transfer of $380,141 from the CPV Pocket Track capital
project to the expense budget to cover repairs to the Cherry Creek LRT Bridge between
north and south bound Speer Boulevard on the Central Corridor. Funding for the CPV
pocket track project is included in the 2010 Adopted Budget.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
1) C.R.S. 24-6-402(4) (a)-Right of Way Acquisition for Eagle Project
MOTION:

Director Bagley made the motion to adjourn to Executive
Session for the purpose to discuss C.R.S. 24-6-402(4) (a)
Right of Way Acquisition for Eagle Project.
Director James seconded the motion.

VOTE ON THE
MOTION:

The motion passed 12 in favor and 0 against. Chair
Kemp had left and Directors Chacon and Pulliam were
absent.

The meeting adjourned to Executive Session at 6:42 p.m.
The meeting adjourned from Executive Session at 7:50 p.m.
XII.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
K.

Item from Executive Session C.R.S. 24-6-402(4) (a) Right of Way Acquisition for Eagle
Project.
MOTION:

Director Cohen made the motion to approve item K, Right
of Way Acquisition for Eagle Project.
Director Brohl seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

The Resolution was revised and read aloud by Marla Lien,
General Counsel.

VOTE ON THE
MOTION:

L.

Request for Approval of the Eagle Project Utility Relocation Construction
Expenditures
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the Interim General Manager or his designee to (1) execute Work Orders
under the RTD Eagle Project Utility Relocation Agreements (URAs) in order to proceed
with the construction of early Eagle Project utility relocations in an amount not to
exceed a total RTD financial responsibility of $23,000,000; 2) to delegate signature
authority to execute any such construction Work Orders. The 2010 Adopted Budget
includes $13,700,000 in the East Corridor project and $2,500,000 in the Gold Line
project for early utility relocations.
MOTION:

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON THE
MOTION:

XIII.

The motion passed 12 in favor and 0 against. Chair
Kemp had left and Directors Chacon and Pulliam were
absent.
Chair Pro Tem Martinez declared the motion PASSED
unanimously.

Director Christopher made the motion to approve item L,
Request for Approval of the Eagle Project Utility
Relocation Construction Expenditures.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.
Director Brohl abstained from voting citing a conflict of
interest.

The motion passed 11 in favor and 0 against. Director
Brohl abstained.
Chair Kemp had left and Directors
Chacon and Pulliam were absent.
Chair Pro Tem Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

NEW BUSINESS
Director Brohl congratulated Pauletta Tonilas, Kenn Hardin and Nadine Lee for their WTS
awards. She also congratulated new General Manager Phil Washington for being named one
of the “50 most influential people in Denver” by 5280 magazine.

XIV.

ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 8:00 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, January 19, 2010

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
Chris Martinez, First Vice Chair
Noel Busck, Second Vice Chair
Kent Bagley, Secretary
John Tayer, Treasurer
Barbara Brohl
Bill Christopher
Matt Cohen
Bruce Daly
Bill James
William McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Tom Tobiassen
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Rick Clarke
Eric Farrington
Mike Gil
Cheryl Holmes
Caitlin Magee
Brian Middleton
Bill Porter
Daria Serna
John Shonsey
Pauletta Tonilas
Phil Washington

District I
District B
District K
District H
District O
District D
District J
District M
District N
District A
District E
District G
District F

Susan Altes
Carol Duecker
David Genova
Kenn Hardin
Terry Howerter
Brian Matthews
Paula Perdue
Trent Ratcliff
Dean Shaklee
John Tarbert
Lisa Trujillo

OTHERS PRESENT:
Jeff Leib - The Denver Post
Bob Wilson
Roger Sherman – CRL
Kenneth A. Neal – Armand Resource Center
Russell Greear
Deborah Raus
Howard Humke
Jose Mateo Aguilar
Steve Thornton
Robbi Shockley
Hank Torri
Tim Isbell
Hilberto Medina
Joe Lopez
Ron Melnick
Richard A. Brady
Roslyn M. Jones
Marilyn James
Ernest Jones
Gerald Hanns
Rick McNeal
Jennifer Osborn
Jack McCroskey

Larry Buter
Phil Eberl
Steve Gieske
Martha Hecox
Marla Lien
Robert Merriman
John Perry
Scott Reed
Cal Shankster
Liz Telford
Bill Van Meter

Burt Fraser
Jillian Richardson Rohrschneib

