Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held Tuesday, October 2, 2007
Page 1 of 3
Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

October 3, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held
on Tuesday, October 2, 2007 at 5:00 p.m. in Rooms T & D

****
Committee
Members Present:

FasTracks Committee Chair Director Chacon, Chair Martinez, ViceChair Elfenbein, Busck, Brohl, Christopher, Daly, Kinton, McMullen,
Pulliam, Ruchman, Tayer, Yamrick

Member Absent:

Directors Kemp and Quinlan

Staff Present:

Senior Staff: Cal Marsella, Ron Dodsworth, David Genova, Lloyd
Mack, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Phil Washington
Rolf Asphaug, Rick Clarke, Sherry Ellebracht, Reed Everett-Lee,
Nadine Lee, Caitlin Magee, Chris Quinn, Daria Serna, Dave Shelley,
John Shonsey, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Mike Turner, Bill Van
Meter

Others Present:

Rosemary Paolillo, Tom Paolillo, Jeff Leib, Kevin Flynn, Kim Kucera,
Joe Wingerter, Tom Acre, Roger Sherman, Joe Racosky, John Esty,
Tim Baldwin, Melvin Bush, Debra Perkins-Smith, Bill Roettker

Call to Order:

Director Chacon called the meeting to order at 5:07 p.m.

I. Northwest and North Metro Presentation Update
Cal Marsella presented the analysis of impacts and costs related to the
technology for the Northwest Rail Corridor and the North Metro Corridor. For a
copy of this presentation, please refer to the minutes for the FasTracks
Monitoring Committed located in the minute’s notebook in the Board office.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on Tuesday, October 2, 2007
Page 2 of 3
The Board Members asked several questions pertaining to this analysis:
 Director Ruchman: What is the decibel difference between the DMU and
the EMU? Can the staff provide a practical example?
 Directors Christopher and Chacon : Would like to see the analysis include
the BN requirements and the added bridge costs
 Directors Brohl and Martinez: Alternative fuel Decision-- feel we are giving
out two different messages on the future energy sources by downplaying
its importance in the Gold Line decision but up-playing it in the
North/Northwest Corridor decision. Looking for consistency in messaging
 Director McMullen: Why is there a difference in labor cost where in the
Northwest Rail corridor, labor costs are $5.0M & $5.5M respectively for
EMU and DMU but this number gets flip flopped in the North analysis
where labor costs are $5.2M & $5.1M respectively for EMU and DMU?
 Chair Martinez: Will both the Northwest and the North Metro come into
Denver Union Station on the same track? John Shonsey explained the
Gold line will share a track with Northwest for about 4 miles and the East
corridor will share with North for about 4 miles. Bill Van Meter talked
about switching capabilities and dedicated platform for each of these
corridors.
Further discussion occurred about if this decision that was made on the
Gold line and now the Northwest/North Metro precludes double decker.
The response was yes, there was a general concurrence at the July 10,
2007 Study Session.






Director Busck indicated that some of the players in his district have
changed and there is a growing sentiment for EMU. Nevertheless, he
supports DMU for the corridor.
Director Tayer complimented the staff on their hard work and delivery to
the public but indicated that he had a number of outstanding items that
need to be addressed before he could vote on this issue. He is working on
driving a policy decision to advance an opportunity to get the best
technology. For this reason he would be voting no tonight.
Director Pulliam stated we need to be consistent on if we are using the
100 year plan or the 2035 DRCOG plan.
Directors Ruchman and Elfenbein made the point that corridors differ and
the decision must be made that is right for that specific corridor.

II. Recommended Action
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors approve Diesel Multiple Units as the preferred technology for the
Northwest Rail Corridor Environmental Evaluation.
MOTION:
Director Christopher made the motion to
recommend DMU as the preferred
technology for Northwest Rail Corridor.
Director Yamrick seconded the motion.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on Tuesday, October 2, 2007
Page 3 of 3

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

The motion passed eleven in favor (Brohl, Busck,
Christopher,
Chacon,
Elfenbein,
Kinton,
McMullen, Pulliam, Ruchman, Yamrick and
Martinez) and one against (Tayer). Director Daly
had left before the vote and Directors Kemp and
Quinlan were absent.

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors approve the preferred alternative for the North Metro Draft
Environmental Impact Statement. The Preferred alternative for the North Metro
includes evaluating four “Build” alignments in the DEIS in the southern piece of
the corridor around Sand Creek Junction. The DEIS will also evaluate 18 station
options for 8 stations along the corridor. The technology is Diesel Multiple Units.
MOTION:

Director Pulliam made the motion to
recommend DMU as the preferred
technology for North Metro Corridor.
Director
motion.

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

Christopher

seconded

the

The motion passed eleven in favor (Brohl,
Busck, Christopher, Chacon, Elfenbein,
Kinton, McMullen, Pulliam, Ruchman,
Yamrick and Martinez) and one against
(Tayer). Director Daly had left before the
vote and Directors Kemp and Quinlan
were absent.

III. General Counsel Report
Rolf Asphaug who filled in for Legal Counsel, Marla Lien, reported there were no
updates.
IV. Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at approximately 6:15 p.m.

