1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lynn Guissinger, District O
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Erik Davidson, District I
Secretary – Marjorie Sloan, District M
Treasurer – Bobby Dishell, District D
Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Vince Buzek, District J
Michael Guzman, District C
Ian Harwick, District L

Paul Rosenthal, District E
JoyAnn Ruscha, District B
Troy Whitmore, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Performance Committee
Tuesday, March 7, 2023
REMOTE MEETING
5:30 PM
Performance Committee will commence five minutes after
the Finance and Planning Committee adjournment.

To join the meeting Register Here
(connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 880 0835 0159#
Passcode: 1660#
Public Comments can be emailed in advance to be
included in the record to
RTD.BoardOffice@rtd-denver.com

Performance Committee
Chaired by Erik Davidson

A. Call to Order
B. Public Comment
C. Information from External Entities
D. Recommended Action

• Community Value and Customer Excellence Surveys Scope of Work

E. Discussion Item
F. Other Matters
G. Next Meeting Date: Wednesday, April 9, 2023
H. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.D.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Committee Meeting Date:
Community Value and Customer Excellence Surveys Scope
of Work

March 7, 2023
Board Meeting Date:
March 28, 2023

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to approve the scope of work (SOW) for the 2023 Community Value and
Customer Excellence surveys.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Leah Riley, Chief Administrative Officer
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 minutes
BACKGROUND
In adopting a five-year strategic plan, the Board established four strategic priorities and their associated
success outcomes that the agency will strive to achieve:
STRATEGIC PRIORITY

SUCCESS OUTCOME

Community Value: RTD Strives to be a strong community
partner, providing value to customers as well as to the
broader Denver Metro region while sustaining planet Earth

Establish baseline for community value
index and increase by 5%

Customer Excellence: RTD strives to consistently deliver
high-quality customer service

Establish baseline for customer net
promoter score and increase by 5%

Employee Ownership: RTD seeks to attract and retain a
highly skilled and engaged workforce

Establish baseline for employee net
promoter score and increase by 5%

50% of outcome is that RTD spends less
Financial Success: RTD takes very seriously the management money than it receives; 50% of outcome
of all financial resources
is that the community believes that it
sees value in RTD’s spending
Regarding the strategic priorities of Community Value and Customer Excellence, a consultant was
engaged in 2021 to conduct community and customer surveys (surveys) to discern the agency’s
community value index and customer net promoter score (NPS) for that year. Those surveys were
completed November 2021 and the results were validated by the agency’s third-party auditing
consultant in January 2022. On February 17, 2022 the 2021 survey results were presented to the
Board.

Packet Pg. 3

1.D.1

The community value index and customer NPS garnered from the 2021 surveys serve as the baseline
data against which future progress is measured for the strategic priorities of Community Value and
Customer Excellence.
Following a competitive request for proposals, a consultant was awarded a contract on August 3, 2022,
to conduct the 2022 surveys for follow-on data. The instruments for both surveys were based on those
developed in 2021 to ensure consistency in data collection and reporting. The consultant presented the
results of the surveys to the Board on November 2, 2022.
DISCUSSION
In adopting this recommended action, the agency seeks to meet the 2021-2026 Strategic Plan priorities
of Community Value and Customer Excellence. The purpose of this action is to receive Board approval of
the SOW for the 2023 Community Value and Customer Excellence surveys.
To ensure consistency in data collection and reporting, the proposed SOW includes similar requirements
included in the 2021 and 2022 solicitations such as survey methodology and instrument design, survey
execution, results analysis and comprehensive reporting for bus, rail and paratransit. More specifically:
•

•

•
•
•

The vendor will work with RTD to develop a survey method based on the current route/line
configuration and ridership, developing a sampling procedure that ensures the collection of a
representative sample of RTD customers at transit stops/stations and onboard buses and trains in
the process of using the fixed route and rail services
The vendor will survey a statistically valid sample size of fixed route bus and rail customers
onboard buses/trains and at transit stops/stations/platforms while in the process of using the
service
The vendor will survey a statistically valid same size of paratransit customers who have used
services during the prior six months
Surveys will be distributed in a manner to ensure representative samples from both the
communities served as well as customers
The vendor will develop a comprehensive report for all modes that clearly communicates findings
and observations and issue the report to RTD leadership and the Board

The surveys will be conducted in early September 2023, and it is anticipated results will be presented to
the Board no later than November 2023.
Lastly, it is anticipated the contract award will come to the Board for approval no later than May 2023.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The cost of the surveys is included in the 2023 Budget.

Prepared by:

Packet Pg. 4

1.D.1

Leah Riley, Chief Administrative Officer
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 5

