2023-03-07
Performance Committee Meeting
ERIK DAVIDSON: I will now call to order. It is now 5:58 PM. So I will call to order the Wednesday, March
7 Performance Committee. I would respectfully ask everyone who is attending this meeting to please
mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak. I'd like to take a moment to just request that my fellow
Directors, or any members of staff, to please interrupt me if my connectivity problems while on travel are
preventing me from being well heard, and at which point, I'd be happy to hand off the chairing of this
committee to Vice Chair Sloan.
Thank you for joining us this evening. Please note that this committee-- the committee meetings of the
RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The
meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as
practicable on the Board's website. Visit rtd-denver.com. And a live stream of this meeting is also
available on RTD's YouTube page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceedings, I would ask that you please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call on you
before proceeding to speak. Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to
indicate that they would like to speak by pressing star nine. To toggle your mute settings on your phone,
you can press star six.
I will now call for the role of the committee members. Director Buzek. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell. Board Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And Committee Vice Chair Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And Director Erik Davidson is here. That has six committee members present, one
absent, the absent being Director Buzek. For the sake of the record, I would also like to note that we are
joined by Director Tisdale and Director Williams this evening. I'll now open up the public comment section
to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting
agenda as well as for the immediately preceding month.
If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star nine
on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you are dialed, you can-- and you
can press star six to toggle your mute settings. Please bear in mind that by participating in this process,

you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be recorded, then your comments will need to be submitted
in writing.
If any speaker has documentation or reference materials to submit to the committee, you may do so by
emailing the Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. During public comment, the committee will
not offer any comments or responses. Directors or staff may contact speakers following their comments if
the matters lend themselves to follow up. Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names.
And each speaker will have three minutes. Ms. Parish, do we have any speakers in the queue? Or do we
have any emailed comments received for this evening's meeting?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: There are no hands raised and no emails were received.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Parish. With no participants in the queue and no email comments, we
will close the public comment period at this time. This evening, we have no information from external
entities. So we will move into our recommended action section. There is one recommended action on the
agenda this evening. The action is the community value and customer excellence surveys scope of work.
This is requesting for the Board of Directors to approve the scope of work for the 2023 community value
and customer excellence surveys. Do we have a motion?
MARJORIE SLOAN: So moved. Sloan.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I heard Director Sloan. And a second?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second. Guissinger.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I heard a second from Director Guissinger. I would now like to ask Ms. Leah Riley, our
chief administrative officer, to present this item.
LEAH RILEY: So good evening. Mr. Chair, members of the performance committee, I'm Leah Riley. I am
the chief administrative officer. In the role that I occupy, I have the auspices of [INAUDIBLE]. The purpose
of this recommended action-DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, please. Yes, please. Go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Leah, we can't hear it very, well.
LEAH RILEY: OK. How about now? Is this better?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Slightly. Just I guess, yeah. It seems like you're having some audio problems.
LEAH RILEY: I have background noise. Is that better?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Think so.
ERIK DAVIDSON: It's a little bit better. If you're-- yeah, the closer you are is a little bit better.

LEAH RILEY: OK, so again, sorry. I'll speak loudly. And sorry you can't see me because I'm trying to be
close to my microphone. So the purpose of the recommended action this evening is for the Board's
consideration of the scope of work for consultants to conduct the 2023 community value of customer
excellence surveys. The responses to these surveys will be used to garner the agency's net promoter
scores, as well as [INAUDIBLE] customer attitudes, opinions, and perceptions regarding the metrics on
the agency's quarterly scorecard.
So to ensure consistency in data collection and reporting, the scope of work described and recommended
action includes requirements similar to those included in the 2021 and 2022 survey consultant
solicitations pertaining to survey methodology, instrument design, execution, results analysis, and
comprehensive reporting of responses for community members as well as details for bus, rail, and for
transit customers.
Some more details about the scope of work, the consultant will work with our team to develop a survey
method based on the current route line configuration and ridership, developing a sampling procedure that
ensures the collection of a representative as a statistically valid sample of customers. And these will be
done via intercepts, at transit stops, and aboard buses and trains.
The consultant will also survey a pool of current paratransit customers who have used the services in the
past six months. And the consultant will deliver a comprehensive report for all those [INAUDIBLE] findings
and observations. The surveys will be conducted in early September 2023. And it is anticipated the
results will be presented to the Board no later than November, 2023, in time for this committee's
evaluation of the General Manager and CEO's 2023 performance.
And lastly, it is anticipated the contract award for the survey consultants come to the Board for approval
no later than June 2023. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Ms. Riley. Much appreciated. I'm going to open up the floor to
Directors who have any questions. Again, please raise your virtual hands and I'll call on you in turn. I
would like to just state that this-- the reason we're getting together this evening was to get this-- bring the
scope of work forward. I know that our previous performance committee meeting, we've had some
discussion around improving processes and perhaps adjusting some of our metrics.
So I just ask Directors to bear in mind, as we make comments, that we're building the plane as we fly it a
little bit. We want to continue the work that we're doing in this committee, gathering the information,
having consistency of data while we continue our discussions around our other objectives at the
performance committee. So I'll go ahead and go around and call for comments starting with Chair
Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair. And thanks very much for the report, Ms. Riley. Just a couple of
quick questions. Are there any material changes in this scope of work from the last one?
LEAH RILEY: No. There are not. This is largely similar to last year. The only difference that we would
have in this year's scope of work from last year's is we are requiring intercept surveys for our customers.
And last year, that was not a requirement.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, why is that?
LEAH RILEY: So there is-- last-- there's a-- let's see. So to remain consistent and to capture as many
riders as possible on the system, and you want to try to capture folks while they're using the system, last

year, we gave people QR codes, or an online survey so they could leave, they could go home and fill out
the survey whenever they wanted. There's also a propensity for people who have an ax to grind to
respond to QR codes or online surveys rather than when you intercept somebody on the system. So it
seems to be a proven methodology to allow for more balanced responses from the people that you're
surveying.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good. I think that sounds like a good change. And when you change consultants,
which-- putting out a new scope of work and going through the process is certainly possible, do you run
the risk of losing consistency? And is there any way to avoid that?
LEAH RILEY: I don't believe so. The scope of work for 2021 and 2022 were very, very similar as well as
the data that was provided to the consultant to use to come up with their sampling methodology. And
because this scope of work requires the approval of RTD for the sampling methodology, the distribution
times, et cetera, we have the ability to ensure consistency through hands-on management of the
consultant.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. And do we-ERIK DAVIDSON: And I see-LYNN GUISSINGER: Just one more quick question, if I might. Do we survey the same routes each time?
LEAH RILEY: So there's a requirement in the survey for this-- for 2022 and there was a requirement to
have all routes covered. The same requirement will be made in 2023.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks so much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Sorry to interrupt you, Chair. I saw that General Manager Johnson's hand went up and
wondered if General Manager Johnson, if you had anything to add on one of the prior questions.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very kindly, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Ms. Riley and Chair
Guissinger, for your question. You did those, Chair Guissinger, if there's a way-- you talked about the
consistency with the consultant. And there is a way. We could do a multiyear contract. So you could have
a surveyor basically have a contract for one year with a couple of your options. You could do a three-year
contract and things of the like. So that's how you can ensure that there is consistency.
But to the point that Ms. Riley raised, we're utilizing the same methodology in her responses as it relates
to intercept, or spot on, because we want to ensure that we are garnering the perceptions, attitudes, and
opinions of those that are actually utilizing the system. So I just wanted to share that is another option if
we did multi-year.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Guissinger, does said address all your questions? Great.
Director Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And actually, Chair Guissinger posed some of the questions that I had. So
thank you. A couple of things. I remember that November seemed a little bit late for us to receive the
results and to accordingly assess our General Manager CEO in the agency. So I'm a little bit concerned
about the November deadline and was hoping that we could perhaps push that up a bit.

And secondly, Ms. Riley, you said that you wanted to do all routes. But I remember in looking at the
survey last year that not all routes were covered. In fact, of course I'm parochial, and I'm looking at the
routes in my region. And those were not surveyed. So those are my two comments. But I think the most
important comment I made was regarding the schedule. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Catlin. And I see that Ms. Johnson and Ms. Riley have their hands
up. Ms. Johnson, would you like to start?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. If I may, I would like to speak as it relates to the performance of me in my
capacity as a General Manager and CEO. In the context of the Board report, it said no later than
November, recognizing we were trying to get forward to this committee because there is a solicitation
process, and we would have to put this out for 30 days. It's contingent upon engaging with consultants if
we received proposals and things of the like.
So we should be in a position whereas before then, but wanted to ensure that we provided that
information adequately. And as it relates to the routes and things of the like, we want to ensure that we're
gardering the opinions, perceptions, and attitudes of those that are traveling on our heaviest routes and
lines collectively. And so there's a determination done by using route data that we get from our service
planning staff is provided to a consultant.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might, thank you regarding the schedule. And I just-- the word all was kind of
concerning to me. I'd say most routes would be appropriate.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Catlin. Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Ms. Riley, please.
LEAH RILEY: Yeah, thanks. I just want to clarify for Director Catlin. In 2021, the survey covered our most
heavily traversed routes. In 2022, we did get the entire service area covered through the survey. So we
will ensure that that happens again in 2023. So perhaps you are remembering the 2021 report. So but
regardless, we will require the consultant to cover the entire system, not just the most heavily traveled
routes in the 2023 survey.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Riley. Director Catlin, any further questions? OK, great. Director
Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Is this scope of work also going to include a translation for those persons who do
not speak English while they are doing these interceptive surveys? Or will there be another opportunity to
engage with non-native English-speaking persons who might have valuable input?
LEAH RILEY: Director Guzman, in the past, we've made the surveys available in both English and
Spanish. Regarding other languages, I'd have to circle back with you on our options for conducting them
in that manner.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I would appreciate that. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Riley. Thank you, Director Guzman. Does that answer your questions,
Director Guzman? Thank you very much. Director Williams. Thank you for joining the committee this
evening. Please go ahead.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. I'm a little late to the party. So I may ask a question that you all
already know the answer to. But I have heard a lot of reference to consistency. And looking at the

wonderful work that our GM and CEO has done, there's not a lot of consistency in the world between
what was going on in 2021, and what was going on in 2022, and what's going on today. And I just want to
make sure that there is allowance for the fact that we were affected by a global pandemic when we
assess those figures. And if that's already going on, my apologies. I just felt that that ought to be
mentioned.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Williams, thank you for the comment. One of the things that we did discuss at
the last meeting was revising some of the metrics that we use to measure agency performance and
measure General Manager performance. And I think well noted about the ever-shifting world that we're in
here, as it relates to consistency of data and how to look at that, Ms. Riley, and or Ms. Johnson, if you
have anything you'd like to follow up on, I'm happy to open the floor to you there. Otherwise, yeah,
Director Williams, duly noted in the evaluation of that data.
Great. Thank you. Director Dishell, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you. I just wanted to raise two things for folks to be in mind on timing of
the survey. One is that last year and this year, the survey will probably undoubtedly be impacted by zero
fare for better air. So I don't think running it any earlier would make sense because an August data set
may not be representative of sort of entire year. And also put a pin in that for us, recognizing that I believe
it was man dollars are over this year.
And so as we look prospectively next year, thinking about what that data, the way in which that fare free
month, the fact that we may be implementing new fare structures, sort of what that all means sort of
generally. And I think just also wanted to lend support to Director Guzman's inquiries. And to the extent
we can at least get safe harbor languages, I know I say at least, and also know, I think 10 plus, 20 plus,
20 safe harbor languages. But that is not a small lift, or a small ask. But I think it is important, as they're
all members of the community that we serve.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell for the comments. I see that Ms. Johnson, you have your
hand raised. Please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. thank you so much. And thank you, Director Dishell, for your comments. I just
wanted to provide some context as we look at September, recognizing that there is a seasonal trend in
reference to transit usage. And customarily, in my experience, as well as the past consultants that we
utilize, we focus on September because that's usually the commencement of an academic year. People
are back from vacation. And you have a plethora of individuals when we get engaged.
And so to the second point raised, very committed to ensuring that we hear voices from a myriad of
different demographics recognizing that we talked about methodology utilizing intercepts. We can't look
more closely at that because when you think about the methodology, hypothetically speaking, it could be
every fourth person that boards a vehicle. So if we were intentionally trying to ensure that we're doing
something differently relative to safe harbor languages of which there are 21, that could skew the
methodology.
And also to the point that you raise if there's only 10, that may not be statistically valid. But I provide all
that context to say that we are committed to diversity, equity, and belonging. And we'll do that intentionally
but with the intercepts that might not be plausible. But with the community-based survey, that could be
something because it's done in a different realm. So I just wanted to ensure that everybody understood
that. So thank you very much for the opportunity to speak.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for the comments on that, Ms. Johnson, and for the comments Director
Dishell and Director Guzman on that. Director Dishell, does that answer your questions?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes. Thank you. And I was, for clarity, referring to the rate of surveys recognizing that.
I don't know anyone who's fluent in 21 languages. I know very few people fluent in more than two. To the
extent that we're able to, and I know there's lots of rules on our fees, if we can indicate a preference for
bilingual English Spanish, recognizing I believe it's the largest language for intercepts, that would be great
to [INAUDIBLE].
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell. Are there any other comments or questions on this
recommended action? OK, so we'll go ahead and move for the vote then. We have Director Sloan is the
first, Director Guissinger is the second. Are there any no votes on this action? Seeing none. The motion
will pass. Sorry. The recommended action will pass with six ayes, zero no's, and we do have one
committee member absent.
We're going to move into discussion items. There are no discussion items on the agenda this evening. So
we'll move into other matters. Do any Directors or committee members have other matters to bring before
the committee this evening? Seeing none. The next meeting of the Performance Committee will be
Wednesday April 9, 2023. Please look for those materials. As we discussed, we will be meeting in April,
May, and June to be revisiting some of the ways in which we're measuring agency performance.
And with that, being no other discussion, this meeting will be adjourned at 6:20 PM Mountain Standard
Time. Thank you very much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
SPEAKER 1: Thank you, all. Good night.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good night.
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: Good night.

