Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, June 10, 2008,
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

June 11, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
June 10, 2008 at 6:06 p.m. in Rooms, R, T & D
***

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Chair John Tayer, Noel Busck, Barbara Brohl, Juanita Chacon, Bruce Daly,
Daryl Kinton, Chris Martinez, Bill McMullen, Dave Ruchman, Barbara
Yamrick
Bill Christopher, Bill Elfenbein, Lee Kemp, Neil Quinlan

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Bruce Abel, David Genova, Bill Holmes, Jim Jacobson, Marla
Lien, Caitlin Magee, Deanna Mathis, Robert Merriman, Paula Perdue, Scott
Reed, Daria Serna, Bill Sirois, Stan Szabelak, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas,
Phil Washington, Barbara Willis

Others Present:

Linda Jones, Robin Kneich (FRESC), Julia Stone (Bondi)

Call to Order:

Chair Tayer called the meeting to order at 6:06 p.m.

I. Internal Audit Update – Barbara Willis, Manager, Internal Audit, was present to answer any
questions regarding the audit reports that were distributed in the Board Packet. There were
no questions from the Committee. Director Yamrick commended the auditors on the real
estate audit.
II. Recommended Actions
 2007 Audited Financial Statements (Bondi & Co, LLC) –Phil Washington, Assistant
General Manager, Administration introduced Julia Stone from Bondi & Co, LLC. Bondi is
the District’s external auditor and they come in and view the books after year end close
and give a report to the Board on their findings. If all goes well, they give an unqualified
statement that they agree with the findings of the 2007 final closeout of the district’s
books.
Julia Stone of Bondi & Co. LLC, addressed the Committee. There were two changes to
the net assets and these changes were distributed to the Committee. The changes are
available for viewing in the Financial Administration Committee Meeting Notebook.
These changes did not affect the bottom line. The changes were a reclassification of net

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, June 10, 2008,
Page 2 of 5
assets. Three audit adjustments were made for a total approximately $4.9 million. This
was due to projects begun in 2007 but not billed until 2008 so the costs had to be
adjusted back to 2007. This is a fairly standard adjustment.
Cal Marsella asked Ms. Stone to speak to the surplus money left over at the end of the
year and placed in reserve. This number was originally identified as $27 million. This
turned out to be incorrect and the revenue over expenditure is closer to $8.1 million.
The $19 million difference is restricted funds because it is a FasTracks construction
reserve. The adjustment will be reflected in the reports.
Director Yamrick asked if the reserve was invested and Cal Marsella said it is.
Director Busck asked if there was anything improper or not accurate that needed to be
brought to the Board’s attention in the audit report. Ms. Stout responded that items
found were pretty standard and covered in the report.
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of Directors
accept and enter into the record the various audited financial reports relating to the year
ended December 31, 2007 as prepared or reviewed by the District’s independent
auditor, Bondi & Co. LLC.
Motion: Director Busck made a motion for
full approval before the Board
at the June 17, 2008 Board
meeting.
Second: Director Pulliam seconded the
motion.
Vote
On Motion: The motion passed unanimously.


2009 Proposed Performance Report - Robert Merriman, Manager of Budget and Financial
Analysis spoke to this action item. This is to establish a baseline for the development of
the 2009 budget. This is pretty much a carbon copy of the 2008 performance
measures. Staff added a new measure under 1.1 - Preventable vehicle accidents per
100,000 miles.
Director Tayer asked about removing the total accident category and only reporting on
preventable accidents.
Director Martinez asked if the performance goals were the same from 2008. The answer
was yes, but also that the recommendations from last year were incorporated.
Director Brohl provided a clarification to this question. She stated that Cal’s G.M.
Performance goals had been reviewed and incorporated in the recommendations.
However, the specific item measurements from the performance measures were not a

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, June 10, 2008,
Page 3 of 5
part of this process and no review of these items had been performed with the Board
members.
Director Tayer and Director Brohl decided to have an off-line discussion of the
performance goals and how achievement of these goals is measured.
Director Brohl had a question about goal #1. What constitutes a non preventable
accident? This is an accident where RTD has no control over the situation, is not cited
in the accident. Director Brohl was interested in the District’s safety measures. Cal
Marsella spoke that the District studies accidents and looks for patterns to make things
safer and reduce accidents.
Director Tayer spoke about page 21 of the packet and why the fare box category was
marked as n/a. Robert Merriman said that we wait until the budget is passed before
setting this number.
Director Tayer also spoke about the ridership number increase percentage and if the
district shouldn’t set the number higher, in keeping with the high ridership increases we
are experiencing this year.
Cal Marsella suggested another review of the performance measures before final
approval.
Director Daly asked about the miles between road calls numbers for Veolia and the
answer from staff was that Veolia has the oldest fleet currently.
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the 2009 Performance Measures of Goals 1-6 and non-capital measures
for Goal 7.
Motion: Director Yamrick made a motion for
full approval before the Board
at the June 17, 2008 Board
meeting.
Second: Director Busck seconded the
motion.
Cal Marsella asked to defer the motion so that the Board and staff could discuss it further.
Director Yamrick withdrew her motion.
Vote
On Motion: The motion was withdrawn.

III. Governance Report (Bondi & Co. LLC) - This item was covered under the recommended
action “2007 Audited Financial Statements.”

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, June 10, 2008,
Page 4 of 5

IV. RTD Wellness Program 2008- Phil Washington introduced this item. Mr. Washington spoke
about the “unsung Heroes” at RTD and said the wellness staff falls into this category.
Worker’s comp claims have been drastically reduced, insurance costs have gone down. Jim
Jacobson, Wellness Rehabilitation Specialist addressed the committee. Mr. Jacobson gave
an overview of the Wellness Programs successes and goals for the future for the District’s
employees. Director Martinez praised the program and spoke about how this is a good
example of internal budget control. Director Ruchman asked if wellness information/plans
could be shared with the private contractors. Director Brohl asked about how the wellness
center motivates the employees to take part in the programs. Deanna Mathis, Wellness
Rehabilitation Specialist outlined some of the incentives the District offers and some ideas
for the future.
Several Board members expressed interest that the District publicize the savings that the
wellness center is achieving.
Board members requested better communications on the benefits of the wellness center as a
proactive step by RTD to manage employee costs.
V. April 2008 Financial Status Report- Robert Merriman gave this report. The District is seeing
continuing ridership increases and increases in farebox revenue; Sales tax has broken away
from the 2007 model and is now in between 2007 and 2008.
Cal Marsella distributed two charts in relevance to sales tax revenue projections. Mr.
Marsella wanted a brief chart to illustrate the District’s condition on sales tax revenues and
projections. These charts are available for viewing in the Financial Administration
Committee Meeting Minute Notebook.
Director Martinez asked if these charts or a similar summary could be incorporated into the
Directors’ newsletters.
Director Tayer asked about fare box revenue and where it falls in the budgeted revenue
figure. Robert Merriman explained that fare box revenue is incorporated into the total sale
tax revenue figure, and staff will reflect it in the future.
VI. 2009 Preliminary Budget Assumptions – Before Balancing Adjustments
– Phil Washington introduced this item. It was discussed at the retreat and there was no
further discussion at the time by the Committee.
VII. 2009 Fiscal Policy Statements- Phil Washington spoke to this as well. There are no real
changes from 2008. Staff just wanted to bring this to the board’s attention.
VIII. 2009 Budget Preparation Update – Phil Washington, staff is continuing to work on the tasks
that came out of the retreat. Some items will be presented at June 24, 2008 study session.
IX. Other Matters – There were no other matters discussed.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, June 10, 2008,
Page 5 of 5
X. Next Meeting – The next meeting of the Financial Administration Committee will be on July
8, 2008.
XI. Adjourn – Hearing no objection, Chair Tayer adjourned the meeting at 7:08 p.m.

