Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on December 11 2008, 12:00
p.m.
Page 1 of 7
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

December 11, 2008

Subject:

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on December 11,
2008 at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room

Board Members Present:

***
Chair Kemp; Vice-Chair Martinez; Treasurer Tayer;
Directors Brohl, Chacon and Ruchman

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Paula Perdue

Call to Order:

Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 12:10 p.m.

Chair Kemp delayed the calling of the meeting to order pending the arrival of
necessary Executive Committee members for a quorum. Chair Kemp adjusted
the order of the agenda to allow for more members to arrive for the voting items
and to retain a logical flow of the items.

1.

Request for time change for Board meetings in 2009
There was consensus with the Board members that the current time
works for them. Director Brohl provided a list of compelling reasons why
a change should not occur. Bruce Abel, acting on behalf of the General
Manager, withdrew staff’s request for a time change.

2.

Other Matters
Director Ruchman presented an idea for a proposal to FTA which he
thought would support going green, and stabilizing the American
economy and allow RTD to take advantage of the openness presented by
the Obama administration. Similar to a Calgary transit agreement, RTD
would apply for a $20-30M grant with the FTA which would allow RTD
to enter into an equity agreement with a partner for a wind farm system
that could be used in future years to power the electric grids for RTD.
This would not involve equity in any land.
The committee tossed the idea around and Director Brohl questioned
what does the enabling legislation allow RTD to do. The committee felt
the appropriate followup steps would be to consult with General Counsel

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on December 11 2008, 12:00
p.m.
Page 2 of 7
on what the enabling legislation will allow and what they may be able to
pursue. Bruce Abel would do this followup with Marla Lien.
3.

Recommended Action
Resolution No____ Series of the Salaried Employee Pension Trust –
Trustee Appointments
MOTION:
Director Tayer made the motion to
approve moving this item before the full
Board.
Director Martinez seconded the
motion.
DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
MOTION:
4.

Chair Kemp presented this
recommendation to replace retiring Board
Member Director Yamrick with Director
Barbara Brohl and spoke to the criticality
of this position over the next year as
companies look to restructure their
pension plans. Director Tayer
recommended the committee look to
staggering the terms across the levels
(i.e. Directors, mid-management and
senior) so that they will always have the
benefit of the experience that each
brings.
The motion passed Unanimously.

Resolution on DUS Project Authority Appointees
Chair Kemp stated that while the Board had granted the Chair of the
Board the power to appoint whomever he desires to the DUSPA, he
wanted the perspective from the Committee on this process. Since they
are currently in the formative stages, as much as 15-25 hours per week
may be spent on DUSPA issues. Chair Kemp felt it appropriate to keep
the current appointees, Marla Lien, General Counsel and Terry Howerter,
CFO, on the Board for the next 12-15 months.
Director Ruchman expressed he was not in favor of utilizing our valuable
resources, (i.e. corporate counsel and CFO) to allocate this amount of
time to the DUSPA and felt the appointees should be a member of the
Board or a former member of the Board. He also questioned the amount
of time spent now on DUSPA matters. Director Brohl disagreed that a

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on December 11 2008, 12:00
p.m.
Page 3 of 7
non-active member of the Board should be appointed. Director Brohl did
request a word change edit.
After more discussion, the committee decided that the Board has the
power to make new assignments at any time and based on this
resolution that the Chair had put forth, they felt it appropriate to turn this
into a voting item to go forth for full Board approval on December 16,
2008.
MOTION:
Director Martinez made the motion to
approve moving this item before the full
Board.
Director Tayer seconded the motion.
VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

5.

The motion passed.

December Board Meeting Agenda Review
Bruce Abel introduced this item. There were no issues or concerns from
this agenda.


UNANIMOUS CONSENT



RESOLUTION No.___, SERIES OF 2008
ENCLAVES



FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors re-appoint two current members and appoint
two new members to the FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee
(CAC) for a three-year term.



Eagle Project Request for Proposals (RFP) Stipend Agreements
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to
negotiate and enter into a stipend agreement with each of the
three pre-qualified teams invited to respond to the RFP (the
Proposers) in the not to exceed amount of $1,750,000 each. It is
further recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer
$5,250,000 from the FasTracks Contingency Reserve to the PPP
Preparation project to fund the stipend agreements. This action will
accelerate funding currently programmed for the Eagle Project in
2011.



Extend Expiration Date and Increase Funding for Veolia “Group 16”

–

ANNEXATION OF

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on December 11 2008, 12:00
p.m.
Page 4 of 7
Fixed Route Contract
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager
or his designee to amend the Veolia “Group 16” fixed-route service
contract (14-DH-004) to extend the term of the contract from the
current end date of August 2009 to a revised contract end date of
January 2010 and to increase the contract amount by
$5,419,000.00 to increase the amount authorized from the current
amount of $63,401,878.00 as approved by the Board of Directors on
November 14, 2006, to a revised contract amount of
$68,820,878.00..


2008 Year End Budget Transfer for Group 19 Fixed-Route Services
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize a budget transfer in
the amount of $325,000 from the “Group 18” (contract 15-DH-004)
fuel budget to the “Group 19” (contract 16-DH-007) fuel budget. It
is also recommended that the General Manager, or his designee, be
authorized to amend the existing contracts accordingly.



U.S. Leveraged Lease – 1997-B
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that
the General Manager be authorized to approve modification to
operative documents related to the U.S. Leveraged Lease dated
December 12, 1997 (the 1997-B US Leveraged Lease) between the
Regional Transportation District (Lessee) and EntreCap Financial LLC
(Lessor) required as a result of downgrades in the credit ratings of
AIG.
It is further recommended that the Financial/Administration
Committee authorize the General Manager to create a security
interest for the Lessor not to exceed $10 million, in RTD reserve
accounts, as appropriate, to resolve claims which may arise should
AIG, the payment undertaker on the agreement, fail to make
payments as required and should existing collateral securities posted
by AIG prove in sufficient to satisfy payments required under the
lease.
It is further recommended that RTD be authorized to pay the Lessor’s
fees and expenses related to the lease revisions in an amount not to
exceed $400,000 and any additional related RTD legal fees with the
firm of Pepper Hamilton in an amount not to exceed $100,000.



FasTracks PC Support Services Contract
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all
documents necessary to award a 3 year contract with two 1 year

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on December 11 2008, 12:00
p.m.
Page 5 of 7
options for consulting services (Systems Support) for the 3 year
contract in the amount of $244,689.50 with an effective date of
December 29, 2008 to Technology Integration Group (TIG). The
selected vendor was selected through the competitive bid process.
The contract is being brought to the Board because this is a Personal
Services Contract per RTD Resolution No. 27, Series of 1983.


Consulting Services – Network Support
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all
documents necessary to award a 3 year contract for consulting
services for Sr. Network Support in the amount of $573,000 with an
effective date of January 2, 2009. This vendor Synamon Systems, a
SBE firm, was selected through the competitive bid process. The
contract is being brought to the Board because this is a Personal
Services Contract per RTD Resolution No. 27, Series of 1983.



Kiosk System Support Services Contract
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all
documents necessary to award a 3 year contract with 2 1 year
options for Kiosk Systems Support for the 3 year contract in the
amount of $190,740.00 with an effective date of January 2, 2009
to Counter Trade Products. The selected vendor was selected
through the competitive bid process. The contract (18DJ022) is being
brought to the Board because this is a Personal Services Contract per
RTD Resolution No. 27, Series of 1983.



2008 Year End Budget Transfer for access-a-Ride Services
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize budget transfers in
amounts not to exceed $550,000 in total from the MV access-a-Ride
budget and contract (contract 17-DH-007) to the CUSA access-aRide budget and contract (contract 17-DH-026) to fund the costs
associated with CUSA service and fuel expense.
It is also
recommended that the General Manager, or his designee, be
authorized to amend the existing contracts accordingly.



Budget Transfer for additional Automatic Vehicle Locator/Mobile Data
Computers for access-a-Ride
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize a budget transfer in
an amount not to exceed $450,000 from the vehicle acquisition
budget to the Route Match project budget and contract (contract 15DH-009) to fund the costs associated with the acquisition of
additional automatic vehicle locator (AVL)/mobile data computers
(MDC’s) and redundant radio based controllers (RBC’s) accommodate

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on December 11 2008, 12:00
p.m.
Page 6 of 7
the increase in access-a-ride fleet size since the original contract with
Route Match was exhausted. It is also recommended that the
General Manager, or his designee, be authorized to amend the
existing contract accordingly.


RECOMMENDED ACTION



FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee Proposal for Expanded
Committee
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors increase the number of members of the CAC
from eleven to seventeen and direct the RTD Public Affairs Division
and the FasTracks Public Involvement Consultants to begin recruiting
for additional interested citizens as using criteria outlined in the
Committee Structure approved by the Board.



Approval of Contract Amendment to Booz-Allen Hamilton for
FasTracks LRV Inspections
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve
the contract amendment to Booz Allen Hamilton Contract 13-FR-019
by the amount of Eight Hundred Twelve Thousand, Five Hundred and
Forty Eight Dollars $812,548.00 for inspection and oversight of the
production for the fifty-five Light Rail Vehicles (LRVs) being built by
Siemens Transportation Systems starting in December of 2008.



RESOLUTION No.___, SERIES OF 2008, Salaried Employee Pension
Trust – Trustee Appointments



RESOLUTION No.___, SERIES OF 2008, Denver Union Station Project
Authority - Appointments
MOTION:

Director Martinez made the motion to
Move the December Board agenda to the
Full Board meeting for approval.
Director Tayer seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

The motion passed Unanimously.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on December 11 2008, 12:00
p.m.
Page 7 of 7
6.

Champion of Transit Nomination Criteria Process
Chair Kemp expressed a concern that there does not appear to be any
criteria for the nomination of the COT award. He has assigned Paula
Perdue to check with other organizations on the nomination criteria they
use in their award program.
The committee stated this is a good idea but wants an early cutoff for
this information and nomination criteria established. Chair Kemp stated a
goal of Q2, 2009 to define criteria and weights.
Director Brohl had queried about having a Board calendars where due
dates and action items are maintained. The Chair stated there are
various ways that due dates are maintained today but due to the multiple
and informal ways that issues can get resolved, it is very difficult to
maintain a current log status of outstanding issues (i.e. staff can elect to
respond to issues via GMRs, email to a specific director, emails to full
Board, one-on ones, General Manager reports, telephone calls, etc that
does not necessarily process back through the Board office.)

7.

Other Matters continued
Bruce Abel shared this is not necessarily an action that would require
Board approval and is within the staff’s purview to do but he wanted to
kept the Board aware.
Bruce Abel provided an update to the Executive committees on financial
challenges incurred by our access-r-ride contractors due to the
implementation of Route Match. While we have experienced some real
efficiencies with this route match implementation, this has also imposed
some overstaffing issues on the contractors which RTD needs to make
right. Subsequently, RTD is looking at a make-good program that will
help share some of the financial pain that has been borne by the
contractors in an attempt to make them whole. It is anticipated this
would only apply to the July-December’08 timeframe and not 2009.
The committee was generally in favor of RTDs effort to make the
contractors whole.

8.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 1:20 p.m.

