Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on December 11, 2012
Page 1 of 6

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Erin Klaas, Senior Board Office Assistant

Date:

December 12, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee held
December 11, 2012 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair James; Directors Anderson, Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Gore,
Hoy, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tobiassen and Walker.

Chair Kemp; Directors Deadwyler and Tayer

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Larry Buter, Rick Clarke, John Elias, David Genova, Mike Gil,
Kenn Hardin, James Cook, Eric Farrington, Ericka Franklin, Adrina
Gibson, Gary Googins, Terry Howerter, Ryan D. Hull, Gregory Jenifer,
Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Dough MacLeod, Nate Malone, Brian
Matthews, Barbara McManus, Brenden Morgan, Trent Ratcliff, Scott
Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Beverly Scott, Daria Serna, Greg Smith, Walt
Stringer, John Tarbert, Lisa Trijillo, Michael Washington

Others Present:

Claudia Folska, Gary Forbes, Stan Gronek, Sherman Hamilton, Lee
Johnson, Beth Krueger, Gary Lasater, Stu Livensparge, Judy Lubow,
Jason Simmons, Paul Solano, Larry Tenenholz, Christian Vigil
****

Call to Order:
I.

Committee Chair James called the meeting to order at 6:22 p.m.

Recommended Action
 Approval of Contract Extension – Geographic Information Systems (GIS)
Contract
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to award a month to month contract extension to Idea
Integration for an extension for the amount not to exceed of $76,000 to provide
Graphical Information Systems (GIS) consulting services. The contract is being
brought to the Board because it is a Personal Services contract per RTD
Resolution No.27, Series of 1985.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on December 11, 2012
Page 2 of 6

Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to
move this to the full Board at the
December 18, 2012 Board meeting.
Director Tobiassen seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Trent Ratcliff explained that this is a month to month contract that
can be cancelled at a month’s notice. This is a short term contract
to fill an identified need until a full time employee can be hired.
Director Tobiassen noted that the month to month contract was
not to exceed $76,000. He asked how many months that amount
would cover. Trent stated this would cover about 4-5 months.
Director Tobiassen commented that this sounds like a very low
amount of money for the level of expertise and utilization. Trent
explained that we would be using this in a part time capacity to
keep the cost down.
Director Gore stated that if he took the 600 billable hours and
divided that by 4 months and 4 weeks he comes out with 37.5
hours per week. He said that does not sound like a part time job
but that it sounds like a full time employee. Trent explained that
the contract is for a certain number of hours and a not to exceed
amount. He stated that the contract could go 6 months or 4
months but staff wanted to make sure to not exceed a certain
dollar amount as per the Board resolution for personal services
contracts. When employees do work off hours the contract does
allow for us to pay them overtime or off hours pay so that is why
the hours are not adding up to part time work.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 12 members
in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Cohen,
Daly, Gore, Hoy, James, Malpiede,
McMullen, O’Boyle, Tobiassen,
Walker) and 0 against. Chair Kemp
and Directors Deadwyler and Tayer
were absent.
Committee Chair James declared the
motion PASSED unanimously.

II.

Updates


Bond Rating Agency Update for Sales Tax Revenue Bonds Series 2012A

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on December 11, 2012
Page 3 of 6

Terry Howerter began by introducing our Senior Underwriter on the deal, John
Moellenberg from RBC and from our Financial Advisor Group, Jason Simmons.
They can be available for questions as well. He explained that we went out to
three agencies and requested a rating for our 2012A sales tax bonds that we are
in the process of issuing.
Brenden Morgan shared that the rating agency presentations were held in the
RTD offices in November for Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s, and Fitch. Each of
these agencies were asked to provide a rating for the 2012A sales tax revenue
bonds that the District is in the process of issuing. The ratings assigned to the
bonds by all three agencies affirmed the ratings of previously issued parity
FasTracks revenue bonds and the TIFIA Loan. Those ratings were Standard &
Poor’s AA+, Moody’s Aa2, and Fitch’s AA. All three of those ratings were
assigned a stable outlook.
Brenden explained that while reviewing the credit ratings for the credit bonds,
Fitch took a global look at RTD’s outstanding debt. They concluded that the
planned issuance of the series 2012A revenue bonds would necessitate a
downgrade of the outstanding COP’s. The rating changed from AA- with a
Stable outlook to A+ with a Negative outlook. This new credit rating for the
COP puts the COP rating right in the middle of the investment grade range.
Director Anderson asked if staff had any concern about the downgrade and if
there are steps we can take to improve that rating for the future. She expressed
concern about the downgrade if and when we have to go out for bonds again.
Brenden stated that it is never a great feeling when you see a downgrade but the
credit rating is still right in the middle of the investment grade range so it is not
too concerning. He said that this will have an impact in the future if we do issue
future COP’s. Terry Howerter stated that we can improve our rating by
increasing our revenues and that will reduce the pressure on our net revenue
test. That was one of the items that Fitch looked at heavily.
Director O’Boyle asked what the practical impact would be from Fitch’s
downgrade. Brenden explained that the impact of this rating change would be to
any future COP issuances that the district may have at today’s market
conditions a change of around 20 basis points so our interest rates would go up
by about 20 basis points. Director O’Boyle asked if the rates would go up only
on COP issuances. Brenden stated that was correct; the revenue bonds were
affirmed at the previous ratings.
Director Bagley pointed out the statement made by Fitch reading: “However,
Fitch notes that the planned COP issuances may result in diminished margins
above RTD’s minimum 1.2 times (x) net revenue coverage requirement for all
debt obligations.” He asked if that should read below, not above. Brenden
stated that Fitch does mean above. They are stating that our net coverage ratio
wills stay above our mandated 1.2 times coverage ratio. He explained this
means it will diminish from where it is now but will still remain above our
minimum threshold.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on December 11, 2012
Page 4 of 6

Director Bagley shared that he and Terry Howerter had a conversation about the
implications for COP purchases of bus fleets, etc. He asked Terry to provide the
Board with information about what the COP downgrade might mean for those
types of purchases in the future. Terry Howerter stated that the primary effect
is what Brenden mentioned; in today’s market conditions we would have about a
20 basis point increase for new COP issuance. Terry said that we do anticipate
doing a COP issuance for our Bus Rolling Stock in 2013; this may be done with
a COP issuance or we may look at other methods as well. The cost would be
between $120 to $205 million dollars. Terry explained this would mean a little
higher cost for the debt but as Brenden said we are still in the middle of the
investment grade. Terry informed the Board if we should start pushing that 1.2
times revenue test it could result in a higher interest rate and a different rating as
well.
Director Daly asked if Fitch is considered more conservative than the other rating
agencies. Terry Howerter explained that the rating agencies have to be very
open and transparent. He stated that we are rated about the same with S&P
and Fitch; the S&P downgrade came in 2010. Jason Simmons explained that in
this particular case, Fitch was the only agency that took a broader look at sales
tax and COP. He believes they are all just kind of following suite.
Director Walker asked if the ratings are standardized. Brenden stated that they
are not. Director Walker asked why Fitch decided to take an overall global look
at our outstanding debt and the other agencies did not. He also asked if the
other agencies would review this at a later date. Terry Howerter stated that as
to the why he would have a hard time addressing that. He explained that
looking at this on a high level, we asked all three agencies to rate our sales tax
bond issue and we told them in 2013 we would be issuing Certificates of
Participation. Terry said that we informed the agencies that we would invite
them back at the time we were ready to move forward with that debt issue.
Terry believes that Fitch looked at the sales tax bond issue and based on the
flow of our sales taxes and revenues, the payments on our sales tax bonds
comes off the top. That leaves whatever falls through as a lesser amount.
Terry stated that Fitch thinks we will get closer to the 1.2; he believes we will
definitely push the 1.2 in a few years. However, staff will manage to that 1.2
so staff is not very concerned at this point from the finance department. Terry
said that the other two agencies have not told us that they will take this step
but when and if we go out for another COP issue he believes they will all take a
hard look at RTD very closely.
Director McMullen asked on the scale how far many notches our rating went
down. Brenden said we moved down one notch.


Third Quarter 2012 Performance Measures
Jannette Scarpino highlighted that goals 1.1, 3.3, and facilities maintenance
complaints in 2.1 have all improved from Quarter 2.
Director O’Boyle noted that on page 3 of the report, section 2.1, the numbers
are higher in 2012 3rd Quarter than 2010 and 2011 but the footnote says the

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on December 11, 2012
Page 5 of 6

trend is continuing downward. Jannette explained that the trend is continuing
downward for the 2012 Calendar Year. The average number of facilities
maintenance complaints in the 2nd Quarter was 18.2 and in the same 18 range
for the 1st Quarter.
Director O’Boyle noted another disconnect on page 5 of the report, section 3.3,
Veolia’s miles between road calls. The number of miles between road calls for
3rd Quarter 2012 is lower than the previous two years. Director O’Boyle also
noted the correlation between the age of the fleet and miles between road calls
except with Veolia. They have a fleet age right in the middle but are at the
bottom of mileage. Jannette explained this is a similar situation. In the 2nd
Quarter their mileage between road calls was only 20,000. Bruce Abel explained
that RTD has worked with Veolia to institute some changes; we have been
tracking their performance since we implemented the changes and it appears the
trend of improvement is continuing.
Director Daly commented that he knows in the past we have had some problems
with accidents, especially with contractors. He understands one of the reasons
for the on bus accidents and complaints is from the strollers being brought onto
the busses. He recently read that the San Francisco Municipal Transportation
Agency started a public relations campaign aimed and young mothers on busses
to educate them about safely riding with strollers. He asked if this was
something we were might consider doing. Bruce Abel stated that the bus
operations team has had conversations with marketing about this. It is
anticipated that some outreach with the community will happen in Quarter 1.


October 2012 Financial Status Report
Doug MacLeod began by highlighting that every statistic on the dashboard is
green this month. He stated that as the Board might recall, ridership was down
6.6% in September. This was due to the issue with there being fewer weekdays
in September 2012 than September 2011. Doug explained that in October we
had the opposite situation. Typically we do about 330,000 boardings on a
weekday, 170,000 on a Saturday, and 120,000 on Sundays and holidays. Doug
stated that based on these numbers you can really see how just a few days
difference in where the month falls can make a significant difference in our
percentages. For the year-to-date we are still tracking at about 1.2%
improvement level. Revenue service boardings are up 2.9%.
Doug stated that fare revenue was up 10.7%. About half of that is due to the
additional boardings that we recorded. Year-to-date we are up 4.9%.
Doug highlighted that for October we came in at 10.4% over last October for
sales and use tax. In September we were up 10.4% as well. He explained that
staff thought that was a correction from the previous month that came in low at
5.6%. On a year-to-date basis we are up 8.4%. Staff is forecasting through the
end of the year based on 8.7% forecast from CU Leads that we will receive
$451 million versus $415.2 million last year. Doug said that to put this in
context of where we have previously been, in 2007 we received $418 million.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on December 11, 2012
Page 6 of 6

This is the first year since five years ago that we have exceeded the $418
million mark.
Director O’Boyle and Committee Chair James commented on Fitch’s statement
from the Bond Rating Agency Update that RTD has a history of optimistic sales
tax revenue projections. Based on the 10.4% increase we have seen in the past
two months it seems Fitch’s comment is an observation from some time ago.
Terry Howerter agrees that when Fitch says we have been overly optimistic it
goes back to 2004 and 2005 but at that time no one could have forecasted the
recession.
Committee Chair James asked if we have had any conversation with CU Leeds
about these sales and use tax numbers being significantly over their projections.
Terry Howerter stated that we will have a new CU Leads projection on
December 14. He thinks it will be interesting to see what they are projecting for
2013. Terry believes that with CU Lead’s quarterly updates they are tracking
very closely.
III.

Other Matters

IV.

Next Meeting Date – January 15, 2013, 2012

V.

Adjourn
Committee Chair James Adjourned the meeting at 6:51 p.m. to the Operations and
Customer Service Committee meeting.

