Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Planning & Development Committee
Tuesday, February 3, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning and Development Committee
Chaired by Bill James

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair James called the meeting to order at 6:47 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
6:44 PM

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

6:43 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Present
Present

6:46 PM
6:49 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District N

Present
Present

6:42 PM
6:43 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District J
Committee Chair
Director, District G

Present
Present
Absent

6:44 PM
6:42 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

6:44 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

6:42 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

6:44 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

6:45 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

6:44 PM
6:43 PM

Director Lasater was absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Mike Barnes, Shirley Bennett, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen,
Ignacio Correa-Ortiz, Lou Cripps, Kevin Diviness, Robert Downes,
Martell Dyles, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, Ron
Enserro, Ken Fleck, David Genova, Doug Gragg, Cory Granrud,
Nathan Herman, Janet Huhn, Jim Kelley, Erin Klaas, Mitch Kuharski,
Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Jeff Miessel, Vivian Morales, Amanda
Murray, Andy Mutz, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Roger Sherman,
Pranaya Shrestha, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Kirk Strand, Stan
Szabelak, John Tarbert, Brenda Tierney, Pauletta Tonilas, Gary
Turnquist, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Ashland Vaughn,
Phil Washington, Brian Welch, Susan Wood, Nikita Zanichkowsky

Others Present:

Suzanne Arkle, Brain Bellfi, Mike Dino, Joni Goheen, Sherman
Hamilton, Larry Holbert, Tina Jaquez, Jim Maguire, Michele
Martinson, Tim Mordz, Dan Pearsall, Mike Peek, Shawn Plichta, Eric
Rolle, Mike Salmon, Marta Sipeki, Carl Smith, Lindsey Smith, Former
USDOT Secretary Rodney Slater, Joe Tlacosky, Les Townsend,
Hadley Trent, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Hortensia Villa, Monte
Whaley, Darcy Wilson, Emaan Wilson

B. Updates

• 16th Street Mall Reconstruction Update
Committee Chair James noted that this evening’s meeting would take place
in a different order than normal, with Updates being presented first. He
explained that the 16th Street Mall Reconstruction Update would provide
some valuable background for the Recommended Action the Board would be
voting on.
Stan Szabelak, Manager of Civil Engineering, reviewed a Power Point
presentation with the Board that is available in the February 3, 2015
Planning and Development Committee Agenda Packet. He said that the
presentation will consist of an update on the annual maintenance followed
by the upcoming reconstruction plan. Stan Szabelak commented that the
maintenance activity occurs within the entire granite paver portion of the
16th Street Mall while the reconstruction is scheduled to occur on blocks 1,
2 and 13.
Stan Szabelak stated that future annual expenses for RTD’s maintenance are
projected to exceed $1 million. He explained that the walkway elements

and pavers are maintained by the Downtown Denver Partnership while RTD
only maintains the transitway pavers. He stressed that annual maintenance
costs will only continue to increase.
Stan Szabelak shared that the reconstruction cost estimate in 2011 was
projected to be $63 million for 15.5 blocks or $4.07 million per block. He
explained that based on this estimate RTD and the City and County of
Denver (CCD) applied for an FTA grant requesting $16.1 million to
reconstruct 3.5 blocks. RTD and CCD were approved for $10 million with
80% coming from the FTA ($8 million) and a 20% local match ($2 million)
being shared between RTD and CCD.
Stan Szabelak commented that reconstruction of the intersecting streets
was not included in the initial FTA grant application; however, CCD has
since approached RTD about entering into an Intergovernmental Agreement
(IGA) to use the same contractor for both projects. He said that RTD was
able to include the intersection reconstruction in with our design portion but
do not have enough funds for the actual construction. He explained that
CCD would be paying for this, which is what the IGA the Board will be
asked to vote on tonight will outline.
Director Lubow noted a settlement that was referenced on slide 4. She
asked if staff could provide further details related to the settlement. Stan
Szabelak explained that back in the mid-80s it was determined that there
were problems with the original design. The case eventually went to court
where it was confirmed that there were some issues; as a result of the court
determination, RTD received funding of about $120K per year through 2012
to offset the maintenance costs. He pointed out the settlement has barely
scratched the surface in the maintenance costs since about the mid-90s.
Director Lubow commented that the FTA request was originally for about
$16 million and we only received around $10 million. She wonders how we
accommodate being $6 million short for funding. Stan Szabelak said that
the design was completed for the full 3.5 block reconstruction and we will
try to reconstruct as much as the $10 million will allow. Rick Clarke,
Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs, noted that we actually need
a great deal more than just the $6 million we were not awarded as part of
the grant application since reconstruction of the entire 16th Street Mall
granite pavers was project to cost around $63 million in 2011. He stated
that staff continues to look for grant opportunities and funding partners.
Director Lubow expressed concern that the reconstruction needs to be
completed within a few years for safety reasons. Rick Clarke explained that
it was really due to the continued, escalating maintenance costs more so
than safety.

Director Lubow observed that the IGA stated that CCD would reimburse
RTD for all direct costs associated with the construction of the intersections.
She wondered what would be considered an indirect cost. Stan Szabelak
said that direct costs would be all costs related to the construction of the
intersections; the indirect costs are the costs related to the design work that
were absorbed through the design activity that we were already engaged in
to reconstruct the granite pavers.
Director Solano shared a conversation he had with a gentleman who
previously had a contract with RTD to maintain the granite pavers. He said
this gentleman expressed that really the transitway should be a continuous
concrete surface to avoid the constant maintenance. Stan Szabelak said
that was Mr. Montoya; he stated that Mr. Montoya was correct. He
explained that staff tried to advocate for replacing the transitway with
concrete that would be aesthetically pleasing but there was tremendous
pushback from a variety of sources, especially those that wanted to
maintain the historic and archeological aspect of the mall. He pointed out
that even with concrete there would still be maintenance costs as that is
just the nature of roads.
Committee Chair James informed the Board that there is a 16th Street Mall
Steering Committee. This committee is a good example of collaboration
with CCD, the Downtown Denver Partnership (DDP) and RTD working
together to use the 16th Street Mall as effectively as possibly. He shared
that he has been a Co-Chair of the Steering Committee so is very familiar
with the discussion that have taken place. In 2010 there was a very large
amount of stakeholder input that was obtained and the historic value of the
Mall’s design was very important; that is one of the big reasons for the
reconstruction having such a large budget.
Director Francone inquired if the maintenance costs were escalating due to
the age of the Mall as opposed to something else. She also asked for a
more detailed explanation of the bulbouts referenced on slide 10 related to
RTD’s responsibility. Stan Szabelak noted RTD’s contribution would be the
darker grey area of the drawing which is funded by the grant plus local
match. This does include construction of the bulbouts. CCD would be
responsible for the typical intersection, which is light grey in the drawing.
Committee Chair James expressed that it was his understanding that the
16th Street Mall reconstruction and intersection reconstruction would be
through a single contractor. Stan Szabelak stated that was the plan. Staff
and CCD would like to have the construction be done through one contract
to take advantage of economies of scale; that is why staff will be asking for
the approval of the IGA with CCD next. Rick Clarke noted that having the

construction occur under one contract would also minimize the traffic
impact.
Director Bagley inquired what type of grant was awarded for the
reconstruction efforts. He wondered if perhaps RTD should begin to look at
submitting another grant application as there is still about another $48
million needed to complete the entire reconstruction Project. Stan Szabelak
said the grant was an FTA “Bus & Bus Facilities Livability Grant.” Rick
Clarke stated that staff is always looking for grant opportunities that this
project might qualify for. Stan Szabelak shared that there is a new grant
application that staff is currently working on and should be submitted in the
near future.
Director Hoy commented that in a sense, RTD is its own worst enemy
because our vehicles are what are causing a lot of this maintenance. He
wondered if having new vehicles with dual tires will have a positive impact
on the amount of pavers that need to be repaired, replaced, etc. Stan
Szabelak said it would lessen the impact but it is difficult to analyze and
have a definitive answer as to how much. He does not believe it will have
enough of an impact to significantly extend the life of the 16th Street Mall in
any way.
Director Menten stated that she has never been happy with this program.
She believes maintaining the granite pavers is a tremendous waste of
money, especially when RTD is cutting service in areas that really need it.
She said that she would be voting no on the IGA but would like to get
further information on what it would cost to pave the Mall with concrete
instead of the granite pavers. Henry Stopplecamp reminded the Board that
the approval of the IGA with CCD is not related to the reconstruction of the
16th Street Mall or the maintenance of the granite pavers. The action this
evening would be an IGA to tie CCD’s work into RTD’s construction
contract. Director Menten stated she understood the details related to the
request to enter into the IGA with CCD. Rick Clarke said that staff would
provide Director Menten with a rough estimate of reconstructing the Mall
with concrete.
Director Folska recognized that the 16th Street Mall is an area that brings a
great deal of pride and joy to not only people in the District, but tourists as
well. Director Folska believes that it is a very pretty architectural piece
designed by I.M. Pei; however, it is also very dysfunctional. The pavers are
very slippery and dangerous. She asked for clarification as to RTD’s
responsibility and what other organizations might be contributing to the Mall.
She also wonders if the Mall was really designed for the amount of traffic
we are running on it now. Stan Szabelak stated that RTD’s responsibility by
agreement is to maintain the transitway lanes to the extent of keeping the

pavers repaired, replaced, etc. He said that we are not responsible for snow
removal or any maintenance of the sidewalk area. Rick Clarke noted that
RTD recently entered into an agreement with CCD in which they will
contribute up to $300K per year to support transitway maintenance.
Director Folska asked for information about who was responsible for the
cost of the reconstruction of the 16th Street Mall, not the maintenance. She
said that based on the information presented it was her understanding that
the Downtown Denver Partnership has not contributed any funding. Rick
Clarke explained that for the reconstruction there is a $10 million grant with
RTD contributing one-third of the required 20% local match. Henry
Stopplecamp stated that would be about $660K. Stan Szabelak reiterated
that the $10 million grant would only build about 2.5 to 3.5 blocks, not the
entire length of the Mall.
General Manager Washington stated that in regards to if the Mall was
designed to sustain its current traffic levels the answer is no. This is the
same thing being experienced with infrastructure across the country.
Director Solano inquired again why the Mall was not being reconstructed
with concrete. He recognized that there are many stamped concrete options
that can be just as aesthetically pleasing but last longer than granite pavers.
He wondered if perhaps this had really been considered. Stan Szabelak
reiterated that staff had tried to approach the switch to stamped concrete
from a technical perspective but the community wanted to continue to use
granite pavers from a historical perspective. He believes that until there is a
politically willed transition there will be no change in the pavers.
Committee Chair James stressed that a major reason for continuing to use
the granite pavers is historic preservation since the 16th Street Mall is
considered a historic landmark.
Director Menten thanked staff and Committee Chair James for providing her
with information on the groups that want to keep the granite pavers. She
said that she would be directing constituents who had concerns about fares
and eliminated routes to these organizations in the future.

C. Recommended Actions

• 16th Street Mall Intersection Improvements, Funding Intergovernmental
Agreement with the City and County of Denver
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager, or designee, to
execute an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between the City and

County of Denver (CCD) and the Regional Transportation District. The
purpose of the IGA is to set forth the rights, duties and obligations of
CCD and RTD to construct intersection improvements within the CCD
Right-of-Way in conjunction with the 16 th Street Mall Reconstruction
Project. The intersection improvements will be funded by CCD, and the
construction managed by RTD.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the February 17, 2015
Board Meeting.
Director Walker seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Anderson stated that what RTD is working with is the
built environment; if the 16th Street Mall were to be designed
today it would be completely different. She reiterated that the
community has spent a great deal of time working with RTD,
the City and County of Denver (CCD) and the historical society
and communities. She believes that all RTD can do today is
work to reconstruct the Mall while keeping in line with its
historical preservation until there is a political change. She
said she supports this motion because RTD cannot redesign
the mall today or in the near future but it still needs to be
maintained.
Rick Clarke reminded the Board that this IGA allows RTD to
enter into an agreement with CCD so that RTD can use CCD’s
funds to reconstruct the intersections. Stan Szabelak
informed the Board that once all the bids are received, staff
will come back to the Board for approval of the construction
contract.
Director Walker explained that he supports this motion
because it is combining efforts. Instead of having to disrupt
traffic and impact businesses and commuters multiple times,
this completes everything at once. He said that he also
supports the bulbouts as they make it much safer for
pedestrians to cross the street.
Director Francone stated that she does not want to belabor
the point, but the community is interested in preserving the
historical value of the 16th Street Mall while RTD’s
commitment is to preserve the roadway. She believes that,
when looking at the soaring maintenance costs, RTD should
have the political will to redesign the Mall in a manner that will

not require these large amounts of money for maintenance.
Director Francone wondered if the construction proposed
could be integrated into any future projects. Stan Szabelak
explained that the lessons learned from this project could be
implemented at another intersection down the road.
Committee Chair James commented that the granite pavers
within the Mall are really what cause the large reconstruction
expense. The intersection reconstruction does not consist of
granite pavers so it will not be as expensive. He inquired if
the design of the intersection was a result of collaboration
with RTD, CCD and the Downtown Denver Partnership and
therefore the Mall design and intersection design will
complement each other. Stan Szabelak stated that was
correct.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 2]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
SECONDER: Jeff Walker, Director, District D
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James,
Lubow, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Tina Francone, Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Gary Lasater
Committee Chair James declared the motion PASSED.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - March 3, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair James declared the meeting adjourned at 7:36 p.m. to the
FasTracks Monitoring Committee.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

