Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, December 6, 2016
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Claudia Folska

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Folska called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Remote
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present
Kent Bagley
Director, District H
Present

Arrived
5:09 PM
5:16 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Committee Chair

Remote
Present

4:08 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District J

Present
Present

5:29 PM
5:24 PM

Bill James

Director, District A

Present

5:28 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Absent

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District I
Director, District M
Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present
Present
Present

5:30 PM
6:01 PM
5:29 PM
5:25 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Chair of the Board
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:29 PM
5:26 PM

Director Lasater was absent. Directors Anderson and Deadwyler participated via phone.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tina Aragon, Rolf Asphaug, Chessy Brady, Gina Callahan,
Jeff Cluphf, Heather Copp, Lou Cripps, Nate Currey, John Elias,
Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, John Ewy, David Genova, Doug
Gragg, Erik Haugen, John Hersey, Brian Iacono, Ali Imansepahi, Ann
Marie Isaac-Heslop, Kate Iverson, Beverly Lindsay, Adrian Mabry,
Michelle Madrid, Doug MacLeod, James Maguire, Barbara McManus,
Jeff Miessel, Tai-Shrae Parish, Kevin Parker, Mace Pemberton, Gary
Schear, Roger Sherman, Zamy Silva, Bill Sirois, Dana Steele, Errol
Stevens, Henry Stopplecamp, Greg Straight, Rebecca Tate, Doug
Tisdale, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Kate Williams, Susan
Wood, Clayton Woodruff

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Mike Dino, Patty Doersch, William Gross, Anne
Miano, Roger Sherman, John Thompson, Joe Triplett, Gary Van,
Megan Wagner

B. State of the District Address - General Manager Genova
General Manager David Genova presented his State of the District Address. In his
presentation he discussed his managerial structure, accomplishments, future goals,
challenges of each of the following units: Bus Operations, Capital Programs,
Communications, Finance and Administration, General Counsel, Planning, Rail
Operations, Safety, Security and Asset Management, and the Executive Office.
Bus Operations
2016 Accomplishments
 Implementation of US 36 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) Flatiron Flyer
service between Boulder and Denver.
 Implemented restructured bus service network to accompany the
opening of the University of Colorado A Line commuter rail service
between Denver Union Station (DUS) and Denver International Airport
(DIA).
 Introduction of Zero Emission all-electric BYD Mall shuttle buses
2017 Goals
• Implement restructured bus service network to accompany the
opening of the G Line commuter rail service between Wheat Ridge,
Arvada and DUS.
• Complete the replacement of the 16th Street Mall shuttle buses with
BYD all-electric Mall shuttle buses.
• Develop draft service plan, seek public comment and seek Board
approval of restructured bus services to accompany the opening of
the N Line commuter rail service in 2018.
2017 Challenges
• Meet staffing needs in all areas of operations to respond to changing
service needs, demographics and succession planning needs.
• Improve service delivery to meet growing mobility needs and improve
on-time performance while staying within constrained financial

resources.
• Address changing technology and its potential for integration into the
public transit service offering.
Capital Programs
2016 Accomplishments
• Completed construction and testing for the openings of the Flatiron
Flyer, University of Colorado A line, and B line; the R line construction
and testing nearly complete; the University of Colorado A line
received the international Global AirRail Awards “Travelport Project of
the Year”.
• Issued Notice to Proceed for construction of the Southeast Rail
Extension (construction is on-going).
• Implemented state of good repair projects for the existing light rail
corridors, bus system and facilities as outlined in the SBP.
2017 Goals
 Place the G Line and R Line in service and institute Quiet Zones on
the commuter rail lines.
 Continue to work with CCD and the Downtown Stakeholders on
developing solutions for the 16th Street Mall.
 Continue to implement state of good repair projects for the existing
light rail corridors, bus system and facilities as outlined in the current
SBP.
2017 Challenges
• Address project management challenges of managing all projects of
our capital program safely, within budget, on-schedule and with high
quality.
• Successfully work with stakeholders to meet their expectations while
maintaining the defined scope, schedule and budget of the projects.
• Begin transition from management of a large-scale capital
construction program to a maintenance program for a large
multimodal transit infrastructure in a state of good repair.
Finance & Administration
2016 Accomplishments
 Address project management challenges of managing all projects of
our capital program safely, within budget, on-schedule and with high
quality.
• Successfully work with stakeholders to meet their expectations while
maintaining the defined scope, schedule and budget of the projects.
• Begin transition from management of a large-scale capital
construction program to a maintenance program for a large
multimodal transit infrastructure in a state of good repair.
Technology-related
• RTD IT systems cybersecurity assessment, and light rail SCADA
system cybersecurity assessment
• Real-time data for bus and light rail
• Upgraded trip planner
• Stored value pilot program went live on Jan.1, 2016. As of Nov. 20,
2016, 1,920 have been issued with a total value of $313,100 loaded
and 113,540 boardings. As part of this program, this application
was moved to a new hosted environment which was completed on

time. New iPhones with new eForce and SMT programming to
replace the aging HSMRs were implemented as part of this program
in June.
2017 Goals
• Implement Mobile Ticketing.
• Increase and improve recruitment efforts for bus and light rail
operators.
• Develop SBP, APE, Financial Plan and 2018 Budget that address
Board goals of building reserves, meeting service needs, and address
State of Good Repair and CBA wages/trust needs.
2017 Challenges
• Recruitment
• Collective Bargaining Agreement Negotiations
• Fiscal sustainability
- Strategic Budget Plan (SBP)/ Annual Program Evaluation(APE)/
Financial Plan / 2018 Budget that address Board goals of
building reserves, meeting service needs within means, and
address State of Good Repair and CBA wages/trust needs
within very tight fiscal constraints.
- No ability to borrow or bond.
General Counsel
2016 Accomplishments
• Created and integrated RTD’s new Information Governance and
Management Division.
• Settled the Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition class action lawsuit
challenging the design and operation of RTD’s light rail vehicles.
• Provided extensive legal work to open the University of Colorado A
Line, B Line, and Flatiron Flyer plus several parking garages; and to
ready the G and R Lines for opening.
2017 Goals
• Complete new procedures, training, templates and terms/conditions
for technology contracts.
• Finish drafting and implementing a comprehensive 5-year plan to
make RTD proactive in information governance and enterprise content
management.
• Develop and implement web-based Colorado Open Records Act intake
procedures and accident/incident report processing.
2017 Challenges
• Increased numbers and complexity of lawsuits and claims concerning
personal injury, employment, ADA, contracts, and construction.
• Managing an ever-expanding universe of information created by RTD
and managed with various information systems, making it difficult to
gather and produce data and records.
• Creating and managing a large number of projects to support the
department’s missions, including ensuring necessary training of RTD
staff on new policies and procedures.
Planning
2016 Accomplishments
• Award of $92 million Southeast Rail Extension Small Starts Grant
Agreement on April 27, 2016.

• Completed rigorous analysis of potential for FTA New Starts/Small
Starts grant funding of the Central Rail Extension, Northwest Rail,
North Metro Completion and Southwest Rail Extension and presented
results to stakeholders and Board.
• Completed the Parking Pricing Technical Analysis and presented
study results to the Board.
2017 Goals
• Issue Request for Proposals, retain a consultant, and begin the
District-wide Arterial BRT Feasibility Study.
• Procure a consultant team and initiate the NEPA and Preliminary
Engineering process for arterial BRT on State Highway 119.
• Initiate the Pass Program Study and convene the Pass Program
Working Group.
2017 Challenges
• Obtain NEPA clearance for the 15L Route Improvements project.
• Track and pursue all federal, regional, and non-profit funding
opportunities (grants, etc.) to support RTD’s goals and objectives.
• Managing expectations for RTD’s ongoing role in TOC issues
including affordable housing, first and final mile connections,
gentrification, and joint development opportunities.
Rail Operations
2016 Accomplishments
• Rebuilt the aging infrastructure with full replacement of NB
Speer\Stout and 13th Ave. grade crossings for State of Good Repair
rehabilitation.
• Successfully procured rail track equipment to correct the existing
degradation of track ride quality conditions.
• Provided rail operations oversight to open and oversee the operations
of the University of Colorado A line and B line; and completed
integrated testing and preparation for the R line to provide a safe and
reliable light rail operating system.
2017 Goals
• Appropriately staff all Rail Operation divisions to ensure that we are
able to operate and maintain the existing system properly and support
the expansion of the new rail corridors.
• Install and implement the advance railway safety warning system for
Wayside Workers.
• Complete system upgrades on selected system infrastructure
elements to assure maximum operational safety, efficiency and ontime service delivery.
2017 Challenges
• Continue Light Rail State of Good Repair vehicle overhaul project and
targeted track and system rehabilitation work in downtown Denver.
• Recruit, train and retain the additional rail vehicle operators necessary
to operate the existing corridors and also support the additional
corridors.
• Continue to obtain funding for State of Good Repair rehabilitation
work for the aging infrastructure.
Safety, Security and Asset Management
2016 Accomplishments

• Received two national security industry awards/recognitions
• Grand Platinum Award from Security Technology Industry for
Security Command Center - Command and Control Technology
Project
• Department of Homeland Security/Transportation Safety
Administration Gold Award for excellence in security
programs.
• Compliant with new FTA Transit Asset Management Plan Rule
Making - well ahead of schedule.
• Administered safety and security certification process and provided
safety and security oversight to open and oversee safety and security
of Flatiron Flyer, the University of Colorado A line and B line; and
working toward completion of the safety and security certification
process for the R line and G line.
2017 Goals
• Complete the integration of light rail and commuter rail Command
Centers for full redundancy and enterprise control from either
location.
• Initiate transition of RTD System Safety Plan to FTA mandated Safety
Management System; provide oversight of FRA mandated Part 270
System Safety Plan Transition for commuter rail.
• Begin implementation of new Enterprise-wide Hazard/Close Call
Reporting System for light rail and commuter rail.
2017 Challenges
• Meet increasing security needs with the opening of additional light rail
and commuter rail lines.
• Implement new safety requirements with the adoption of Safety
Management System framework.
• Continue efforts to gather data and develop analysis systems for
Safety and State of Good Repair processes.
Executive Office: Materials Management
2016 Accomplishments
• Solicited and awarded 5,293 Purchase Orders or Contracts totaling
$304,953,559.
• Received $500,440 revenue from public auction of surplus and
obsolete District property.
• Achieved a 1.17% District wide Stock out level (Performance
Measure Goal is 1.5%).
2017 Goals
• Continue to award and administer contracts to support RTD Base
System and FasTracks.
• Maintain District-wide stock out level below 1.5% (Performance
Measure Goal).
• Successful implementation of a new Inventory Forecasting Software.
2017 Challenges
• Maintain District wide stock out level below 1.5% (Performance
Measure Goal).
• Implementation of Inventory Forecasting Software.
• Continue to monitor diesel fuel futures pricing and make
recommendations to achieve budget certainty at competitive market
rates.

Executive Office: Civil Rights
2016 Accomplishments
• Completed the FTA Triennial DBE Goal and Methodology for FFY
2017-2019 proposing a 24% agency-wide DBE goal.
• Base system and FasTracks DBE/SBE/WIN goals have been achieved
for 2016, and many FasTracks projects have exceeded their project
goals.
• RTD was a major participant of the biggest 4-day National ADA
Symposium in the nation.
2017 Goals
• Develop and implement a Diversity class which will be required for all
RTD employees.
• Implement a robust revised ADA complaint procedure, and partner
and coordinate an inter-agency collaborative Small Business Event.
• ADA committee structure review and revision.
2017 Challenges
• FasTracks contracts ending in 2017: reduction in consulting
resources, executing DBE/SBE and labor compliance close-out reports
and preparing all documents/files for federal reviews and audits.
• Transitioning the WIN Program from a construction focused
community workforce development training program to assisting and
developing training programs and initiatives to support operations and
maintenance including RTD’s internal recruitment needs.
District-wide Challenges and Priorities for 2017
• Fiscal sustainability.
• Workforce.
• Wages/CBA/trusts.
• State of Good Repair (funding).
• Aging bus facilities.
• New regulations (safety).
• Identifying funding to complete FasTracks.
• G and R line openings.
2017 Agency Strategic Goals
• Board adopted
• Fiscal Sustainability
• Workforce/Human Capital
• Operations and Maintenance/State of Good Repair
General State of the RTD District
• Historic year opening 3 corridors on time and within budget, all
exceeding ridership expectations.
• Safety remains the District’s #1 priority.
• Service is our main value.
• Agency continues to perform at a high level meeting 89% of
performance measures.
• Operating within budget, on time, meeting goals, received national
recognition/awards.
• Financially stable by managing competing priorities.
• Transparent, collaborative, partner.

• Great team of RTD employees.
• Continued focus on continuous improvement and innovation.
• Positioned well to continue to meet goals and deliver service.
Director Anderson stated it was a great state of the district and she’s proud to
work for RTD, that it’s a great organization, and she’s looking forward to next year.
Director Deadwyler agreed that it was a wonderful state of the district address.
She said that RTD has a lot of challenges coming up next year and asked that staff
pay more attention to the Access-a-Ride program and its patrons. She stated that
there are things that need to be prioritized and worked on.
Director Bagley stated that the Board of Directors are part of the RTD team, and
they are just as responsible for the challenges the agency faces. He remarked that
sometimes the Board gets fixated on the larger issues such as the Smart Cards and
the University of Colorado A-Line. He noted that General Manager Genova’s State
of the Agency Address shows the bigger picture of all the things that are going on
within the agency.
Director Bagley asked General Manager Genova when he decided to hire a COO for
RTD.
General Manager Genova responded that it has been on his mind for a long time
and that with the need to integrate bus and rail operations under one area, a COO
is ideal. He stated that he wasn’t able to include this position in the 2016 budget
but now he has the opportunity to do so, with the timing of the budget cycle.
Director Archuleta asked what our shortfall of drivers is.
Bruce Abel responded that we are approximately down 70-75 drivers, though the
actual number varies on any given day due to call-offs, FMLA, etc.
Director Walker emphasized the importance of continually communicating with our
customers about any problems that arise and affect their commute. He also
mentioned that RTD’s Twitter account is timely with information. He thanked
General Manager Genova for the presentation and the great job that he is doing.
Chair Tobiassen stated how impressed he was with how RTD’s services have been
enhanced over the past eight years. He stated that when he first started he had a
dream list and most of them have come to fruition. He specified that the R line
through Aurora was on that list. He gave thanks to Lisa Trujillo and Pauline
Haberman for all their hard work and dedication to that project. Chair Tobiassen
also showed his appreciation to the Aurora Police Department for their positive
involvement with RTD to provide security on the bus/rail lines. He also recognized
that four of our mall shuttles have switched over to electric fleet; with more to
come. Included on his dream list was the Smart Card and now it’s a reality. He
also remembers suggesting RTD open up a Facebook account and now we have
one with thousands of followers. He also mentioned that the internal auditing team
does a great job and suggested cyber auditing. he emphasized how great it was
working with the staff at RTD.
Director Lubow stated that the presentation was informative and positive. She

asked if the new Manager of Continuous Innovation position would be the person
to oversee new technologies.
General Manager Genova replied that the new managerial position would be
responsible for working with employees to make process improvements, engage
and empower employees and work on efficiencies that drive innovations.
Information Technology would be tasked with overseeing new technologies and the
new COO will be responsible for looking for programs that can integrate and
complement existing services.
Director Lubow also mentioned a group in Los Angeles named Extraordinary
Innovations who seek out and study innovative forms of transportation. She
suggested that RTD also plan ahead for the next ten years.
General Manager Genova stated that the Extraordinary Innovations team is working
on program delivery and how they can deliver transportation projects.
Director Lubow stated that she is in full support to finding funding for the unfunded
projects and to start moving forward on those projects to their completion and to
continue to work through affordable fares to enable people to have better access to
our system and to offer support to those who need it.
General Manager Genova advised that affordable fares will be represented in the
pass program working group.
Director Solano stated that he liked the idea of making diversity training mandatory
for all employees. He also asked when RTD would start collective bargaining
negotiations; once the new officers are elected.
General Manager Genova stated that they will start having conversations in mid2017.
Director James echoed the sentiments of his colleagues on a job well done. He is
looking forward not being a member of the RTD board in the future and being
comfortable in being a Denver citizen. He emphasized that he admired the way the
organization has worked through challenges. He also stated that he agrees with
Director Lubow regarding the fact that RTD needs to embrace technology. Lastly
he encourages us to partner with our peers in the community. Work towards
helping our lower income customers that have difficulty using our mobility by
partnering with other organizations; by encouraging development of housing to
compliment the transportation and jobs so customers can afford the housing.
Director Folska asked if autonomous cars will be eliminating the need of public
transportation entirely.
General Manager Genova said he believes that they will be used more to assist with
local routes and shorter trips. He stated that this is an opportunity to build in some
efficiencies; however, the biggest challenge will be affordability. General Manager
Genova also stated that the downside to autonomous vehicles is that they will
cause heavy congestion and there are regulatory environment hurdles.
Bruce Abel stated that it is important to look selectively at market segments to find

where the right niche is to plug them into. Hel believes they will not be a
replacement but will play a viable role in future mobility.
Director Sisk stated that the University of Colorado A-Line and G-Line need to be at
the forefront of our operations and should the agency’s first priority.
Director Hoy commented that he was very pleased with what he has heard. He
also wanted to thank all the staff at RTD. He indicated that he was looking
forward to next year to see these current projects come to fruition and new
projects get started.
Director Anderson agreed with Director Sisk about the fixing the University of
Colorado A-Line and opening the G-Line.
Director Solano stated that the staff does a great job and they do great things and
believes that hiring the Manager of Continuous Innovations is a brilliant move and
that this person will be a good asset to the planning division.
Director Folska stated that RTD needs to manage expectations and be proactive in
our approach. She also thanked staff for their hard work.

C. Recommended Actions

• Local Government Liaison Services
It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into Contract No. 16DO-025 for Local Government Liaison services with CRL Associates, Inc.
(CRL) for three years (January 1, 2017 through December 31, 2019), at a
cost of $102,000 per year, and for two (2) additional one-year options to
renew at prices specified in the Contract, each option period contingent
upon approval by the Board of Directors pursuant to the Contract Award
agreement.
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made a motion to move this
item to the full Board at the December 20, 2016
Board Meeting.
Director Solano seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Francone stated that CRL Associates have done an
excellent job and she appreciates the services that have
provided
Director Solano agrees that CRL Associates have done a stellar
job.
Director Bagley also appreciates the hard work they have done
for RTD.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:
REMOTE:

PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 1]
Tom Tobiassen, Chair of the Board
Paul Solano, Director, District K
Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lubow,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Natalie Menten
Gary Lasater
Lorraine Anderson, Barbara Deadwyler

Committee Chair Folska declared the motion PASSED.

• Federal Liaison Services
It is recommended by the RTD Government Relations Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an
agreement for federal liaison services with Squire Patton Boggs LLP to
exercise a one-year option (January 1, 2017 through December 31, 2017)
to extend Contract No. 14-DX-001, at a cost of $264,000. Funding for this
contract is included in the 2017 budget.
Motion:

Director Sisk made a motion to move this item
to the full Board at the December 20, 2016
Board Meeting.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Francone said that Squire Patton Boggs have been
instrumental in helping RTD negotiate rules and regulations
and guidelines. She said the wealth and knowledge of their
team is phenomenal.
Director Solano echoed Director Francone’s sentiments and
appreciates them keeping the Board updated.
Director Anderson stated that RTD needed people in
Washington working for the organization.
Director Folska appreciates the partnership with all our
government liaisons.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:
REMOTE:

PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 1]
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lubow,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Natalie Menten
Gary Lasater
Lorraine Anderson, Barbara Deadwyler

Committee Chair Folska declared the motion PASSED.

D. Updates

• Local Update - CRL Associates, Inc.
Roger Sherman, CRL Associates, stated that he would answer any questions
from the packet provided.
Director Lubow was intrigued with all the activity to try and find new
funding for RTD.
Roger Sherman stated that the main discussion is funding transportation, if
funding comes to fruition through sales tax and it passes through legislation,
then it is important for RTD to be at the table to see how money can be
distributed to RTD.
Director Francone offered her gratitude to Roger for updating the template
with the 2016 newly elected officials. She requested a lower level
organization chart that would include other cities and asked that a copy be
shared with new Board members as well.

• State Update - Brandeberry McKenna
Jenifer Brandeberry and Megan Wagner congratulated the other
governmental liaisons on the renewals of their contracts. They have enjoyed
their partnership with them and look forward to working with them in the
future. Brandeberry McKenna submitted a written report and asked if the
Board had any questions.
Director Francone mentioned to Jenifer Brandeberry that she had a meeting
scheduled with Vice-Chair Cook from the Senate Transportation Committee
in January and asked if she would like to attend with her.

• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs
Mike Dino, Patty Doersch and Anne Miano from Squire Patton Boggs gave a
federal update for the Board of Directors. The firm stressed Washington is
unchartered territory with newly elected President Trump.

They stated there is a certain level of optimism with the regulatory reform
because large infrastructures will most likely be funded, which in turn would
provide jobs for Americans.
RTD’s Recent Achievements
 FAST Act
o Ensured all New Starts projects could continue to rely on
highway
funding, defeating House-passed language that banned the use
of STP and CMAQ funds for New Starts projects.
o Secured greater flexibility in the definition of corridor-based
BRT
systems.
 Openings
o Flatiron Flyer BRT, University of Colorado A Line, and B Line
 Improvements/Expansions
o Breaking ground on SERE, revitalizing Civic
Center Station, and new Free MallRide buses.
 Federal Funding
o $150 million for Eagle P3 project and $92 million for SERE,
part of $2.8 billion in federal grant and loan commitments.
2016: RTD is a Leading Voice in Public Transportation
 January
o Treasury Secretary Lew tour of Denver Union Station: Federal
government views Denver Union Station as a model for rail
station
redevelopment nationwide.
 March and May
o RTD projects spotlighted in US DOT’s Build America
Bureau: RTD participated in two nationwide webinars
presenting
Case studies of Denver Union Station and Eagle P3 projects
 April
o White House Infrastructure P3 Forum: Heather Copp presented
on
Eagle project.
 August
o Site Visit by HT&I Railroads Subcommittee Chairman Jeff
Denham:
RTD hosted Chairman Denham for a tour of Denver Union
Station and a trip on the University of Colorado A Line.
RTD’s Federal Priorities
 New Starts

Securing full funding for the Eagle P3 in the FY 2017 omnibus
appropriations bill expected in the Spring.
FRA approvals for commuter rail service
o Safety compliance culture
New Opportunities
o Big infrastructure bill in the next Congress?
o New/nontraditional partnerships and coalitions, building on DC
meetings last March, e.g., Free Congress Foundation.
o




What is the state of play on transportation issues in Washington?








Lame Duck session
o Only one of the 12 spending bills has been passed for the fiscal
year that started on October 1. Federal government agencies and
programs are operating under a short-term spending bill (a “CR”)
that expires on December 9.
o Republican-led House and Senate are waiting out Obama’s final
weeks in office; with no incentive to compromise, few bills
expected to be passed– funding for Flint water crisis, national
defense.
Fiscal Year 2017 Transportation/HUD Appropriations Bill
o Controls funding for New Starts projects, TIGER program for FY
2017.
o Under any CR: short-term extension of FY 2016 levels for transit
formula programs under the FAST Act; no discretionary grant
awards
A big infrastructure bill in the first 100 days of the next Congress?
o Trump’s second Cabinet pick was his Transportation Secretary:
Elaine Chao.
 Transportation and infrastructure investment is one of the
most ambitious parts of Trump’s early policy agenda.

What do we know about Elaine Chao?
o Experienced
 Labor Secretary under George W. Bush
 Deputy Transportation Secretary under George H. W. Bush
o Unambiguously part of the Washington establishment
o Very well connected:
 Her husband is Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (RKY).
FY 2017 Appropriations Outlook
 Deadline
o Members of Congress are eager to pass another spending bill
before December 9 deadline.









Another CR
o House and Senate Appropriations Committees negotiating
another short-term spending bill – through to the Spring – to
allow the incoming Trump Administration to have the final say
in FY 2017 spending priorities.
Final transportation spending levels next Spring:
o House and Senate 2017 THUD bills both fully fund transit and
highway formula programs at their FY 2017 FAST Act levels.
TIGER funding
o House $450 million, Senate at $525 (FY 2016 TIGER was
$500 million)
New Starts funding
o House $2.50 billion, Senate $2.338 billion (both
above $2.302 billion FY 2017 FAST Act authorization for New
Starts)

What does this mean for New Starts funding?
 RTD’s FY 2017 New Starts request:
o $167 million for Eagle P3 FFGA
 President’s FY 2017 budget:
o $175 million for Eagle P3 FFGA
 Pending House and Senate FY 2017 THUD appropriations bills: Both
fund the Eagle project at $150 million.
 US DOT will not award grants in discretionary programs (programs in
the
control of the Appropriators) in the absence of a full-year spending
bill.
 Bottom Line Likely that no FY 2017 New Starts funding will be
awarded until after an omnibus spending bill is enacted in the Spring.
Trump’s Infrastructure Proposal
 Timing
o Trump wants to see an infrastructure bill advance early in the
next Congress. Pelosi, other Democrats, have signaled general
support for increased infrastructure funding.
 Revenues gained through tax reform
o One-time funding through taxation of all revenues ($2.6 billion)
of US companies held overseas: “deemed” repatriation.

Finance
o Tax credit for private investors in infrastructure projects.
Funding component, too?
o Equity investors support a small fraction of transit projects, so
tax credit only part of the solution.
o Infrastructure package should include grant funding; sent out
to States through FAST Act formula programs?



Regulatory reform
o Reducing or eliminating burdensome regulations.

Opportunity for HTF Revenue Solution?
 Any infrastructure bill will attract policy riders, large and small.
 Long-sought Highway Trust revenue solution?
o Closing the gap between spending levels and dedicated HTF
revenues seen as “unfinished business” after FAST Act.
 But surface transportation funding is not a must-pass bill:
o FAST Act funds surface transportation programs through
2020.
o Other Trump priorities: trade, immigration could take
precedence.
o Competing transporation priorities in FY 2017: FAA
reauthorization.
o Some Republicans want to use tax reform only to lower rates,
not for new spending.
 Same politically difficult revenue options: taxes on gasoline, oil and
gas production, vehicle-miles traveled.
 Return of earmarks could enable support for revenue increase for
HTF.
Transit Programs in a Trump US DOT
 FAST Act in place through FY 2020:
o Second year into 5-year authorization governing overall
funding levels, transit’s share of HTF revenues, major policies
and programs.
o So major changes not expected immediately in surface
transportation
programs.
 Transit’s place in the Highway Trust Fund?
o While Republican Party platform does not support dedicated
HTF revenues for transit, Trump (www.greatagain.gov)
appears supportive of federal funding for transit.


Regulatory reform is likely:
o Streamline/reduce environmental requirements for projects
o Two-man crew rulemaking is vulnerable (Congressional Review
Act, if
finalized by Obama US DOT)
o Strong support for Buy America

The 115th Congress
 Colorado’s Congressional delegation:

All won reelection; changes in committee memberships are
possible.
o Senator Garner will lead the National Republican Senatorial
Committee for the 2018 election cycle.
Senate Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee, which has
principal jurisdiction over public transportation, has a new Chairman:
o Senator Mike Crapo (R –ID) replaces term-limited Richard
Shelby (R-AL). Sherrod Brown (D-OH) remains Ranking
Member (“RM”).
House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee:
o Same “Big Four” for transit and highways: Chairman Shuster
(R-PA), RM DeFazio (D-OR), Subcommittee Chairman Graves
(R-MO), Subcommittee RM Norton (D-DC).
o Railroads Subcommittee: Rep. Denham (R-CA) held onto his
seat in a close election and returns as Chairman. Capuano (DMA) remains RM.
o





Director Francone asked Mike Dino to share results of I6 grant.
Mike Dino stated that the I6 grant, which Jefferson County and National Renewable
Energy Labs would have partnered to work with the Workforce Development in
order to create jobs, was not approved. He indicated the group intends to work
with the Economic Development Administration in the region because they like the
idea of the grant and they want to find a way to fund certain components of it.
Director Bagley expressed his gratitude to Squire Patton Boggs to present and past
teams and said it has been a pleasure working with them.
Chair Tobiassen stated that he appreciates the eight years working with Squire
Paton Boggs. He stated that they have helped RTD navigate through some troubled
times and expressed his thanks.
Director Sisk also expressed his appreciation and asked if it made sense for the
Board to visit the capital in March, since everything will be a work in progress.
Anne Miano stated that she thought that the Board of Directors should visit in
March. She stated she is unsure of President Elect Trump’s agenda and would
confirm a date at a later time.
Director James agreed that Squire Patton Boggs had been a great connection for
the RTD organization.

Director Anderson agreed with Director Sisk and said a trip in March would be
chaotic.
Director Deadwyler thanked the team for a very interesting report.
Director Folska thanked Squire Patton Boggs for being attentive and responsive to
the Board and stakeholders and offered congratulations for staying on with RTD.

E. Other Matters
Director Francone gave a shout out to Scott Reed in Communications. She said she
had a great meeting with Conifer’s Town Council and indicated they were extremely
grateful that she attended. She will be looking to Communications in the future for
more swag for this group.

F. Next Meeting Date - January 10, 2017
G. Adjourn
Committee Chair Folska adjourned the meeting at 7:58 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

