Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, October 13, 2009
Page 1 of 3

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

October 14, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, October 13, 2009 at
5:30 p.m.
****

Board
Members Present:

Board
Members Absent:

I.

Chair Chacon, Vice Chair Martinez, Directors Bagley, Brohl, Busck,
Christopher, Cohen, Daly, James, McMullen, O’Boyle, Pulliam, Tayer,
Tobiassen
Chair Kemp

Staff Present:

Phil Washington, Bruce Abel, Mike Gil, Terry Howerter, Cal Shankster,
David Genova, Scott Reed, Carolyn Conover, John Dawson, Lou Ha,
Kenn Hardin, Caitlin Magee, Tony McCaulay, Robert Merriman, Paula
Perdue, Bill Porter, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna, Dean Shaklee, John
Shonsey, John Tarbert, Bill Weidenaar, Jose Chirinos Lima

Others present:

Ty Perry, Jeff Leib, Dee Wisor, Hunter Sydnor, Oba Brooks, Andrew
McKendrick
****

Call to Order

Chair Chacon called the meeting to order at 5:33 p.m.

Recommended Action
a.

Resolution No.____, Series of 2009 Support for the Diversity
Council of the Regional Transportation District
Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager, Public Affairs, introduced this item. At
the September 15, 2009 Financial Administration Committee meeting, the
Diversity Council was presented by Jewell Dean Underwood and the board
asked for a resolution to be drafted in support of them.
Motion: Director Brohl made a motion to forward the item to the October 20,
2009 Board Meeting Agenda
Second:

Director Cohen seconded the motion.

Discussion: Director Brohl spoke about attending the Diversity training last
month and that it was very valuable. She strongly encouraged the rest of the
Board to undergo training.

Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, October 13, 2009
Page 2 of 3

Chair Chacon asked if the training will go out to a wider audience is it required
training. Phil Washington explained that the creation of the Diversity Council
was step one and the training will be done on an annual basis. Not only does
this celebrate the differences in our employees but also in our riding public. This
extends out to our supervisors and bus operators. The creation of the council is
the first step with much more training to follow. Chair Chacon asked if there
was an ADA component and Mr. Washington responded that there will be.
Director Brohl said that the training really addresses inclusiveness, everyone
gets a shot and everyone gets a turn at the table.
Vote on Motion: The motion passed unanimously.
II.

Denver Union Station Construction Update - Kenn Hardin referenced the memo that was
distributed in the packet. Approximately twelve DBE firms have begun work on Denver
Union Station. More firms will be added as the work progresses. Kiewit has committed to
working on more outreach to help companies find out about the opportunities at DUS.

III. Eagle P3 Outreach Event - Kenn Hardin presented this item. Now that the RFP has gone out
to the concessionaires, the SBOO is receiving a lot of questions about how to engage the P3
teams. The SBOO is making available the instructions to proposers within the next week.
Additionally, on November 18, 2009 there will be an event informing the three teams what
the District is expecting in terms of DBE participation. Part of the day will be devoted to
DBEs coming in and being given a chance to meet and partner with the teams. More
information about the event will be forthcoming. Chair Chacon suggested having the term
“Economic” in the title for the event.
IV. West Corridor Update – Kenn Hardin shared that David Evans has put together a plan to
meet the 19% goal on the West Corridor. Phil Washington added that the commitment is
there and the compliance piece is very strong. Director Martinez wanted to know if with the
total dollars left on the David Evans contract can they make the contract? Phil Washington
explained that the District is looking at the degree of completion for each contract. If a
contract is 25% complete, where are they with the DBE goal? We are tracking it as the
contract goes so that the DBE goals can be met and not have it left until the very end.
Director Brohl had sent Mr. Hardin an email requesting the names of the DBE trucking firms
on the West corridor and he said he had a list for the Directors. For a copy of this list, please
refer to the DBE Committee Minute notebook. The trucking consortium is a very unique
project. Director Martinez wanted to make sure that there were other DBE projects and that
the trucking consortium wasn’t the only DBE program. Kenn Hardin said that DCTG has
gone through areas of the contracted and highlighted where they can use DBEs. Mr. Hardin
reminded the Committee that all of the first tier subs are required to meet the 18% DBE goal
as well.
Mr. Hardin introduced Jose Chirinos Lima as the new intern in the SBOO office who will be
working on the West Corridor. He is an international business management student at the
University of Colorado.

Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, October 13, 2009
Page 3 of 3

Director McMullen said he was pleased with the work the SBOO is doing.
Mr. Hardin thanked the Committee for their support and stated how important the influence
of the Board is in making the program a success.
V.

Adjourn to Financial Administration Committee – Hearing no objection, Chair Chacon
adjourned the meeting at 5:49 p.m.

