Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on April 12, 2011
Page 1 of 2

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

April 13, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee held
April 12, 2011 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Committee Vice Chair O’Boyle; Chair Kemp, Directors Anderson, Bagley,
Brohl, Deadwyler, Cohen, Daly, Hoy, Malpiede, Riley, Tayer and Tobiassen.

Director James; Director McMullen left before the FA&A Committee began,

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Jessie Carter, Joe Christie, Rick Clarke, Carolyn
Conover, Sherry Ellebracht, Lisa Fliam, David Genova, Mike Gil, Terry
Howerter, Tom Hughes, Dan Jackson, Austin Jenkins, Barbara McManus,
Brian Matthews, Doug MacLeod, Anthony Menendez, Tai-Shrae Parish, Carla
Perez, Trent Radcliff, Scott Reed, Jeannette Scarpino, Daria Serna, Errol
Stevens, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Jeff Lieb – Denver Post.
****

Call to Order:

I.

Vice Chair O’Boyle called the Financial Administration and Audit Committee
meeting to order at 7:15 p.m.

Recommended Action
 2012 Proposed Performance Measures
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the 2012 Performance Measures for Goals 1-7. Recommended 2012 changes
to the 2011 adopted goals are listed below:
1.4 Reduce the Number of Light Rail Accidents
3.1 Maintain System Wide On-Time Performance
4.2 Improve the Level of Customer Complaints
6.2 Increase Ridership
6.3 Increases in Fare Revenue and Total Revenue

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on April 12, 2011
Page 2 of 2

Motion:

Director Cohen made the motion
to move this action to the full
Board meeting on April 19, 2011.

Second:

Director
motion.

Vote on
Motion:
II.

Brohl

seconded

the

The Motion passed Unanimously.

Review of 2012-2017 SBP Development Process and 2012 Budget Assumptions
Jeanette Scarpino noted that the purpose of the SBP Development Process is to provide
guidance for RTD Base System Service Delivery, Debt, and Capital Expenditures. This also
allows for input for other/future planning efforts. Issues and Challenges are Fuel Price/Fuel
Lock, Vendor Allowance Extensions, Fiscal Sustainability, Right Size Service Levels, and
Development of Cost Accounting Methodology for FasTracks Operations.
Director Bagley inquired when we must complete the fuel lock for next year, with Chair Kemp
asking if RTD has set any trigger points with regards to price. General Manager Washington
noted that we can complete the fuel lock at any time. Currently, there are no rules from the
provider in place indicating purchase dates. Price trigger points have not been set, but staff
can meet to discuss those and set parameters if needed.

III.

February Financial Status Report
Doug MacLeod indicated that the new report format was included with a copy of the old
report format so that the Directors can see what changes were incorporated. Report details
show that local ridership is down, but Regional Light Rail and Express ridership have
increased. Expenses are 5 million less than the previous year, and we are ahead of budget by
11 million.

IV.

Other Matters
None

V.

Next Meeting Date – May 10, 2011

VI.

Adjourn to DBE Committee Meeting
The meeting adjourned at 7:50 p.m.

