1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

STUDY SESSION
April 22, 2014 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Sisk called the Study Session to order at 5:30 P.M.
Attendee Name
Title
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Kent Bagley
Director, District H
Bruce Daly
Director, District N

Status
Remote
Present
Present

Arrived
5:18 PM
5:02 PM

Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District B

Present

5:23 PM

Claudia Folska

Director, District E

Present

5:06 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District J
Director, District A
Director, District G
Director, District I
Director, District M

Present
Present
Present
Present
Present

5:49 PM
5:07 PM
5:21 PM
5:28 PM
5:27 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

5:21 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present

5:22 PM
5:26 PM

Tom Tobiassen

Director, District F

Present

5:25 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:23 PM

Director Anderson participated via phone but left early. Director Hoy arrived late.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Shirley Bennett, Rick Clarke, Sherry Ellebracht, David
Genova, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Doug
MacLeod, Barbara McManus, Vivian Morales, Paula Perdue, Scott
Reed, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Phil
Washington

Others Present:

II.

Cecelia Garcia, Doug Gragg, Sherman Hamilton, Joe Triplett, Gary
Van Dorn, Monte Whaley

General Manager 2015 Tactical Plans
Phil Washington, General Manager, introduced the Proposed Tactical Plans for Strategic
Goals and Priorities determined at the March 1, 2014 RTD Board/Senior Leadership Team
Advance as presented starting on page 3 of the Study Session Board Packet for April 22,
2014. The four priorities that were determined at the Advance are:
 Advancing/Completing FasTracks
 Fiscal Sustainability/Financial Plan
 Improve Service Delivery
 Implement Technological Advancements
Chair Sisk reminded the Directors the discussion was directed at goals for 2015 and
encouraged any questions regarding the 2014 goals and budget to be taken off line.
Questions/Comments from Board Members:
Director Tobiassen called Sherie Skinner, Manager for the Transportation Operating
Division, the best resource in bus operator retention due to her attitude and leadership. He
then commented on Information Technology (IT) and Smart Cards saying that he looks
forward to improving the interface with customers through mobile technology and
smoothing out the customer experience. He shared his experience of waiting in line for a
half-hour at King Soopers to buy a book of passes for a friend. He noted the current
external point of sales experience discourages customers from purchasing bus passes and
affect the most vulnerable that rely on them. He also added how a Smart Card or a web
interface purchase would help the process be more customer-friendly. He said that he
looks forward to IT asset management through preventive and predictive maintenance. He
referenced the operator camera, which records 20 seconds of video during erratic driving
and sends the footage to supervisors, as great technology for behavior modification.
Director Menten pointed out that some West Line funds were wasted in esthetics when
they could have been used towards more necessary items. She asked the staff’s opinion
on using city and other funding sources on unnecessary items. Marla Lien, General
Counsel, answered that what is esthetic versus what is necessary is subjective; she
explained that the Federal Transit Authority (FTA) requires that all Full Funding Grant
Agreements (FFGAs) use 1% of the funding towards art. Some local communities,
including the City and County of Denver, also have local art requirements. She noted that
other features like landscaping, green space, trees, etc. are required through codes and
zoning.

Director Menten asked for an update on the naming rights discussion the Board had
previously. She mentioned she is open to the idea of naming rights while emphasizing the
necessity to avoid confusion. Mr. Washington answered that the naming rights came out
of the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force. IMG Consulting was chosen by a Request for
Proposal (RFP). He said they presented to the Board an inventory of assets and are now
working on establishing each asset’s value. Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager for
Communications, noted he is meeting with IMG Consulting in two weeks. Staff and IMG
will present updates to the Board throughout the process prior to any vote. He also
acknowledged the presentation was a bit confusing and took responsibility for not
clarifying.
Director Menten asked for a spreadsheet on the real property owned by RTD and
acknowledged it could take a while to put together. Mr. Washington said such list was
provided to the board 6 to 8 months ago and could be redistributed. Director Menten
asked Mr. Washington to resend the list as she recalled the list presented to be limited.
Director Menten mentioned that when speaking about changing rail hours she thinks we
should reduce hours as she is not sure who rides after 11:00 P.M. Director Menten asked
when the Directors would know about possible schedule changes for bus or light rail. Mr.
Washington answered that he is in conversations with Bruce Abel, Assistant General
Manager for Bus Operations, and Austin Jenkins, Assistant General Manager for Rail
Operations, for the August, 2014 and January, 2015 schedule changes. He explained
that the goal is to provide more maintenance hours. He said that further information will
be presented over the spring and summer.
Director Menten wondered if RTD pays anything for the Google Trip Planner. Mr. Reed
noted the Google Trip Planner is a free, open source application where RTD provides the
data every time there’s a service change. With the DUS opening, the RTD Trip Planner
will be eliminated and the Google Trip Planner will become the main tool. He shared that
staff is working on a new open source RTD Trip Planner, which will include information
tags such as parking information.
Director Lubow asked about charging patrons to use RTD parking facilities and what State
law is regarding the matter. Mr. Washington said RTD has a parking management plan
under which the first 24 hours of parking are free to residents of the District. He stated
that at this time there are no plans to change the parking management plan. Ms. Lien
added that 2013 legislation allows parking charges if the facility is operated by a third
party and the funds are not directly paid to RTD. The legislation also allows for leasing of
RTD parking facilities to third parties. No proposal has been received and any proposals
would come to the Board for approval. Mr. Washington said that RTD is listening to the
market in regards to third parties leasing parking space and the option is not ruled out.

Director Lubow also asked about the maximum amount of routes that RTD can contract
out to private companies. Mr. Washington said the maximum is 58% and RTD is currently
at 56%.
Director Lubow asked if there have been conversations with the Northwest Corridor
stakeholders about cost sharing or if it is too early to have such conversations. Mr.
Washington acknowledged that the Northwest Corridor stakeholders may be hesitant to
commit to cost sharing because of the current lack of funding for the corridor; however,
he said that cost-sharing has been part of the conversation for 10 years. Mr. Washington
gave examples from the City and County of Denver and Aurora, where overmatching has
gone beyond hard cash into waving permit fees, right-of-way, etc. Director Lubow asked
how the funds from naming rights would be used. Mr. Washington said that is a
conversation for the Board to have.
Director Daly commended the investment for the Light Rail Simulator as a great use of
money for safety, noting a recent BART (Bay Area Rapid Transit) accident where
maintenance of way employees were killed due to a poorly trained operator. He reminded
the Board of the service cuts that took place two years ago. He noted General Manager
Washington’s mention of looking to expand operations. Director Daly asked if staff would
take suggestions from the Board regarding re-evaluating some of the lines that were lost.
Mr. Washington answered in the affirmative saying every suggestion will be looked at in
terms of the service criteria of ridership and business decision.
Director Solano noted he has received positive feedback on the performance of route
104X. He also said he is glad that one of the objectives is for matching funds. He
pointed out the issue of possible unincorporated areas in Commerce City. Mr. Washington
replied he didn’t know the specific area mentioned and that it could be an annexation
issue. Chair Sisk asked Director Solano to resume this conversation with staff offline.
Director Walker noted much of the efficiencies in the document are already incorporated
into RTD practices. He asked staff about any foreseeable external influences for 2015.
Mr. Washington noted that the most important external influences are financial. Two tools
used to mitigate the external financial influences are First Southwest Company as financial
advisors and the quarterly Sales and Use Tax forecast from the Leeds School of Business.
Ms. Lien added other areas such as the Federal Government not funding some requests,
changes to the American Disability Act (ADA), and other changes in policy that could
affect RTD. Mr. Washington also mentioned some changes are due to safety such as the
requirement for all trains to have Positive Train Control (PTC) by December 31, 2015 as a
result of the Los Angeles Metrolink accident. Most agencies have to retrofit without funds
in order to comply. RTD is building FasTracks using PTC technology.

Chair Sisk interjected to thank the Directors for their questions and not repeating each
other. He also thanked the staff for the thorough answers.
Director Deadwyler was surprised to see some of the 2015 bullet points as she thought
they were supposed to be implemented in 2014, specifically automated call backs, phone
systems, etc. Mr. Abel noted most practices will be implemented by the last quarter of
2014 and the goals for 2015 are to expand and support implementation. Director
Deadwyler mentioned she tried using Access-a-Ride for a shared trip with her cousin who
is also her constituent. She said reservations didn’t know how to do that so she had to be
transferred to scheduling. She suggested that coordinating trip sharing and transporting
people going the same direction, i.e. same school, should be a goal in order to be more
efficient. Mr. Washington said he had no problem adding this to the plan and asked for
staff to look into it.
Director Foslka apologized for breaking order during the naming rights discussion and
thanked Mr. Washington for his proactive approach. She noted that while there are
always unforeseen circumstances that require people to react there is a lot of value and
cost savings in being proactive. She suggested the Denver Regional Mobility and Access
Council (DRMAC) as testers of the IT customer interface. She also encouraged being
mindful of purchasing accessible software and to have a third party audit its accessibility.
Director Folska asked staff if Automatic Train Stops (ATS) is tied to the control rooms.
Mr. Jenkins answered that the train depends on the operator to stay on the track, but the
ATS technology would stop the train if there is a signal violation. Director Folska noted
that the simulator cost per user is very nominal and that safety is of the utmost
importance.
Director Hoy noted that some goals overlap. He suggested Quick Response (QR) Code
technology as a great way of providing information at bus stops; he said this is something
that seems to be missing from the apps he has seen. Director Hoy expressed concern that
every bus company is trying to reinvent the wheel. He thinks that there must be a way
that RTD can work with other agencies to fine tune their apps rather than create our own.
Director Hoy stated that the ultimate goal is to make people feel comfortable stepping
onto public transportation. Mr. Reed shared that RTD does just that; we have third party
mobile apps on our website that are thoroughly test, ensuring that only the best apps are
available through the customers. He also said a mobile website is being prepared so it can
be fully functional on mobile devices without compromising the full website’s functionality.
Director Anderson thanked the staff for the great and ambitious work. She said she
would be sending her questions via email. She commented on her attendance at the State
of the City of Arvada Luncheon and how the community is very supportive of RTD and

FasTracks. She shared that there is such a willingness to work together to get FasTracks
finished. She also noted that the City of Arvada has overmatched funding. At this time
Director Anderson excused herself from the rest of the session.
Director Bagley asked Paula Perdue, Executive Manager of the Board Office, to explain the
next steps in approving the General Manager’s Tactical Plan. Ms. Perdue replied the next
step is a meeting of the General Manager Oversight Committee by mid-May to ensure the
goals are specific, measurable, assignable, realistic, and time-related (SMART). Director
Bagley asked the Directors to please send any further comments via email to Ms. Perdue
prior to the committee meeting.
Chair Sisk concluded the discussion saying that his issues to pay attention to are the
Transit Oriented Communities (TOC), Transit Oriented Development (TOD), and the Smart
Card. He thanked Mr. Washington and the staff for all their work.

III.

Tiger Grant Submission
Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager for Planning and Mike Turner, Manager for
Planning Coordination, presented the United States Department of Transportation’s
Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) Discretionary Grant
Opportunity submission starting on page 28 of the Study Session Board Packet for April
22, 2014. Bill Van Meter stated that there are two submissions staff will be making
which are:
 Capital Grant for the Central Rail Connection
 Planning Grand for the Northwest Area Mobility Study (NAMS) II
Mr. Washington noted that the first TIGER application, for the Central Rail Connection,
emphasizes the historic African American Community of Denver, how the area was known
as the Harlem of the West and how the line would connect the area with business and
employment centers to the east and downtown. RTD has been pursuing letters of support
from the Congressional Delegation as well as area churches, organizations, businesses,
etc. The City and County of Denver will contribute funds.
Mr. Van Meter noted the second TIGER application will ask for planning funding for
Northwest Area Mobility Study II concentrating on CO 119 and HWY 287 as Bus Rapid
Transit (BRT) corridors. CO 119 was chosen by the stakeholders, who allowed RTD to
choose the second corridor.
Director Bagley mentioned he is extremely supportive of the TIGER grant submission from
the capital project standpoint. He wondered if there needs to be Board authorization for
submission since the applications are due April 28th but the NAMS presentation is not
scheduled until May. Mr. Van Meter answered the Board authorization is not needed.

Director Bagley said he understands the need to move but noted that the Board has not
seen the final recommendations from the first NAM Study. He expressed concern with a
submission for the grant without Board recommendations. Mr. Washington said that
timing was not ideal and staff really struggled with how to best proceed. Stakeholders’
prioritizations became final last week as there was no set date beyond spring, 2014. Mr.
Van Meter added that the idea for the TIGER submission first surfaced at the end of
February/beginning of March, 2014; at that time the original application submission
deadline was June, 2014. He said DOT recently moved the deadline to April which has
really affected the timing.
Director Tobiassen mentioned that the TIGER grant seemed like a great opportunity. He
noted that there had been some discussion about replacing light rail with trolleys. He
wondered about the status of this discussion. He expressed concern that we might build
something now that could be torn down in a few years. Mr. Van Meter answered that the
application is for light rail technology. Mr. Washington added that the community is on
board as they are concerned with connectivity no matter the mode. Mr. Turner said that
the community expressed they wanted the project sooner rather than later.
Director Tobiassen shared his struggle with the huge investment downtown that is
pushing out the very people that RTD is trying to effect or help. He pointed out that this
is currently happening with the Denver Rescue Mission; they have been in the same
location for years and suddenly everyone wants to get rid of them. Director Tobiassen
stated that he does not want to see something similar happen in Five Points and asked
staff to make it clear that the culture/fabric of the community would not be changing as
part of the application.
Director Daly said he also was concerned about the streetcar but if the community will not
object to the light rail we should go ahead with the plan.
Director James said he was very supportive of the Central Corridor and sees the potential
for economic development for the area. He asked for the amount asked for each
application. Mr. Washington said that the average award for capital projects ranges from
$10 million to $20 million. Mr. Van Meter added that the planning grant is for $1.5
million.
Director Lubow asked if RTD has to find additional funding for the grant and if so, where
the funds would come from. Mr. Van Meter answered that yes, RTD is responsible for
additional funds. These funds would come from the City and County of Denver as well as
FasTracks. Director Lubow noted that the planning grant would set RTD up to ask for a
capital grant in the future. She wondered how often TIGER grants happen. Mr. Van
Meter said the TIGER grants have happened every year since 2009. Director Lubow asked

if there was a date of project completion required for the grants. Mr. Van Meter said that
there was but that he didn’t have the date readily available. Mr. Washington noted that
the Directors going to Washington, D.C. for the APTA Legislative Conference in March,
2014 was very worthwhile. He said that if the definition for BRTs is changed as
requested, this will enabled staff he ability to pursue federal dollars after the planning
steps are complete.
Director Hoy shared some of the concerns Director Bagley expressed about the Directors
not having input prior to the application. He noted both the CO 119 and HWY 287
corridors are north/south corridors leading to a lack of east/west connections to I-25 and
the North Metro Line. Mr. Washington told the Directors that the selection of CO 119 and
HWY 287 does not indicate lack of consideration for other corridors. TIGER criteria
changes every year and HWY 7, an east/west connection, could be pursued in the future.
Director Solano shared Director Hoy’s concern about an east/west connection. He shared
a recent conversation with St. Anthony’s Hospital staff as they expressed such a
connection to be important to them. He also said he understands where staff is coming
from and as long as that connection is still in consideration, he felt comfortable moving
ahead.
Director Folska shared the same sentiment as Directors Bagley and Hoy, especially since
she thought the NAMS results would be presented to the Directors by the end of the first
quarter of 2014. She noted that people commenting on the NAMS report in the
newspaper without the Directors having reviewed the report is troublesome. She said that
arterial BRTs without access to the North Metro or the Northwest lines could be
problematic in the long run if the BRT definition doesn’t change. Mr. Washington explained
the timing of the NAMS was a dynamic process. He further noted that the planning piece
needs to happen regardless of where the money comes from and that’s what this
application is for. Mr. Van Meter added that BRT language does not influence all grant
applications; once planning is done other available pools of funding will be researched as
necessary.
Chair Sisk said he was disappointed and caught off guard with the Director response to
the NAMS II grant application. He didn’t want the constituents and stakeholders to hear
that they couldn’t apply for a TIGER grant due to timing as the stakeholders should be
applauded and not taken to task. He also mentioned he was delighted about the Central
Corridor’s wonderful opportunity.
Director Bagley noted that the reason RTD has the current staff is because they are
trustworthy. He said if they decide to move forward with the TIGER application it is
because they considered it the best decision. He stated that as Directors it is right to

query the issue but reiterated his respect and support for the staff and their decision to
move forward.

IV.

Update on Market Street Development Deal - No Backup
Marla Lien, General Counsel, reminded the Board that RTD will be vacating Market Street
Station on May 11, 2014 with the DUS opening. She said that RTD has been a rent free
tenant of Market Street Station since 2011 when RTD sold the property to the City and
County of Denver (the City) to help fund DUS. She explained that when the property was
sold, RTD entered into a purchase of sale agreement with the City who entered into a
purchase of sale agreement with the Union Station Neighborhood Company (USNC). She
stated that RTD retained an easement for 20 parking spaces, utilities and loading dock.
This means that should anything need to be relocated it would be at the developers’
expense.
Marla Lien said that the developer has the right, not the obligation, to buy Market Street
Station by December 31, 2015 if they purchase the remaining 5 parcels from around DUS.
She shared that the developer just entered into an agreement to purchase Block B, the last
remaining parcel, by July 30, 2014, so staff anticipates they will be positioned to buy
Market Street Station from the City. RTD will not receive any money from that purchase;
RTD already received its funds with the selling of the property to the City. She stated that
staff does not know what the developer plans to do with the land but she believes it is
zoned for a 5 story office building.
Director James asked about any potential plans for office space for RTD Headquarters.
Mr. Washington said he has commissioned a task force to look into potential options in the
next 6-8 month. The task force will then present their findings to the Board.

V.

Other Matters
Director Bagley reminded the Directors that the General Manager Surveys are due on April
28th.
Director Folska asked Director Tobiassen to share the story of an RTD bus operator
chasing a criminal with his bus. Director Tobiassen said the event started at Centre Point
Station when a bus operator noticed someone stealing a purse. The operator followed the
perpetrator with his bus to the Aurora Library parking lot while communicating with the
Aurora Police Department in the process.
Director Tobiassen asked how Senate Bill 197 (Matt Jones bill) passing through Congress
would impact the US36 High Occupancy Vehicle (HOV) lanes. Ms. Lien replied that it
won’t impact the US36 project because that contract is signed. She explained that the bill
is targeted at Public-Private Partnerships (P3s). This means that if RTD wants to do more

P3s in the future, then there would be multiple layers of process and reviews that would
be required before any project could be implemented. Mr. Washington said RTD stands
neutral on the matter. Director Tobiassen said that if there was an opinion he would be
happy to pass it along to his representative.
Mr. Washington acknowledged a letter received by the Board from the US36
Mayors/Commissioners Coalition (MCC). He said RTD can agree with most of the items in
the letter; staff will prepare an answer noting this as well as the items RTD can’t agree
with which are:
 Railroad crossing quiet zones are not RTD responsibility as RTD is not responsible
for freight noise
 Re-evaluation of priorities i.e. not pursuing any more FasTracks except for
Northwest corridor since this puts in jeopardy safety, state of good repair issues,
and the authority of the Board
Chair Sisk reminded the Directors about the DUS Employee Party on Saturday, April 26,
2014.
Director Menten noted she had a question about the General Manager’s Report but would
take if offline.

VI.

Adjourn
Chair Sisk adjourned the Study Session at 8:01 P.M.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

