Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, September 6, 2011
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

September 7, 2011

Subject:

Summary of FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on September 6, 2011 at
5:30 p.m. in RTD Room
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Cohen; Directors Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler,
Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen, Tayer, and Tobiassen.

Directors Kemp, O’Boyle, and Riley.

Staff Present:

Susan Altes, Mark Baudermann, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Kevin
Diviness, Jane Donovan, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Mike Gil,
Terry Howerter, Kate Iverson, Austin Jenkins, Marla Lien, Patrick
McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Brian Middleton, Andy
Mutz, Tai-Shrae Parish, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Richard Rost, Daria
Serna, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Jim Starling, Walt Stringer, John
Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Del Walker, Phil
Washington, and Susan Wood.

Others Present:

Jeff Walker, Debra Wilson – CAC, Bob Wilson, Tom Wootten –
Alameda Station LLC.
****

Call to Order

Committee Chair Cohen called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Committee Chair Cohen noted that the FFGA signing event was a
fantastic day for RTD and the region. It was very exciting to see the
turnout of the event and it was altogether more than successful.
Thank you to staff and everyone that was involved.
Director Anderson added that RTD and City of Arvada staff did a great
job and she has received many thank you from citizens in the
community.

I.

CAC Update
Debra Wilcox noted that the next CAC meeting will be held September 21st at St.
Paul’s Episcopal Church and we are looking forward to that meeting.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, September 6, 2011
Page 2
II.

Recommended Action


Renaming of East Corridor Colorado Boulevard Station

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the name 40th and Colorado Station for the station on the East
Corridor called Colorado Boulevard Station in the Environmental Impact Statement
documents. This recommendation is consistent with the current Board policy on
station naming.
Brian Middleton noted that this came about as a result of feedback from the Denver
Fire Department. The concern was that there would be two Colorado Stations and in
the event of an incident they were concerned that dispatch would send emergency
response services to the wrong station.
Motion:

Discussion:

Vote on
the motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to
forward this item to the full board
at the September 20, 2011 Board
meeting.
Director Tobiassen seconded the
motion.
Director Deadwyler expressed some
concern that none of the other
members of that community had
been consulted on the name
change.
The motion passed (9) in favor
(Anderson, Bagley, Cohen, Daly,
Hoy, James, Malpiede, Tayer and
Tobiassen
and
(2)
against
(Deadwyler
and
McMullen).
Directors Kemp, O’Boyle, and Riley
were absent from this vote.
Committee Chair Cohen noted that
this action item is moving forward
under recommended action.



North Metro Segment 1 Commuter Rail Project Property Acquisition

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors pass the attached property acquisition resolution certifying properties as
necessary for construction of the North metro Segment 1 Commuter Rail Project and
authorize staff to proceed with all requisite legal process under state eminent domain
law.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, September 6, 2011
Page 3
Susan Altes noted that this is the standard request to certify property for Segment 1
of the North Metro line.
Committee Chair Cohen noted that all properties were City of Denver or Commercial
Property. Susan Altes added that there were no residential properties listed.
Director Bagley noted that items 12A-L are all part of 12, and asked if we are taking
all of that property. Susan Altes indicated that we are only taking pieces of that
property, not all.
Motion:
Director Anderson made the motion
to forward this item to the full
board at the September 20, 2011
Board meeting.
Director
motion.
Vote on
the motion:



James

seconded

the

The motion passed Unanimously
(Anderson, Bagley, Cohen, Daly,
Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Malpiede,
McMullen, Tayer and Tobiassen).
Directors Kemp, O’Boyle, and Riley
were absent from this vote.

Authorization to Award the Design Build Contract for the Wadsworth Parking
Structure

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Design/Build contract with Swinerton Builders not to
exceed $14,000,000. This contract is for the design and construction of the RTD
FasTracks West Rail Line Wadsworth Parking Structure. Funding for this project is
included in the 2011 FasTracks budget for the West Corridor Parking Garages, and
was provided through the Certificates of participation (COP) issued in 2010.
It is further recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the transfer of
$1,415,319 from the Light Rail Maintenance Facility project to the West Corridor
Parking Garages project to fund project elements that are not eligible to be funded
through the COP.
Rick Clarke noted that this is one of the key elements of the West Corridor.
Director Tayer inquired if the financing component could be further explained to
support the move of funds from the maintenance facility to a specific project in one
corridor versus another. Rick Clarke explained that the funding for the parking
garages is not part of the $706 Million Capital funds for the West Corridor. The
parking garages were to be financed separately and are financed through Certificates

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, September 6, 2011
Page 4
of Participation. However, Certificates of Participation cannot be issued for street
improvements that we do not own and non RTD owned assets must be paid for
though different means. Since the maintenance facility had additional funds it
seemed to be the most expedient way to pay for this directly.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to
forward this item to the full board
at the September 20, 2011 Board
meeting.
Director
motion.

Vote on
the motion:

McMullen

seconded

the

The motion passed with (10) in
favor (Anderson, Bagley, Cohen,
Daly,
Hoy,
James,
Malpiede,
McMullen, Tayer and Tobiassen and
(1) against (Deadwyler). Directors
Kemp, O’Boyle, and Riley were
absent from this vote.
Committee Chair Cohen noted that
this action item is moving forward
under recommended action.

III.

Updates
 Southeast/Southwest/Central Corridor Extensions
Del Walker noted that Andy Mutz just celebrated 15 years with RTD and in his time
here, he has been the Project Manager for 3 different corridors.
Andy Mutz explained that the Central Corridor will add a few stations which will
eventually connect the Downtown Loop to the East Corridor. The Southeast rail
extension will extend to Ridgegate Parkway and I-25, and the Southwest extension
will connect the Mineral Station to a new station in Highlands Ranch.
Director McMullen asked for confirmation that existing rail extensions would not
open until service to Longmont is completed.
General Manager Washington hesitated to make a blanket statement indicating that
we will not do something until a particular line is completed, but added that the
industry is really responding to our overtures for innovation.
Director Anderson noted our language should be more sensitive to the northern part
of the district so that they do not misunderstand what we are doing.
Director Hoy added that he participated in a meeting with Administrator Rogoff of

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, September 6, 2011
Page 5
the FTA and a few officials from the North and it was a bit uncomfortable because
there were individuals there asking,” where is ours?”
 FasTracks Update and Annual Program Evaluation Process and Schedule
Rick Clarke noted that Denver Union Station is a multimodal hub integrating light rail,
commuter rail, Amtrak, buses, taxis, shuttles, bike and pedestrians. The
redevelopment is a cooperative effort between RTD, Colorado Dept. of
Transportation, City and County of Denver, and Denver Regional Council
Governments which should be completed in 2014. The West Rail line which
connects downtown Denver, Jefferson County, Lakewood and Golden should be
complete in 2013 and the project is being completed on-time and within the
established project budget. The Short-Term Implementation Projects include US 36,
North Metro, I-225, Northwest Rail, Central Corridor, Southeast and Southwest
Corridor Extensions. Projects under construction give us a lot of certainty, but the
FasTracks review council allows non RTD individuals to speak about possible issues.
Bill Van Meter explained that since 2007 RTD has conducted an Annual Program
Evaluation (APE) which includes updating the FasTracks financial plan with the most
recent capital costs, project schedules, construction inflation assumptions, revenue
projections and operating and maintenance costs. RTD is confident in our estimates
for the cost of the FasTracks program due to:
 5 out of 12 FasTracks projects already under contract, with fixed
budgets negotiated with contractors
 Most complex transit procurement in the country (Eagle Project)
came in $305 Million below internal cost estimates
 West Corridor is being completed on time and within budget
 Engineering advanced to at least 30% and “bottoms up” estimates
complete for all corridors
 Railroad ROW agreements with UPRR and BNSF complete
 RTD uses conservative cost estimates and inflation rates
Pauletta Tonilas noted that every year as part of our APE we are looking for
innovation and looking outside the box. This year, we are holding an Industry Forum
to seek out innovation from the private sector to complete FasTracks sooner rather
than later and this forum is being held concurrent with our 2011 APE process. This
event will be held Tuesday, September 27th and invitations have been sent to 400
private sector leaders.
 Eagle P3 Procurement Lessons Learned Report
Rick Clarke explained that the Eagle P3 Project procurement was a major undertaking
for RTD, an industry leading effort and a high visibility project for the FTA. RTD
created a tremendously competitive environment that resulted in $300 Million in
savings. The combination of private, local and federal financing could very well be
the model to build mega infrastructure projects in the future. Empowering the team,
holding them accountable and making the work enjoyable can lead to favorable
results.
Brian Middleton noted that success was gained through: developing performance

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, September 6, 2011
Page 6
specifications, maximizing proposer flexibility, implementing alternative technical
concepts, establishing and adhering to an RFP schedule, providing a stipend to
proposers, and ensuring affordability. Additional perspectives were that Board
support was critical for success, actively updating the FTA was essential, and
engaging elected officials and stakeholder avoided delays.
Director Tayer asked that this be considered a living document.
General Manager Washington noted that this Lessons Learned document focused on
the procurement process, and another document will be created for implementation.
 Telephone Town Hall
Scott Reed noted that this Telephone Town Hall process is to elevate the
involvement of the Board in the public outreach process and the public input
process.
Pauletta Tonilas indicated that a computer and 3 phone lines will be set up and
before each Director’s scheduled time an automated call will go out to the public.
Our goal is to have 25,000 participants per district. We will then put into place
opportunity for input, including polling and questions.
Director Bagley inquired as to how the phone numbers are acquired. Pauletta Tonilas
noted that they are gathered through Registered Voter databases.
Director James asked if this has been done by other transit agencies, and what type
of success have they had. Pauletta Tonilas explained that this technology was
recently employed by the Denver Broncos, and has been used by transit agencies in
both Florida and Georgia.
IV.

Other Matters
None

V.

Next Meeting
The next meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee is scheduled for October
11, 2011.

VI.

Adjourn
Committee Chair Cohen adjourned to the Planning and Development Committee at
7:50 p.m.

