Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

April 17, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
April 17, 2007 at 5:30 p.m.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Martinez called the meeting to order at 5:33 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
11 members present at roll call. Directors Brohl and Tayer arrived after roll call. Directors
Chacon and Quinlan were absent.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
There were no retiree awards for this meeting

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
L.W. Morrow, Denver Colorado, noticed it was Earth Day. He indicated he had been in
discussions on fuel cell with Wright Fuel Cell in Ohio and he is still looking to consummate
more business in Colorado.

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
Chair Martinez announced a change in the reporting readout in an effort to reduce redundancies
and create better meeting efficiency which will start with the next Board Meeting. Copies of
the meeting minutes will be included in the Board packets preceding a Board Meeting for early
review. During the meeting, the Chair of the Committee may note information of interest or
address questions.
Planning & Development Committee
Director Ruchman reported on the Planning and Development Committee meeting held 4/2/07.
Some of the highlights include the May 16, 2007, West Corridor Groundbreaking event and the
RFP for Environmental Assessment (EA) for I-225 corridor. If further information is needed on
the Planning and Development Committee, please refer to the Committee minutes.
Legislative Committee
Director Pulliam reported on the Legislative Committee meeting held April 17, 2007 prior to the
Board meeting. Some of the legislation that we are tracking include: SB 07-219, railroad
Indemnification, and the SB 07-251, Privatization Bill being supported by the Union. The
current RTD Board position is to accept SB251-L.001 Amendment being proposed by Senator
Hagedorn. If this Amendment does not pass, RTD will review its position at that time.
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Director Elfenbein provided the report from the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held
jointly with the Study Session on 4/3/07. If further information is needed on the FasTracks
Monitoring Committee, please refer to the Committee minutes.

Director Elfenbein shared the potential opportunity for the Board to visit the EPA office which
has a spectacular view of the Platte Valley. Plans will need to be coordinated through Director
Chacon, Chair of FasTracks Monitoring Committee, for a tour or a potential meeting in the EPA
Facility.
Contracted Operational Services Committee
Director Yamrick reported on the Contracted Operational Services Committee meeting held
4/10/07. If further information is needed on the Contracted Operational Services Committee,
please refer to the Committee minutes.
Operations/Customer Services/Marketing Committee
Director McMullen reported on the Operations/Customer Services/Marketing Committee
meeting held 4/10/07. Director McMullen shared the biggest area of interest was the Park
Meadows discussion which was participated in by Representatives from Park Meadows
Mall. If further information is needed on the Operations/Customer Services/Marketing
Committee, please refer to the Committee minutes.
Financial Administration Committee
Director Kemp reported on the Financial Administration meeting held 4/9/07. Director Kemp
shared that the staff had achieved a cost savings of approximately $11.7 M as a result of refunding of bonds. If further information is needed on the Financial Administration Committee,
please refer to the Committee minutes.
Ad Hoc Reports:
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee did not meet so there was no Audit report.
DBE Committee
Director Martinez reported on the DBE meeting held on 4/13/07. In addition to the work
that the Outreach Committee is doing on contracts, they are also looking at the outreach
opportunities that may be available in-house. If more information is needed on the DBE
Committee, please refer to the Committee minutes of this meeting.
Technology Committee
Director Busck reported on the Technology Committee meeting held 3/29/07 and brought
before the Executive Committee on 4/10/07. Progress is being made in defining a policy
that will fit the needs of the Board Members for equipping a home office. Also, a web
conferencing demo is scheduled for the May 1st Study Session. For more information on
the Technology Committee, please refer to the Committee minutes of this meeting.
CDOT Committee
Director Daly reported there is still the consideration of lack of funding for projects.
E-470 Committee
No report was provided.
DRCOG Committee
No report was provided.

ACED Committee
No report was provided.
Northwest Parkway
Director Pulliam reported that the progress is good on the planning for the NW Parkway.

GM Evaluation Committee
Director Brohl reported there is general consensus to move ahead on a new contract for the
General Manager but they are awaiting more information before they can move forward.
She is anticipating receiving this information soon and will plan an Executive Session at the
May 1st Study Session to discuss.
Rocky Mountain Rail Authority
Director Christopher has been appointed to this Committee which is formerly Front Range
Authority. Director Christopher did not receive notice of the last meeting but was briefed
on some of the issues discussed on the procedures for procuring services as the
organization ramps up.
Chair Report
Chair Martinez reported on two separate meetings with Councilwoman Montero and
Councilmen Michael Hancock to discuss FasTracks progress, modes and maintenance facilities.
Director Ruchman inquired about Councilwoman Montero position on EMU/DMU. Chair
Martinez indicated that he has shared some materials with her and asked her to keep an open
mind as she reads about these technologies.
Chair Martinez indicated there was great Board participation at the Hispanic Chamber Luncheon
represented by Chair Martinez, Directors Chacon and Pulliam.
VI.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF March 27, 2007
MOTION:
Director Pulliam moved for the adoption of the March 27,
2007 regular board meeting minutes.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.
Director Pulliam requested that notations are made in the
minutes when another Board member arrives late or leaves
early.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

A voice vote was taken with 13 votes in favor (Brohl, Busck,
Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen,
Pulliam, Ruchman, Tayer, and Yamrick) and 0 against. Directors
Chacon and Quinlan were absent.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.

VII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
1. Continue to work on West Corridor Value Engineering
Cal Marsella indicated they are making good progress on the West Corridor Value
Engineering. Director Ruchman inquired status on the drainage issue, the Auraria Campus
Station, and the double track versus single track concern expressed by the City of Golden.
Cal Marsella indicated the drainage issues are being worked on a station by station basis,
Auraria Campus Station is still under discussion, and the double track issues remain a
concern for the City of Golden.
2. One on One Meetings with Board Members
Cal Marsella expressed that he feels these meetings have been helpful and informative for
the Board Members and we will continue to schedule meetings with any interested Board
Member.
3. Presentation to Metro Mayors Caucus on April 11, 2007
Cal Marsella briefed a group of Mayors on FasTracks and how to manage collaboratively

with the Community, Cities and interested parties around the issues of such a large project
effort.
4. DRCOG Annual Awards Dinner on April 11, 2007
RTD was well represented at the DRCOG Awards Dinner and continued to shine as the
recipient for the Regional Leadership Award. Directors Elfenbein, Quinlan and General
Manager, Cal Marsella, were recipients of the Distinguished Service Award.
5. Presentation to Rocky Mountain Association for Commuter Transportation on April 12,
2007
Cal Marsella attended this event with Directors Elfenbein and Kemp. RTD was a keynote
at this event. Director Elfenbein shared that the Transit Alliance had just completed their
first academy class and were creating people in the community who understood the
importance of transit and will be great neighborhood advocates.
6. Meeting with Metro Chambers on FasTracks--FasTracks Business Advisory Council
Cal Marsella met with Joe Blake of the Metro Chamber of Commerce. Joe Blake
offered to partner with RTD through a FasTracks Business Advisory Council. Cal
Marsella plans to bring a resolution before the Board at the next meeting for this
Council.
Chair Martinez requested that Cal present this issue at the next FasTracks meeting on
May 1st, 2007 including a scope of what is being presented and how it compares to the
Citizen Advisory Committee efforts.
For a copy of the description of the proposed FasTracks Business Advisory Council,
please see the Board Minute Notebook in the Board Office.
7. Meeting with City of Westminster Staff
Cal Marsella and Director Christopher met with the City of Westminster to discuss TOD
development plans and the opportunity to partner with the communities.
8. Other Matters
Director Daly inquired about the Employee Forum and what things of interest may have
come out of this. Cal Marsella responded it was a good meeting and a good exchange
with the employees.

VIII.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
MOTION:

Director Pulliam moved that the Board of Directors adopt
the Unanimous Consent Agenda.
Director Busck seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 13 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp,
Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Ruchman, Tayer,
and Yamrick) and 0 against. Directors Chacon and
Quinlan were absent.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

IX.

A.

Exercise the Option to Purchase 63 Replacement access-a-Ride Cutaway Buses
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to exercise the option with Startrans
(contract 23-FK-004) to purchase 63 replacement cutaway buses to be used by
access-a-Ride. The option price is $50,320 each for a total award of $3,170,160.

B.

Volume Discounts for one-day Passes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the implementation of volume discounts on the purchase of
one-Day passes. It is recommended that for purchases of 100 to 999, RTD will offer a
10% discount. This results in recommended prices for Local, Express, and Regional
Day passes of $4.00, $7.00, and $9.00 respectively under the current fare structure.
For purchases of 1,000 and over, it is recommended that RTD offer a discount of 20%,
resulting in prices of $3.50, $6.25, and $8.00 for Local, Express and Regional passes
respectively under the current RTD fare structure

EXECUTIVE SESSION
MOTION:

Director Ruchman made the motion that the Board move
into Executive Session for the purpose to discuss
Property Acquisition at the Consolidated Main Line
between 16th and 18th Streets- C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(a).
Director Yamrick seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 13 votes in
favor and (Brohl, Busck, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein,
Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Ruchman,
Tayer, and Yamrick) and 0 against. Directors Chacon and
Quinlan were absent.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

The meeting adjourned for the Executive Session at 6:32 p.m.
X.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
The General Board Meeting resumed at approximately 7:28 from the Executive Session to
enter into vote on the recommended actions.
A.

Recommendation for Acquisition of Property at 17th Street and Consolidated Main Line
(from Executive Session)
MOTION:

Director Christopher made the motion to approve the
recommendation for Acquisition of Property at 17th Street
and Consolidated Main Line per the discussion in the
Executive Session.

Director Busck seconded the motion.
VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 11 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp,
Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, and Tayer) and 2
against (Ruchman and Yamrick). Director McMullen has
stepped out of the room. Directors Chacon and Quinlan
were absent.

Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

B.

Five Day Convention Pass
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services/Marketing Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the implementation of five-Day Convention Pass to be sold
to Conventions, Meetings, Conferences, Seminars, Trade Shows and Special Interest
Groups. The unlimited access five-Day Pass, to be called the “Convention Pass”,
would be good on all regular fixed route bus and Light Rail services excluding skyRide,
RockiesRide, BroncosRide, and access-a-Ride. For purchases of 100 to 999 passes,
the recommended price for the Convention Pass would be $35.00 each, and for
purchases of 1,000 and over the price would be $31.25 each.
MOTION:

Director Ruchman made the recommendation to authorize
the implementation of five-Day Convention Pass.
Director Kemp seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 13 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp,
Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Ruchman, Tayer,
and Yamrick) and 0 against. Directors Chacon and
Quinlan were absent.
Chair Martinez
Unanimously.

declared

the

motion

PASSED

XI.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS

XII.

NEW BUSINESS

XIII.

ADJOURN
Seeing there was no unfinished or new business, Director Elfenbein made the motion to
adjourn. Director Kemp seconded the motion. The meeting was adjourned at 7:30 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, April 17, 2007

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Chris Martinez, Chair
Bill Christopher, First Vice Chair
Barbara Brohl, Secretary
Lee Kemp, Treasurer
Noel Busck
Bruce Daly
Bill Elfenbein
Daryl Kinton
Bill McMullen
Wally Pulliam
Dave Ruchman
John Tayer
Barbara Yamrick
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Cal Marsella
Rick Clarke
John Dawson
David Genova
Caitlin Magee
Paula Perdue
Teresa Sedmak
Bill Sirois
Henry Stopplecamp
Pauletta Tonilas
Larry Warner

District B
District J
District D
District I
District K
District N
District A
District H
District E
District L
District M
District O
District F

Bruce Abel
Dennis Cole
Rod Dodsworth
Marla Lien
Richard Morton
Liz Rao
Daria Serna
Joe Smith
Stan Szabelak
Lisa Trujillo
Bill Weidenear

OTHERS PRESENT –
Gary Bowline – Spectrum A/V
L.W. Morrow – EFC
Eric Biga – Veolia
Bruce Behncke – Veolia
Scott Chase - Veolia
Ken Smith – Colorado Contractor’s Association
Bob Wilson – RMRA
Jeff Leib – Denver Post
Kevin Flynn – Rocky Mountain News
Roger Chapin – First Transit

Susan Altes
Bill Van Meter
Sherry Ellebracht
Lloyd Mack
Jerry Nearly
Scott Reed
John Shonsey
Errol Stevens
John Tarbert

