2022-12-08
Special Executive Committee 1
Thanks, everybody. I am going to call to order the December 8, 2022 Executive Committee Meeting. We
are convened as of 12:02 PM on 12-8-2022.
I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to
speak. I will now call the roll.
First Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here
Second Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
Secretary Sloan.
Treasurer Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
And Chair Buzek. We've got four members of the Executive Committee present. We also have Director
Tisdale, Director [INAUDIBLE] [? Pietti ?] from the board are also present.
I will now open the public comment period. Anyone who would like to address the committee regarding
any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month may do
so.
If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press *9 on
your phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you are dialed in, press *6 to toggle
your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments will need to be submitted in writing. If any speaker has documentation or
reference materials for the committee, or if any member of the public would like to submit written
comments, please email those materials to the board office at the following email address-rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
During the public comment period, the committee will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff
may contact speakers following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow-up.
Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names. And each speaker will have three minutes to
speak. Do we have anybody in the queue to speak?

BARBARA MCMANUS: We have no attendees.
VINCE BUZEK: And were any email comments received prior to today's meeting?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No.
VINCE BUZEK: With no participants in the queue, we will now close the public comment period at this
time. We move on to other matters. Are there any other matters to come before this committee to
discuss?
We're going to move on to the executive session part.
PEGGY CATLIN: Excuse me, [INAUDIBLE]. You said-VINCE BUZEK: Yes?
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Sloan has joined us.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Sloan, thank you and welcome. I understand you may not be able to speak. And
don't feel the need to unless you want to.
In a moment, the committee will convene an executive session for consideration of personnel matters
regarding interviews of candidate finalists for Executive Manager, Board Office Recruitment. Please note
that the committee will reconvene in open session after the executive session concludes. Following the
executive session, there is no further business to dispense with on the committee meeting agenda.
I will now entertain a motion to move into executive session pursuant to 2464024F-1 CRS, for
consideration of personnel matters regarding interviews of candidate finalists for Executive Manager
Board Office Recruitment. Do I have a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: Moved and seconded-- Mr McKay?
JOHN MCKAY: I just wanted to let everyone know that there are two sort of concurrent meetings that are
going on right now. There's one that will be the first executive session that everyone should move into at
this point. And then from there, we'll move into the interviews individually.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks so much. So at this point-- oh, I didn't take a vote, did I? So are there anybody
opposed to the motion to move in executive session? Seeing none, that passes 5-0. Would all those
entitled to participate in the executive session--

