Jun 19 2018 0530 PM Operations & Customer Service
Committee Committee SD 480
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Requested to assist. If needed, an automatic medical emergency
defibrillator is in a glass case located just outside this room on the wall to the right. In the event
we must evacuate the building for fire or any other emergency, please calmly exit out the door
you came in. At the back of the room, go up the stairs to the first floor, around the security desk,
and exit through the front door. Police and security officers will be there to direct you to a safe
meet-up area. Anyone needing special assistance in the event of an evacuation will be assisted by
RTD staff as necessary. While RTD takes every precaution to ensure the security of its
passengers, vehicles, and facilities, the agency relies on both staff and the general public to be
aware of and alert to any suspicious or dangerous activity on buses and trains and around
stations, stops, and platforms. As such, I would encourage all our employees and patrons to
download the RTD Transit Watch app, which allows users to report suspicious or dangerous
activity and communicate directly with RTD transit security personnel on a real-time basis. In
the event of an emergency situation, the Transit Watch app is available via Google Play and the
Apple app is at the app store. Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK. And I'm Barb Deadwyler, Chair of the Operations and
Customer Service Committee, and we have two recommended actions tonight. And I'll start with
the first one, the recommended action is it is recommended by the Operations and Customer
Service Committee that the Board of Directors-- excuse me, I'm trying to read from two different
areas. Authorize the General Manager or his designee to consent to release the 16th Street mall
alternatives analysis and environmental assessment for the minimum 30-day public review and
comment period, and authorize the General Manager as his designee to negotiate and execute
one or more agreements with the City and County of Denver concerning funding, design,
construction, and maintenance on the 16th Street Mall reconstruction project within the
agreement perimeters listed in the discussion section of this report. This recommendation
addresses two of the General Manager's 2018 goals. Strategic goal number one, fiscal
sustainability and strategic goal number three, state of good repair. Can I get a motion?
LORRAINE ANDERSON: So move.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK. Motion received by Lorraine Anderson and second by
Director Williams. I'm opening it up for discussion or actually, do you guys have a report?
BILL VAN METER: Chair Deadwyler, this is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of
Planning. We do have a brief report and PowerPoint. Like to highlight some of the key pieces,
particularly in the agreement portion of the floor to action for the Board's edification. So there
was the board report in your package, a detailed briefing document regarding the Environmental
Assessment (EA) and alternatives analysis. The Board's been briefed regularly on that process
and had a preview of what the locally preferred alternative would be at previous meetings.

So I want to kind of fly through that piece and focus rather on the key pieces that we're
proposing the Board directs staff to include in an agreement regarding capital costs and
maintenance costs for the 16th Street Mall. There is a PowerPoint in your package. It's not up on
the screen yet. Key piece of that PowerPoint though, is presented on the third slide. It focuses on
the RTD benefits of the agreement or the proposed agreement with the City and County of
Denver (CCD).
One, big piece. Ensuring continued operation two-way transit service on the mall for the useful
life of the transit way. Key piece from our perspective, sharing the 40,000 people a day and
growing over time, have access to and from Union Station, Civic Center, light rail, and our bus
routes that connect throughout downtown guarantees exclusive use of the transit way consistent
with current operations moving forward. And in maintenance, that works for RTD on the transit
way.
It provides a plan for rehabilitation of the mall that increases our operational efficiency, and
safety, and reliability, and provides clearance for needed access to federal funds. It results in a
new rebuilt transitway. Significantly, it limits our capital exposure to the one third share of the
matching funds for the previously awarded grant funds, and leaves the rest of the construction
responsibility-- capital cost responsibility to the City and County of Denver. It flips maintenance
responsibilities, capping RTDs maintenance costs at $100,000 per year and 30% of total costs, a
significant reduction, and it achieves our objectives. So these next few slides recap the history
and progress to date. You've been through it, as I mentioned a number of times previously,
leading to the selection of the locally preferred alternative and a depiction of that locally
preferred alternative.
Briefly, capital costs again, capped at about $1 million dollars or RTDs one third share of the
local match for the federal transit administration grants. CCD is taking the responsibility for the
remainder of the capital costs. On the maintenance cost side, the proposal is that for the first five
years, the city will be requesting a warranty period to cover five years. That's an extended
warranty period from the contract or the proposal, is that RTD during that period, would put
$100,000 a year and CCD $200,000 a year into a reserve fund. Post that as I said, RTD would be
responsible for 30% of costs up to a cap. CCDs responsibility would be 70% of maintenance
costs and all additional costs when that cap is met. Board will recall our current obligations are
essentially flipped about a million dollars a year with the city and county of Denver reimbursing
RTD up to 30% of costs up to $300,000 RTDs responsibilities and commitment to maintenance
have no cap under our current Inter Governmental Agreement (IGA). Under this proposed
framework over a significant period, from 2019 to 2037, assuming the worst case maximum
contributions every year, our commitment would be significantly less and capped at $3 million
versus the $18 million, or more, that we project under the current IGA. So a significant savings
to RTD.
The basis, in case you're wondering, as to the 70%, 30% proposed split, 70% Denver
responsibility, 30% RTD, is that the total width of the mall is 80 feet. Our transit way is 24 feet.
It's 30% of the total cross section-- typical cross section for the mall.

Next steps, presuming we receive approval from the Board tonight through this action to release
the EA, is that later this summer the EA would be released for a 30 day public review period.
Late this fall, we'd be finalizing-- receiving public comments, finalizing the EA, and anticipate
getting a finding of no significant impact. The decision document from Federal Transit
Administration, it clears the project environmentally, allowing us to continue forward into final
design, initiate construction.
The goal for Denver's project completion in 2022, construction could take a little bit longer,
depending on the bids and the method of construction.
That's my attempt at a quick summary and high cap-- highlights of the proposed agreement
before you today.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Any questions? OK. This looks like we do have a number of
questions. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Deadwyler.
Well, Bill, excellent job. It sounds like you guys have made great progress. I have two questions.
If you go to slide 3, and the first item in The Useful Life of the Transit Lane, could you define
what that is, please?
BILL VAN METER: The useful life is estimated to be approximately 40 years. I'm looking at
Jyostna and Henry who have joined us at the table to answer those sorts of questions. Is that
accurate?
JYOSTNA VISHWAKARMA: Good evening. This is Jyostna Vishwakarma, the chief engineer.
So the project team did use a 40 year time frame to analyze the project and all costs.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. And can you, please, remind me what the cap is over the lifetime?
Was that $3 million over the entire-BILL VAN METER: Now, that-- that cap would be subject at some point in the distant future to
renegotiation and presentation to the future Board. So it's proposed that that cap would be in
existence for a 10 year period, at which point there would likely be the need for renegotiation
based on actual experience.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So what I'm hearing is that it is $3 million over the course of 10 years.
Then, at that point, you'll renegotiate?
BILL VAN METER: Yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Not $3 million capped per year.

BILL VAN METER: No. $100,000 cap per year for that first period maximum, with a potential
total expenditure, including our RTDs expenditures under the current IGA, prior to and during
construction, to maintain the portions that have not been rebuilt, in a state of good repair.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Is that it, Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Deadwyler. I wanted to thank staff. I know you guys have
been working on this, it seems like, forever. So, thank you for a job well done. I appreciate it.
I have one question that I already raised to Bill Van Meter, but I wanted to ask our council.
To me, this is a good deal and I'm glad that our maintenance responsibilities capped at $100,000
instead of the million that we've been paying. But we had-- the Board wanted, basically, the
cement pavers instead of the granite pavers. And, although, the granite pavers are still there,
they're renewed, they're in better shape, apparently. But, nonetheless, we are still stuck with
having them.
And I'm wondering under National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), are we required to have
them, even if they don't make financial sense?
JENNIFER ROSS-AMATO: This is Jenifer Ross-Amato, Deputy General Counsel. So I am-- of
all the people here, I'm probably the worst person to answer this question because they've been
working on-- so I'd probably defer to my colleagues across the way. But I think no-- NEPA
doesn't require a specific outcome. It's the process by which you have to follow. And the
outcome of this process was granite pavers.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you. But can-- but as you know, when this was brought up before,
there was really agitation on the part of the Board that on the one hand is the million dollar cost,
and on the other hand, is $10,000, and we, basically, said we want cement.
So given that we were part of this process, how did it end up being that it wasn't cement, that it
was granite, anyway, even though it's better granite, less costly.
You know how that happened?
BILL VAN METER: Yeah. It was through the NEPA process that Jenifer just described. And,
that is, that through that process, the historic consultation with historic interests, a number of
them that are listed in the briefing document but aren't front and center in my brain to list at this
point.

But through that consultation process, the mall was determined to be a culturally significant
resource which restricted the capacity to significantly change any of the materials or design or
approach on the mall. And limited the options moving forward. And, essentially, I would almost
say dictated, or necessitated, this end res-- this end result.
So it was not any one party, certainly not Denver, RTD, nor the downtown Denver partnerships
intent to end up there, the process led us through the consultation with those parties towards one
answer that we were constrained to.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. All right. Thank you. Thank you very much.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
Relative to the last point, I think the important message that I'm deriving from the write-up is
that the Board in the past has not expressed an opposition to granite, the Board has expressed an
opposition to paying for the cost of granite and its maintenance and upkeep through the years.
And because of the effective negotiation that we see represented here in this first next step, I
think I'm, obviously, at this point, much more comfortable with it.
Secondly, though, I did want to clarify, because I may have misheard you, or I may have misread
the materials at packet page 5 of the write-up where in what I read is that that $3 million is the
estimated, uninflated, current year cost for the period from 2019 through 2037.
I think you may have said, or I may have heard, that you said that that was for a 10 year period.
And I think the way it's been presented is that the agreement to be negotiated would go through
2037.
My question is simple. Am I correct in that understanding?
BILL VAN METER: You are correct. So that projection between 2019 and 2037 includes the
years during construction when RTD would still be liable for maintenance costs on the
nonreconstructed portions. It also includes the five year warranty period, and then a period of
time afterwards, subject to the new agreement.
And so I did not state that clearly as I could have.
DOUG TISDALE: And thank you. There's complications. Like, you probably stated it clearly, I
probably didn't hear it clearly. Thank you very much. That's all, Madam Chair.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Director Sisk?
CHUCK SISK: Thank you, Chair Deadwyler. Good evening.

I know it's probably in vogue, but I'm going to go out of vogue. You all have done a masterful
job so, please, accept my individual compliments. You took what the Board has said and the
whole staff, and you've been able to get us where we need to go, and effectuate a partnership
with the City and County of Denver. So-- and, certainly, with the other parts that-- groups that
are involved in this, not just City and County of Denver.
I see this and it does give us exactly what we wanted. And I think we came back and we gave
you direction in terms of saying, as long as our costs were limited, we didn't care what was on
there. The granite pavers are not-- so to that end, I'm totally and fully supportive, and I commend
each one of you, and anyone else that was involved, on a very good job of representing this
Board and the citizens of RTD.
Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So congratulations to the staffs that negotiated this agreement. It looks
good to me. I think it shows a big commitment on Denver's part and their commitment to
mobility in downtown Denver. I think other things they've done have shown their commitment to
mobility throughout the city, or things that they will do, will show their commitment to mobility
in the future.
So that's it, basically-- oh, one thing, Ms. Wood, I put you in touch with someone from
Minneapolis, and I'm wondering if that helped inform the discussions at all?
SUSAN WOOD: Yeah, Director Walker, the information we received from Minneapolis has
been very helpful throughout the development of the project. And I, actually, think that the
information that we received will be even more helpful as the project enters final design.
There are a number of people on this project team to put in touch with those folks from
Minneapolis, and it would be even more benefit down the road. But it's already been a benefit, as
well.
JEFF WALKER: OK. Great. Thank him, I'm glad I was able to play some role in that.
SUSAN WOOD: Thank you.
JEFF WALKER: So that's it. Thank you for this. And I'll be supporting. Thanks.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Three quick questions. And one of them, there have been
something about roughing the surface in there, and I'm wondering that's all included in this to
make it grab better. It's not going to be as slippery, correct?
SUSAN WOOD: Yes.

NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Because I think there was problems with the granite itself in having
that property, that it did make it a dangerous situation, or uncomfortable.
Two then questions beyond that.
I note on a page here, it says, this is towards the last page right above financial impact. RTD will
make available federal grant funds. So I'm almost on the last page. For everybody, that's packet
page six on the lower right.
And at the top of that page, the second bullet states, RTD will make available federal grant funds
allowed by Federal Transportation Administration (FTA) to CCD as a subrecipient pursuant to
the bus livability grant and the Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG) Surface
Transportation Program (STP) Metro grant.
Does that mean that in any way future grants we have granted those grants? That's only the
existing ones that we already have in our hands.
BILL VAN METER: Just the existing ones we have in our hands.
I would note that we have had discussions with Denver that if there were future grant
opportunities, RTD would be willing to support applying for those future grant opportunities, but
that we would not be amenable to coming back to the Board, or contributing any local match.
So supporting their application, or their interest in applying for additional funds, and grant funds,
but not at any risk or capital or monetary commitment from RTD.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. One last item then. The original-- I'm throwing figures out here- $9 or $12 million or-- the original monies. We have right now set the limit there that, in that
same paragraph, two grants not to exceed $1,064,834.
Do we have any remaining amount left from those grants beyond that $1,064,834?
BILL VAN METER: Not that would be RTD's responsibility. No additional commitment.
NATALIE MENTEN: We didn't have any money leftovers-- I wouldn't even call that like a
burden, I would say, do we have money left over?
BILL VAN METER: Well, yeah, we have money that we have not spent yet. Those are not
monies-- we have spent some monies, but most of those remain to be spent and would be spent
over the period of construction as our one-third share match as they're drawn down to support
construction.
NATALIE MENTEN: So the balance of those grants will be used on the maintenance, that
wouldn't be coming directly as fresh money out of the-BILL VAN METER: They would be used for construction, not for maintenance.

NATALIE MENTEN: OK. All right. Thank you. That's all.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Are the only parties to this agreement the City and County of
Denver and RTD?
As I recall, there's a business improvement district down there that does something for
maintenance, but how do they play into this?
BILL VAN METER: They would play into a separate agreement for maintenance of fixtures and
cleaning and similar arrangement that they have today. That would be between the business
improvement district and the City and County of Denver. RTD would not be party to that.
BOB BROOM: OK. Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you. Are there any other comments or questions?
Then let's go ahead and take it to a vote. Mover, Director Anderson. Second, Director Williams.
This passes 15 to zero, so this will go on our unanimous consent.
OK. Our second recommended action tonight.
It is recommended by the operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the August 2018 service change package as revised and summarized in
attachment a, resulting in the annualized cost savings of approximately $2,060,000.
And, further, to authorize the general manager, or his designee, to execute contract amendments,
as necessary, for private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
The recommended action proposed falls into line with the following GM goals. Core goal one,
successful delivery of transit services. And task goal one, fiscal sustainability.
Can I get a motion?
LORRAINE ANDERSON: So move.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Director Anderson. Second?
CHUCK SISK: Second.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Director Sisk.
OK. Do you have a--

PEGGY CATLIN Yes. Chair Deadwyler, I would like to move to amend the recommended
action language as follows.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK.
PEGGY CATLIN Route CS to add one morning and one evening peak trip between Conifer and
the Federal Center.
Route ES to add one morning and one evening peak trip between Evergreen and the Federal
Center.
And route 100L to add one morning and one evening reverse peak trip between downtown
Denver and the Federal Center.
CHUCK SISK: Second.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: I thought we already had a second.
CHUCK SISK This is the amendment.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Oh, OK. All right. OK.
OK. Do we have any-- OK. So Director Tisdale, do you have anything else to add?
DOUG TISDALE: No, Madame Chair. I think Director Catlin may wish to speak to her motion.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
[Adjusting microphone]
Oh, sorry about that.
I, as many of you noticed in your packet, there was considerable comment from the constituents
up in the Evergreen and Conner for Communities. In fact, we had over 50 attendees at that public
meeting. And I would say that those citizens were very respectful of staff, and were very, very
willing to problem-solve and compromise. And really threw out some very, very good ideas, as
opposed to just complaining. And I was very impressed by their ability to do that.
And so I sat down with Jessie Carter and with Bruce Abel, and we brainstormed a little bit more,
and took into consideration those comments that were received. And staff came up with a
response that was, basically, minimal service to those areas, but it was a start.
And I wanted to thank Jessie and Bruce for all their hard work, because I think they came up
with a compromise that we can propose to the citizens of Evergreen and Conifer.

And the fact is, though, that we didn't get that work done in time for the information to be
included in the board packet last Wednesday evening, and so it was suggested that I provide this
motion for discussion today.
Jessie, would you like to add any detail to this proposal?
JESSIE CARTER: Sure. Any opportunity to run my mouth I, usually, will take that.
But, actually, yes, the proposal as it was written would have reduced the number of hours on the
EV CV and 100L by about 27 hours. The change, as amended, or as recommended to be
amended, will reduce-- we would still have a savings of about 20 hours per week day.
So it's still a very substantial savings, and it does take into account the people that we did,
actually, hear from that attended the public meeting. You know, was the largest meeting was in
Evergreen. We had 50 attendees.
But we, also, had folks who came out to the downtown Denver meetings who expressed a special
need in that they were losing a service that was going from the downtown area going to the
Federal Center. And two out of the six people were, actually, us-- they were visually impaired.
So we did take that into account, and that's the reason why you see the 100L proposal as well.
So with that, I do think that the proposal makes sense-- it makes sense and, at the same time, it
still saves a substantial amount of hours.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
I speak in support of the motion to amend the main motion, and it's the motion to amend that
we're discussing right now. And I think for the good and sufficient reasons as stated by Director
Catlin, and by Jessie, relative to the justification, and I did note all of the comments urging us to
make this modest change that does not have any significant economic impact on the savings that
we would achieve under the main motion after we dispose of this motion to amend.
Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you. I thought I saw a number of speakers. OK. Director
Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair, just for clarification.
What we're doing with this amendment is restoring some of the proposed cuts.
Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Broom.

Director-- before I go back to Director Catlin, let's go to Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Deadwyler. I'll be in support of this amended amendment. I
felt that the original cuts were draconian, and I live in a district kind of like Director Catlin
who's-- we're kind of out in the boonies and have-- don't get extensive service because we don't
have huge density.
But that means that the service that we do get by certain people that need it are very cherished.
And cutting it completely is, as I said, it felt draconian to me.
So I had called Director Catlin and, I said, oh, my God, can't-- can't a compromise be worked
out? And, she said, well, as a matter of fact, we are. And I'm very glad. I like that responsiveness
on the part of RTD to the citizen complaints and concerns.
So I'll be supporting this amendment. Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: I just wanted to say that I think even leaving one trip in place in the morning
and the evening, the folks up in Evergreens and Conifer can be encouraged to increase their
ridership. And I pledge to work with those chambers up there to do so, as well. And if, in fact,
they can demonstrate additional ridership, then there might be some opportunity to add
additional service later on.
But Jessie mentioned the visually impaired customers from Denver on the reverse commute to
the Federal Center. There were also five people up in the-- at the Evergreen meeting who
expressed-- who were developmentally disabled and really relied on this-- these trips for their
independence and, really, would prefer not to take the Access-a-Ride. This was a source of pride
that they could navigate and negotiate. Some of them are volunteers at St. Anthony's.
And, to me, that was just a very moving and compelling argument to try and preserve some
service up there.
So, thank you, again, for your consideration.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Catlin.
So if we can go ahead and move to a vote on the amended. And Director Catlin was the mover
and Director Tisdale is the second.
And that passes 15 to zero. That should go on our recommended action soon as we take care of
the original one.
So let's go back to the original wording here. And I have a question for Jessie. Because we have
a cost savings of $2,060,000, how will that change?

JESSIE CARTER: By my estimations, the change to it would be about a change from $2 million
60 to $1.924 million, as far as the savings financial standpoint.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK. All right.
All right. Then I see one name in this as the speaker, Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Deadwyler.
I had a question, because I was looking at the comments, and there were an awful lot of
comments about a stop that was going to be removed, or terminated, at 18th and Downing in
front of Metro Caring.
A lot of people were saying that they would be inconvenienced by that. So I'm just wondering
could you address that issue.
JESSIE CARTER: Sure. That stop issue is being reviewed. At this point in time, it's most likely
that we will end up requesting the stop to be replaced, but we got to make sure that it is ADA
accessible. And at some point in time, we will put out the information to say that it will return.
So we-- I should have an answer for you within-- or by the end of the week.
JUDY LUBOW: I'm a little confused by what you said when you said it would be replaced.
What does that mean? I mean, what's happening with that stop? Because a lot of people said we
want keep it.
JESSIE CARTER: Well, that's what I mean by replaced is to actually place it back-- or put back.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: Anybody got a thesaurus? I'll take one now.
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah. Thank you very much.
JESSIE CARTER: All right.
JESSIE CARTER: it's still there.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, it-- well, so it's gone now, but it will be put back.
JESSIE CARTER: No, it's noted. It has a sticker on it that says it's going to be removed. Right.
JUDY LUBOW: It hasn't gone far.
JESSIE CARTER: Right.

JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK.
JESSIE CARTER: Or we could find it if it-BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Deadwyler.
And at the risk of dominating this discussion, I wanted to add that there was another route. We
received 17-- we had 17 people at the public meeting in South Jeffco, and there was a proposed
elimination of Route 85. And staff, again, worked up a compromise solution that would dedicate
an Access a ride-- not an access a ride-- a Colin ride vehicle on a fixed route at a fixed time to
provide the same service to those people who were trying to access the mineral station and could
not find parking because it fills up so early.
So, again, the compromise was reached that was put in your board packet, and I want to thank
staff for-- again, working with me and also with the citizens in South Jeffco . And I'm told that
thanks need to go to Brian Matthews. So I wanted to thank him, too.
So.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Catlin. I think we should move to a vote this
recommended action as amended with the wording by Director Catlin, and the new cost analysis
by Jessie Carter.
So if we can go ahead and vote, the movers Director Anderson, second is Director Sisk.
Director Anderson, did you vote?
LORRAINE ANDERSON: I did.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK. All right. And so that passes unanimously. Woo-hoo. Good
job. Thank you, everyone.
All right. Let's move to updates. So, Jessie, I assume since you're still sitting there, you're going
to be taking care of this?
JESSIE CARTER: Absolutely. We will send the-- we'll correct the board paper and send it
before the next meeting on the 26th.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK. All right. What about these updates?
MICHAEL FORD: Well, we have numerous updates in your packet. If there are questions, I'm
happy to have those addressed and invite my team to come up.

BARBARA DEADWYLER: Are there any questions or concerns or comments regarding any of
the updates?
OK. Well, then, I think we're going to have to close this meeting.
All right. Let's see. Are there any other matters?
MICHAEL FORD: I have some introductions to make. Thank you. It has been quite a bit.
I just want to introduce a few new staff members. Paul Hamilton is our new Senior Manager of
Paratransit. Want to welcome him. He's been here about two weeks.
[CLAPS]
And, also, we have a new Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations, and that is Fred
Worthen, right there. Can you stand up?
[CLAPS]
And he's been here about a week. So he's still drinking from the fire hose. As I would know.
Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: All right. I'm ready for questions - Director Anderson.
You're up.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Are we on other matters?
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Yes.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: OK. Thanks. Thank you, Chair. I had the best time this morning
going to the US 36 meeting up in Broomfield, and they honored a really good person, and a welldeserving person this morning, and that was Chuck Sisk, for his recent achievement of the John
B. Christensen Board.
So I just wanted this Board to know that he was honored and it was a fun time, Chuck. Thank
you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Chuck, way to go.
[CLAPS]
OK. Are there any other of the matters? In seeing none, we have to close this meeting.
Our next meeting date will be July 10th, 2018.

And this meeting is adjourned.
Did you have anything?
Meeting is adjourned with a five minute break.

