Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 13 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 1 of 5
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of
Directors

Date:

January 13, 2011

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January
13, 2010 at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference
Room
***
Board Members Present:
Chair Kemp, 2nd Vice-Chair Cohen, Secretary
Malpiede, Treasurer Bagley
Subject:

I.

Board Member Absent:
Other Board Members
Present:

Director Tayer

Others Present:

Paula Perdue, General Manager Washington, Jeff
Lieb

Call to Order:

Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 12:01
p.m.

Director Daly

January Board Meeting Agenda Review
General Manager Washington reviewed the agenda.
Motion:

Director Malpiede made the motion to
move the January Board meeting agenda
to the full Board for vote on January 18,
2011
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Bagley referenced the Board
report on FasTracks Citizen Advisory
Committee Appointments. As one of the
Board members of the CAC Nominating
Committee, he felt it was important that
the Board understands that the criterion
for this committee is this committee
strives to select the best person to
represent the overall interest and does
not necessarily say that each District

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 13 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 2 of 5
must have a representative. They had
three very good candidates in the last set
of applicants who were placed on a short
list. The Committee plans to draw from
this list as vacancies occur. Director Daly
wanted to know how do they recruit.
Director Bagley indicated from
advertising. Director Malpiede shared her
experience as a former CAC
representative and complimented this
committee for their commitment,
organization and involvement.
Vote on
the Motion:


The Motion PASSED.

Unanimous Consent
 Recommended May 2011 Services Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that the Board of Directors approve moving the proposed May 2011
Service Changes (Attachment A) on to public review and comment.


Certification of Contribution Rate for the RTD Defined Contribution
Plan-2011
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors certifies a 2011
contribution rate to RTD’s Salaried Employees Defined Contribution
Plan of 9% of each participant’s eligible compensation.
 Approval of Proposed 2011 Internal Audit Schedule
It is recommended by the Finance, Administration and Audit
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors approve the proposed
schedule of internal audits to be performed in 2011.


Approval of Increase to Ciber, Inc, IT Contingency Work Order
Contract
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager
to execute all documents necessary to increase the contract value notto-exceed limit for an existing contract with Ciber for IT Technical and
Management Support Services (Contract 15DK008). This contract
was originally awarded in 2006 to Ciber through the competitive bid
process. The contract allowed for an initial-year plus four (4) one-year
options to be renewed based on positive performance by the vendor.
The final option has been executed and the period of performance
extended to April 24, 2011. The proposed action increases the
current contract not-to-exceed limit of $3,050,000.00 by
$300,000.00 to a new total contract not-to-exceed limit of

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 13 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 3 of 5
$3,350,000.00 as well as to extend the contract period of
performance to August 31, 2011.
E. Approval of Increase to Dataman USA, IT Contingency Work Order
Contract
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager
to execute all documents necessary to increase the contract value notto-exceed limit for an existing contract with Dataman USA for IT
Technical and Management Support Services $300,000 to extend the
current work order contract IT Technical and Management Support for
General Software Development Life-Cycle Services and Migration of
Legacy Software (17DK001). This contract was originally awarded
May 1st, 2007 to Dataman USA, LLC (a DBE/SBE company) through
the competitive bid process. The contract allowed for an initial year
plus four one year options to renew based on positive performance by
the vendor. In order to continue the fourth and final option year
additional funding must be added to the contract not to exceed. The
proposed action increases the current contract not-to-exceed limit of
$915,000 by $300,000 to a new total contract not-to-exceed limit of
$1,215,000.
F. RTD-DRCOG Land Use Model Intergovernmental Agreement
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all
documents necessary to complete a contract between RTD and the
Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG) for the completion
of the new socioeconomic modeling system of the Integrated Regional
Model (IRM) project in 2011-2013. Funding for this project is included
in the 2011 Adopted Budget through an $800,000 grant from the
Federal Transit Administration (FTA), with $167,000 local match
provided by DRCOG. There would be no net cost to RTD.
G. Recommendation for Contract Amendment to Kaplan Kirsch and
Rockwell for Legal Assistance- Railroad Negotiations
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to amend the
current contract with Kaplan Kirsch and Rockwell (KKR) for assistance
in negotiations with the Union Pacific (UP) and BNSF Railroads by
extending the term to December 31, 2014 and authorizing additional
funds up to $500,000 with $125,000 of that budgeted in 2011.
H. FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments
It is recommended by the Nominating Committee for the FasTracks
Citizens Advisory Committee of the Regional Transportation District
(RTD) that the RTD Board of Directors reappoint four members of the
Committee to an additional three-year term and appoint one new
member to the Committee to a three-year term.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 13 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 4 of 5
I. Approval of Contract for CAD/AVL System
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee,
to execute all documents necessary to award a contract for the
replacement of RTD’s Computer Aided Dispatch and Automatic
Vehicle Location (CAD/AVL) System, Data Radio Replacement System
and Voice Radio Integration (Request For Proposal (RFP) No.
19FH018) to INIT Innovations in Transportation, Inc. (INIT) of
Chesapeake, VA in an amount not-to-exceed $47,520,000. This price
includes all of the elements of a 3-year deployment followed by a 6year warranty period.


Recommended Action
J. Fare Box Replacement Contract Award
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his
designee, to execute all documents necessary to award a contract for
the replacement of RTD’s fare boxes to GFI, Inc. of Elk Grove Village,
IL. in an amount not-to-exceed $10,500,000.

II.

Discussion items


Security During Board Meetings
General Manager Washington will talk to Dave Genova regarding proper
securities during the Board meetings.



Board Interaction with Speakers During Public Hearing
The Committee agreed it is inappropriate for Board members to engage
in conversation with the speakers during public participation. This puts
staff in an awkward position and may encourage behavior that is not
desired.



Board Policy around Meeting Attendance
Discussion centered on if there are policies related to Board members
attendance at committee and Board meetings. Currently the Bylaws are
silent on this. After some discussion, the Committee thought it most
appropriate to look at a process for communications when a Board
member will be absent. Chair Kemp requested Paula to check the
Legislative to see if they have such a policy around attendance. He will
also work with Paula to look at a communications process.

V.

Other Matters


General Manager Washington requested to add the Joint Board Advance

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 13 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 5 of 5









VI.

agenda to the next Executive Committee agenda.
Chair Kemp reported he attended the Board meeting in Dallas where
there was great interest in RTD, PPP, and FasTracks.
Director Bagley shared that he had met with the General Manager on the
General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee.
They plan to have a meeting on January 25 th and he will prepare an
agenda for review and disseminate. We are targeting the meeting in
February to provide public information on the process used for the
General Manager evaluation which will include benchmarking and
validation by the independent review.
This should complete our
outstanding items with the State Auditors.
Director Bagley shared that at the next P&D meeting, he will present
items for Board review that the Board may want to advance on the P&D
agenda. He plans to have a two way process where Board members
can also add to the agenda as appropriate.
General Manager Washington shared that he has been asked to sit on
the recruitment committee for the next APTA president. The next
meeting will be in Dallas on Wednesday. He may need to leave the
Board meeting early to catch a plan. Expenses will be paid by APTA.
RTD will plan for a FFGA event sometime in May to coincide with the
Gold Line groundbreaking. They have talked to FTA and feel somewhat
confident that we are on schedule.
Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 12:50 p.m.

