2021-06-15
Operations & Customer Service Committee
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening, welcome to the Operations and Customer Service Committee meeting.
We will now come to order. We are convened as of 5:30 PM, Mountain Daylight Time. I would respectfully
ask that everyone attending the meeting please mute yourself until you are recognized to speak.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us. Please note that the official meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. For the immediate
future, the official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held during Zoom and will be audio and video
recorded.
Meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as possible
on the Board's website. You can visit RTD-Denver.com and scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to
the Board of Directors page. Directors and members of the staff, if you would like to be acknowledged
during tonight's proceedings, I ask that you please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call on you
before proceeding to speak.
Directors and staff participating by phone, can also raise their virtual hands to indicate that they would like
to speak by pressing star nine. To toggle your mute setting on your phone, if necessary, press star six. I
will also note that we may all want to mute our cell phones, which are sitting on the desks next to us.
We will not be taking public commentary during this meeting. Members of the public who are interested in
speaking directly to the Board are encouraged to do so during the upcoming Board meeting. For future
meeting dates, please go to the Board's meeting portal, which is located at RTD.iqm2.com.
At RTD, safety is one of our core values. We will begin this meeting with a short safety briefing. While
recent public health orders have relaxed requirements for the use of face coverings in certain settings,
please don't let your guard down too soon.
The transit Security Administration, a.k.a. the TSA, has extended the federal mask requirement for public
transportation until September 13, 2021. The federal mask requirement states that individuals must wear
a face covering while waiting for, and while riding, public transportation-- to include, airports and aircraft,
train stations, trains, bus stops, and buses. RTD requires that employees and customers continue to wear
face coverings. RTD is taking a cautious approach to returning to pre-pandemic operating practices, to
ensure the safety of our employees and our customers.
Transit does continue to be an extremely safe way to travel. And there have been no clusters of positive
cases linked to transit in the Denver metro area. Please consider getting vaccinated if you have not done
so already. You could win a million dollars.

Wear your face covering in settings where one is required. Practice reasonable physical distancing. And
hopefully, we will end this pandemic sooner rather than later. Thank you all.
At this time, I will ask that Mr. McKay call the roll for the record.
JOHN MCKAY: Director Bouquet—
JULIEN BOUQUET: --present.
JOHN MCKAY: Director Broom—
BOB BROOM: --present.
JOHN MCKAY: Director Buzek—
VINCE BUZEK: --here.
JOHN MCKAY: Director Catlin—
PEGGY CATLIN: --here.
JOHN MCKAY: Director Cook—
SHELLEY COOK: --here.
JOHN MCKAY: Director Davidson—
ERIK DAVIDSON: --here.
JOHN MCKAY: Director Dishell—
BOBBY DISHELL: --here.
JOHN MCKAY: Director Guissinger—
LYNN GUISSINGER: --I'm here.
JOHN MCKAY: Director Lewis—
SHONTEL LEWIS: --present.
JOHN MCKAY: Director Rosenthal—

PAUL ROSENTHAL: --present.
JOHN MCKAY: Director Sloan—
MARJORIE SLOAN: --here.
JOHN MCKAY: Director Tisdale—
DOUG TISDALE: --present.
JOHN MCKAY: Director Whitmore—
TROY WHITMORE: --present.
JOHN MCKAY: Director Williams—
KATE WILLIAMS: --I am here.
JOHN MCKAY: Chair Rivera-Malpiede—
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --here.
JOHN MCKAY: That's 15 present, zero absent.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. McKay. I appreciate that from you. So we don't have to wait for
anybody else.
We have one recommended action on the agenda this evening. And that action is the Board of Directors
to authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her designee, to execute all documents necessary to
enter into a contract with Metro Taxi Inc. In order to continue providing a subsidy for the Access-a-Cab
program, from July 1 through December 31, 2021, at an amount not to exceed $705,000. Do I have a
motion?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek-- so moved.
DOUG TISDALE: Tisdale-- second.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, gentlemen. At this time I'm going to ask the staff to present any pertinent
information regarding the action. Let us note that the action was included in the packet and directors have
had time to ask questions of the staff offline. Please raise your virtual hand and wait to be recognized to
speak. And state your name for the record each time that you do speak. Mr. Ford--

MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, Madam Chair. It's Michael Ford, COO. And I'd like to provide a little
background. In March of 1997, the Regional Transportation District introduced the Access-a-Cab program
to the Access-a-Ride customers. The program offered flexibility and transportation services for individuals
with disabilities.
Customers scheduled same day trips with Metro Transportation. The programs are interchangeable for
certified eligible customers. The Access-a-Cab program-- excuse me, the service provided is not branded
RTD service, but rather taxi trips subsidized by RTD. The current subsidy is $12 per trip.
The Access-a-Cab program is popular, providing 18% of all trips to paratransit customers. Expanding on
the lessons learned from the ongoing Uber pilot will provide RTD time to develop a more robust model
and a request for proposals that will allow for non-emergency medical transportation, taxi and
transportation network companies, to offer expanded customer options when selecting an on-demand
service alternative-- so more options and more competition. As part of the discussion, the Access-a-Cab
program is beneficial to RTD due to smaller subsidy per ride when compared to trips taken on RTD
operated Access-a-Ride services.
Trips taken by customers on Access-a-Ride service costs RTD an average of $60 per trip, as opposed to
$12. During the third and fourth quarter of 2021, the Access-a-Cab is expected to provide approximately
58,750 cab trips, at a total cost of $705,000. If those same trips were provided by the Access-a-Ride, we
would be looking at approximately $3,525,000.
So, again, we're asking for authorization to move forward for a recommendation to extend the Access-aCab program from July to December of this year, giving us time to put out a more robust RFP and to
improve the options that our customers will surely benefit from. So with that, I'm happy to take questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Ford. I see Director Broom with the first question.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. The question I had was are any of those cab trips for people
with wheelchairs?
MICHAEL FORD: Madam Chair—
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Mr. Ford, please.
MICHAEL FORD: Yeah, I believe that they are able to use them, but I will defer to Paul to give a little bit
more specifics on that-- Paul Hamilton.
PAUL HAMILTON: Yes, this is Paul Hamilton, Sr. Manager of Paratransit Services. The current service
provider, Metro Taxi, does have a wheelchair accessible fleet. That said, they aren't quite what they
should be in terms of what we really need for the demand that we have. That is, about 25% of all of our
trips are trips for passengers that use wheelchairs.

So we can do more. And we are working, as Michael Ford had stated earlier, to do more as we develop
an RFP that will give us more robust options, not only for our ambulatory passengers, but for wheelchair
passengers. But a short answer to your question, yes, they do have wheelchair accessible vehicles.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Broom.
Director Dishell, I see your hand.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is actually a question for you. Which is-- to me, when I
heard you say, well, we got the packet and had an opportunity to ask staff questions.
That's true, and I do ask staff questions. But I sort of view these meetings as the public's opportunity to
see how we all deliberate. And often, intentionally, actually ask questions in the public because otherwise,
to me, it sort of defeats the purpose of a public. Was that sort of-- I'm just trying to seek clarity on the
intent of making that statement prior to our discussion.
KATE WILLIAMS: I don't have a problem with anyone who answers or asks a question in this forum. I
was just noting that there may be some directors who do not ask questions because they had already had
their questions answered. Often, they are simple questions that have to do, perhaps, with a percentage of
rides or like, do they have wheelchair vehicles,
So if you want to ask it here, that is absolutely your right to do so. If you wanted to call Mr. Ford up before
the meeting, you've had the packet since last Thursday. And you could also have done that, which is why
I have chosen to make that comment.
BOBBY DISHELL: Got it. Thank you. Now I have a substantive question.
KATE WILLIAMS: Nope, you're done. That's it. Go ahead.
BOBBY DISHELL: Which is-- and please correct me if I'm wrong, but as I understand it, Access-a-Ride
services are provided to those individuals who cannot adequately or easily use our fixed route services.
And as I also understand it, all of our buses are accessible and are wheelchair accessible vehicles. And
so where is the disconnect? And where is that disconnect?
If all of our-- if we need a wheelchair taxi and buses are all wheelchair accessible, I feel like I'm missing a
piece of context. Because in my mind, at least, if everything is supposed to be fully accessible, then
Access-a-Ride wouldn't, for wheelchair purposes, necessarily be needed. Is it that our bus stops aren't
adequate? What is missing there?

KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Ford or Mr. Hamilton, who would like that-- I can speak to it, but I'll let one of the
staff go first.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may speak to it, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Absolutely, Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Director Dishell, we have to keep in mind that there's also cognitive disabilities, as
well, not just physical disabilities. So we actually incorporate that in, as well, as we go forward with that.
So I wanted to stress that that is an important aspect to take into consideration. But I will yield the floor to
Mr. Hamilton, should he need to elaborate more.
PAUL HAMILTON: Sure-- this is Sr. Manager, Paul Hamilton-- Sr. Manager of Paratransit Services. If I
could expand on that question. I think one of the larger points here is that our paratransit services, in and
of themselves, are not actually all accessible, but they are dispatched by software that allows us to
provide the right vehicle for the right trip.
We have four service providers right now that provide Access-a-Ride transportation. And one of those
providers is referred to as Transdev non dedicated. To my knowledge, none of their vehicles are actually
accessible-- they're ambulatory taxis and NEMT vehicles. But again, there's not really an issue there in
terms of using an ambulatory fleet as part of your overall mix of vehicles to supply paratransit services, so
long as you have software that knows which vehicle to send for which customer at a given time. Does that
answer your question?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, it does. I think this is great, so thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Hamilton and Director Dishell. I see a number of hands up. I'm going to
go to-- I'll just pick. I'm going to go to Chair Rivera-Malpiede first.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. So Mr. Hamilton, if you could just for the
community that's listening in, do the definition of ambulatory. I would appreciate that first.
PAUL HAMILTON: Sure, I know we all get caught up in our nomenclature. Ambulatory is somebody that
would use a mobility device, for instance, could still angulate or walk to and from the vehicle to board. So
for instance, somebody who uses a cane or fold up walker would be still considered ambulatory. Even
someone who uses a portable wheelchair and that wheelchair folds up, would still be considered a
transfer customer or ambulatory. It is only those customers who use a wheelchair full-time who could not
actually either transfer or walk with another mobility device, that would not be considered ambulatory.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. And then my follow up question, if I might, Madam Chair,
would we out of the amount of money that you're asking for, how many folks do you anticipate utilizing
that service in the ADA community?

PAUL HAMILTON: As a percentage of our ridership I can tell you-- I believe Michael Ford might have
given the numbers, but it is rather substantial. About 18% of all the trips that we provide to our community
that uses our paratransit service, 18% actually use the Access-a-Cab program as an alternative.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so very much. That's all, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Rivera-Malpiede. Director Catlin—
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Can you all hear me? I had trouble with this device the other
day.
KATE WILLIAMS: We hear you just fine.
PEGGY CATLIN: I wanted to thank Debra Johnson for mentioning some of our cognitively challenged
customers. I've had a number of my constituents who have had such issues and the fact that they might
need to transfer makes it a little bit more of a complex trip for them if they have more than a one seat ride.
And that some of these features are really important for them to access those services they need. So I
really appreciate that.
Mr. Hamilton, you mentioned that in order to extend this through the end of the year, so that you get more
interest or competition. Am I holding that correctly? So we currently have four providers?
PAUL HAMILTON: We actually only have one provider that's part of the Access-a-Cab program right now.
PEGGY CATLIN: Have you heard of others who are interested in it though?
PAUL HAMILTON: We have had in the past. We don't actually have an RFP on the street yet. So it would
be hard to gauge what the interest might be.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, I was just curious. Thank you. That's all I have.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Director Catlin, if I can provide some clarity. So when I first learned about our
contract, I requested staff to do a solicitation to see if we can broaden our bandwidth as it relates to
having viable options. Recognizing Mr. Hamilton did specify that we do have vehicles that we're utilizing
through Access-a-Cab and maybe not all of them are accessible in reference to carrying a mobility
device.
I wanted to ensure that we're leveling the playing field. And looking at best practices in the industry as we
look to ensure that we're providing our customers that may have disabilities with viable options as
opposed to putting all of our eggs in one basket. So I just wanted to clarify that was the intent behind
doing a solicitation. Thank you.

PEGGY CATLIN: Perfect, thank you. I like that answer.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Director Broom, your hand is up, but I think it's still up from
before. So I will go to Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And building on a bit of Director Catlin and Director
Rivera-Malpiede-- and that is, the amount that we could expand in the future. Is there more demand out
there that is unsatisfied? And to the extent that we could actually, perhaps, promote the Access-a-Cab
program more to retirement communities, to individuals who are living, perhaps, alone-- we need to do
more outreach to them. What is the sense of the possible growth in the program?
MICHAEL FORD: Madam Chair—
PAUL HAMILTON: Go ahead, Michael.
KATE WILLIAMS: Paul, go ahead.
PAUL HAMILTON: Thank you. The only point that I was going to make here is that we absolutely can
always do outreach and advertise and should do so when our program or service is available to our
customers. But our customer base that is part of the Access-a-Cab program are always limited to those
customers that are part of our Access-a-Ride program. So if they have not already qualified to be a
paratransit Access-a-Ride customer, they wouldn't automatically qualify for the Access-a-Cab program.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. Director Broom, do you have a question, sir?
BOB BROOM: I do, Madam Chair. What happens when you have a major snowstorm? Does the cab
company refuse to take RTD business?
MICHAEL FORD: Madam Chair—
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Hamilton—
MICHAEL FORD: Go ahead-- go ahead, Paul.
PAUL HAMILTON: Sorry-- I historically we have always seen a downturn in available cabs. And it's not
necessarily that they're not wanting to take our business. A lot of these drivers who drive cabs are owner
operators. And they're simply not willing to take the risk to put their property out on the street during a bad
snowstorm. So there's definitely a drop in the availability of cabs, not only the Access-a-Cab program, but
from our non dedicated service provider, Transdev, when we do have bad weather like that.

BOB BROOM: Do people make reservations the day ahead, and then they don't show up? And how is
that handled?
PAUL HAMILTON: They can make—
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Hamilton—
PAUL HAMILTON: Yes-- I'm sorry. They can make reservations a day in advance. But one of the
upsides, in addition to the fact that it costs RTD less to provide those services, is it's an on demand
service. They can take those trips and call in the day of for service. So practically speaking, most of our
trip demand comes from people calling the day that they want a trip.
BOB BROOM: Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Broom. Thank you, Mr. Hamilton. I don't see any other hands up. I
want to note, for the record, that Director Claudia Folska was a regular user of Access-a-Cab. And were
she still part of this group, could probably answer some of these questions herself.
OK, seeing no more, I will ask for a vote. And I believe we're doing this the easy way these days. Is there
anyone who wants to vote against this?
OK, hearing no one, I will assume that we have 15 yes votes, no no votes, and no abstentions. So the
motion passes. The mover was Director Buzek. And the second was Director Tisdale.
And we will move on to through the agenda, at this point. That was our only action item. So I'm going to
go now to discussion items. And we do have one discussion item this evening. And I'm going to hand the
microphone to Mr. Ford.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, Madam Chair. It's Michael Ford, COO. And I'm going to just go through the
background and discussion around the August, September service change. And then we also have a
presentation that we would like to provide to you, as well. But I'd just like to cover a few finer points here.
In your packet, it states commensurate with the service change and voting process detailed in the
collective bargaining agreement shared between the RTD and ATU1001.
The September service change proposal facilitates both an opportunity for RTD bus and railway
operators to vote new work assignments and the opportunity for service development staff to make
adjustments to the operations plan for RTD's transit network. A vital part of the development of the
service plan involved stakeholder and customer engagement process. The stakeholder listening phase
took place in April and in May. And the public meetings phase will begin in late June. Both stakeholder
feedback and customer input will help inform RTD's future service plans.

And as part of the discussion with the public health restrictions on building capacities and public gathering
lifting, there has been an increase in requests for return to pre-pandemic service levels. Though current
ridership levels indicate modest increases, the anticipated return to school and workplace plan for
September 20, 2021 time frame, supports the need for increased commuter service. The proposal herein
contains a mix of service enhancements and service adjustments that address commuter/school service
patterns and contract compliance, leveraging the resources previously dedicated to supporting social
distancing.
The proposed service change further modifies the initial COVID service plan implemented in April 19,
2020, and modified in January and in June of 2021. The route service contained in this proposal are a mix
of formerly suspended commuter routes with educational institutions as a major ridership generator. The
projected school attendance and the number of requests received for additional commuter service, align
this proposal with RTD's service guidelines. And those happen to be service performance evaluations
based on RTD service standards, the effects on the overall integrity of the transit network and the transit
dependent markets, the availability of alternative services to affect riders, cost effective distributions
throughout the district and family of services, and the ability to enhance service when possible. Title VI of
the Civil Rights Act-- benefits and services are provided without regard to race, color, or national origin-also disparate effects on low income and minority populations in response to changes in communities
where services are provided.
And then just given the current economic conditions due to COVID induced economic slowdown, the
guidance for the proposed September 2021 service change are incorporated in the Board adopted
guidance for COVID-19 budget reduction. And we were really focused on principle number three. We will
provide or prioritize mobility for people who must depend on transit during the pandemic. We will strive to
maximize mobility during the pandemic for those customers who most depend upon our service to access
essential jobs and their necessities, while also keeping our community activity centers appropriately
connected.
I just wanted to give some of that background before we go into the presentation. We will probably hit a
few points in that presentation. And also, just wanted to include that this proposal is designed to be cost
neutral, really just converting the unscheduled hours to scheduled hours. And a modest increase between
3% to 4% of the service for September.
So with that, we have the September service change adjustments up on the screen. And we want to just
highlight a few areas of focus-- one being, the stakeholder engagement process, the COVID-19 impacts,
the financial assistance, and the service change proposal going forward. So I'm going to defer to Pauletta
for the first few slides. I will be back to hit a few more. Then I'll turn it over to Mr. Carter. So Pauletta, I
think you have the floor.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you so much, Michael-- appreciate that. Hello, Board members. Just want
to reemphasize the process that I know you're aware of that we started back in February as part of the
June service changes that just went into effect.

We enhanced our stakeholder engagement process by adding a series of stakeholder listening sessions.
And so we started that with the service change that just went into effect. And this, then, of course, is the
roundup of what we did for what will be the September service changes.
So we hosted a number of listening sessions. And this, of course, was designed to get input before we
brought this to the Board, which is what we're doing here tonight. So that we could engage with the
people who work with us the most, that oftentimes have the most knowledge of transit and the need for
transit service in their communities, to give us some feedback to help inform those service changes.
So this was also an opportunity, in this round, to help educate people about the coming fare study and
equity analysis because they'll, of course, be engaged with us for that. The next slide, please. There we
go.
So we held the listening sessions between mid-April and mid-May. And we did eight of these meetings.
Some of the extra ones, beyond the geographic sector meetings that we've established, are some of the
local coordinating councils. And then we continued our partnership with Denver Public Schools, as we
talk to them about how we can best prepare for students going back into the classroom in the fall
semester.
Those five geographic sector meetings that we established from the last round that we did in February
and March, those were designed by areas of the region that address travel sheds. And that seemed like a
really good methodology, so we kept that for this round. And this, again, was an opportunity for mayors,
and county commissioners, city and county staff, and TMO/TMA representatives-- that's transportation
management organizations or transportation management associations.
Those folks-- all of them-- who are great partners of ours and positioned, to give us good feedback. They
engaged with us during these meetings. And we had nearly 100 people through the course of the
meetings.
Some of the things that we heard most commonly through all these meetings were return-to-work plans.
People wanted to know how we were preparing for people coming back into the office or returning to
school in the fall. Also, capacity limits-- we had people asking us when we were going to lift the capacity
limits that we had put into place. Which, of course, went into effect this last Sunday with the June service
change.
Also, there continues to be an awful lot of interest in our fare structure and our past programs. People
wanting us to simplify them and, in many cases, make them more affordable for certain sectors of our
communities. Large employers were engaged. People were engaging about how we were going to
prepare for large employers bringing their staff back into the office.

FlexRide and on-demand service partnerships as a possibility for how we serve people that are not
served by fixed route service. Also, reliability and frequency-- these are things that we hear a lot, even
before COVID. People wanting us to have the most reliable service possible so they can get where they
need to go on time. And frequencies-- let's try to do what we can to have more frequencies.
Equitable service return-- that's always top of mind for us, and it is for our stakeholders. How we're using
our federal stimulus funding-- we've had inquiries about that. And then people really just appreciating this
new process that we started back in February.
Go back one slide, please, if you can. Back a little bit-- there we go. There we go-- right there.
So just to remind everybody the process that we go through as it relates to our engagement process.
Obviously, these listening sessions then feed into the Board listening to our draft service changes, which
is tonight. And then we will, of course, take that out to public hearings. And the Board will then have the
opportunity to see the final service change that we propose and take action on that.
And those service changes will go into effect in the listening phase. And engagement happens
throughout. But then, of course, we repeat this process as we get ready for the next service change.
And as for the meetings that we have coming up, these are on our website. But we'll hold three virtual
public meetings-- one on Monday, June 28th at 5:30, one on Thursday, July 1st at 5:30, and then one on
Wednesday, July 7th at noon-- to give some opportunity at different times. We will record presentations in
English and Spanish. Those will be posted to our website for people to watch any time they want. And
we'll promote those through social media.
Again, those are on our website. And you can get to it from the home page where there's a horizontal
band that you can click right in and get more information. And with that, I'll hand it back over to Mr. Ford.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, Pauletta. I just want to talk a little bit about COVID-19 impacts. We are still
in COVID, and I don't think we want to lose sight of that. With that, we are continuing to carry about 40%
of our pre-pandemic ridership levels, providing about 64% of service.
RTD, however, anticipates gradual increases in ridership. And has continued to monitor the capacity
needs as part of the recovery effort. As RTD continues to monitor, adjust, and exercise nimbleness for
service levels, which must really align with our staff resources that are affected by a myriad of things-one being, ongoing attrition rates, a competitive labor market. And we are contingent on really staying in
front of this issue.
But we are experiencing issues with the labor market right now. It's very competitive. And we try to do
everything that we can to secure additional folks to help us out through recruitment positions-- helping us
with regard to retention and recruitment. Working to work with operators, so we maintain them, and we
can also bring them aboard.

We're trying to be more specific about their opportunities here, what this means, how they can be part of
something big, and bringing people back to work. So there's a lot of effort that we're focused on really
trying to address the gap that we have right now in terms of resources.
We're also looking at our training and hiring processes. And ensuring that we focus on customer skills,
providing two years of customer service experience-- looking for those kind of folks because we can
teach people how to drive or secure a vehicle and operate that. So those are some of the challenges we
have under COVID right now. In addition, we're looking at platforms, utilization, banners, podcasts, radio
spots, and other things to attract folks to RTD.
This next slide really is just talking about considerations that we have to look at as we make decisions.
Overall system ridership-- what does that look like? How do we make that work?
Ridership on route/levels or lines support some increase in adjustments and where are those needed.
What does the data tell us? Return to work/school support increases in service patterns. Understanding
and-- where are those pinch points? And what do we need to do there?
System maintenance and improving on time performance and reliability. Making the tweaks-understanding where we're having some opportunities to make the service more reliable or more efficient.
And feedback from our customers is an ongoing thing that we definitely take into consideration.
Some of the challenges-- the availability of the workforce, as I mentioned, is a very tight market. And
we're working very diligently to try to improve upon that. Leveraging unscheduled hours into schedule
hours. Meaning, that extra sessions or extra sections are going into actual service delivery. And again, I
want to remind everybody that there's a lot of uncertainty in our ridership returns right now as we continue
to move forward.
As many of you have heard and acknowledge, that Sunday, June 13th, we lift capacities on our vehicles
to accommodate gradual increases in ridership. So people can get on the train, and on a bus, and
understand that we've made those adjustments.
We're also trying to align with other transit entities and mirror other transit agencies for what is going on
currently in our industry. And again, we're having to adhere to mask mandates requirements on all public
transportation. That goes until September 13, 2021.
I'd like to talk a little bit about some of the finances-- the assistance that we've been receiving. We
received $232 million in CARES Act funding and also $203 million in CRRSAA funds in 2021. Again,
these funds are not ongoing, but they're here to help us to support transit operations, recall lay off
employees, rescind furloughs and pay cuts, providing supplemental service on busier routes. So again,
really to help us sustain until things change.

Also, there are some other allocation of moneys that we've been in receipt of-- $338 million in 2021 from
the American Rescue Plan Act funding. And again, this is to support uncertainty of transit recovery,
support service needs, and maintain workforce. And we're still awaiting some guidelines from the FTA.
But again, this money is not ongoing. And we're trying to actually manage it the best we can, given the
uncertainty in providing the service that we continue to strive to do.
The other thing I'd like to just focus on is factors and guide service-- the guide service change. And we
kind of talked about that previously. But again, RTD's service standards and service utilization is a factor
to that.
Affects on the integrity of the transit network and transit dependent on population, availability of
alternative services to affect ridership-- Title VI of the Civil Rights is also a big component to that. And
response to changes in the community, and cost-effective distribution, and the ability to enhance service
when possible, are all factors that go into our deliberations as we continue to deliver service.
Other things that are part of that as a response to changes in the communities where services are
provided. And again, I mentioned the Board adopted guidelines for COVID-19, which we're utilizing as a
principle number three. So with that, I just wanted to lay that out and then turn the rest of the presentation
over to Mr. Carter to talk specifically about September 2021 service proposals.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you, Michael. I'm not sure everyone can hear me. I'm using my phone once
again, rather than a computer. Michael, can you acknowledge—
KATE WILLIAMS: You sound fine, Jessie, thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you, Madam Chair. So with that, I want to just briefly go in-- what I'm going to
do is list a subset of the proposals. There are currently more than 20 proposals that are in your packet at
this point in time.
Some of the larger changes, actually, involve the reinstatement of some our commuter services and
some increases to service on some of our larger lines. For example, the 0L on South Broadway-- we are
planning to reinstate that service, which will also support the service that we are currently operating on
Broadway. We also are looking at improving weekday peak frequency on the Route 10. This will, actually,
help serve both the Route 10 and the Route 15-- 15L along Colfax.
We're also planning to reinstate something that we had discontinued more recently, and that's the Route
116X, going from the Southwest JeffCo area into the downtown area. And that starts-- a part of some of
the-- bringing you back some of our regular regional services. So next slide, please.
So with 116X, again, we look at Southwest JeffCo. We're also proposing to reinstate the Route CV. And
what's not on the screen, we're also proposing to reinstate the EV. You might remember that earlier this
year we discontinued those routes due to low productivity. But we believe at this point in time, as we bring

back some of the other regional services, we want to try again with that fixed route service coming into
downtown.
We're also proposing, as it came up in a couple of our stakeholder meetings and via our customer service
contacts-- we are proposing to reinstate the Route P, which was one of our larger regional services. We
are proposing to put that service in place with currently three AM peak and three PM peak trips.
You'll also see a number of trips-- a number of services that we were proposing in the Boulder and
Longmont area. And that is to address a concern that was shared with us through the stakeholder
process and also directly from the CU Boulder. They are expecting a larger than normal freshman class,
as many students held off going to school in 2020. And because of that, they're expecting a very large
class. And with that, we need to turn on a number of services in Boulder and actually, provide a heavier
service than we currently are providing.
So with that, let's go to the next slide. To summarize the service change, the overall expected financial
impact-- we expect this to be cost neutral. It was designed to be cost neutral. We expect to affect around
34 to 37 full-time employee equivalents. And also, this service change currently is estimated to represent
about a 78,000 hour increase in our annualized service hours.
So I do want to reiterate, as a matter of fact, that we will be putting in our school trippers that represent
service to Denver Public Schools, Aurora public schools, and others throughout the area. They may not
be represented in the current proposal as it's stated right now. And we will likely be offering those
services by way of special service order. So with that, I conclude and turn it back to you, Mr. Ford.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, Jessie. Just some key points-- I just wanted to acknowledge, as we end this
presentation, were poised in trying to address gradual ridership increases, as been stated, accommodate
return to work and school-- we know that there are going to be issues associated with that we're trying to
address.
Regional transit network integrity-- Ridership behavior is uncertain and we're continuing to keep ourselves
on the pulse of that. Being flexible and nimble to make adjustments and changes when and where
necessary, and a focus on recruitment and retention is ongoing and is a challenge right now, but we're
working through that. So with that, I'll conclude this presentation. And we'll be happy to take questions.
Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Ford, Mr. Carter, and Ms. Tonilas. I see a number of the Director's
have their hands up. So I'll run through them in as reasonable an order. I know that Director Catlin was
the first person to raise her hand. Director Catlin, you have the floor.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have received calls from very tenacious constituents over
the past several months since the routes were suspended both to the mountain communities and South

Jeffco, and particularly on the 116X and on the CV and EV. So I really very much appreciate the
reinstatement of some limited service on those.
And those constituents have been kept aware. But my fear is that a number of those we used to ride that
service are not aware of it. And so I would like to reach out Ms. Tonilas to see how we could probably
advertise this a little bit to potential customers who have not seen any service.
We can't advertise on a bus because the buses haven't been there. So I would just appreciate some help,
maybe, with some OpEd type editorials or OpEd opinion pieces in some of the local newspapers to get
the word out that we are reinstating these services in the September time frame. I just want to say thank
you to our service planners. I know those are not real frequented routes, but they really are about the only
routes we have in this area. So thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Catlin. I'm assuming you talk with Ms. Tonilas outside of the
meeting?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. Thank you so much. Director Buzek, I believe your hand was up next.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And I have a question, I believe, for Mr. Carter. So one of the
routes that starts in my district is the 122X. And I've had a number of calls from people-- when's the 122X
coming back?
And for those of you that don't know, the 122X goes from and to Wagon Road stop, which is at 120th and
I25, and ends up at Civic Center Station, with a handful of stops along the way. Prior to the pandemic, it
had very, very robust ridership and was completely eliminated during the pandemic.
So my question is the process of how you determine, on a route like that that was completely eliminated-how do you determine when the demand is sufficient to reinstate that route if there's no demand because
there's no service?
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you, Director Buzek for that question. That is an excellent question. As you are
aware, the 122X is kind of the younger brother of the 120X. The difference between the two is 122X goes
to Civic Center Station.
So they are typically-- prior to COVID, they particularly ran in tandem with each other. And a person who
was trying to get to the CBD or downtown Denver has the option either to use the 120X or the 122X. The
biggest difference is that if you work in the southern part of the downtown area, you were better served by
the one seat ride on the 122X going to Civic Center.
At this point in time, with the number of operators that we have-- and where we're kind of in a situation
where we have to ration out whether or not a quarter is served well enough. And when we look at the
actual ridership on the 120X so far, and we look at it how it's changed over the past year, it just hasn't

grown to a point where we feel that the 122X is something that would be well utilized if we were to put
that back in just yet. It's not to say that we wouldn't want to because previous performance is a part of the
assessment. And the 122X is one of the most efficient regional routes in the system.
We look forward to, at some point in time, putting that service back in. But we're looking for some
indications on the 120X, as far as growth, to say that, hey, now it's time to look at the 122X. I hope that
makes sense.
VINCE BUZEK: It makes perfect sense. And thanks so much for that response. Thanks for all the hard
work you've done. And I want to also tip my hat to Nataly Handlos who fields many, many of my offline
questions. Thanks so much.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you both, gentlemen. I saw Director WHITMORE next.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I would pass along to Jessie my thanks for Natalie's
hard work in the north area. She does a great job and has a great deal of history and background.
So I won't belabor this too long. But I had some outreach that I talked briefly to Pauletta about from
Adams County Public Defender's Office and the route change that eliminated the stop at the courthouse.
And those folks were pretty upset about-- especially in the fall or winter, that mile and a half or two mile
walk that their clients would be needing to utilize.
So I'd like to look at-- it's not a huge extension. I wouldn't think it would be a great budget hit-- the
possibility of reinstatement of that stop in September. So when the cold weather hits-- it's a little hard to
believe it's going to happen today. But when that hits again, we would have that type of service. So if
you'd think about that Jessie.
I've been meaning to talk to you offline. And I will do so further, Madam Chair. And thank you, Jessie and
Michael, for your work on this situation. It's not easy. And we appreciate how thorough you are in your
analysis. That's all for now. Thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you, Director Whitmore.
KATE WILLIAMS: The Director-- going down the list of hands I saw next was Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you-- thank you very much, Madam Chair. I think there were others ahead of me.
Specifically, I know Director Bouquet had his hand up before mine. So I would be happy to wait unless
you would wish to have me speak now.

KATE WILLIAMS: I will call on Director Bouquet, and Director Lewis, and Director Rosenthal, and Director
Sloan. If you want to wait until the end of those, feel free. If you want to speak, have at it.
DOUG TISDALE: I will be happy to wait. Thank you, Madam.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'll just move you to the bottom of my notes. In that case, I saw Director Lewis next.
And I will call on her next.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So the way that Zoom works is that it orders folks in the order of their hands raised.
So it's actually Director Rosenthal. And so I'll step back, as well.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, you can go behind Director Tisdale. I'm letting you know that I do Zoom all day,
every day, and it's being very strange right now because I did not see Director Bouquet up before you
guys. You've all moved around. So who would like to go next? OK, Director Bouquet, you can go next.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I appreciate it. And thank you for those who are allowing me to go at this time. I just
wanted to start off with a big thank you for the consideration of the Route P, which is from Parker to
downtown.
I know I hear a lot from my constituents of how crucial that ride is for them. And they will be quite happy to
hear that that service will be reinstated, which was the second of two services that were lost during the
pandemic. The first being the 483, which was restored earlier this week. And then hopefully, now, we'll be
able to restore the Route P in September. So my Parker residents will be quite happy to hear about that.
Just out of curiosity, I think I heard that we would have an increase or a need for 34 operators based on
this service change. Do we currently have those 34 operators?
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you for that question, Director Bouquet. It's 34 full-time equivalents. And that is
a mix of part-time operators and full-time operators. So it's an excellent question, and is one that we are
actually challenged by at this point in time when we look at our day-to-day operations. But we are doing
our best to make sure that we have those operators, but I would have to let others in operations speak to
the actual total number of operators that we have this time.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So if I may add on to what Mr. Carter said. It's important for all those that aren't
familiar with how we run an operation to recognize that we have operators that we have employed that
readily are available, but then you also have operators that may be out. And Director Bouquet, with you
being in the teaching profession, you may understand that you go out and have substitute teachers there
at the ready, that's equivalent to having the extra board. So when you talk about available operators, it's
available operators assigned to a route. Or you could utilize extra board operators, recognizing how we
attrite.

So it's a complicated question in which you pose, whether or not we have 34 operators. We're talking
about pieces of work that we qualify it as. And what we're really trying to discern, as Mr. Carter indicated,
full-time equivalent to address those pieces of work. So as we look at it holistically, once we come to the
realization of what we need to address all those pieces of work, relative to the blocks that we schedule for
our overarching service change, we will ensure that we have those readily available as we go forward
because we may leverage part-time more than full-time.
So it's a complicated answer. So I wanted to qualify that as such. Mr. Ford, do you have anything else
that you feel you should add to my explanation?
MICHAEL FORD: This is Michael Ford, COO. No, I think you captured it very well. We're working through
that. And obviously, we have some challenges. But right now I couldn't give you a specific number. But
we are aware of the constraint and what's needed. And we're working towards that at this time.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect, so I mean, my ultimate question would just be-- thank you for that
explanation too-- would be, do we have the work force to ultimately have these September changes be in
place is kind of my overarching question?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So I would say yes, sir, as we go forward. Because one thing, for certain, is we're
managing expectations. That's what we reference as we talk about having readily available resources.
And if we don't have resources, I think it's incumbent upon us to be transparent about the service delivery
model that we would basically be able to leverage. So we will ensure that information is made readily
apparent.
Because another point of the matter is that I know there are past practices done here at this organization
in reference to what we termed as mandating regarding people not having adequate time off so we can
ensure there was service delivery. But we will look at that in earnest. And Mr. Ford talked about the way
we are actually leveraging a new aspect of sourcing candidates relative to ensuring that we have a ready
and able workforce as we go forward. So thank you very much for your question.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for the answer. And that is all I have. Director Williams, you're mute.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, I'm trying to maintain decorum. I will-- based on Director Lewis tips, I will go
to the upper left-hand corner and call who I see there. Just following Zoom. So there you go-- that would
be Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you to Director's Lewis and others for
shifting me to the front. And I do appreciate their patience in that.

So I have to say, while it's very difficult, I can only imagine how hard it is to really decide on the difficulty
level of which services to restore, and when, and how, and such. And I don't want to come across like I'm
picking on somebody. And say, why don't you do this or why don't you do that. It's more open questions.
It's not critical in nature.
However-- so I got a question about the 15, which, as know, runs along Colfax. I'm delighted to see in the
June changes to increase service from every 15 minutes to every 10 minutes. Just a left field question,
why not increase it to every five minutes? This is one of the most demanding services we have in the
system.
And from my anecdotal observations, there are a lot of folks who are always waiting at the bus stop. So is
it possible to lower to every five minutes? Or is that desirable? Is that something we could look at?
JESSIE CARTER: Director Rosenthal, thank you for that question. I'm actually dropping-- and when you
look at the 15 and 15L, you kind of have to look at those services in tandem. And the amount of service
that we have out there currently with the 10 minute headway frequency is nearing what we had pre
COVID.
Pre COVID we were carrying about, between the two of them, 24,000 boardings per day. We are
nowhere near those numbers just yet on the 15, 15L. So something that would be deserving of a higher
level frequency would have to approach those numbers before we would dip down to that level. But that is
a really good question. And yes, East Colfax was our number one bus route.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And then my-- thank you very much, Mr. Carter. I really do appreciate that. And we
will observe and watch those numbers as they, hopefully, rebound.
JESSIE CARTER: Absolutely.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, my second question is in regards to the R-Line, which goes through
Aurora. I did not see any restoration either for June or September. And wondering-- and again, I'm not
trying to pick on it here, but I'm just wondering, is there any possibility for restoration on that one as well?
JESSIE CARTER: Yes, Director Rosenthal, the route-- the R-Line, rather, along with pretty much all of
light rail, took some of the harder hits when it came down to retention of ridership. So those lines are only
at about 20% to 30% of what they used to be pre COVID.
I think when we look at the most resilient among our rail lines right now, you'd have to look at the
University of Colorado A-Line as having the highest level of ridership and not the R. After that-- actually, I
was kind of surprised to see how well the W is doing at this point in time as well. But we are definitely
keeping an eye on what the ridership looks like. But right now, we have plenty of capacity on the system
as it stands right now.

You also recall that the R-Line was truncated at Lincoln Station. And extending the route back down to
Siiri, right at this point, seems a little bit premature, only because that quarter itself is not seeing high
levels of ridership. But, of course, as I said before, we will continue to monitor the ridership on those lines.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, gentlemen. In my upper left-hand corner, now, I see Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I wanted to join Director Bouquet in my genuine
and sincere appreciation to staff for being able to find a path to reinstate the P-- the Route P from Parker
and downtown. Kudos to all that. It's been a significant area of concern with people in Douglas County.
And I had conversations, yet today, with the transportation director in Douglas County relative to those
issues. The question that I have is, do we have any anticipation at this point, concerning to other Douglas
County routes, that specifically being the 402L through Highlands Ranch, where service has been
dramatically reduced and the 483, which would get people from Parker over to the light rail on the
Southeast Line. So can I have some information, please, relative to your thoughts, on 402L and 483?
Thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you, Director Tisdale. As mentioned by Director Bouquet-- I guess it was June
13th, June 14th, we actually reimplemented the Route 483. So it is back in service.
The Route 402L, at this point, is-- this is where we go back to looking at prior performance. It was not
exactly the most heavily utilized group. However, its priority, as far as returning it back to service, is lower
than some of the other arterial services that we have in the Douglas County area, such as-- I want to say
99L and other routes that go into the downtown area. So I'm not saying that we won't reinstate the 402L,
but because of its ridership profile, it's in a lower tier of routes that we would be looking at returning at this
point in time.
However, I want to remind everyone that we are still in the proposal process right now. We have yet to
hear from the public. So I haven't heard a lot from 402L riders just yet, but perhaps we'll hear something
during this process.
DOUG TISDALE: I thank you very much. And I appreciate your keeping that in mind. And forgive me for
forgetting about the 483 comment. I had an age advantage moment and lost track of that. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, gentlemen. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes-- first, thank you, Madam Chair for recognizing me. And thank you, Mr. Ford
and Mr. Carter. I realize this is an incredibly complex process that I am just learning about.

But like many of my fellow directors, I would like to call attention to a gap in service and the lack of any
transit alternatives. And that's the GS-Line that goes from Boulder through Arvada to Golden and on to
NREL. So it affects three RTD districts.
You can expect to hear a little bit more about this, but at this time, I'm calling attention to it. I have
received several emails from individuals, but I have also received letters from the Colorado School of
Mines, NREL, the City of Golden. And I have seen letters from Coalition of Boulder Interests and Arvada.
And they all indicate that the GS-Line is an important service.
And I would also like to point out that Arvada has built a park and ride around the GS service. And it has
been discontinued. The City of Golden has constructed, as part of their Complete Streets Program, bus
parking for the GS-Line. And it appears, to me, that NREL and Mines are perfect transit partners.
So I would like to have a meeting of these folks to consider the GS-Line reinstatement. But again, I
appreciate it's a complex problem. And I look forward to hearing about this.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you, Director Sloan. I would ask that the letters that you're in receipt of-- it will
be fantastic if you could share those letters with us so we can actually put it into the Board report as far as
requests for services for this September service change. So it'd be great if you could supply us with
those.
And with that, I haven't received a lot of requests coming from the GS. But, of course, like I said, we are in
this process and we are still gathering information from the public and from stakeholders as we go
through this. However, it should be noted that the GS, upon the time that we actually canceled that
service, was along with the EV and CB routes.
And of those, it had the-- I want to say, it had the lowest ridership. We even had a trip that had one
person on it. And with that, I will say that, again, I would like to hear directly from or receive the letters that
you have from the School of Mines, City of Golden, and if you have any communication from NREL and
the Fed Center. So thank you.
MARJORIE SLOAN: I do. And I will send them directly to you, but I also forwarded them to the service
change email.
JESSIE CARTER: Oh, great, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Sloan and Mr. Carter. Director Tisdale, you are still in my upper
left-hand corner because your hand is up. Do you have an additional question?
DOUG TISDALE: No, I do not, Madam Chair. But I do have an inability lower it because every time I
hover over that [AUDIO OUT]. The mute and unmute button comes up and interferes with that. So I'm
working on it.

KATE WILLIAMS: So we'll just leave you there for now. The next person then, in the order, would be
Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. Apologies if I've jumped any order or anything like that.
Thank you. I'll be quick. Mr. Carter, thank you for the presentation and going through these.
Just a real quick question. Given that we're doing a lot of restoration and going back to some previous
schedules for our customers, if they're going online looking at the service changes, is there a way for
them to look-- when we say things like going back to a previous schedule or reinstating a previous
schedule, is there a way for them to access exactly what that schedule means?
JESSIE CARTER: Director Davidson, that's an excellent point and an excellent question. At this point,
yes, you could if know how to use our website well, which I have to admit, I'm not the best user of our
website. But you can go back and look at the pre COVID schedules.
A lot of our customers do have former public timetables of the services that they use as well. So I think
what I'm hoping to hear through the public hearing process are questions. And we are getting lots of
questions coming from former users where I'm hoping to get even more input from them, as we make the
choices to which trip has the greater amount of likelihood that it will be well utilized.
So right now, the proposals themselves are a little vague. They will become less vague as we make our
final recommendations. And again, we're using the customer input to inform the decisions as to how the
schedule should be formed.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Wonderful, that's awesome. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Davidson and Mr. Carter. I believe, Erik, that on the front page of
the RTD website there is a folded map. And my guess is that most of the routes-- so you click on that map
and you can scroll right down and see your house or your constituents house and the closest routes.
And then if you click on the bus there, it will take you further down to show you what the routes are. And
you can click on that and it'll give you the route schedule. That's right on the front page in the top banner.
And I would guess that most of those schedules up there are the pre COVID schedules, although I can't
swear to that.
But that is certainly a good place to go and see schedules. Buses, trains-- it's all there. If you need further
help with that, I'd be happy to help you with that offline.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you. There are some historics that aren't lining up. I'll take it offline. Thank
you.

KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Lewis, you are now in the upper left-hand corner.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you to the staff for putting this information
together. I actually have a few questions. So there are some services-- so I was contacted about the
100L, but I'm not asking about that. But I just wanted to give an example.
There are some services that were discontinued, at least, on a temporary basis. And there might be-there may be a chance that those aren't going to return. And so I'm curious as to how we are
communicating agency-wide on what is coming and what may not be coming back? Because I'd like to be
able to share that with my constituents.
JESSIE CARTER: OK, thank you for that suggestion. And you're right, it's hard to keep up with both the
COVID change and the changes that occurred in May 2020. It's almost like we need a refresher as to
what was decided May 20, as far as routes that were discontinued.
Because as you may remember, we were in a situation which we were discontinuing service. And I want
to say, it was a pretty sizable change. I remember doing 20 public hearings for May 20th. And we
probably need to put together some form of information that says these routes were permanently
discontinued and these are the routes that were discontinued by COVID, but are expected to return. So
thank you for that suggestion.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, thank you. That would just be really helpful, that delineation. So I really
appreciate your willingness to do that. And then, Jessie, correct me if I'm wrong. Do we do we typically
make these changes in September? Or does that happen in August? For some reason I'm thinking
August, but the paperwork says September.
JESSIE CARTER: You're not-- normally, yes. But it should be-- according to the CBA, the collective
bargaining agreement that we have between ATU 1001 and RTD, the actual date of the change in fall is
actually September. We normally do it in August because we have the flexibility of moving two weeks
back or two weeks ahead.
We normally do it in August to take care of the-- so we don't have to do as many school trips on special
service order. So we make it [INAUDIBLE]. So that's why we do it in August. But this time it's in
September.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Jessie. I appreciate that. And then the rest of my questions are actually for
Pauletta. So I'll give you a heads up, Pauletta, that a few questions are going to come to you.
I wanted to clarify, with the listening sessions from April 15th through May 14th, if I'm looking at this
package here, on packet page six, that was the first step in this expanded engagement process lifecycle?
Is that correct?

PAULETTA TONILAS: That's correct-- for the one that's for the September service change-- yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And then the proposed-- are the public hearings-- that step are the three meetings
that you cited for June and July?
DOUG TISDALE: Correct. So we have the three meetings set for June 28th, July 1st, and July 7th.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Is that the step in the engagement process?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes, it's the public hearing process, specifically. So it's once we take the draft
service plan to the Board, then we open it up for public input. That's these three meetings that will happen
June 28th, July 1st, and July 7th.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm sorry, my internet connection kind of got a bit unstable. I missed that answer. I'm
very sorry.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Not a problem. So the meetings that happened in April-May were to inform the
process that is the service plan that is the draft plan that will now be released to the public hearing
process, where we can have widespread public input. And those are the meetings June 28th, July 1st,
July 7th.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, that makes sense. So that is in this engagement process. I'm just trying to make
sure I know where we are in this step. We're on the fourth step of this life cycle? Or those dates would be
in the fourth step of that life cycle?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Of course, yes, you've got that right.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And when folks are attending, are we collecting any demographic data? Like
anything-- who they are, their age, their sex, their race, their income, what route they are taking-- any of
that?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes, Director, no-- Yes, I hear you. And no, we don't do that. So sorry about that
kind of bizarre depiction. But we don't collect that kind of information in the listening sessions or in the
public hearing process. So that hasn't been part of our process to this point.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And then in this process, specifically as it relates to outreach, how are you-- what's
the metric that you all are using to measure success? So I'll stop there.
PAULETTA TONILAS: So for the new process that we put into place, which was more of the precursor to
the draft service plan-- so that new process of the stakeholder listening sessions, what we've wanted to
see is how many people are participating with us, of the folks that we invite to those meetings. And the
value that the feedback we get from them in helping to inform those service changes. We don't have a

specific measurement on that that's tracking how many comments about the P or how many comments
about specific routes.
But what's been helpful to the team, and I would ask Jessie to weigh in if you would have anything more,
is the expansive comments that we're getting in many different categories, I think, are helping the staff to
look at things across the board. That maybe there are certain elements or dynamics of things happening
in a community that the staff can then say, ah, that's interesting. And that helping to inform the changes
that we bring to you. Now, I did hear Mr. Carter earlier give us some specific examples of things with
specific routes that then they did actually make those things happen in this draft plan. So Mr. Carter, you
might be able to give some other feedback.
JESSIE CARTER: Sure, thanks Pauletta. One of the things that we look for is, of course, in any type of
engagement is how much communication is stirred up. It's not just the meeting itself, but the
conversations that happen before and after that.
So to give you an example, I actually-- I believe our stakeholder process this time around-- Pauletta, you
might remember that we had a meeting with DPS towards the end of January, or I want to say, early
February. In that meeting, we learned a little bit more about their plans of returning to school. And we
were able to have some conversations about some of the stressors that impact, actually, DPS' Yellow
Bus program, that kind of mirrored the problems or challenges that we share. So we were able to have a
really good conversation with them and get a better idea or a better understanding and actually impact
some of the decisions that they were making about bell times, which, of course, is something that we deal
with year-to-year.
Also, as far as the stakeholder process, we ended up having a number of conversations with, again, not
just the singular stakeholders representing the municipality of Boulder, but Boulder Valley School District,
along with Boulder County, and the CU Boulder campus. So in those conversations we learned about
their extra sized freshman class having been impacted by COVID. So through those conversations, we
learned about their plans of return to work and return to school.
So there's a lot of information that's coming in from the stakeholders that's value add to what we normally
hear in our customer input. What I'm hoping to hear is even more coming from the customers, as they
become a little more curious about their particular routes, if they have already been mentioned or were
not mentioned in the proposals for September. So I'm hoping that helps answer the question.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It does. I have one follow up. So once folks convene in these meetings, is there a
survey, or an assessment, or any input, or debrief that we might collect from folks to gauge the
usefulness or if there's-- how they might have found out about the meeting? Things that might help-might inform us on reaching out to a broader set of our audience-- our potential ridership.

PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, Director, that's a great question. This whole process-- since we had the
pandemic, actually, we've had to try things that we've never tried before. So we went into virtual meetings
with the attitude that we were going to adjust things as we needed to. And we did do that.
And so it's the same with the listening sessions we've done with stakeholders. We've massaged a few
things as it relates to some of the stakeholders that we added to the mix. And yet, that's something we're
open to. It's part of what we do after each one of these processes is we take a look at this went really
well, or these were times that we held meetings that were successful where we got more people. This,
not so much-- and so we adjust that.
What we have learned is that doing a noontime virtual meeting, for instance, and still doing some evening
sessions, works well because people like to go to these things at different times. And so we have
adjusted our schedule for those. We'll continue to do so. Your idea about a survey, I think, is an
interesting one. And it's something that we could look at pursuing.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I think at minimum, it might be interesting for us to just know where people-- how
people heard about the meeting, and if the meeting is useful. I think, at bare minimum, that's two
questions. But I will let you all chew on that. And we can have the conversation at a later date.
I do wonder, in terms of metrics, I don't know the specific number, in terms of ridership, but looking at 100
attendees, I think, oh my gosh, there's so many folks within our region. And we're able to connect with
100 people. Is there a way that we might be able to create a metric that's based on the number of
potential folks that we might reach?
And I don't know what that percentage might be. I'm just spit balling this. And so I'm happy to hear from
you. I see General Manager Johnson so-- bring it to me.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, so I would just like to say, as it relates to key performance metrics and
activities associated with such, I know it's a favorite topic of everyone as we talk about strategic planning.
But basically, as we talk about activities, there are the things that we are working on in earnest, as we
create a scorecard so we can ascertain the activities of which we are doing are yielding some success.
Hence the success outcomes you identified.
So when we look at the population of which we're trying to attract, basically, looking at the universe
holistically and discerning what would constitute success relative to the participation, what we're setting
as a baseline to ensure that we are garnering a level of information that would enable us to make
informed decisions about the service delivery models. And that's something we're working through now.
So I appreciate the comment put forward. And there's work that's being done with Ms. Tonilas' group as
we talk about this, as well. Thank you.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Sounds great, thank you so much. And happy to hear from any one else if you wanted
to add to that, but that is sufficient if not. Well, thank you so much. I really appreciate it. I appreciate the
work in this. And I appreciate you all taking this feedback.
And the last thing that I will say, at least in my mind, the most controversial thing what we do is get rid of
routes. And so, for me-- I mean, at least in my district, it gets pretty messy. And so for me, to see 100
participants show up when we have really big changes, it begs the question, at least for me, is are there
other things that we might do to get people to know what's happening within the district?
Or are they just completely disengaged? Maybe that's the question. But it's not a question, it's more of a
comment. And I am done, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. That was a good discussion. And I think everybody agrees.
Thank you, Ms. Tonilas. I see Director Guissinger—
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Madam Chair. And yes, I do agree with some of Director Lewis'
comments. I think it would be great if we can drum up more comment. Although in my area, I guess
they're pretty attentive, generally.
Thanks, Jessie, and Michael, and to your team. I'll add my thanks about Natalie in here too for all your
hard work and for your attention to the fact that CU, which is a huge employer and student body is
bringing everybody back. That is important.
You mentioned, I think-- maybe Michael mentioned or one of you mentioned that school tripper routes
may be added. Did I understand that correctly that there will be additional routes or runs added on the
school tripper runs? And when would those be added? And how would we know and all of that?
JESSIE CARTER: Director Guissinger, yes, you did hear that correctly. The way that we have done it in
the past, when we have September run boards, is we have to do it via a special service order. So that's
kind of a-- that's the reason why I mentioned it is because it's not listed in the proposals just yet.
But we will have to conduct those on special service orders, with the exception of the 204 and the 206,
which are included in the proposal. And the reason why they are included in the proposal is because of
our past experience with some of the special service orders and providing the service there. We're
attempting to cure some of the variability in schedule by making sure that those are voted runs.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So there would be others-- I think the 209 will might be a school tripper route. Are
there others that would be added back in as you get closer to school, Jessie? Or what's the process
there?
JESSIE CARTER: So right around the time that the school period starts, that's actually latter August, we
would be adding school trippers back in. Those would include routes like the 1W in the Denver area, the

72W as well. We're looking at trying to provide service there. That's in, I want to say, the Westminster
area. And others-- there's a whole list of what we characterize as our school trips that basically provide
additional service so that our regular route that runs adjacent to that school doesn't overcrowd.
So where we have duplicative service, we won't have the school trippers. But in areas where we know
that the capacity of the fixed route service going by it will be challenged, we will be providing those school
trippers. And in the next set of proposals, as we bring forward the recommended action, we'll include
more information regarding the school trippers.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, thanks. And I think I saw in response to a constituent that you would be
watching the ridership on the Flatiron Flyer. Do we have the capacity to add service between run boards if
it looks like the FF1 is getting huge capacity-- a lot of ridership?
JESSIE CARTER: Usually, if we have trips that are having to start pass ups-- if we have a northern extra
and with the Flatiron Flyer, we operate what's called a Flatiron Flyer Loop extra. So I would say, yes, in a
sense. We would rather make sure that we schedule enough service. And right now looking at the current
capacity on that Flatiron Flyer, it's going to take a pretty big swing before we're really challenged, as far
as capacity on that line.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, thank you. I have some other specific questions that I probably would like to
get in touch with you and Natalie Hendlose to go over. One I have is just the process of the meetings and
all-- for instance, if people who have been commenting all along-- Heather Wood-- I know you and I have
received a number of comments. And my understanding is that BBSD has worked out the restroom
issues for the drivers. I'm still hearing from people. Should they be coming to this public meeting? I guess
you want to continue—
JESSIE CARTER: Right, they should be coming to it because BBSD, while they may have allowed for our
operators to use their facility, BBSD also has moved their school routes out from the area, as well, which
might increase demand. So that's something we learned in talking to them through the stakeholder
process. So yes, I would appreciate, even direct communication, with your constituents that have
requests.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you so much.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. OK, I have an issue now because I thought Director
Dishell was next, but Director Lewis shows up in the left-hand corner of my screen. So I'm going to call on
her based on the Zoom rules.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Dishell can go ahead. It's my second time.

KATE WILLIAMS: You guys are making me nuts. Director Dishell-- Thank you.
ROBBY DISHELL: Thank you so much, everyone, for the work on this. I want to really dive in a little bit
deeper on the school issue. And as far as the ability to vote-- and how that works with the union. Just
because, we do have a substantial number of students, whether they use a school route or not, who rely
on our services, not only to get their education, but to get two meals a day for some of our most impacted
populations.
And is there-- I just want to make sure that those routes will not only adequately staffed, but that they're
there not just for the first day of school, but when kids are able to walk-in registration, which happened in
early August to register for classes. And for some kids, get their uniforms. And for some kids get their
RTD passes, if their school provides them to support them.
And so what does it mean for it to be a special run? I believe is what you said-- versus an actual run and
making sure that those routes are staffed so that our kids can learn, that they can be well-fed-- because
they don't all just take the school run. A lot of them-- I sit with them on the 0 or on other routes, who take
our normal rules because of how Denver Public Schools and school districts across the state are with our
choice system.
JESSIE CARTER: Director Dishell, that's a great question. So when I say special service order, it's
basically identifying the start of a trip. And it is a regularly scheduled trip, but it's provided not necessarily
on the current written schedule. It's likely to be picked up with the September service change.
But prior to the September change going into service, that trip, it would be offered via the special service
order, which basically gives an operator the information they need to provide that particular trip. So it's a
regularly set time of a trip. And it may line up perfectly with the September service change trip. But it's
provided during the summer run board.
ROBBY DISHELL: Historically, how well-- you said likely. Historically, what percentage of those trips get
picked up? If you happen to know off the top of your head. Which you know a lot, but you might not—
JESSIE CARTER: I don't know that much. I've got some hobbies and I sleep, as well. Well, in looking at-if you're asking about the performance of special service orders, there's a high percentage of times that
they actually operate.
Of course, because they're operated off of the extra board and not necessarily on a voted piece of work,
there can be some challenges due to absenteeism in providing the trips. So that's where they're-- they're
less desirable than something that has been voted, but they are something that we are attempting to do
on a regular scheduled basis.

ROBBY DISHELL: Well, I guess I would just-- if we can, encourage us to maybe flex those two weeks into
August for our kids to know that they can get to school and know that they can get the food that they
need.
JESSIE CARTER: Understand, understood—
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I just had one follow up. Thank you, Madam Chair. For Pauletta-- you mentioned that
the next round of meetings for June and July were being advertised on our website. And I was curious as
to the other places in which we were communicating that out?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you. So yes, on the website and we'll be doing social media, as well as a
couple of different news releases. We also already have pushed it out in some of our electronic
newsletters. And we'll continue to do that over the next couple of weeks.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Have you all ever-- I'm going to say it out loud, but it's weird saying it because these
are happening via Zoom, but I'm going to ask anyway. Considered the reverse calls that we do for the
telephone town halls to get folks to participate? Which is kind of weird because you're telling them to get
off the phone and get onto Zoom.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, so what you're talking about with the robocalls, if you will, where we let
people know that we're going to be doing telephone town halls the next night. And then we call them and
say, hey, hang on the line and participate with us. That is specific to the telephone architecture that we
use for the telephone town hall meetings. That isn't something that we utilize through Teams or through
Zoom.
I'm not aware of an element of that within the technology that would allow us to do that. I'm sure it's
something we could look at. We have some IT people on the line so they hear this. So maybe we can talk
offline tomorrow about that. I like the idea.
I think it would be a little more unwieldy given the fact that this is usually an opt in and people do this by
choice to join our meetings. And so to call out to people through some kind of a robo email or something
might be a little more difficult, but it does bring up an interesting topic that we can look at what kind of
technology is like that. I would say, one of the ways that we communicate also about these meetings and
other information that we think is important is utilizing our city, and county, and regional communications
partners. They then communicate on our behalf through their channels. And so that's something out there
that we utilize as well.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. That's it, Madam Chair. Thank you for the second round.

KATE WILLIAMS: No problem. There's a Director who didn't talk, that would be me. I'd really like to thank
Jessie, and Michael Ford, and everybody involved in this process for all of the work and the thought that
they put into it. I know it's hard when there are 15 directors, each of whom is looking for service in the
area in which they are elected.
I have many riders in my district A, also, that are excited about any return to service. The last two times
that I was on an RTD vehicle in the last couple of weeks they were packed-- just FYI. So that's great-- we
are all glad to see that.
And we have the proverbial chicken and egg situation where do we have riders? Do we have routes? We
don't have routes because we don't have riders. And we don't have riders because we don't have routes.
And I really, really appreciate the thought that you all are putting into this.
Pauletta, I took those links that we got and that are now on the website, and sent them out to everybody
in my contact. I sent them to Dotty. I sent them to Dr. Cog. I sent them to all of LCCs and some of the
TMAs and asked that they be distributed. So I sent them to a number of the homeless organizations that
are in my district, to the Rhinos. So I think that we will have participation to some degree.
And I just wanted to let you know that we are always happy to share that information. I'm sure the rest of
the directors are all doing the same thing because we want to hear what our constituents have to say.
That's what this is all about.
So thank you all. I do not see any other hands up on this discussion. Last chance-- got one more that just
occurred to you? No-- OK. So I'm going to end this discussion.
In the next part of our meeting tonight is other matters. And I'm wondering if Director Cook-- just popped
up in my left-hand corner-- you would like to speak under other matters.
SHELLEY COOK: I do Madam Chair, and thank you very much. And thanks, everybody, for the good
questions in the last discussion item. I wanted to tell you about a meeting I went to a week ago.
It was at 2160 South Broadway. And it was a breakfast meeting. So I needed to be there at rush hour.
And to get there by car I would be taking three highways, and an arterial, and then turning on Broadway,
and pulling in and parking. But I opted to take trains and get down there. And I made it there in 50
minutes from the moment I walked onto a train. It was remarkable. So my first-- I was first struck by the
idea of just bravo, our system. I mean, bravo the people who made it happen.
And the second thing was, the importance and freedom that being comfortable with transferring meant for
me. In addition to it requiring all those changes, exits, and merging, and stuff like that in a car, it required
three trains. And I could have made it a bus as well.

So two or three transfers in order to make it there in a time frame that was better than a car at that time of
day. And competitive with it at other times a day. So I just wanted to express appreciation too for the
travel training that our communications people do, and that our TMAs, and Dr. Mack, and others do.
Because I think getting people comfortable with a transfer makes the system work better for them in many
ways. So just wanted to say that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Cook. I appreciate that. And also the work that has gone into our
apps, which we have continued to update. The paratransit apps, these days, are just really helping people
know where their ride is and when they can get on it. And our website and our handheld apps-- and those
of many of our partners-- on the Lyft app and on the Uber app-- it's great to help people get around.
That's what we're all about. We're helping people get where they want to go when they want to go there.
Anybody else under other matters? Hearing nothing, our next meeting date is July 13, 2021, same time,
same bat channel. We'll be here on Zoom. And we are adjourned at 7:11 PM.
I'm going to ask for a four minute comfort break. And we do four minutes and come back to the next
meeting at 7:15? Direct Catlin, with that work for you? Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, good
night.

