2025-01-07
Special Board Meeting
PEGGY CATLIN: Good evening. I will now call the Tuesday, January 7 Special Board Meeting to order.
We are convened as of 5:30 PM Mountain Standard Time. And as the Board's current First Vice Chair, I
will serve as the presiding officer this evening and through the election of the Board Officers.
After the election of the Board Officers, I will turn the meeting over to the newly elected Board President,
or Board Chair. With that note, I would respectfully ask everyone to remain muted unless you are
recognized to speak. Thank you all for joining us this evening.
As the Board has moved to in-person meetings for our monthly gatherings, please note that the default is
for committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors, to be held remotely via Zoom. Committee
meetings will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of
the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Please visit RTD-denver.com.
And a live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
During tonight's meeting, we are also providing Communication Access Real-time Translation, also
known as CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board
Office at RTD.BoardOffice@rtd-denver.com. And a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript
can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like to access to a live transcript of
this meeting in Spanish.
Our first order of business is the installation of our recently elected and reelected Board Members. I am
pleased to welcome the honorable Judge Frederick Martinez, who will officiate for us and will administer
the oath of office to the incoming directors. While judge Martinez has retired from the bench, we are very
grateful for his participation in tonight's ceremonies.
Judge Martinez graduated from the University of Colorado School of Law. Judge Martinez joined the
State of Colorado Public defender's office, before later becoming a partner and a litigator in a Denverbased law firm for 20 years. In 2014, Judge Martinez was appointed by Governor Hickenlooper as a
district court judge for the 18th judicial district, where he served until 2023. He currently serves as a
member of staff of arbiters at the Judicial Arbiter Group, JAG.
In a moment, I will ask all directors who were elected or reelected during the 2024 general election to
stand and move to the center of the room. For our in-person and remote attendees, please note that the
swearing in will take a few moments, as we need to get each director to sign their Oath of Office and take
an opportunity for photos.
With that, I'd like to invite our newly elected directors and ask them to move to the center of the room.
Judge Martinez, I will now turn the proceedings over to you. Please proceed when you are ready. Thank
you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: So, the new directors to line up right here. You'll take your oath simultaneously,
verbally, and then we'll have individual oaths for you to sign once you've already--

This is a big day. Congratulations. If you would, raise your right hand. And there's a few things that you
will have to just say individually, such as your name, your address, and your district. So I, name.
[RECITING SPEECH]

JUDGE MARTINEZ: Do solemnly swear or affirm.
ALL: Do solemnly swear or affirm.

JUDGE MARTINEZ: That I am an elector.
ALL: That I'm an elector.
JUDGE MARTINEZ: Who resides at.
[RECITING SPEECH]
State your address.
[RECITING SPEECH]

All together now. Which is within the Regional Transportation District.
[RECITING SPEECH]
And within director district.
[RECITING SPEECH]

The city and County of Denver from which I was elected.
SPEAKER 1: In the city and county of Denver, Aurora.
JUDGE MARTINEZ: Aurora, or whatever city that may be.
[RECITING SPEECH]
That I will support the Constitution of the United States.
ALL: That I will support the Constitution of the United States.
JUDGE MARTINEZ: And of the state of Colorado.

ALL: And of the state of Colorado.
JUDGE MARTINEZ: And that I will faithfully perform.
ALL: And that I will faithfully perform.
JUDGE MARTINEZ: The duties of the Office of Director.
ALL: The duties of the Office of Director.
JUDGE MARTINEZ: Of the Regional Transportation District.
ALL: Of the Regional Transportation District.
JUDGE MARTINEZ: To which I have been elected.
ALL: To which I have been elected.
JUDGE MARTINEZ: Congratulations.
ALL: Thank you.
[CHEERING, APPLAUSE]

SPEAKER 2: Congrats. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: So I will distribute the oath to your location where you're sitting. But if anybody has
any family here that they would like to-[AUDIO OUT]

PEGGY CATLIN: Well, it looks like we're all done. Congratulations, Directors. And thank you once again,
Judge Martinez, for presiding over this Oath of Office. We very much appreciate it. I will now call the roll.
Director Benker?
KAREN BENKER: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Turn on your microphone.
KAREN BENKER: Present.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Buzek?

VINCE BUZEK: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: I am Peggy Catlin, and I am here. Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Present.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Gutschenritter? Excuse me.
CHRISTOPHER GUTSCHENRITTER: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Gutschenritter. I practiced. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I am here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Harwick?
CHRISTOPHER GUTSCHENRITTER: I am also here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Larsen?
MATT LARSEN: I'm here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I'm here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director O'Keefe?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: I'm here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Paglieri?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Present.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I'm here.
PEGGY CATLIN: And Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
PEGGY CATLIN: For the record, with 15 present, both in person and virtually, we have a quorum. Next is
our public participation period, which is open to anyone who would like to address the Board. As we have
both in-person and remote attendees, in person comments will go first, followed by those who are
participating remotely.

For those attending in person, please come up to the podium when your name is called. If you have not
already signed up to speak and would like to do so, please approach the podium when I call for any
additional speakers. For those attending virtually, if you wish to speak and have not already done so,
please raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to
speak. If you are dialed in, press star 6 to toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing. If any speaker has documentation or
reference materials for the Board, or if any member of the public would like to submit written comments,
please email those materials to the Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. During this time, the
Board will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would like to be contacted
regarding your public comment, please email the Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
Speakers should begin their marks by stating their names, and they will have up to three minutes to
provide their comments. The first speaker that is signed up to speak is Mr. Lance Longenbohn. Mr.
Longenbohn, would you please come up to the podium? State your name and then you may proceed.
LANCE LONGENBOHN: Good evening and congratulations. I'm Lance Longenbohn, President of ATU
1001. I'm going to speak a little louder because I know sitting back there, I often have a hard time
hearing, and I want everyone to hear me.
This is RTD's highly skilled and engaged workforce. They're here to let you see the faces of the people
that sacrifice for RTD and its customers every day. These are the employees who you honor with your
statement of appreciation, who are the lifeblood of the agency, who do extraordinary things every day,
who deliver transit excellence to the community, and who do all of this during stressful moments.
They're here because they'd like you to hear from them. They'd like to tell you about every day on the job,
doing the things that we say we appreciate them for. They'd like to tell you about cleaning buses with
needles and drugs.
They'd like to tell you about fixing buses with dangerous equipment. They'd like to tell you about not
having enough time to go to the bathroom. They'd like to tell you about being forced to work six days a
week for years.
They'd like to tell you about working through a pandemic and then being threatened with layoffs. They'd
like to tell you about living paycheck to paycheck. They'd like to tell you about everyday going home from
work.
And they'd like to tell you about their ATU 587 brother, Shawn Yim, who didn't get to go home from work
because he was stabbed to death by one of the passengers on his bus. They'd like to tell you a lot. But
they know that you have business to conduct and they're not here to be disruptive.
So they'll just tell you that your highly skilled work force is still here, waiting for you to honor your
statement of appreciation by taking action to demonstrate your gratitude, commitment, and support of
them, the dedicated servants of the agency.
[CHEERING, APPLAUSE]

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Longenbohn. We appreciate your comments, and we also appreciate all
of you who have shown up this evening in support of your fellow workers and for all the good work you
do. So we very much appreciate it. And when we acknowledge you on a monthly basis, it is certainly
heartfelt. So thank you for coming tonight. Our next speaker is James Flattum.
JAMES FLATTUM: Hi there. Oh, my name is James Flattum. Thank you for the opportunity to speak
tonight.
I'm speaking as a transit advocate and E-line rider. I just want to say, first of all, huge congratulations to
all of the new RTD Board members. And to the returning RTD Board members, I want to offer a heartfelt
thank you.
There are a lot of challenges that RTD faces right now. And I think you can see by a lot of the needs that
are represented in this room and the needs that are not, this is going to be a huge year. So thank you for
doing this.
I know that this is a incredibly difficult job. We, as advocates, don't always make it very easy for you. So
thank you for listening to us. Thank you for listening to RTD staff. Thank you for listening to riders and
let's have a hell of a 2025. Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Flattum. Board Office Executive Manager Jack Kroll, has anyone raised
their virtual hand?
JACK KROLL: At this time, Director Catlin, I do not see anyone present who has joined via Zoom that has
raised their hand in desire of providing public comment.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Were there any emailed comments received for today's meeting?
JACK KROLL: Yes. And before I announced the letters that were received via email, I do want to note,
Director Catlin, that we may have some in-person attendees who may wish to also provide public
comment that did not sign up. And so if there are folks that are here that want to provide public comment,
the standard procedure is that you will line up over there behind the podium and we will get to you as
soon as I read out these email comments that we received.
So the Board did receive three emailed comments in advance of tonight's meeting. One was in relation to
the I-25 and Broadway Station pedestrian path you have heard about previously. Another was in relation
to comments regarding the collective bargaining agreement negotiations with ATU. And the third, I am
unfortunately blanking on at this moment.
Let me see. Ah, yes. The Denver mayor's office received a letter regarding the Federal Boulevard BRT
project that they forwarded to the Board's Office for response. To clarify, many of the things contained in
that letter don't necessarily fall under the auspices of RTD because the question was about the roadway
design and construction. Obviously, you all will-- RTD will run the buses on top of that, but does not
necessarily influence directly the roadway construction there.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. I think we can wait a moment to see if anyone would like to queue
up at the podium to speak.

JACK KROLL: Yeah. We have Keith Brooks here. But if there's anyone else, please, visibly make your
way over to the podium. And I see we have another gentleman here, too.
SPEAKER 3: Sure. I just want to add-- I don't need to say this, is not only were we mandated for six days,
I can't tell you how many times I missed my twin daughters birthday, including the graduation party that I
paid for. Because I have never been late to work.
I've never taken an occurrence. I have been a true patron of RTD. And I think a lot of these people
sacrificed a lot that maybe you take for granted. That's all I want to say. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for your comments. Sir, please state your name, and you'll have up to three
minutes to speak.
KEITH BROOKS: Hello. For all the new faces, I'm Keith Brooks. New Board, who dis? So 2025 is here.
And I'd like to make the theme of this comment opportunities.
There's a lot of things that RTD is facing right now that could be described as challenges or liabilities. But
at least for tonight, I'd like to reframe as opportunities. We have a legislative session coming up, which,
depending on who tries to pull what, could be a threat. But it could also be a real opportunity.
We have the next iteration of the 10-year plan since the 2016 plan is coming up. That is a real
opportunity. We can even view things like every absence from the C-suite all the way down to bus
operators and rail operators, both as a liability, but I would say tonight, as an opportunity.
Each one is a chance for a new view, a new perspective, and a new member of the RTD team. I look
forward to commenting for the foreseeable future for all of you new ones, and I'm looking forward to a
very productive and very uplifting lifting 2025. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Brooks.
[APPLAUSE]
FRANKELLE CHRISTIAN: Good evening and congratulations to all the new Board directors and to our
CEO, Ms. Johnson. My name is Frankelle Christian and I work out of East Metro. I am a bus operator.
And I just wanted to say, on behalf of myself and the operators, we are being exposed to illegal drugs on
the buses. I have been exposed four times.
We stand out in all types of weather, waiting to relieve another driver so they can go home. And I just
wanted you guys to take that into consideration. We are the frontline of RTD. We are the face of RTD.
When everybody think of RTD, they think of us.
When they go through something with RTD, whether it's them trying to get, back in the day, the equal
passes, or day passes, or whatever they're trying to get and they're frustrated, we are the ones that they
vent to. When they have a rough day at work or at home, we are the ones that they've been to. A lot of
times we are doctors, lawyers, nurses.
I mean, we are everything in that seat. And though we all love doing what we do, we just want you guys
to take that into consideration. This economy has gotten hard and it's already stressful enough for us out
there. And if you take it into consideration, we would greatly appreciate it. Thank you.

[APPLAUSE]

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for your comments. Are there any others who would like to address the
Board this evening? Please come to the podium and state your name.
RENEE VIGSTAMPS: Good evening and welcome to RTD.
[LAUGHTER]
Thank you. The first thing I really have to say, I would be remiss if I didn't come up here. Debra Johnson,
I'm Renee Vigstamps. Since the beginning of Deborah coming here, she has communicated with me
about different things within the operation.
Our bathrooms, any need I had, even my personal needs. I've been dealing with cancer, and tongue
cancer. And I've watched RTD take me through all that. They held my hand. This is my family.
You are now our family. We elected you to support us, so that is what we expect. I don't want to see
anything less than what I have already been given. That would be a slap in my face.
We are still-- I have numerous degrees. Still got some stuff coming. My mother was actually part of Brown
versus the Board of Education. She was that child in Wilmington, Delaware.
Transportation means everything to me. When I'm out there on Colfax, which I've been since I got hired,
it's been 11 years. I've been dedicated to that family.
They are people. We are people. We're not just here to do 9:00 to 5:00. We're out here to get that job
done, to do that work for the people. So I just want to thank you, Deborah, for holding my hand. I want to
thank my family for holding my hand. I don't want to see our benefits do anything less than they have
already done, because otherwise, I probably can't survive.
I'm still dealing with what I'm dealing with. And I can honestly say my last treatment was December the
26th, my last CAT scan. And there is no cure for lung cancer. They don't see the cancer anymore. So I
thank you. And I thank RTD.
[APPLAUSE]

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And thank you for your continued service, despite some of your challenges.
We appreciate it. Are there any others?
OK. With no other participants in the queue, we will close the public participation period at this time. Now
as stated in the Board bylaws, in the first official meeting of the year, the Board will elect the executive
committee officers, which are our Chair, our First Vice Chair, our Second Vice Chair, Treasurer, and
Secretary.
You have all received a memo defining the process by which we will elect our executive committee
officers for 2025. We will begin with the position of chair and we'll work our way through this process for

all of the executive committee offices. Those Board members who nominate candidates, as well as those
seconding nominations, if any, and any other speakers will have up to three minutes to speak regarding
the candidates for each position.
For each office, I will ask for nominations. When there are no additional nominations, the nomination
phase will close and a call will be made for a vote utilizing paper ballots that Mr. Kroll will distribute and
later collect. We do have someone remote, and that participant can text their vote to general Counsel
Melanie Snyder, and she will subsequently fill out a paper ballot and put it in the mix with the rest of the
ballots to preserve anonymity.
After the paper ballots are collected, General Counsel Melanie Snyder, in coordination with two directors
chosen by me who are not candidates for the office in question, will serve as co-election monitors.
General Counsel Snyder and the chosen directors will tally the votes and general Counsel Snyder will
announce the name of the director who received at least eight votes.
If no candidate for a given office receives at least eight votes, we will repeat the voting process. If we
proceed into additional rounds of voting, Board Members who wish to speak further on a particular
candidate by providing new or additional information may do so at that time. Again, each speaker will be
allotted three minutes.
If only one director is nominated for a given office, the Board may proceed to approve the nominee by
acclamation, rather than using the voting system. As the Board's current Vice Chair, I will serve as the
presiding officer over all elections. And once all officer elections are complete, I'll turn the meeting over to
the newly elected Board Chair. Are there any objections or questions regarding this process?
OK. Seeing no further discussion, we'll move forward with the process as defined. At this time, we will
proceed to nominations for chair of the Board. Are there any nominations?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Madam Chair? Chair Catlin and Directors-- fellow Directors now, I'd like to nominate
Julien Bouquet for this very important role. Julien had the strange position of being one against the seven
new directors.
He was the only returning director on the ballot and he's done an excellent job bridging that group into
RTD. And I think he would be an incredible candidate and chair for 2025. And so with that, I nominate
Director Bouquet.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director O'Keeffe. Is there a second?
TROY WHITMORE: Madam Chair, I'd be pleased to second the nomination.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Are there any other nominations for chair? Seeing only
one nominee for the position of Chair, I would like to see if there is any objection to holding this election
by acclamation.
Seeing no objection, I'd like to call for the-- it says call for the vote, but I believe that we can just say we're
deciding by acclimation. All those in favor of the position of the Chair?
ALL: Aye.
PEGGY CATLIN: Perfect. Sorry for the clumsiness. Congratulations, rest of the crew.

[APPLAUSE]

So we don't have to appoint two directors to act as-- all right. So at this time, we're going to move on to
the nominations for first Vice Chair. Are there nominations?
TROY WHITMORE: Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: I am pleased to nominate Patrick O'Keefe to this position as First Vice Chair. Some
of us have not known him for a long time and he comes with a very impressive resume, which makes him
very fit for this position. Eight years working in Washington, DC, including six years on Capitol Hill for a
Colorado Congressman.
He helped secure original Southwest Corridor funding. 25 years-- he doesn't even look that old. 25 years
working in the infrastructure industry, including two decades in senior management at one of the largest
engineering and construction firms, and nearly five years running his own consulting firm, direct
experience managing the billion-dollar National Western Center construction project and working on
several additional projects, including projects at Denver International Airport, London 2012 Olympics, and
several large environmental projects, and also has served as a corporate Secretary and integrating
multiple acquisitions across several countries. So with that, I'm pleased to nominate Patrick O'Keefe for
first Vice Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Is there a second?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'll second that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Are there any other nominations for first Vice Chair?
Again, seeing only one nominee for the position of first Vice Chair, I would like to see if there's any
objection to holding this election by acclamation? Is that a yes, there's an objection? What? OK.
[LAUGHTER]
Thank you, Director Benker. So seeing no objection, I'd like to call for the vote. All those in favor of
director O'Keeffe for first Vice Chair, please signal by saying Aye.
ALL: Aye
PEGGY CATLIN: Congratulations.
[APPLAUSE]

It'll be trial by fire.
[LAUGHTER]

OK. Now I'd like to proceed to the nominations for Second Vice Chair. Is there a nomination?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, ma'am.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I'd like to nominate Director Whitmore for Second Vice Chair. Shall I go
ahead?
PEGGY CATLIN: Please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Get back to my notes here, sorry. Well, I'll start by saying that Troy Whitmore is the
definition of public service, in many ways, to his community. He's a former Thornton City Council member,
former Chair of the Metro North Chamber of Commerce and the Brighton Economic Development
Corporation. He's been Chair of the School District 27 Bond Advisory Commission and many other things.
I think he was elected Man of the Year or something by the Chamber in that area.
Yeah, that's right. And in the RTD Board, Troy and I had the opportunity to serve together as the liaison
with the Legislative Accountability Committee. He takes his work seriously. He did a great job.
He's also been Chair or Vice Chair of operations committees of various names for a number of years. He
was Board Treasurer and he will make a great Second Vice Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Is there a second?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I will second.
SPEAKER 5: I will second that.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Oh, I was first, sir.
[LAUGHTER]
SPEAKER 5: All right, JoyAnn. I'll third that then.
PEGGY CATLIN: All right. There is a second by JoyAnn Ruscha.
SPEAKER 5: You know she was just ready.
PEGGY CATLIN: She was just a hair ahead of you there.
SPEAKER 5: Yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: So thank you, Director Ruscha. Are there any other nominations for Second Vice
Chair? Well, this is going more quickly than I thought.
Seeing only one nominee for the position of Second Vice Chair, I'd like to see if there's any objection to
holding this election by acclamation. Seeing no objection, I'd like to call for a vote. All those in favor of
Director Whitmore for the position of Second Vice Chair, please signify by saying "Aye."

ALL: Aye.
PEGGY CATLIN: Congratulations, Director Whitmore.
[APPLAUSE]
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Three down, two to go. At this time, we'll proceed with nominations for Treasurer. Do I
hear a nomination?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I'd like to make a nomination.
PEGGY CATLIN: Please.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I'd like to nominate Director Karen Benker for Treasurer. Director Benker is an
experienced RTD Board member, having served for eight years, from 1992 to 2000, during which she
served as RTD Board Treasurer, the role that she is being nominated for tonight.
In addition, Director Benker served as budget director for the Colorado Department of Labor and Senior
Budget Analyst for Governor Romer. In short, Director Benker would enter the role of treasurer with a
wealth of direct professional experience that will enable her to excel in the role of Treasurer.
I have gotten to know Karen well over the past year as a candidate. And while we don't always agree, she
is thoughtful, kind, and collaborative. She will be an incredible asset on the executive committee.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Is there a second to that nomination of Director Benker?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I would like to second that, Madam Acting Chair. This is Director Ruscha.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Director Ruscha. Did you want to offer any comment or just a second?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I would like to second it. And I don't know if I could add anything better than director
Nicholson already has, but I do concur. She'd be a wonderful and extraordinary addition to our Executive
Committee, and I am looking forward to working with her in all regards. And I think that concludes our
nomination process for this-- or at least for this candidate.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Are there any other nominations for Treasurer? So I guess
seeing only one nominee for the position of Treasurer, I'd like to ask if there are any objections to voting
in favor of this director for-- I'm getting tongue tied-- by acclamation. Are there any objections? Please
signify your support by saying "aye."
ALL: Aye.
PEGGY CATLIN: Congratulations, Director Baker.

[APPLAUSE]

And finally, we will proceed to nominations for Secretary. Are there any nominations?
IAN HARWICK: I'd like to nominate Director Guzman. Michael served as the Secretary last year, and he
just did an outstanding job in that role. And he has continued to fight on behalf of RTD and all of the
battles that we had to fight last year.
He has got a strength of character, which is just so appreciated. His ability to stand with his other Board
members, build relationships, not just here, but in the community throughout the cities that he-- the city
that he represents, the cities that he doesn't represent, and throughout the state. He has done an
amazing job of building those relationships and I am overwhelmed by my friendship with him and I'm so
proud to nominate him as Secretary. And I hope you all will join me.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Harwick. Is there a second?
VINCE BUZEK: Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Buzek. I would second the nomination of Director Guzman. And I've had the
opportunity and the pleasure to see Michael really evolve and grow into the role as director and on the
Executive Committee. He puts himself out there, and he's always trying and working hard to improve.
He's involved with the American Public Transportation Association. He attended Harvard Kennedy
School's Senior Executive and State and Local Government. He works hard, and he's diligent, and
committed. I think he'd be a great addition to stay on the executive committee. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Buzek And you beat Director Guissinger to the punch on the
second, but she would like to add some comments.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I would briefly. There's a wealth of talent coming in here, but I would also second or
third Michael Guzman's nomination. I told Michael I consider him our most improved player, and that's
because he came in here and really worked hard to learn what he needed to learn and to contribute.
The Harvard School that Vince-- That Director Buzek referred to, he was in the company of the Speaker
of the Colorado house and a number of other leaders in the community. It was a real honor to be chosen.
He was also chosen among national people to be in the Latinos in Transit Leadership Academy, and I
would support this nomination. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Are there any other nominations?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Chair Catlin, I would like to nominate Chris Nicholson for the position. I want to note
that I think we are choosing from strength here. I note everything that was said about Michael, and I've
already learned a lot watching Director Guzman.

And so I want to acknowledge that this is a choice of strength, not one or the other-- or one over the
other. Chris was the first person to reach out to me after I announced my candidacy to about three people
on the planet, so I'm not sure how he figured it out.
But he came down to Littleton and walked through what he wanted to achieve on the Board. And what
struck me-- what struck me most about him was urgency for the right things. And if he talked about what
he wanted to do with his candidacy and if he was elected, what he'd do on the Board. And he's done that
with each and every one of the seven new directors.
For his family here, I just want to note that he really was a glue for disparate candidates. And he taught us
a lot about the district with the people that he was able to organize. And he spent an unbelievable, maybe
25 hours a day, reaching out and doing work, even though he faced the most competitive race among all
of us. And so with that, I wanted to nominate him for this role.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Director O'Keefe. Is there a second?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Madam Chair, may I second Director Nicholson's. candidacy, and may I say some
words, too?
PEGGY CATLIN: Absolutely, Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you. I just want to say that I echo everything that Director O'Keefe says as well,
and also agree with a lot of what Director Harwick said and the other directors. But Director Chris
Nicholson has really proven that he takes this very seriously. From the very beginning, he's coordinated
all the incoming directors. He's listened to us. He's treated it like a full-time job, and I can only imagine
that it'll continue this energy.
But most importantly, we share the same vision for RTD. He is dedicated to the cause, but also sees a
more promising future for RTD that I share with myself, and which motivated me to run. And so I think he
will be a great addition to the executive group. And I ask that you vote for him. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Paglieri. Are there any other nominations for Secretary? Since we
do have more than one candidate nominated for the Office of Secretary, I see Mr. Kroll is distributing the
paper ballots to the directors.
Now I feel like queen for a day. I get to pick the two people that are going to proctor this vote. I'm going to
ask Director Gut-- Gutschenritter? I was trying to get that right.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So you can say it again.
PEGGY CATLIN: Just so I can practice saying it. And also Director Larson, please, if you would do the
honor of helping to proctor these votes, over with Melanie Snyder. We'll give it a few minutes here. Thank
you. General Counsel Snyder, have you received a text from Director Ruscha?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, Madam Chair, I have.
PEGGY CATLIN: So you're-- thank you.
MELANIE SNYDER: You got the key.

[LAUGHTER]

[SIDE CONVERSATION]

PATRICK O'KEEFE: Chair. Chair Catlin? Chair Catlin? While they're going to count, I just wanted to note
that if you put "Gutschenritter" together with "O'Keeffe," all the consonants in his name and all the vowels
in my name, it makes a real name.
[LAUGHTER]

CHRISTOPHER GUTSCHENRITTER: I was going to say, I thought it was the whole alphabet. I was
wondering where you were going with that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Duly noted.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Wheel of Fortune take an hour.
PEGGY CATLIN: I don't know why that was such a struggle for me. My maiden name was four syllables
long.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

General Counsel Snyder, do we have a candidate who received eight votes?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. Having conferred with election monitors, Directors
Gutschenritter and Larsen, I can confirm that Director Nicholson has received at least eight votes and has
been elected to the position of Secretary.
PEGGY CATLIN: Congratulations, Director Nicholson.
[APPLAUSE]

OK. With that, I'd like to be the first to offer my congratulations to the 2025 Executive Committee. Just as
a recap, they will be comprised of the following directors. Chair Bouquet, First Vice Chair O'Keeffe,
Second Vice Chair Whitmore, Treasurer Benker, and Secretary Nicholson. Congratulations to all.
[APPLAUSE]

Well, that concludes my first opportunity as Chair of this Board. And I will now turn the proceedings over
to our newly elected chair, Director Bouquet, at which point we will trade places.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Catlin. I appreciate it. Before I get going into our
schedule, I just wanted to thank you all for your support. And we are at a turning point with RTD and I'm
looking forward to this incoming year.
I would like to congratulate all the new directors for joining us. I want to thank those who are continuing
with this journey. We have a lot of work to do, but I'm very optimistic about the future of this agency.
Now, with that being said, directors and guests, we've come to a bittersweet portion of tonight's meeting.
Every two years, we are presented with the opportunity to celebrate the accomplishments of those
Directors who have who've departed this Board and to share our collective appreciation for all they have
done during their time. This year, we will be recognizing seven passionate, dedicated, and honorable
public servants who have all left an-- excuse me, indelible mark on this Board and this agency.
Those directors, Director Bob Broom, Director Erik Davidson, Director Bobby Dishell, Director Jaime
Lewis, Director Paul Rosenthal, Director Marjorie Sloan, and Director Doug Tisdale.
[APPLAUSE]

A proclamation recognizing each of these directors will be read out loud, and then I'll ask if any of the
directors would say a few words about each of them. At the end, I'll ask for a consensus vote on all the
proclamations. I see that we are-- do we have any returning directors, Director Cole?
Oh, I see Director Tisdale is here. Director Lewis is here. Director Dishell. Director Erik Davidson, our
former Chair. Excellent. And Paul. Where's Paul?
SPEAKER 6: He had to leave, I think.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And Paul Rosenthal was here earlier, but has left. It's good seeing you all. So I'm
going to move forward and I'm going to ask my colleagues who served with the outgoing directors to
share in their recognition tonight.
The process from here will be for a proclamation to be read for each of the outgoing directors and then I
will open the floor after all the proclamations have been read for additional comments from the Board.
Once all proclamations have been read and discussion had, we will vote on the proclamations as a slate.
Please hold any applause until after the vote.
Following the vote, I will allow any outgoing director who is in attendance a few moments to share some
parting wisdom. So I'm going to turn it over now to Director Harwick. Would you read the proclamation for
Director Broom?
IAN HARWICK: Whereas the constituents of district F elected director Bob Broom to represent them on
the RTD Board of Directors in 2016 and again in 2020, and whereas Director Broom served faithfully and
dutifully on the Board for eight years as an advocate for RTD to be the trusted leader in mobility,
delivering excellence and value to its customers and community while making lives better through
connections.

And whereas Director Broom served with distinction in many roles during his tenure, including terms as
Chair of the GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee, Chair of the TABOR Ad Hoc
Committee, and Chair of the Redistricting Committee. Additionally, he's served admirably as a member of
Civil Rights Committee, Communications, and Government Relations Committee, Financial,
Administration, and Audit Committee, Finance and Planning Committee, Government Relations
Committee-- wait, yeah.
And Operations and Customer Services Committee Planning and Capital Programs and FasTracks
Committee, Operations and Safety Committee, The RTD Salaried Employee Trust, and the RTD Salaried
Employee Defined Contribution Trust.
Further, he represented RTD well as a member of the Denver Regional Council of Governments Regional
Transportation committee and the E-470 Public Highway Authority Board, and whereas Director Broom
served on the Board during a time of tremendous progress for RTD, during which he helped guide the
organization to ensure its long-term viability and sustainability.
Now, therefore, be it resolved by the RTD Board of Directors that we, the Board of Directors, hereby
extend our heartiest recommendations to Director Bob Broom for his many contributions to this Board
over the past eight years, and recognize his steadfast dedication to RTD and its customers.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Harwick. And again, thank you, Director Broom, for his service.
I'm going to now move to Director Guissinger. Would you please read the proclamation for Director
Davidson?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. It is my pleasure and honor to read the proclamation for my good friend, Erik
Davidson, who served us so well as chair this last year in what was a very busy year. Proclamation and
recognition of the contributions made to the Regional Transportation District 2021 through 2024 by
Director Erik Davidson.
Whereas the Boulder County commissioners appointed director Erik Davidson to represent District I on
the RTD Board of Directors in 2020 and the constituents of District I elected Director Davidson to
represent them on the RTD Board of Directors in 2022. And whereas Director Davidson served faithfully
and dutifully on the Board for four years as an advocate for RTD to be the trusted leader in mobility,
delivering excellence and value to its customers and community while making lives better through
connections.
And whereas Director Davidson served with distinction in many leadership roles during his tenure,
including terms as Chair, Second Vice Chair, Chair of the Finance and Planning Committee, Chair of the
Performance Committee, Vice Chair of finance, Administration, and Audit Committees, and Vice Chair of
the Finance and Planning Committee.
Additionally, he served admirably as a member of the Audit Committee, the Civil Rights Committee, the
Communications and Government Relations Committee, the Planning Capital Programs and FasTracks
Committee, the Operations and Customer services Committee, the Operations, Safety, and Security
Committee, the Audit Ad Hoc Committee, and the Ad Hoc Committee for Safety and Security.
Further, he represented RTD well as a member of the Denver Regional Council of Governments Regional
Transportation committee and the Northwest Parkway Public Highway Authority Board. Whereas Director

Davidson served on the Board during a time of tremendous progress for RTD, during which he helped
guide the organization to ensure its long term viability and sustainability.
Now, therefore, be it resolved by the RTD Board of Directors that we, the Board of Directors, hereby
extend our heartiest commendations to Director Erik Davidson for his many contributions to this Board
over the past four years, and recognize his steadfast dedication to RTD and its customers.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Guissinger, and thank you for your service, Former
Chair Davidson. And now I'm going to move to Director Guzman. Would you read the proclamation for
Director Dishell.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Happily read this for my brother, Shalom. Proclamation and recognition of the
contributions made to the Regional Transportation District, RTD, 2021 through 2024 by Director Bobby
Dishell.
Whereas the constituents of District D elected Director Bobby Dishell to represent them on the RTD
Board of Directors in 2020. And whereas Director Dishell served faithfully and dutifully on the Board for
four years as an advocate for RTD to be the trusted leader in mobility, delivering excellence and value to
its customers and community while making lives better through connections. And whereas Director
Dishell served with distinction in many leadership roles during his tenure, including terms as Chair of the
Audit Committee, Vice Chair of the Civil Rights Committee, and Vice Chair of the Performance
Committee.
Additionally, he served admirably as a member of the Communications and Government Relations
Committee, the GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee, the Finance Administration and
Audit Committee, the Finance and Planning Committee, Operations and Customer Services Committee,
the Planning Capital Programs and FasTracks Committee, the Audit Ad Hoc Committee, the Ad Hoc
Committee for Safety and Security, The Zero Emissions Vehicle, ZEV, Ad Hoc Committee, and the RTD
Salaried Employee Pension Trust and the RTD Salaried Employee Defined Contribution Trust.
Further, he represented RTD well as a member of the Denver Regional Council of Governments Regional
Transportation Committee. And whereas Director Dishell served on the Board during a time of
tremendous progress for RTD, during which he helped guide the organization to ensure its long-term
viability and sustainability.
Now, therefore, be it resolved by the RTD Board of Directors that we, the Board of Directors, hereby
extend our heartiest commendations to Director Bobby Dishell for his many contributions to this Board
over the past four years and recognize his steadfast dedication to RTD and its customers.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Guzman. And Thank you, Director Dishell, for all your
years of service. Going now to Director Ruscha. Would you read the proclamation for Director Lewis?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, Mr. Chair. Thank you for the honor. It's also nice to call you Mr. Chair. And if
you could just kindly remind me, I did have a few comments I wanted to add in relation to honorable
Lewis's service. Can you remind us if that is OK at this time, or if there is a more appropriate time to make
comment?
JULIEN BOUQUET: There will be time later on.

JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you. I just wanted to check. A proclamation in recognition of the
contributions made to the Regional Transportation District in 2024 by Director Jaime Lewis. Whereas
Denver Mayor Mike Johnson appointed and the Denver City Council confirmed Director Lewis to
represent District on the RTD Board of Directors in February 2024. And whereas Director Lewis served
faithfully and dutifully on the Board through 2024 as an advocate for RTD to be the trusted leader in
mobility, delivering excellence and value to customers and community while making lives better through
connections.
And whereas Director Lewis served with distinction during his tenure, serving on the Operations, Safety,
and Security Committee, as well as the Performance Committee. And whereas Director Lewis served on
the Board during a time of tremendous progress for RTD, during which he helped guide the organization
to ensure its long-term viability and sustainability.
Now, therefore, be it resolved by the RTD Board of Directors that we, the Board of the Directors, hereby
extend our heartiest commendations to Director Jaime Lewis for his many contributions to this Board over
his term and recognize his steadfast dedication to RTD and its customers.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Ruscha. And thank you, Director Lewis, for your time
serving. I'm going to now move over to Director Buzek. Would you please read the proclamation for
Director Rosenthal?
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Whereas the constituents of district e elected director Paul
Rosenthal to represent them on the RTD Board of Directors in 2020, and whereas Director Rosenthal
served faithfully and dutifully on the Board for four years as an advocate for RTD to be the trusted leader
in mobility, delivering excellence and value to its customers and community while making lives better
through connections.
And whereas Director Rosenthal served with distinction in many leadership roles during his tenure,
including terms as Treasurer, Chair of the Operations and Safety Committee, and Vice Chair of the
Operations and Customer Services Committee. Additionally, he served admirably as a member of the
Civil Rights Committee, the Communications and Government Relations Committee, the Finance
Administration and Audit Committee, the Finance and Planning Committee, the planning Capital
Programs and FasTracks Committee, the Operations, Safety, and Security Committee, the Performance
Committee, and the Ad Hoc Committee for Safety and Security.
Further, he represented RTD well as a member of the Denver Regional Council of Governments Regional
Transportation Committee and the Adams County Regional Economic Partnership. And whereas Director
Rosenthal served on the Board during a time of tremendous progress for RTD, during which he helped
guide the organization to ensure its long-term viability and sustainability.
Now, therefore, be it resolved by the RTD Board of Directors that we, the Board of Directors, hereby
extend our heartiest commendations to Director Paul Rosenthal for his many contributions to this Board
over the past four years and recognize his steadfast dedication to RTD and its customers. [SPEAKING
FRENCH]

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Buzek. And thank you, Director Rosenthal, for your years of
service. I now will go to Director Catlin. Would you read the proclamation for Director Sloan?

PEGGY CATLIN: I'm delighted to read this proclamation for Director Marjorie Sloan. Whereas the
constituents of District M elected Director Marjorie Sloan to represent them on the RTD Board of Directors
in 2020, and whereas Director Sloan served faithfully and dutifully on the Board for four years as an
advocate for RTD to be a trusted leader in mobility, delivering excellence and value to its customers and
community while making lives better through connections.
And whereas Director Sloan served with distinction in many leadership roles during her tenure, including
terms as Secretary, Vice Chair of the GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee and Vice
Chair of the Performance Committee. Additionally, she served admirably as a member of the Civil Rights
Committee, the Communications and Government Relations Committee, the Finance Administration and
Audit Committee, the Planning Capital Programs and FasTracks Committee, the Operations and
Customer Services Committee, and the Operations Safety and Security Committee.
Further, she represented RTD well as a member on the Jefferson County Parkway public Authority
Highway Board and the Jefferson County Transportation Action and Advocacy Group, as well as the
Metro Mayors Caucus. And whereas Director Sloan served on the Board during a time of tremendous
progress for RTD, during which she helped guide the organization to ensure its long-term viability and
sustainability.
Now, therefore, be it resolved by the RTD Board of Directors that we, the Board of Directors, hereby
extend our heartiest commendations to Director Marjorie Sloan for her many contributions to this Board
over the past four years and recognize her steadfast dedication to RTD and its customers.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Catlin. And again, thank you, Director Sloan, for your
years of service. And last but certainly not least, Director Whitmore. Would you read the proclamation for
Director Tisdale?
TROY WHITMORE: I would be very honored to do so. Whereas the constituents of district h elected
director Doug Tisdale to represent them on the RTD Board of Directors in 2016 and again in 2020, and
whereas Director Tisdale served faithfully and dutifully on the Board for eight years as an advocate for
RTD to be the trusted leader in mobility, delivering excellence and value to its customers and community
while making lives better through connections, and, deep breath, because this is a long paragraph.
SPEAKER 7: You can do it.
TROY WHITMORE: I can do it. Whereas Director Tisdale served with distinction in many-- I emphasize
"many"-- leadership roles during his tenure, including terms as Chair two times, Chair of the Civil Rights
Committee, Chair of the Finance and Planning Committee, Chair of the American Public Transit
Association Transit Board Members Committee, and Chair of the Denver Downtown Development
Authority.
Additionally, he served admirably as a member of the Communications and Government Relations
Committee, Financial Administration and Audit Committee, Government Relations Committee, Operations
and Customer Services Committee, Planning Capital Programs and FasTracks Committee, Operations
and Safety Committee, Performance Committee, and the Ad Hoc Committee for Oversight of Certain
Litigations, the Ad Hoc Committee for Committee Restructure.

And further, he represented RTD well as a member of the C-470 Corridor Coalition, the Denver Regional
Council of Governments Regional Transportation Committee, the E-470 Public Highway Authority Board,
and the Metro Mayors Caucus.
And whereas Director Tisdale served on the Board during a time of tremendous progress for RTD, during
which he helped guide the organization to ensure its long-term viability and sustainability. Now, therefore,
be it resolved by the RTD Board of Directors that we, the Board of directors, hereby extend our heartiest
commendations to Director Doug Tisdale for his many contributions to this Board over the past eight
years and recognize his steadfast dedication to RTD and its customers. Communicate. Collaborate.
Cooperate.
[APPLAUSE]

JULIEN BOUQUET: At this time, I'd like to take-- I would like to ask for a motion to approve the
proclamations as presented in the Board packet.
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I got Whitmore as the mover, and Catlin as the second. Would anyone like to share a
few words about the departing directors at this time?
TROY WHITMORE: Oh, yeah.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I see Director Ruscha online. Director Ruscha, you're recognized.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah. Thank you, sir. So I just wanted to take a few moments and follow the rules,
unlike some of my other fellow Directors. No. And I wanted to add a few more comments to Director
Lewis' term and service.
Director Lewis did more for riders with disabilities in 10 months than most of us could do in 10 years,
which, as you're aware, would exceed our maximum allowable consecutive time on the Board, as we can
only serve two four-year terms. And I think that's really extraordinary.
I know we don't generally address members of the audience, but I don't trust that our chair is going to cut
my mic. So my friend, Jamie, directly to you, I just want to say I'm sorry I couldn't be there today in
person. But I know that I will be looking across the room by instinct next month and the months after in
anticipation of what you have to share with us.
More than a friend, you've been a mentor. We worked on transit issues before we earned these titles, and
I know our partnership does not end tonight, but it still feels incredibly bittersweet. And I would also add
that when you exit an office, you retain the title of "The Honorable."
And so you came to us as an Honorable Former Mayor and you will leave us as an honorable Former
Director of RTD. But there are few people, I think, who have held this title or sat in this boardroom who
have carried that banner of being honorable as you have. And so thank you very much for your service,

your generosity, your grace, and what you brought to this team last year. You will be greatly missed.
Thank you, my friend.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Ruscha. So I will have to just see some hands up
from our Directors. We used to have our virtual system. But are there any Directors who would like to
make comments? Yes, Director-- Sorry. How do you pronounce it?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Paglieri is acceptable.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Paglieri, thank you.
BRETT PAGLIERI: I just want to say thank you all to the departing Directors. Thank you all very much.
Specifically, thank you to Director Marjorie Sloan for representing District M. And thank you so much for
outgoing Director and Chair Davidson.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Paglieri. Director Benker?
KAREN BENKER: I just also want to thank everyone that has served previously, and also especially
Former Chair Erik Davidson. He has led RTD. He is financially savvy, which I greatly admire.
He's had some challenges here at RTD and he led the agency through them. It's going to be very difficult
to follow in your footsteps. But you've done so much for this agency and I just want to very much thank
you for all the hard work, because I know how much you care and how much work you put into this
agency, and it is appreciated. So thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Benker. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, thank you. I saw Director Buzek's hand up as well. I wanted to thank all of the
departing Directors.
Each and every one of you, in your own way, has certainly enriched my time on the Board beginning with
Director Tisdale, where I served as his first Vice Chair in my very first year, as some of you have been
elected in your first term to serve on the executive committee. And then ending certainly with Director
Davidson, who, as Director Benker pointed out, just served remarkably as Chair this past year. But I also
wanted to thank each of the rest of you. Director Sloan, Director Lewis, Director Dishell, and Director
Rosenthal.
You have all contributed immensely to this organization, and I appreciate each and every one of you. And
I will miss you all. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Catlin. I see Director Buzek next.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Chair. And I will echo the comments of Director Catlin. Thanks to all of you who
are here present. But I specifically want to call out Director Tisdale.
And I really want to thank you, because you have been a fixture here for eight years, and have been our
chief parliamentarian Chair, Chair squared. You've been the chair, when I should probably say chair to
the fifth power.

You've chaired a lot of important entities that we're all involved with and have represented RTD well. So I
thank you for that. And with that, Director Tisdale, I call of the question.
[LAUGHTER]
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Buzek. I see Director Whitmore next.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So I echo the "thank yous" to all of my colleagues in the
audience and those that are not here. It has been an unbelievable experience to learn from each and
every one of you, to find our common goals, but to learn from each and every one of you.
So, Former Chair Davidson, you've been amazing, and I've learned so much from you. And I thank you
for your service. I see the Dishell family, and I'm just thrilled to see Micah here.
And Bobby and I really didn't know each other until we got to be Board members and then found out we
have some common background and some common things in our work world, at least his current work
world. Mine's somewhat past now. And I've enjoyed very much learning and getting to know.
And then I sat between Bob Broom and Jaime Lewis. And to speak about Bob Broom, you have to do it
briefly, because he was brief.
I just want to say to Bob, what a savvy mind and what a funny guy. And I will miss his sense of humor and
his brevity. Jamie is a smart aleck, just like I am, and we had a lot of good laughs to try and keep things
light hearted.
And to echo, Joanne, you've done far more, even though you were a tremendously effective Board
member before you became a Board member for RTD and our transit customers. So I appreciate you.
And I've learned greatly from you.
I'm going to miss Paul Rosenthal's laugh. I mean, he could lighten the spirits in the room. And I really will
miss Paul as well. And I had some good ventures to Washington, DC with Paul, and got to spend a lot of
time getting to know him.
And I'd be remiss without mentioning Director Tisdale, former Chair of everything. Director Tisdale, I do
want to really make sure-- and I know this is near and dear to you, that we thank you for your APTA
representation and really elevating this organization in that very fine organization that represents us well.
Thank you for what you've done there. We will struggle to take your place, but we will do so in your honor.
So I do appreciate that, Doug.
And for those I didn't mention, I certainly did enjoy serving with everyone. And it's been an honor to serve
with you all. Thank you, Mr Chair.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Whitmore. I saw Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So a lot of people have been very helpful as I've gotten ready
for this role. I wanted to note just a couple of the outgoing directors.
Obviously, Doug Tisdale is big shoes to fill, or maybe a big pipe to fill. I don't--

[LAUGHTER]
And I don't have a wood-burning fireplace either. But he has graciously spent time, feels like every few
weeks or months, and has given his brain and his thoughts to me as I've gotten ready for this. And I
wanted to note the shortest-serving director, but probably the one with the biggest heart, Jaime Lewis.
And I hope we can-- I hope I can emulate Jamie's heart and Doug's brain and pipe.
[LAUGHTER]

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director O'Keefe. I see Director Harwick next.
IAN HARWICK: I'm going to. I'm going to follow up with a Doug and a pipe joke. I don't remember-- I'd
only been on the Board for, like, a month or two, and I think I was on fire about something and really
excited. And we're on Zoom and I look down, and there's Doug just lighting his pipe.
And I was like, dude. You were stealing my thunder. Like, I can't take my own self seriously when you're
just lighting that pipe. And thank you for that, because it will live on in my memory forever.
But I have so enjoyed your brain, your wit, your feistiness, and just your just general demeanor. So thank
you, Doug.
Jamie, I got to go with everybody else here. I mean, one year, and I feel like you really-- you came to play
and you were insightful. You asked good questions. You pressed, maybe sometimes harder than
everybody liked, but you did.
You pressed, and it was good, and it was important. And I really just can't tell you how proud I am to have
served with you. I'm glad I called the Mayor's Office and said you should do that.
For Chair Davidson, I just-- Erik you're just were a rock in a time when we needed you to be a rock. You
went toe to toe with the governor and you won. And he doesn't lose a lot.
But he did here. And I think we owe it to you. And I always appreciated when we would talk, you would
listen. And I felt like we always got something good from the end of that conversation.
And Bobby, there's just a camaraderie there and a friendship there that will-- I hope it lasts well beyond
this. And I'm excited that you now get to experience this beautiful joy. And I'm so excited for you and have
just enjoyed your friendship.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Harwick. Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. I appreciate the opportunity. Debra Johnson,
General Manager and CEO. I'd be remiss if I didn't take this moment in time to express my gratitude and
appreciation for the selfless service of our immediate past directors.
Director Broom, I can reflect on when I first came into the agency, and speaking to him about his
experience, being a public administrator, having served as a city manager, and his insights and wins,
relative to an often time what could appear to be a thankless job when you choose to be a servant leader.

As it relates to Director Bobby Dishell, I want to thank you as we had a myriad of conversations relative to
talking about the criticalness of having an internal audit function. Your willingness to step up and lead in
the face of adversity, recognizing that it was quite important in order to ensure that we were collectively
being good fiduciaries.
Director Lewis, thank you so much. I had the opportunity to actually work with you prior to your
appointment on the Board, having come into this area, and reached out to the Colorado Cross Disability
Coalition and our meetings, relative to some of the critical issues that were facing our customer base in
reference to accessibility. I appreciate you being that champion. And I look forward to continuing our
engagements in our monthly meetings, especially as we look at what's on the horizon by ensuring
equitable service delivery for all individuals.
Director Paul Rosenthal. Once again, I had the opportunity to engage with him on several issues,
specifically as it relates to Aurora and the city of County of Denver, with his stints working in the former
mayoral administration and the current one. With Director Sloan, we had great times with the ride-alongs,
being able to be oriented to her district, understanding the, I would say, admiration and wants as it relates
to the bridge in Lakewood that we have been working on.
Director Tisdale, thank you for your constant leadership, for being the voice of transit. I know you and I
will still engage as being Board Members with the American Public Transportation Foundation Board. And
last but certainly not least, the immediate past chair, Director Davidson.
Thank you for your steadfast leadership. Thank you for always going above and beyond. And thank you
for your bias to action. On behalf of the many men and women that comprise this agency, we thank you
all for your dedicated and selfless service. With that, Mr. Chair, I yield the floor. Thank you for the
opportunity to speak.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Ms. Johnson. I see Director Nicholson next.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Director Chris Nicholson. So when I was a former audience
member at the December meeting, I had the opportunity to speak extensively about the most recent
Director from District A, Director Lewis, as well as my friend, Director Rosenthal.
So I'm not going to repeat my remarks now about the two of them, but I want to address two directors that
I didn't speak about back then. The first, Director Dishell. When I first decided to run for this office, he and
I got coffee, and he sat me down and gave me some of the most important advice that I received in
choosing to be a part of RTD.
And he may not have even realized it at the time, but it shaped a great deal of what this has turned into
for me. And I really have appreciated it ever since. And then on the bookend of that, Director Davidson
has been an incredible advisor and mentor to me, especially since winning the seat, and has given me an
incredible amount of really helpful advice on how to be a member of the Board.
And so I really just wanted to thank the both of you for your continued guidance. And Erik, I will continue
to text and call you on a regular basis. So I appreciate your continued service to the Board of Directors.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Nicholson. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. A lot of good things have been said. There's not much left,
but I'm going to miss you all very much.

One thing that I can say about all of this group is that there were-- you could always count on them for
very insightful comments and hard questions. And I think that's the essence of leadership. And we got
that from all of you here and from Directors Broom, and Rosenthal, and Sloan.
Director Broom, of course, was few words, smart guy. And for the people here, Doug Tisdale was always
a phone call away when I was trying to think something through, especially if it took some history and all
of that. And I really appreciate what he brought to us, as others have said.
Jaime Lewis, outstanding job. What were you on, three months? No, 11 months? Yeah. I know it wasn't
three.
But he did a great job of just stepping in. And Bobby, always a leader in our sustainability policy that we
all worked on together. That was a very important piece. A leader in the audit, and great questions.
And Erik Davidson has just been a fabulous chair. I'll miss you. We've worked on a lot of things very
closely. And I'm looking forward to your next exciting steps in life.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Guissinger. Were there any further comments from
Directors? I do see Director Ruscha's hand up. Another bite at the apple?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, sir. But not the whole orchard, I promise.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Go ahead, Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So as you all know, I don't really talk very much. I actually did
write notes for every exiting Board member, but then I was afraid Buzek would call of the question. But I
did, in fact, write personal notes to all of our exiting directors last month.
That being said, I did want to just speak to those whom I believe are still in the audience now. Erik, you
started your chairmanship last year with a quote from Teddy Roosevelt, and you ended it with a quote
from Fred Rogers. And so for those of you who don't know Erik that is Erik. And I enjoyed serving with
you, and you challenged me. And you have a heart of gold and you're the salt of the Earth.
Bobby. Younger than me on a technicality, but always felt like a big brother nonetheless. I will never
forget when you used the word "squishy" in committee, as in let's say what we mean and mean what we
say.
You are a phenomenal attorney, and your attention to detail and your commitment to this organization
was impressive. You were also a mentor and I am so happy for Micah and this new chapter in your life.
But I miss you already.
And Doug, I leaned in a lot to our relationship, more and more in 2024 as I became more involved in
APTA, thanks to you, and as you led our Finance and Planning Committee. And Wow. If I couldn't get my
thoughts together succinctly, you sure did help.
You also told me once not to die on every hill. And I'm learning not to die on every hill. But I have a few
more lives left, and I have no doubt when I am trying to figure out which hill to die on or how to collect my
thoughts. I will still give you a call and I know you will answer. There is no other Doug but Doug.

And while we don't have formal awards for these, I think we can all say no one will ever have a Zoom
background as awesome as Doug Tisdale's. So for many reasons, I will miss you, my friend. And thank
you so much for your service to RTD and your generosity of time to your fellow directors over the years.
Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Ruscha. Are there any further comments?
SPEAKER 8: JoyAnn, I take offense to that. I love my background.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Second place. Second place.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. So I will take a quick chair privilege. I will not address all of you individually
because you're so talented in the comments that have been said already. Just embark on who you all is
people are, but ultimately who you all are as public servants are too.
And for those sitting in these seats, and for those who've sat in the seats before, we all join with the
ambition to make lives better through connections. I truly believe that we each have a passion to better
our communities, to better transit. And for each and every one of you, you walk away with this Board and
I truly believe you have made a betterment to each and every one of your communities. So I cannot thank
you enough for your service. Thank you.
With that being said, I'd like to call for the vote. Is there any opposition from the Board to the adoption of
the proclamations? Hearing none, the proclamations are adopted.
[APPLAUSE]

I'd like to note that a flag for each of the outgoing directors was flown over the Colorado State Capitol in
honor of their years of service. I personally want to thank all the outgoing directors once again for their
guidance, their governance, and their mentorship, and everything that you've contributed to the Board. At
this time, I will open the floor briefly to any outgoing directors who may wish to address the Board. If you'd
like to do so, please head to the lectern and deliver your remarks.
JAMIE LEWIS: Thank you. When I started 11 months ago, I was 38 years old.
[LAUGHTER]
You guys aged me. On the 31st, my official last day, I went back to my old job, which is Transit Advisor
for the Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition. So I just want to let you know that I'm not going very far. And
we have a lot of work to do this year, especially with Access on Demand, healthy bus stops, and other
issues.
I just wanted to share I was at a webinar this morning, and it was a really fantastic webinar for
transportation. There was a lot of people from United States across the country that were there,
Canadians, Europeans, even the country of Africa had representatives. And one of the common themes
that kept coming up is that transit has value.
And if that's anything that you can put on your priority list this year is to make sure that our community
knows that transit is value. And so I look forward to working with you on a variety of work subjects this

year. But let's make sure that that's a bedrock value that we need to really push so people know that yes,
they have choices. Yes, they can get into their car, but there's a value that they could also use, and that is
called public transportation. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you very much-JULIEN BOUQUET: Former Chair Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Congratulations to all the newly elected directors.
Congratulations to those of you that are now officers. Thank you for being willing to step up and serve.
And thank you very much for the generous and kind comments to those of us who are outgoing.
I'll keep it brief. I had a lot to say in December at my last meeting. There's a few things I just wanted to
touch on. I'm going to be serious on one issue and plug one issue. So sorry for the beating of a dead
horse here, but revenue diversification.
This agency is very dependent on a single source of revenue. Our long-term forecasts and projections
that we've laid out suggest that we will have shortfalls in the 2030s. It's this Board's duty to have a longterm, long-range thinking on that, be planning for that, especially now when there's time to be thinking
about that.
So I would be remiss if I didn't plug. Thanks to some great work by members of the Board here. I'll call
out, as I have before, Director Guissinger, for her amazing work on the TABOR ballot initiative. The voters
did decide to exempt RTD from TABOR, and now that was the first step.
We need to be thinking creatively about what we are going to do to make sure the 2030s are sound, and
this transportation system is well taken care of and can continue to operate for future generations. So with
that being said, please keep an eye on that. Please watch that. Please continue the work around revenue
diversification. I'm always here to be a thought partner. I'm not going anywhere, and I'm not losing my
passion for making sure this agency is sustainable.
So on a lighter note, I just would like to again-- I've said a number of times thank you very much. To the
members of the Board, I am leaving here with a number of new friends. We were colleagues through thick
and thin.
It was a real pleasure serving with each and every single one of you. I'm honored to walk away with more
friends than I started. And the same is true for members of our team at RTD as well.
It has been a real privilege to work with each and every one of you, especially this last year. Having the
opportunity to serve as chair, [AUDIO OUT] to work so closely with all of you, and again, am so delighted
to leave here with more friends than when I started.
And finally, I said this in December. Not everybody is aware that public service is a family affair. So I know
my lovely wife, Anastasia, is watching at home, and I once again would like to thank her for being part of
serving our community together, for being a thought partner, for being a rock, for having my back every
step of the way, no matter how difficult this job was, and no matter how difficult anything else going on in
life was.

Stace, thank you. With that, godspeed. Well, thank you.
[APPLAUSE]

JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Dishell?
SPEAKER 9: You need me to hold that, baby?
BOBBY DISHELL: No. But I did bring him to show off. Thank you guys. Thank you all for the incredibly
kind words. A few departing words. No thank you.
I did bring Micah up here intentionally, A because you all [AUDIO OUT] during our time. But B, to ground
us in what we're doing. The decisions you make today [AUDIO OUT] schedule changes.
Yes, these are a number of shorter term, but the vast majority of decisions that we make today are for
him, are for his generation. Our infrastructure investments, our lack of investment, how we choose to treat
our employees or not. That has major effects down the road.
It's why I do it. It's why I did it. And so I brought him up here to also ground us in for me, why so many of
us do the work.
Why we passed, making sure that kids can get to school for free. Or zero fair. It's not free, it's the cost.
And the amazing work that went on for sustainability. The best way that we can lower emissions is getting
people out of single-occupancy vehicles. And it's even better to have an incredible sustainability plan put
forward for how we get ourselves to ZEV. I know.
On a more serious note, I think keeping in mind we are public fiduciaries. The numbers are big and they
can be big, but there's a reason why we're entrusted for it. And you've all heard me make the many a joke
of the person who flew into town and paid cash, and tried to give that person a TABOR refund, which is
no longer an issue, is very good and very important.
But keeping an eye on our [AUDIO OUT] keeping an eye on audit, there's a reason we do it. It's best
practice in the private sector and the public sector. And [AUDIO OUT] each of those is critically important.
Finally, if you ask for something from staff, please [AUDIO OUT] It's a huge part of someone's day. It's a
huge part of someone's time.
And really understanding that the way in which you ask the question, the what you are [AUDIO OUT]
important. And finally to Micah, to my wife, Sarah, thank you both. Every time I said yes to this, it's saying
no to them.
So thank you all. And thank you, guys, for letting me continue to do this, to serve for the four years I did.
And with that, best of luck. Don't be a stranger, and I'll see you all soon.
[APPLAUSE]

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: May it please the Board. Good evening. My name is Doug Tisdale. 100 months ago, I
stood at this podium in order to introduce myself to the Board as a candidate for the RTD.
3,000 days later, I come before you to say farewell. That word has two parts, "fare," "well," and that's
what I wish. I strove to communicate, to collaborate, and to cooperate with you, with your predecessors,
and with the three general managers that I had, each of them more talented than the last.
I urge you all, please make this room a place where you will let 100 flowers bloom and hundreds schools
of thought contend. Out of that diversity, RTD will thrive, prosper, and succeed.
So my final prayer to all of you is be well, be safe, be happy. Thank you and good night.
[APPLAUSE]

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much. Again, thank you for your service. Greatly appreciated.
So moving on, there is one recommended action on the agenda tonight listed as item seven, action A.
And that item is for the 2025 RTD Board of Directors meeting posting location for the Board of Directors
to designate the Board Meeting portal on the RTD public website, which is https://rtd.iqm2.com as its
official location for posting of notices of all public meetings in 2025, as required by Sections 24-6-402 in
CRS. Do I have a motion?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, so moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Buzek as the mover and Director Nicholson is the second. Is there any discussion on
this motion? Seeing none, I'll now call for the vote. Are there any no votes on this motion? Perfect. With
15 ayes and zero no's, and zero absentees, this motion will pass.
So the final 2024 Board and committee minutes were included in the Board packet. Are there any
corrections from the Directors at this time? Seeing none. Unless there is an objection to considering these
minutes of all at the same time, may I please have a motion to approve the minutes for the following
meetings? Let me read the meetings.
December 3, 2024, special Board Meeting. December 3, 2024, Board meeting. December 10, 2024,
special Board meeting. December 10, 2024, Performance Committee.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Who's the mover? Sorry. Director Nicholson. And a second?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second is Director Guissinger. Is there any discussion on the motion? I'll now call for
a vote. Are there any no votes? OK. The motion will pass with 15 ayes, zero noes, and zero abstentions.
So at this time--

KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Just a quick question from-JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Since we were not there and we weren't as Directors, I would like to abstain,
just because I have no knowledge of what occurred.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Sounds good. So I have 14 aye votes, zero no votes, one abstention from Director
Chandler. Are there any new Directors who would also like to abstain? Sounds good. So the motion will
pass 14-0-1.
Are there any other matters at this time to discuss in this regular scheduled Board Meeting? So I propose
we do a 10-minute break before we go into executive session, or you're-SPEAKER 9: Why don't you just go into the executive session, and then we'll-JULIEN BOUQUET: Sounds good. We'll go into executive session and then take the break prior to
executive session. So in the moment, the Board will meet in executive session to discuss personal
matters regarding the GM CEO'S 2025 performance goals.
I'd like to amend the motion to move into executive session to state that the Board Meeting will be
deemed adjourned after it adjourns into the executive session. For public transparency, this means that
once the Board moves into executive session, the main meeting will be adjourned. I will now entertain a
motion to move into executive session to discuss the following. Do 24-6-402 for consideration of personal
matters regarding the general manager and CEO'S 2025 performance goals and input from the Board of
Directors on the same.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sorry. Mr. Chair?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I apologize. I had my hand up, during other matters and I couldn't get your attention
as you started. Now that-- well, I really miss Director Tisdale, because I don't know where we are in
parliamentary procedure because we've gone to the next part of the agenda.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I believe I can listen to what the other matters are before we're going into executive
session.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I will keep this brief. I just-- I know we don't ordinarily speak in
response to public comment, but I just wanted to say that for every ATU member who showed up tonight,
or gave us a call, or wrote an email, I wanted to say thank you and I listened.
And I appreciate everything that our frontline staff do for us every single day. And as a card-carrying
union member who grew up in a union household, I wanted to add a personal note that an injury to one is
an injury to us all. And thank you for speaking up and for your service.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Ruscha. My apologies for missing your hand on that.
Any other matters? OK.

So again, I'll just continue where we're at. I'll read the-- I will now entertain a motion to move into
executive session to discuss the following relating to 24-6-402 for consideration of personal matters
regarding the general manager and CEO's 2025 performance goals and input from the Board of Directors
on the same. Do I have a motion?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So moved. Guzman.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Guzman is the mover. Do I have a second?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I have Director Guissinger as the second. Are there any no votes? So at this time,
the main meeting is adjourned into executive session at 7:17 PM. For all those who are expected to
attend, would you please stay seated. And for everyone else, would you please vacate the room at this
time.
Take all your belongings with you. While we transition as quickly as possible, please allow staff a few
minutes to switch everything over from the public meeting to the executive session. As a note, we will be
taking-- let's do a 10-minute break. Thank you all.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

