Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on February 3, 2009
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

February 3, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on February 3, 2009 at
5:51 p.m. in Rooms R, T, & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

William “Bill” McMullen, Chair; Directors Bagley, Brohl, Busck, Chacon,
Christopher, Cohen, Daly, Kemp, Martinez, McMullen, O’Boyle, Pulliam,
and Tobiassen.
Directors James and Tayer.

Staff Present:

Rick Clark, Cal Marsella, Marla Lien, Bill Van Meter, John Shonsey, Stan
Szabelak, Julie Skeen, Dave Shelley, Nadine Lee, Brian Middleton, Mark
Bauer, Reed Lee, Scott Reed, Bill Sirois, Phil Eberl, Carol Duecker, Susan
Wood, Paula Perdue and Lisa Trujillo.

Others Present:

Rick McNeal and Larry Gallegos
****

Call to Order

Director McMullen called the meeting to order at 5:51p.m.

At 5:52 p.m. Chair McMullen asked for a motion to move into Executive Session to
discuss:
Eagle P3 Financial Terms C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(e)
Real Estate Acquisitions C.R.S. 24-6-402 (4)(a)
West Corridor Contract Negotiations C.R.S. 24-6-402 (4)(e)

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on February 3, 2009
Page 2
MOTION:

Director Chacon made a motion to enter into
Executive Session to discuss the 3 items
Chair McMullen stated.

SECOND:

Director Kemp seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

Executive Session ended at 8:05 p.m.
The FasTracks meeting began at 8:10 pm.
1.

Update

Site Selection for Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility
Rick Clarke, Sr. Program Manager, FasTracks Implementation, updated the board
on the site selection for Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility. The board is
already familiar with the site selection – there have been two tours and 7 board
members attended the public meeting. The Maintenance Facility has received
great interest and support from board. The January 22, 2009 public meeting
went well, no opposition was received. Option B (Fox North site) is the
recommended site selection; it is a win win situation from staff and the
community. It does not require the bus Maintenance Facility to be moved and
saves RTD money.
Next Steps
 March 2009 - public release of Environmental Assessment
 Public Hearing on EA in April 2009
 Incorporate it in P3 RFP
 FTA decision document in May 2009

2.

Recommended Actions
Director Christopher suggested moving all five action items.
Recommendation for Approval of the Fourth Year (2009) Contract Award with AECOM
Consult for FasTracks Travel Modeling, Transit Operations, and Rail Simulation
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the fourth year contract award to
AECOM Consult for FasTracks travel modeling, transit operations analysis, and rail
simulation modeling. The contract is for one year with two one-year renewable options
at RTD’s sole discretion. The contract will be for the not-to-exceed amount of
$600,000, and will be awarded on a work order basis. Partial funding for the contract is
contained in the 2009 RTD expense budget the FasTracks and capital budgets.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on February 3, 2009
Page 3

Recommendation for Contract Award to LS Gallegos for the FasTracks Independent
Cost Assessment Contract
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to award a contract to LS Gallegos to
perform an Independent Cost Assessment for the FasTracks program. The contract
award will not exceed $360,000. Funding of $300,000 is included in the 2009
Adopted Budget for the FasTracks program.
It is further recommended that the Board of Directors authorize a transfer of
$60,000 from the FasTracks Contingency Reserve to fully fund the cost of this
contract. This action will accelerate future year funding for project administrative
expenditures to cover the full cost of the Independent Cost Assessment.
Recommendation for Loan from RTD to Denver Union Station Project Authority
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that RTD enter into an
agreement to loan the Denver Union Station Project Authority (DUSPA) $1.5 million
payable in three monthly installments commencing on March 1, 2009 for the purposes of
covering DUSPA operating expenses until such time as DUSPA has funds to cover
project costs and its own operating expenses.
Budget Transfer for Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility Environmental Assessment
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
approve a budget transfer in the amount of $700,000 from the FasTracks Contingency
Reserve to the Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility (CRMF) budget for the purpose of
completing the Environmental Assessment (EA). The requested transfer covers
additional alternatives analysis on reconsidered sites, public involvement, and conceptual
design, investigation, environmental analysis, and documentation of the recommended
preferred site.
Recommendation for Grant of Easement and Utility Construction Agreement with the
Central Platte Valley Metro District at 18th Street and the Consolidated Main Line
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that RTD grant an easement
to the Central Platte Valley (CPV) Metro District for construction of a pedestrian bridge
at 18th Street and the Consolidated Main Line (CML) in Denver, and contract with the
CPV Metro District to perform utility relocation that will be required for Denver Union
Station (DUS) in an amount not to exceed $150,000.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on February 3, 2009
Page 4

MOTION:

Director Christopher made a motion to
forward the 5 recommended action items to
the full Board at the February 17, 2009
Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Pulliam seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

2.

Other Matters
No other matters were discussed.

3.

Next Meeting - The next FasTracks Monitoring Committee will be held on Tuesday,
March 3, 2009.

4.

Adjourn - Hearing no objections, Director McMullen declared the meeting adjourned at
8:19 p.m.

