2020-06-12
GMES-GMOC
PEGGY CATLIN: Hi.
PAUL BALLARD: And Paul was here.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm sorry, I didn't hear that one.
PAUL BALLARD: Paul Ballard.
PEGGY CATLIN: Paul? Hi, Paul.
PAUL BALLARD: And there's Barbara.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. OK. So you know what? I have-- OK, I have-- I'm on my phone. Some of you
probably have benefit of the Teams meeting set up. But I'm just on my phone for now.
So I could hear Angie, so Chair Rivera-Malpiede, Director Lewis, Director Walker, Director Buzek. Is
Director Guissinger on the phone?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I don't see her yet.
PEGGY CATLIN: How about Director Cook?
BARBARA MCMANUS: She looks like she's on the line.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
SHELLEY COOK: That's correct. I'm here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Hi, Shelley. So we are-- so the only one we're waiting for then is Director Guissinger.
SPEAKER: What?
PEGGY CATLIN: Hello?
We'll wait just a minute for our Committee Vice Chair to get on the phone. Are there any other Board
members on the phone who are not committee members?
Did someone just join our call? Barbara, is John McKay on the phone?
BARBARA MCMANUS: He is, but he's on silence because he's in recording mode.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I'll just make sure that I make note that he's on. I'll wait just a minute to see if
Director Guissinger has joined us yet.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Do you want me to text her?
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, I spoke with her earlier this morning-BARBARA MCMANUS: Oh, OK, good.
PEGGY CATLIN: She would be on the call. That was earlier. So if we just give her a couple more
minutes.
So Director Menten asked what our target was for completing this meeting. And I said we have blocked
out from 1:00 to 2:30. But it's my hope that we can get done before 2:00.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, I think we'll go ahead and call the meeting to order. It's 1:04 PM. Thank you all for
taking a Friday afternoon away from maybe getting a head start on a beautiful weekend here in Colorado
to move this process along. And I think we have a fairly aggressive schedule that our consultant Gregg
Moser has put forward.

But I wanted to kind of remind everybody that we have, unlike the Interim GM search, we do not have a
committee of the whole. It was the purview of our Board Chair to appoint a GM Oversight and
Performance Management Committee, which, per our charter, is also serving as the Executive Search
Committee.
And in addition to the Chair, there are six additional members. So there is a total of seven of us. And a
quorum is reached when there are four participating. Only the committee members are allowed to vote.
That said, we have established a buddy system, and each of you has a buddy. And we want to make sure
that each of you communicates with your buddy, particularly as we start in on the process of looking at
candidates and reviewing resumes.
I would like to actually have a little bit of a discussion about this. But I think that it's my personal opinion
that any Board member who would like to review the resumes should have the opportunity to do so. As all
of our Board members have signed the confidentiality agreement, that would not be a problem. But nonvoting committee, or non-voting members, or those who are not part of the committee, would have the
responsibility of communicating with their buddy what their thoughts, comments, and preferences would
be.
Does anybody have any concerns about that, or comments?
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten. I just want to clarify. All right. So when we get a set of resumes and I call
Director Broom and say, we got, I don't know, you know, we got seven here, I can forward on that
document to him?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Gregg? Can Gregg-- is Gregg on the phone?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. And we're going to go through that process in a minute, Director Menten. And I
think that that will answer that question.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: So I think that it should go through the Board Office and through Gregg as opposed to
having a handoff of documents from individual committee members. But we'll get to that process in a
minute.
Does anyone else have any questions regarding the voting, the responsibility for communicating with your
buddy, just in terms of discussion and seeking their input as we move forward in this process?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Chair, I have a-- I just want to clarify. You're saying that we are-- this is Director
Lewis.
PEGGY CATLIN: Is it Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes, ma'am.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. You're essentially asking us if we're comfortable with being responsible for
communicating with our buddies what resumes-- what resumes we would have received and how to get
their feedback to bring it back to this committee. Is that my understanding?
PEGGY CATLIN: I think that the latter is the most important, that if they are given the opportunity to
review the resumes, that you seek their input to bring back to the committee.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it. Yeah, sure, absolutely. I'm comfortable with that.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Others? Director Buzek, Director Cook. I think Director Buzek is in an interesting
position because he's designated as the alternate right now. But I just want to make sure he's involved in
the process.

VINCE BUZEK: Right, thank you very much. Yeah, I'm the alternate and I don't have a buddy. So I'm in
no man's land. But yeah, I agree. I think everybody ought to be able to take a look at these things and
then get back to you guys.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, you can provide-- if there's still the committee of seven and you're still the
alternate, I'm happy to take your comments.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: And just wanted to do a double check. Is Director Guissinger on the phone yet? She
must have had something that got in her way. It's been a busy week of these Zoom conference calls and
Team conference calls.
I also wanted to remind everybody about the very, very crucial nature of the confidentiality agreement. It's
extremely important that we maintain confidentiality in all aspects of this search. It could be very
detrimental to a quality candidate if something were to leak out.
And so what I would strongly, not suggest, I'm going to say that members of the committee and other
Board members cannot reach out to individual committee memb-- or individual candidates on their own.
We need to make sure that the integrity of the process is maintained, and that means going through
Gregg for any communication or any questions.
I know that in the Interim GM search, there were some individual Board members who contacted
references and contacted previous employers, et cetera. And I think that out of respect for these
candidates who are putting everything on the line, we need to make sure and ensure that their
confidentiality is protected.
So I would say that part of the responsibility of being a committee member and also signing the
confidentiality agreement is that you not in any way be perceived as breaching that confidentiality
agreement. Are there any questions or comments about that?
I would also ask at this time that you convey that same message to your buddy, who, even though they're
not on the committee, have also pledged confidentiality by signing the agreement. So before we get
started in this process of reviewing resumes and candidates, I just wanted to make sure that I
emphasized that.
So with that, we're on to item number C. And I'll turn it over to Gregg for an update and general overview
of the recruitment to this point.
GREGG MOSER: Hey, everyone. Good afternoon.
First, thank you for the time and for joining. So just as a real quick update, because I know we want to try
to end in about 45 more minutes, as I stated the last time, we've got all the jobs posted. I'm receiving
resumes. The communication from RTD's website to me is working, because I'm receiving resumes
through that. And I'm receiving resumes from some of the other job listings as well.
I'm reviewing every resume that comes in and looking to see if they meet the minimum, and then reaching
out. So I am having individual phone and video conference interviews with the candidates.
I am looking both in transit and outside of the transit industry. I am-- at this point, we've had about 20
people apply through the advertisements. And I've reviewed those. There are a couple that look
interesting. I've also been making calls both inside the transit industry and outside the transit industry.
And I think at this point we have somewhere bet-- and I will preface this by saying that this is a moving
sort of process. It's a fluid process. Someone will tell me that they're interested. And then all of a sudden,
they'll think more about it, and you know what, I decided I can't relocate.

So at the moment, I've got about 10 or so candidates that are interested in the job that I think are
interesting and compelling. I think we've got reasonable diversity. We have a few female candidates. We
have a few African-American candidates. We have candidates inside the industry. We have some local
candidates. We have candidates that are outside the industry, which I know is a request from several
Directors.
The other thing I've been doing-- and I mentioned this during our last call-- is I've been doing my
stakeholder outreach. So I have-- there was a group of about 12 stakeholders that were deemed that I
would give a personal call to. And I've done that personal outreach. I've gotten probably about a 50%
response rate to that.
As an example, I've talked to-- I had an opportunity to talk to Mayor Hancock. And I've got other meetings
set up, And then those other stakeholders that I reached out to via email and offered an opportunity to
have a conversation with them. And several of them have reached back out in response to the email
setting up conversations, so I have several of those scheduled next week.
And really, from my perspective, it's a listening session to hear what their needs are, what they're
expecting from RTD to better understand what to be looking for in a candidate. And I'm also offering the
opportunity, if folks have a suggestion of a candidate or someone they might view to be a quality
candidate for the CEO position, to offer their name and contact information so I can reach out to them. So
I'm having positive conversations there as well.
And then I'll just reiterate again, if anybody, any Directors have suggestions of candidates I should reach
out to or call that they know, whether the person is looking or interested in the RTD job or not, just that I
should network even, I am more than happy to do so. So please, if there's anybody that comes to mind,
feel free to give me a call or email me.
But that's the quick update at the moment as to where I am on my process. And we have a closing date of
July 10. So we've got just under a month now. And I'm going to continue to work aggressively to refine
this group of candidates to make sure we've got a diverse, qualified pool of candidates to review and to
consider.
Is there any questions from anyone as to where the process is at or feedback I'm getting or anything?
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Gregg. I was on mute. Sorry.
I just wanted to say that Director Guissinger has joined in the last three minutes. And so she's on the call
now.
But I'm told that there-- we have Directors Rivera-Malpiede, Menten, Lewis, Walker, Buzek, Cook,
Guissinger. We have Gregg, Paul, Barbara, and John McKay. So that's a total of 12. But I'm told that
there are 16 people on the call. So I would like you to all identify yourself so we have a record of it.
This is
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten. Menten. I can clear up one, maybe one thing. I am both on Teams and
showing as a phone number. Just-- I don't know if that's adding one extra or if that's already known, but I
want to share that, OK?
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair, that's the same for me too. I have two sign-ons so I can see anything on
my screen, the agenda, et cetera, but then also have my audio through my telephone, through my cell
phone.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Maybe-- did someone just join the call. Please identify themself.

JOHN MCKAY: Hi, Director Catlin. This is John. I'm dialing in so that I can record on my computer but
actually listen in with my phone.
PEGGY CATLIN: So that may account for-- yes, sir, ma'am. Did someone else just call in?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Maybe I can go down the list of the phone numbers and people can identify
themselves and we can do it that way.
PEGGY CATLIN: That would be helpful, for the record.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I have a phone number ending in 6401.
GREGG MOSER: That's Gregg.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK. Phone number ending in 0958. 0958?
PAUL BALLARD: So Barbara, I'm on my computer, so it wouldn't show up as a phone number, would it?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No. I can see you, Paul, through the Teams application.
JOHN MCKAY: Barbara, the 0958 is me, John. 0958.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK. I have 0184.
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 3568.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 3058.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Guissinger.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 0551.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Rivera-Malpiede.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 0670.
PEGGY CATLIN: That would be me, Catlin.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK. So I guess some people are just on twice. And at least one person dropped
off.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We're good for the moment.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, thank you. I guess that person did not want to identify. Maybe that's a false
assumption.
OK, moving on. Does anyone have any questions of Gregg about the general overview of the
recruitment?
Madam
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Chair, I would just say Mr. Moser, I was trying to write down what you were
saying and you went a little bit fast. So I don't know if you can just send those in a bullet point to Director
Catlin to send out to us. I would appreciate that.
GREGG MOSER: Absolutely. I'm happy to do that.
PEGGY CATLIN: We can do that in a recap of the meeting.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair? It's Shelley Cook.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Gregg, thank you for this. I was wondering, how does this compare-- I mean, how
would you characterize the return rates, the number of interested applicants so far in terms of the
coronavirus and your normal settings? Is this comparable to what you've seen? Is this less than it?

GREGG MOSER: Yeah, this is a pretty good list so far. I would like to round it out. I'd like to make sure
that there's good representation from various backgrounds, various interests, from diversity, all those
sorts of things. So those are the sorts of things I'm looking for. Obviously looking for incredibly qualified
candidates that have strong backgrounds, those sorts of things.
So candidly, just to give you an example-- and this is just one example. I had a candidate I thought was
really kind of exciting that at the moment has decided that they don't want to apply. And the reasoning
behind that was that coronavirus and budgets and things like that may position-- and this is not unique to
RTD, it's going to be specific to transit and other industries as well-- that it's going to be sort of this hunker
down and try to maintain what service we have, and with limited budgets, limited resources. And their real
interest is being very innovative, coming up with new ways of doing things.
And I've tried to encourage that we're still going to do that despite all of this and asked this person to
reconsider and think about it and even come in with an open mind to potentially interview, if you're willing
to interview the person, to hear more about what you envision seeing at RTD over the next, say, two to
five years. And so we left the conversation that there would be more thought taken to it. But there are
some people that are a little bit concerned with what the future might hold.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And likewise, anything that we should know about from the stakeholders that
would be important in considering a candidate.
GREGG MOSER: Yeah. I think that there are certain people out there that believe this person really
needs to understand transit and doesn't need per se rail or bus experience, steeped in those experiences,
but that transit is such a unique type of service, it really needs to understand that. There's other people
that think that you could be outside the box and select someone that's outside the box. So you know, I
think I've heard a little bit more that people would like to see somebody who knows transit and knows the
issues around transit.
The other sorts of feedback I have heard is that public-- I don't think anything's going to come as a
surprise, but public confidence in RTD is at a low right now from certain stakeholders. And that I've heard
a comment made that we'd like to see more wins and more collaboration, more yeses, how can we work
together. Yes, we'd like to be a partner in this. Yes, we'd like to figure out a way to respond to your ask
and whatever that ask might be, that rather than just simply saying, no, we can't do that, yes, let's figure
out a way. It may not be exactly what you're looking for but something to do, that can meet that goal or
get close to meeting that goal.
So that's the type of feedback. I think that there's is a lot of excitement that there's an opportunity to
recruit someone in right now. I think people are anxious to see who that person's going to be to lead RTD
forward. Because what I have heard is that, from the stakeholders who have called me back and I've
spoken to, they're very receptive to working with this person. And they really want a CEO who is willing to
be engaged, be out there in the community, meeting with them, listening to them, and responding to
them.
So I think that they're very encouraged and pleased and excited about the opportunity to have someone
that will work with to do that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Does that answer your question, Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, that's interesting. Thanks much.
GREGG MOSER: Yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Any other questions before we move on to the--

VINCE BUZEK: Madam Chair. Director Buzek.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, thanks. And Gregg, to that end, if there's anyone you speak to that refers to the
Oversight Committee that's being formed as a reason for not applying, or a concern, I'd like to know that
information as well.
GREGG MOSER: Absolutely. Happy to share that.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm assuming that means that there hasn't been any concern expressed to date but that
there could be down the road, as this becomes more formal? Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, I'd just be curious to see if that looks to people from the outside as a negative or a
positive.
SHONTEL LEWIS: This is Director Lewis.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I just want to clarify. Director Buzek, the Oversight Committee that was recently
mentioned or-- on Tuesday, or are you talking about something else?
VINCE BUZEK: The one that's being put together by the legislature and the governor's office.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, got that. OK, thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, are there any other questions before we move on to the draft timeline?
OK. Gregg, why don't you talk a little bit about the tool that you've discovered that could facilitate more
remote participation of reviewing these candidate resumes.
GREGG MOSER: Yeah, absolutely. So I think that there-- I wanted to find an option where we could
share documents in a format that would be protected, in the interest of protecting confidentiality of the
candidates, to ensure them that we're going to keep it confidential so we can attract the best candidates.
And my staff and I spent the last week or so looking for a system where I could share a document that
would be secure, that we would be able to track who's logging in and make sure that that information
didn't get out to a party that we didn't want it to get out to or somehow someone got access to an email
that wasn't intended or something like that.
So there is a system, it's called HOGO, H-O-G-O. I will put together what the total pricing will be for this. It
won't be significant. It'll be a few hundred dollars in total. They charge you about $10 or $20 per
document you share in it. And a share is considered from Gregg to Mary Jane, let's say, one document
across. So if I share it to Mary Jane and I share it with Peter Smith, that's considered two shares. And
they bill you per that.
It is a format where I can upload a PDF file, and that PDF file is a secure file. It can't be copied. It can't be
forwarded. It cannot be downloaded. It cannot be saved. It's a view only. There's really nothing that can
be done with the document. It literally allows you-- it appears on your screen.
You have to download a small, it's a small file application file that the document is uploaded into, and then
you can access it and it opens up through Adobe, like a PDF file you would use in a normal situation, a
normal PDF. It just has sort of locked features. And it also has a process by which I can put it on there
and I can set a time for how long it can stay on there as well. So we can assure that these documents can
remain confidential but also allow you appropriate amount of time to review them.

So my thought process, and what I would do in a situation like this, is I would take all-- I would take the
resumes, I would scan them in. I'd put a cover sheet on each resume so you could see their cover letter.
I'd have a cover sheet, then their cover letter, and then their resume. And I would scan the entire package
of resumes as one file.
So I just did this with a client. And it was about a 60-page file, 65-page file. They had about 15 resumes.
And you can then scroll through all the resumes read each resume. And the reason I did that and
scanned it as one document is instead of getting 15 files and trying to keep track of 15 files, you have one
file that had all of the resumes in there.
Does that make sense? Does anybody any questions or want more clarification on that?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, it sounds perfect, though.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
I have agreed to be a Guinea pig, a test case for this. And John McKay has already done so as well. And
he tried his level best to try and manipulate and do things with the document and was unable to do so. So
I'm encouraged about the security of this particular system.
That said, I know that it would not prevent one director from taking their phone out and taking a photo.
And I would not want to suggest that, but I would hope that because of the pledge of confidentiality that
that would not happen.
Are there any other questions about this? We'll have-NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
PEGGY CATLIN: Just one minute. I think Gregg is going to roll out some-- the Board Office will roll out
some training prior to this going live. Is that correct, Gregg?
GREGG MOSER: That is correct, yeah. And also, we, John and I, or John, really, and Barbara, ran it by
the IT department. And the IT Department reviewed the system and its capabilities and approved it as a
application that can be used with RTD services.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, thank you. I forgot to mention that. Yes, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Just curious, not to nit pick, and every dollar counts in our budget. Is OneDrive
derive just not really going to work with the file folder was set to View Only, as a shared method so that
we're not introducing a new platform, where we're trying to get Board members to be using their
OneDrive?
PEGGY CATLIN: Barbara, is that something you can address, or John?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So Director Menten, not all Directors have access to OneDrive, number one.
Number two, I don't know that it's as secure as we need it to be in terms of it's managed by our IT
department and so therefore, it's on common servers as opposed to the platform that Gregg is proposing,
which is external.
And then I think we could share to Gregg Moser, but I don't think that he could control the share, because
the OneDrive is internal to RTD.
John, do you have anything to add to that?
JOHN MCKAY: No, that covers it.
PEGGY CATLIN: Does that answer your question?
GREGG MOSER: I think the other thing-- this is Gregg speaking.
PEGGY CATLIN: Go ahead, Gregg.

GREGG MOSER: I was going to say, one other level of protection that HOGO offers that I don't believe a
Read Only in OneDrive offers is that you cannot also take a screenshot of it. So you can't do a print
screen and copy it into a Word or a PowerPoint or a Paint file and then retrieve it and then forward it
along. So it really protects the document and the integrity of the document to the users who are allowed
access.
JOHN MCKAY: This is John. I did try that out with HOGO, and it actually disables my screen clipping
software. So I don't know that another software couldn't do it, but the one that I personally use just didn't
work.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. That answers my question. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Are there any other questions before we move on to the timing? Go ahead,
Gregg.
GREGG MOSER: So we have established July 10 as the closing date for applications. That is a deadline.
We have posted that. That is publicly viewed. And I've been sharing that with candidates who are still
considering the job and updating their resumes, that we need their resume at the very latest by July 10.
And of course, I'm asking people to get it to me sooner than that.
My recommendation is that I just have a couple of days to put together the package of resumes and to
post those resumes for everybody to view, and then we would schedule a meeting to review those
resumes.
And so I think what I'd like to throw out there as an idea is July 10 is our closing date. We can look for a
date for our meeting and then work backwards from there. I would recommend that our meeting to review
resumes be scheduled, I find that about three hours is a good amount of time. I don't think we'll need
three hours. We might. But I have found in the past, three hours works well for reviewing resumes. And I
just did this with a client and we ended up using two hours to review about 15 resumes.
And so I can post those resumes to the HOGO website perhaps about 48 hours ahead of that meeting
and leave it open through that meeting, so everybody has two days of time to review them. And again,
they will be available to review on the day of the meeting and accessible the day of the meeting. And my
thought process is looking for a day to do those and to hold that meeting on either Friday, July 17 or
Tuesday, July 21.
But of course, I can be flexible on the time of as to when we can do that. But that is my thought for the
review of the resumes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Gregg, this is Peggy Catlin. I don't know what day it was, but the Chair and I, along with
Barbara and John, talked about that process a little bit, and we felt that the later date would probably be
better.
GREGG MOSER: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: That's the week of the 24th, I believe.
PEGGY CATLIN: Actually, is that what we said? Let me look at my calendar.
Chair Rivera-Malpiede, would you like to chime in on that?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No. Listen, I'm having trouble with my phone. I'm so sorry. Can you repeat
that?
PEGGY CATLIN: We had talked about-- Gregg had suggested we have our meeting either on the 17th or
the Tuesday, the 21st. And in the meeting that you and I had with Barbara and John, I thought we had
agreed that either the 21st or 22nd would probably work out well.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. You know what? It feels like it was a long time ago. But yeah, we
really did kind of do a deep dive and what it looked like would be the easiest or the best timeframe for the
Board.
PEGGY CATLIN: Any thoughts about that? Barbara, do you want to-BARBARA MCMANUS: I thought we decided that we were going to do it the 22nd, the 23rd, or the 24th.
Because it might be too much knowing that that evening was also a Board meeting.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, I think we did hone in on the 22nd.
But are there thoughts from other committee members, first of all? And then, Gregg, I think you had, in an
email that I read from you, you had some preferences as to date.
GREGG MOSER: I think July 22 will work well.
PEGGY CATLIN: Does anyone else-- that's a Wednesday-- does anyone else have any comments about
that?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Fine for me.
PEGGY CATLIN: And one of the things that we talked about was that for the Board meeting itself, we will
have socialized on the [AUDIO OUT] the agenda items in committee prior to that Board meeting. So
typically, the amount of work that the Board has to do prior to a Board meeting is not as extensive as it is
prior to committee meetings, and that this committee and another's would have time to review those
resumes in preparation for this committee meeting on the 22nd.
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
PEGGY CATLIN: Can everyone-- yes, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: So to me, when we're discussing a date, the more important question is about
whether it's in-person or digital to then be able to say whether the date's good. So did we get to that
point? Did I miss that?
PEGGY CATLIN: We did not discuss that. But I think at this point we're still assuming it would be digital.
NATALIE MENTEN: Well, that allows much more flexibility, so then the answer is OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: Barbara or Gregg or-- am I incorrect in my assumptions?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No. We discussed going forward in this method.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. All right.
JEFF WALKER: That's-PEGGY CATLIN: Hello?
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, Jeff.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Jeff.
JEFF WALKER: I am committed at 9:00 to 10:00. So any time after 10:00 AM works best for me on the
22nd.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. We'll make note of that. Thank you.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Anybody else know their schedule that far in advance?
VINCE BUZEK: Looks good to Buzek.
PEGGY CATLIN: Good. How about Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm actually pulling up my calendar now. I've had some issues with my computer and
so it might take just a second here.
PEGGY CATLIN: I've had some issues with my computer lately, too, so I can sympathize.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mine is a mess. The 22nd works for me.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Works for me.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: It's a Veggie Van day, but I can work around it, having somebody else do what I
normally do on that day. I think it'll work.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. When does that start up again? Off topic here.
SHELLEY COOK: First part of July, pretty quick here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Good. OK. I think we're set then for the 22nd. And Director Lewis, if you could-- do you
have your calendar pulled up?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I do. I just pulled it up. I might be able to-- I have a standing committee that I lead at
the coalition. So I might be able to have someone else facilitate it. So it's just a matter of me moving some
things around. But I think we also should be meeting for the Code of Conduct, or maybe we'll be done by
then. But just wanted to flag that as well.
PEGGY CATLIN: Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm hoping we'll be done by then. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Well, I think, barring any real extreme conflict, we'll just go ahead and set that date
and move forward.
So then, Gregg thought that the optimal time for release of resumes prior to that meeting would be 48 to
72 hours. So if we meet on Wednesday, then either-- I'm backing up a little bit, but that could mean a
Sunday release. Am I correct on that, Gregg?
GREGG MOSER: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So then you'll have some time to look at it.
All right. Any other questions on that, moving forward?
All right. So then Options for Round 1/ Initial Candidate Interviews. And I think this is where we want to
talk about how we would want to proceed, and whether there's a strong preference for in-persona or
digital interviews t that point.
And excuse me, somebody is typing away and it's coming through on the audio here. So if you could
mute your, either your computer or your phone, that would be great, as you're typing.
Gregg, if you could kind of highlight some of the experiences you've had recently with candidates being
somewhat reluctant to travel and the reasons why, I'd appreciate it right now.
GREGG MOSER: Yeah. So the advantage of meeting a candidate in person is the obvious. You get to
see them in person. You see how they present themselves and carry themselves and all the interaction
you would get by having an in-person meeting, which we all know the slight difference you get on video.
It's not as good. It does a good job, but it's not as good.
Obviously, and I know, Director Menten, in terms of budgets, there's a cost associated with bringing
candidates in. And I would anticipate there's somewhere, you would probably interview in this first round
somewhere between five and eight candidates.
And a six-candidate interview is eight hours of time, if you think about it. Because you have an hour per
candidate, 10 or 15 minute breaks. Something like that ends up being an eight-hour day if you do it all in
one day or two half days, like that. And then we need time to debrief and discuss who the candidates are

that are going to move forward. So we need probably a good hour of time for that, if not more. So we
should be thinking about the time commitment in our minds.
And in terms of candidates, so I've been dealing with this on a couple of different recruitments, and just
something to be thinking about. One is obviously, there's, as Board members coming into meet, obviously
we can provide a place that's distanced and things. But there's the risk of obviously going into a public
place, if that's of a concern. And we could do everything we can to try to prevent and protect that and
what not.
But in terms of candidates traveling, we're obviously remembering that some of these candidates are
coming in from out of town, and they're going to be flying and staying in hotels and things like that. I had
one particular candidate in a recruitment I'm doing in Seattle-- we're down to the finalist candidates at this
point, we're down to three candidates-- and a candidate is coming in from another city, would have to fly
in. And the organization did not put pressure on the candidates they must come in in person, but asked
me to reach out to them to see how they felt about coming to Seattle.
And one candidate brought up an interesting point that was, if, God forbid, they got COVID and tested
positive, that their organization is asking employees to do contact tracing, and that it might require either
lying to their company that where they've been and who they've been in contact with, or disclosing that
they're considering another job, which could obviously put them at risk. And so this particular candidate
didn't feel entirely comfortable about making that travel. And again, the organization was giving the
latitude of not requiring it but offering that as a possibility.
So these are the sorts of things that are coming up and we have to deal with. And a candidate who knows
that there may be one of five or six or seven candidates in the first round may feel less compelled to
travel in person then than they might feel a little bit later on when they're down to the final two or three
candidates.
So it's obviously something we won't know until we get there. I've had other candidates that have not a
problem. I'm doing a recruitment in Boston right now. And a candidate voluntarily said that he wanted to
go to Boston to see the city and whatnot and got on a plane and flew there this weekend on his own
decision.
So it really is case specific and unique to the individual who-- their comfort level and travel and whatnot.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Gregg. If I might, the other-- I mean, the other issue is safety of Board
members and staff, as well as any candidates. And we really won't know if there's going to be a phase
two of this, or round two of this virus outbreak. And the timeline we're looking at, I believe was in the
August 5th and 6th timeframe, breaking it up into two days for these interviews, depending on the
number.
As you all may recall, it was pretty grueling when we interviewed the candidates that we did for the
Interim GM. By the end of the day, it was quite a long day. And Chair Rivera-Malpiede and I thought that
it might be better, given we don't know how many number of candidates we have, that we spread it out
over two days, maybe the afternoon of the 5th and the morning of the 6th, or something like that.
Thoughts?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: For those that work, two days makes much more complication in their other
job. I would rather have it packed into one day. That's my personal opinion. Thank you. And this is
Natalie.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Menten. Others? I'm just going to go through the line here. Director
Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Are you thinking like four hours on each day?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm OK with either option.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. How about Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: I'd prefer all on one day, but I can usually make-- I can usually shuffle something around
on two days. Usually.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. If the choice is between two four-hour days and one eight-hour
day, I'd go for the eight-hour day. But my thinking is that we're saying it might be a day and a half, an
eight-hour day and a four-hour day. So I want to clarify that first.
PEGGY CATLIN: I believe the goal was to have two four-hour days, but that if we get did it the afternoon
of the 5th, the morning of the 6th, if we needed extra time for the afternoon of the 6th, we could have that
available.
VINCE BUZEK: Got it. I'd prefer one day then.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Director Cook, your thoughts?
SHELLEY COOK: I actually would do better with 2 half days, if they were in the morning. But I can work
around a full day as well. So that sounds like it's where most people are so far and that would be fine.
PEGGY CATLIN: And last but not least, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I'm probably OK either way.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. You know, did I get everybody? Director Rivera-Malpiede, did I-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No. You know what?
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm sorry.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I think I want to remind everybody how exhausting an
experience it is to do that many interviews in one day. If I recall, it was just, it was grueling at the end of
the day. And we did that with some breaks. But they pretty much-- and I think we did five, if I recall.
So you know, thinking about how hard it was to stay awake and just, I guess my preference would be the
two four-hour day so that we're rejuvenated and could look at each candidate with a lot of energy. But you
know, if everybody votes on an eight-hour day, I'm fine with that as well. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
I have a couple of thoughts. I thought it was a long day last time. But if we choose to go remote or digital
for these interviews, then it could be a FaceTime or a Teams or a Zoom, protected Zoom, interview, then
we're not going to be having the shuffling, the shuffling with staff bringing the candidates in and some of
those logistics that we would have if they were in person interviews. So it may be a little more streamlined
than it was the last time. Those are just my thoughts.
Well, Barbara and John and Gregg, will work with some dates. But we're tentatively looking at that August
5th, 6th, 7th timeframe, in there. So if you could look at your calendars and let Barbara and John know
what is optimal for you, then I'd appreciate that.
But does that timeline look OK for-- that means that we will be-- it'll be a week and a half to two weeks
between the time we have our meeting to the time that we would ask people to come in for, or present for
interviews. Does that sound workable, Gregg?

GREGG MOSER: It does, yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So please, if you could get your preferences to Barbara, that would be-- Barbara
and John-- that would be great.
And then finally, for Round 2/ Finalist Interviews, and also the outreach. As you recall, the last time the
finalists did interview in public settings with some stakeholder groups. And I'll turn it over to Gregg to have
him share thoughts about what the timeline for that would be and when we would consider those and
some of the logistics.
GREGG MOSER: Yeah. I think that what I typically recommend is trying to do those about two weeks
later. It allows any final diligence to be done on the candidates, those finalist candidates. It also allows
you to publicly communicate who those candidates are and not have some backlash from anybody in the
community that you didn't give enough time for those names to be publicly out there and vetted.
So I think my thought process was of trying to look for a date the week of August 17, so something like
the 19th, 20th, or 21st again. That's a Wednesday, Thursday, or Friday. And I think, again, there's so
many moving pieces in terms of what's happening and from a public health standpoint right now, but an
ideal situation in a perfect world, those meetings would be-- those interviews would take place in person
and we would do a public forum with stakeholders.
The last time we did this, we had a space reserved at a hotel and we invited the final three candidates.
And each one individually went into the ballroom and spoke at a podium for about five minutes about
themselves. They did it individually so the other two candidates couldn't hear them. And then we invited
all three candidates in to mix and mingle with people. And I don't remember the exact number, but it was
well over 100 people. There might have been close to 200 people there.
And we asked the stakeholders to leave comments. And we quickly gathered all of that feedback
overnight and shared it with the Board the next morning before any decisions were made. But that would
be the ideal situation if we weren't in the environment we're in today.
So I think that I'd certainly like to hear feedback. I know we'd all like to discuss that, possibilities and
options for what we can do for the final round of interviews.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So Gregg, this is Barbara McManus. We know that you had a conflict the week of
the 17th. So when we had our meeting with the Chair and the Vice-- and the Chair of the Committee and
the Chair of the Board, we said that the week of the 24th could work, the 26th through the 28th, rather
than the week of the 17th, avoiding any conflicts on your side, depending on what you were doing.
So I'd like to throw that out there, too. But it's totally up to what your schedule and everybody else's
schedule allows.
GREGG MOSER: And just so you know, I think since I last shared, the only conflict I have is the day of
the 17th. So I think the rest of the week is relatively open from my schedule, the 18th through the,
whatever the Friday is.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. We did have that discussion and we double checked that Labor Day is, in
fact, on the 7th. So we would not be crowding the Labor Day weekend with an August 26th through 28th
timeframe. So it looks like we have a couple of options available.
Thoughts from Board members? Director Rivera-Malpiede, Chair?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, but I do remember the conversation trying to stay away from all of the
holidays and stuff, so we could do that. No, I think we've had some good discussion. I'm anxious to hear
what the other Committee members think.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: I don't ever take vacation. So you know, it's OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I think we still need to sort out whether it's going to be a in-person forum or some
other digital platform.
NATALIE MENTEN: Oh, I'm sorry. Digital works just fine with me and I don't want the extra cost. It allows
more flexibility on us getting that break. You can go in your backyard for a minute if you need it. All of the
above, I don't have any need to have the in-person with this round, considering all the circumstances. So
that's my thoughts on that. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Lewis, your thoughts?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I think I have a preference not to have in-person meetings. But I'm happy to go with
whatever the majority decides.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: I would much prefer in person, because that means everything is OK. And I think the
technology's improved a lot since we did a video conference back in '15 or '16. So I'm OK with the video
conferencing. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. I'm OK with the video. I guess I, like Jeff Walker, I also prefer in
person. If we decide that we're going to go in person, I think we also need to allow anyone else to appear
by video if they feel uncomfortable socializing and being in close proximity to other people. So that's all.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, I look at this-- thank you, Director Buzek-- I look at this in two parts. One is
actually the Round 2 interviews. And then the second would be what Gregg mentioned about any kind of
stakeholder presentation or larger gathering. So let's hold that thought until we get to the next agenda
item. But just for the Round 2 of the interviews, let's just isolate it to that particular part. So Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thank you. I agree with Director Walker and Director Buzek and liked Vince's
suggestions about allowing people who are uncomfortable to view remotely if, in fact, we make it an inperson interview. I think you just gain a better sense of a person in person.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's true. Although with video, you do get some of the body language and that sort of
thing. OK. Director Guissinger, last but not least. Your thoughts?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I agree with those comments from the last few Directors. Either one works for me.
Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Sounds like we do have some opportunity to be flexible. But from a cost
perspective, it sounds like the more prudent way would be to do digital interviews.
With regard to stakeholder meetings and the community outreach, do you want to talk about that a little
bit more, Gregg? I'm not sure that given today's circumstance, that we're going to be able to do
something quite as grand or bold as last time. But I don't know what your thoughts are on that.
GREGG MOSER: I think that if there's a need to socially distant and being outdoors is better than being
indoors, that that just limits, even if we rented a large ballroom, let's say, and cost wasn't an issue, you'd
have to limit the number of people that could enter and come in just simply by spacing them out, having
appropriate spacing.

So another option-- I've been trying to think about different ideas. Another option is you have sort of a,
you could do a pre-- you could have each candidate do a video. And I've done this before with a client,
where they record a video. We ask them certain questions to respond to and they have a video that we
record and we share that. And we make it available for the public to see on the website or something like.
That that's one idea.
Another idea is we can do a Zoom-type call, a Teams meeting call, and invite stakeholders to join that at
a specified period of time for each candidate. So candidate A at 5:00, candidate B at 6:00. We could have
a moderator that people can write questions in and we can ask questions to the candidates. The
challenge with that is if you have 100 people join, we can't ask 100 questions. So I'd have to filter through
the questions to pick a few and tell the stakeholders that.
So those are a couple different ideas of things we could do. The other option, which is less inclusive, is to
pick a group of stakeholders. They could have a more formal intimate conversation with a candidate,
perhaps a video call or a conference call or something like that. That wouldn't be as open as public and
inclusive. And you could obviously do a variety of these different things. You could have a smaller subset
group. You could do a Zoom meeting also. You could have a smaller subset group and have a recorded
video of each candidate also available for the public to view.
PEGGY CATLIN: I kind of like the idea of the video with questions asked of each candidate that week we
could get input from different stakeholders in order to ask those questions of the candidate, and then
maybe follow up with some sort of a Zoom meeting or additional interaction. Thoughts, other Directors?
I would suggest, Gregg, that maybe you put together a, within our budget, a proposal of what that could
look like, maybe a hybrid of some of those strategies that you suggested and get back to us for our next
meeting. Is that something that-- I mean, I like some of the ideas that you brought forth. Are there other
Directors that have some thoughts?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin, or Chair Catlin, I would just say that clearly we are at a very,
very different time. And I think anything we can do digitally where we can get community input, it would be
incredibly beneficial. But I would like to see a plan come back from Mr. Moser. And I'd also like to think
about it, as well, to see if there's other things that are happening that we might be able to replicate or do
something so we're not reinventing the wheel. Thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So Direct-- Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I know you're on your phone. But Director Lewis said she had to jump off to get
on another call, but she would love to see a Zoom meeting shared live via Facebook. And they could take
questions via the live feed. So that's another option that we could explore.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. That's something I haven't done personally, but I know she's got some experience
with that. So Gregg, if you could kind of pull that into your toolbox and then we could maybe take a look at
a strategy that would-- I personally kind of like the idea of getting some stakeholder input with regard to
questions, have a video up front to introduce each individual candidate, and then have a dialogue, more
limited dialogue after that.
Director Walker, your thoughts?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I've heard of actors auditioning for parts remotely, sending in a videotape, like
Mr. Moser suggested, any talk show, you watch Johnny Carson or Carson Daly or whomever. So I think

this idea of remote, I'm getting used to it now, because I've never been part of it ever, spectator. So I think
something like that could work.
And if the candidate and Mr. Moser or somebody else were comfortable, it could be an interview scenario,
where, I'll use Mr. Moser as an example, sits with the candidate and they can do whatever precautions
they feel are necessary or they're comfortable with, and then they interview, Mr. Moser or whomever
could ask the questions of the candidate. So we could get a sense of the candidate's body language and
how they respond, not talking to a camera but talking to another person, something like that.
But I'm up for anything. Everything is new. Everything is available. Everything's on the table. I hope that
helped.
VINCE BUZEK: You really dated yourself with that Johnny Carson reference.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah. I used to stay up-- my parents used to let me watch him when I was a kid.
PEGGY CATLIN: Was I the only one that noticed that? Director Buzek, do you have any other
comments?
VINCE BUZEK: No. I kind of like the idea of the video of a candidate talking and introducing themselves
as a preliminary to other things after that. So thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: But I do-- I agree, but I think there should be some interaction.
The other thought I have, and I don't know if this would be problematic or not, but we would have a tape
of their actual interview with the Board, or with the Committee. Is that something that we would want to
maybe share with the stakeholder group?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's actually a really interesting thought.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I guess I think that we could share that. But I like the idea of a Facebook Live, or
there are a number of different formats for doing something like that. But letting, I think, with an early
recommendation, just a public situation where maybe it's where somebody is getting questions from the
chat. But that seems like an important piece if we can't do in-person meetings.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. How about you, Director Cook? What do you think?
SHELLEY COOK: I'm sorry. It takes a while to unmute. You know-PEGGY CATLIN: I know.
SHELLEY COOK: I want to think about that last piece, the idea, the interviews are sort of a selection or
interview committee with the candidate. It's a more, I don't know if private is the right word. But it would
probably change that. And I just want to think about how that happens, if, in fact, we know it's going to be
posted on the internet, a link to that. It might be a good thing to do. But I'm just thinking through how the
kinds of questions, the candidate's candor and responses.
But on the other ideas that Mr. Moser had, I thought those were all intriguing. And so I'm looking forward
to seeing what he brings back to us as a package.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think we have a lot of options available. I do think that if the-- I personally think that if
the actual interviews of the candidates with the Selection Committee were made available, that would be
pretty transparent. But I'm comfortable with any combination of some of these items. And we just have to
be creative as we move forward. And perhaps some of the stakeholders that Gregg is reaching out to
currently would have some ideas about where they see that final step going.
GREGG MOSER: I'm happy to ask that.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Gregg, referrals of candidates.
NATALIE MENTEN: I didn't get to chime in. Menten.

PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, I'm sorry, Director Menten. I apologize.
NATALIE MENTEN: No problem. So in asking the question and a response, I would say that like max five
minute video, just because of upload times and processing times, you know times x amount of
candidates.
And I would be happy to join those all into one video in Adobe Premiere, so that we could have it on our
RTD YouTube channel, we could put it on our Facebook, we can-- but it would really be helpful if each
candidate was only given X amount of time, same amount of time. And perhaps we would give them a list
of questions that they could have the choice to answer. But if they just want to talk about another subject,
they could. Let them make that choice. See what their-- you know, I think that gives a little bit of insight
into them and a little bit of flexibility.
And those are my thoughts on video and digital age and somebody who wants to view it at midnight,
somebody who may not like going to Facebook, giving us a lot of options. And again, I would be happy to
join up those videos.
So there, that's my answer. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks for that input. And I think since we're talking about Round 2 for this, we're
talking about a maximum of three-- or, three or four. So that might not be too much of a problem.
So I think you've gotten quite a bit of feedback on that, Gregg. And we look forward to seeing your
proposal about what might work within our budget.
GREGG MOSER: That sounds great. I will-PEGGY CATLIN: And timing. And timing. Perfect.
GREGG MOSER: I will work on putting together some ideas and also do some research on some other
ideas that maybe we haven't discussed today so we can review everything on a follow-up call.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Hey, Gregg, just one more thing. And Madam Chair, I apologize. But you
know, I've been participating, as Director Lewis and I think Director Williams, we've been doing these
FaceTime town hall meetings for local elected officials in our districts.
And one of the things that we did in Northwest Denver which was really important to our community was
we would also have it in sign-- we'd have someone doing it in sign language at the same time, and in
Spanish, so that multiple people could hear from different cultures, which I think might be something we
might want to make sure we do. Thank you.
GREGG MOSER: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
OK. Well, we will look forward to seeing a timeline for this. What do you think your-- Barbara, I was just
going to bring up the topic of schedule for this. And would you like to make some comments about this?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I would just say that John, we discussed an overview previously. John's been
making adjustments to that overview and schedule as we're on this call. He'll send it out to the full
committee and we'll get consensus on the timing and the scheduling of what works for everybody. And
then we'll compile that and get it back to you as soon as possible, so that we can all get these dates on
our calendars.
It's going to be very, very busy. And it's going to be challenging between now and the end of the year
scheduling wise. So we have a lot going on and a lot being added. So he'll send that out and we'll hope to
perhaps get an answer back from all of you folks by, let's say, Tuesday.

And then we can fill in the blanks on the schedule that he'll send out today to you and everybody can get
it on their calendar. We can confirm everything with Gregg. And then Gregg will know what the schedule
is for any of the candidates moving forward.
PEGGY CATLIN: That sounds good. And then with regard to the structure of our stakeholder meetings
and community outreach, we'll wait for a plan from Gregg. And Gregg, what do you think-- what do you
think would be a reasonable time for you to put some of those ideas together?
GREGG MOSER: I think I could probably do it in a week, week and a half. So today is Friday. I think by
next Friday to the following Monday, I can get you something with some different ideas. And then that
gives us an opportunity to review those and think about them and then also see if anybody's come up with
any additional ideas also.
PEGGY CATLIN: That sounds great. So Barbara, why don't, given that timeframe of maybe Monday, we
schedule something that following week of this committee to maybe brainstorm and finalize our plan for
that stakeholder meeting and community outreach.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thursday, June 25th?
PEGGY CATLIN: Does that work for everyone? I don't know about Director Lewis. Let me see-VINCE BUZEK: What time of day?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, we've been trying to do them over the lunch hour so that the folks that work
can participate. So unless you have another request, we would go with that same type of schedule.
VINCE BUZEK: I've got a 1:30 hearing via Webex. But earlier is better for me.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK. Why don't I have John send a polling out of what times work best on that
date, and you can respond and we'll figure it out.
VINCE BUZEK: Perfect.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: That sounds good. Yeah.
So now we're down to item H, and I did not meet my goal of 2:00. Sorry. But referrals of candidates. I
think, as I read this agenda item, I think we just want to make sure that we encourage committee
members and their buddies to refer any potential candidate on to Gregg, or to encourage them to apply or
to maybe have him outreach to them. Is that what you meant by that, Gregg?
GREGG MOSER: Yup, that's correct. Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. We're down to Other Matters. Do any of the committee members have other things
to bring up?
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair, it's Shelley Cook.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Director Cook. I wanted to-- and I recognize we're running over so I won't take
much time-- but I wanted to thank Mr. Moser for sending through the information on compensation. I'd like
to think explicitly about our posture and philosophy on that.
I can send through, in the chat box, if I can get to it, a pay philosophy that I found for the CEO back in
2011, or something like, that just by accident, when I was doing a search of the minutes. So we could all
look at that. But we, you know, we are under a microscope. And we've been criticized in the past for our
pay. And while we can say it's comparable and can point to APTA, I think having a more systematic
approach to it and being thoughtful may help us as that discussion comes up.
So I wondered if we couldn't take a look. Like this particular version of what guided us back then included,
for example, the strategy that we would pay in the upper 25% of agencies that we found comparable

along with a set of dimensions. Mr. Moser talked about the different factors that influence, including the
cost of living in an area. Actually, I put those in, just because I could do it quickly. And there was a pretty
strong correlation, 0.87, between the cost of living index for those cities. There was an even stronger one
with the population.
But again, it's not a mathematical formula. It's just knowing or thinking about where we're going to end up
with this, and even considering new factors, such as do we need to pay a bit more to attract that person
who is so creative but doesn't view this as a job where he or she could express that? So I'm just sending
that through and requesting that we take this up explicitly, maybe at a subsequent meeting.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair, if I could just ask a question of Mr. Moser about that. In
talking to potential candidates, are we talking at all with them about salary ranges?
GREGG MOSER: I think that certain candidates have done their diligence and they've seen the meetings.
They've seen what is being paid currently, or what was negotiated for the Interim CEO position, and
they've seen what was paid originally for the last General Manager CEO, both when he started and when
he ended. And people in transit are fairly familiar. They seem to know this information. They may not
know all the details of the contract, but they seem to know generally.
I'm having conversations with candidates about what they're currently earning or what would they like to
see. And so those are the types of conversations. But I haven't set a salary range. In fact, several
candidates I've talked to over the last couple days, I specifically said that we were having a conversation
about this and that there were various perspectives on the Board, that I've already heard already, various
perspectives about compensation and how COVID and limited budget resources and things like that are
going to be really taken into account as we as we evaluate and reflect on this.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Moser. That's really helpful. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, I appreciate that as well. Director Cook, we can put that on after everybody's had
a chance to look at this document, whether it's via email or on chat. There's only three people who are
logged on to the Teams, or four people who are logged onto the computer Teams meeting.
So maybe the committee email would be better. And I would suggest that we share that email with the
rest of the Board, because others might have some strong feelings about that.
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. I am quite concerned with the dollar difference between Genova and where
we are right now, that we have sent very much a wrong message. And I don't-- would hate to take a step
backwards. It's going to be quite a challenge now. So I'm sharing my frustration, those present from
January and on through now. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Menten.
Does anyone else have any other matters to bring before this committee? Hearing none, we have our
tentative next meeting date on the 25th of June to talk about the stakeholder meetings and community
outreach and to get another update from Mr. Moser.
And with that, I believe at 2:20, we could stand adjourned.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.

