Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, May 24, 2016
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Natalie Menten

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Menten called the meeting to order at 5:32 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
5:26 PM

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

5:31 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District H
Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Present
Present

5:32 PM
5:31 PM
4:46 PM

Tina Francone

Director, District N

Present

5:31 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

5:30 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District A
Director, District G

Absent
Absent

6:06 PM

Judy Lubow

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

5:30 PM

Natalie Menten

Committee Chair

Present

5:21 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Absent

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present

5:30 PM
5:33 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:28 PM

Director Lasater and Sisk were absent. Director James arrived late and Director Deadwyler
left early.
Staff Present:

Tonya Anderson, Rolf Asphaug, Tim Barlow, Shirley Bennett, Gina
Callahan, Sarah Camacho, Rachel Carson, Jessie Carter, Carolyn
Conover, Heather Copp, Lou Cripps, Heather Deckard, John Elias,
Terry Emmons, Eric Farrington, Anthony Forrester, Doug Gragg, Kim
Heldman, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Robin McIntosh, Barbara
McManus, Allen Miller, Brenden Morgan, Sue Sandoval, Tai-Shrae
Parish, Jannette Scarpino, Rahul Sood, Errol Stevens, Henry
Stopplecamp, Greg Straight, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Monika
Treipl-Harnke, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter

Public Present:

Morgan Bassey, Chris Elmore, Aaron Epstein, John Karner, Mike
Newman, Pedro Ramos, Anita Solano, John Thompson, Joe Triplett,
Gary Van Dorn, Cheryl Wallace, Dee Wisor

B. Recommended Actions

• 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors accept and enter into the record the District’s audited
financial reports relating to the year ended December 31, 2015 as prepared
by staff and audited by RTD's independent auditor, RubinBrown, LLP.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to
move this item to the full Board at the
May 31, 2016 Board Meeting.
Director Folska seconded the motion.

Discussion: Heather Copp, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General
Manager of Finance and Administration, and Doug MacLeod,
Controller, introduced Cheryl Wallace from the auditing firm of
RubinBrown, LLP (RubinBrown). Doug MacLeod recognized
staff members Sue Sandoval, Senior Manager of Accounting,
and Tom Barlow, Senior Investment Accountant. He noted
that they and their team have worked diligently since
September to get this audit completed.
Cheryl Wallace clarified the annual audit process with the
Directors. The ViewPoints presentation included in the
Financial Administration and Audit Committee Agenda Packet
for May 24, 2016 contains the communication that every

auditor is required to provide to a governing body. She stated
that RTD has retained RubinBrown to perform an independent
audit on the financial statements. Since RTD has received
federal awards over $500,000, RTD has also engaged
RubinBrown to issue an opinion on RTD’s federal awards.
Cheryl Wallace noted that page 6 begins the required Auditor
communication. The left side of the report outlines the
auditing standards and the right side of the report is the
response from RubinBrown. She explained that RubinBrown
issued an unmodified report that was previously called an
unqualified opinion or a clean opinion. On page 7 of the
report, it is notated that RubinBrown planned and scoped the
audit through the engagement process. What is new for this
year was a new governmental accounting standard that was
effective January 1st 2015, which was adopted by RTD.
RubinBrown is also required to inform the Board if there are
any estimates used in the financial statements. There are
estimates because of capital assets and receivables. And
lastly, because of the Government Accounting Standards
Board Statement No. 68 (GASB 68), there is an estimate of
the pension liability. The financial statements are very clear
and concise and there were no difficulties encountered during
the audit. RubinBrown worked with the finance team and
other divisions throughout the District and there were no
difficulties. The only adjustment in the report is an indication
of an accrual which is a client prepared adjustment, not an
audit adjustment. There were no disagreements with
Management, no need for consultation and no other issues
which required attention.
The rest of the document has recommendations for best
practices, observations and suggestions for the District to
consider. One of the audit recommendations from last year
was to review the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and
Innovation Act (TIFIA) loan period of availability and how it is
recognized. Those recommendations were fully put into effect
this year. Additionally, RubinBrown made recommendations
related to how RTD recodes transactions, which have been
partially implemented. RTD staff is in the process of refining
the procedures. The last topic was reviewing the information
technology governance and controls. There is a multi-year
plan that is currently being implemented which is why that
recommendation is partially implemented.

Cheryl Wallace stated as the Board looks forward, there is a
new GASB relating to fair values which will add more
disclosures to financial statements. There is a public private
partnership accounting that will be coming to completion in
2016 and a new standard, GASB 75, will come into play in
2018 related to post employment benefit plans.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy,
Lubow, Menten, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Bill James, Gary Lasater, Chuck Sisk
Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Resolution No. ___, Series of 2016 related to the issuance of RTD Sales Tax
Revenue Bonds, Series 2016A
It is recommended by the Finance Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the
“Resolution”), authorizing the issuance of Regional Transportation District
Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks Projects), Series 2016A.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to
move this item to the full Board at the
May 31, 2016 Board Meeting.
Director Solano seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Heather Copp noted that Dee Wiser of Butler Snow, Chris
Elmore of Goldman Sachs, and Mike Newman of First
Southwest were all present to answer questions if there was
anything staff could not answer.
Brenden Morgan, Senior Manager of Debt and Investments,
explained that the resolution allows for two items. The first is
for new money for new projects, including the Southeast Rail
extension. The second allows for potential refinancing of the
2010A and 2012A FasTracks bonds if market conditions allow
for such refinancing to be economically beneficial to the
District. As of now, refinancing is not an attractive option but
the resolution will allow staff to react should the opportunity
arise. The resolution sets parameters for the sale of these
bonds and limits the principal amount to $200 million dollars.
The maturity is limited to the year 2046, and the maximum

effective interest rate is set at 7%. Drafts of these documents
are in the Board Office for review.
Heather Copp clarified that in addition to funding for the
Southeast Corridor, this will also complete financing for the
rest of Eagle, North Metro and I-225 projects. Although those
projects are underway, they have not been fully funded.
Director Lubow noted that in the Board packet there was
something said about the 2004 vote which authorized a debt
of $3.74 billion and a maximum total repayment cost of $7.1
billion. She wondered if these bonds getting us closer to those
maximums. Heather Copp said yes. Assuming the bonds go
up to the $200 million dollar in principal listed as the not to
exceed number, there will be approximately $100 million
dollars in principal left on those FasTracks bonds. However,
with interest rates it could be a little more or a little less.
Director Lubow expressed concern as an unfunded corridor is
in her District. She stated if RTD issues these bonds it leaves
nothing left for the unfunded corridors.
Director Lubow asked for further information about refinancing
if it is economically feasible. She said it was her understanding
if we refinance the repayment of debt will be extended 10
years past the original date. Heather Copp indicated that at
this point in time staff would not know, but the statute
indicates that any refunding cannot exceed 15 years past the
original due date. Brenden Morgan added that historically
when there have been refinancings the debt will be structured
with similar, if not identical, maturity payments. Heather
Copp reiterated staff does not know if the bonds will be
refinanced but this allows staff the flexibility if it does make
financial sense at a later date.
Director Lubow stated she would be voting in favor for this
but has reservations about leaving so little in the FasTracks
pot.
Director Francone asked for confirmation that the resolution
would allow for the potential refinancing of certain bonds but
that staff did not plan to refinance at this time. Brenden
Morgan indicated that the two main items authorized under
the resolution are: raising new capital for projects, up to $200
million dollars, and refinancing of the 2010A and 2012A
FasTracks bonds. This action item is allowing staff flexibility
to capture a potential opportunity if it becomes available.

Heather Copp added that the reason that these two bonds
were combined under one action is because the market is
moving quickly. If staff had to bring this back to another
meeting the opportunity could be missed because the market
is constantly changing.
Committee Chair Menten stated that she would be voting no
for this item. She said while it is great that the community has
contributed so much for the Southeast Rail extension, she is
concerned with our debt load and current projections that this
will risk operations. She stated we might be able to build it,
but if we cannot sustain it, that creates a concern.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [9 TO 2]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
SECONDER: Paul Solano, Director, District K
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Solano, Tobiassen,
Walker
NAYS: Tina Francone, Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Bill James, Gary Lasater, Chuck Sisk
Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED.

• Resolution No. ___, Resolution expressing the intent of the Board to be
reimbursed for certain expenses relating to the financing of buses
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the
“Resolution”), expressing the intent of the Board to be reimbursed from a
future financing for certain expenses relating to the acquisition of buses.
Motion:

Chair Tobiassen made the motion to
move this item to the full Board at the
May 31, 2016 Board Meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Brenden Morgan indicated that this resolution is a
reimbursement resolution very similar to one that was done for
the FasTracks bonds two months ago. The resolution
expresses the intent of the Board to be reimbursed from future
financing related to the acquisition of buses. The Strategic
Budget Plan (SBP), as approved by the Board in 2015,
anticipates that the financing of buses. He indicated the fleet
is constantly being refreshed as buses age. Some of the
vehicles identified in the SBP will begin to arrive this month.
The financing for these vehicles will be done in the future, but

this resolution expresses the intent of the Board to be
reimbursed from some future financing.
Director Hoy asked if we are paying for the buses out of our
normal operating cash which would then be reimbursed by
future loans for that equipment. Brenden Morgan stated that
was correct.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [10 TO 1]
MOVER:
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Solano,
Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Bill James, Gary Lasater, Chuck Sisk
Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED.

• Salaried Employee Trustee Replacement
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution No. ______ amending
the Salaried Employee Defined Benefit (i.e., Pension) Plan and Salaried
Employee Defined Contribution Plan to provide for appointment of the same
four employee trustees for each of the plans, with two trustees being
employee participants in the Pension Plan, and two being employee
participants in the Defined Contribution Plan. The resolution further provides
that the three existing employee trustees serving both plans remain as
trustees with revised termination dates to assure continued staggered terms,
and that a fourth employee be appointed to replace retired trustee Marla
Lien.
Motion:

Chair Tobiassen made the motion to
move this item to the full Board at the
May 31, 2016 Board Meeting.
Director Lubow seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Heather Copp reminded the Board that there are two salaried
plans. One is the Employee Defined Benefit Plan, known as
the Pension Plan, which was closed in January 2008 to new
salaried employees. The new plan is the Salaried Employees
Defined Contribution Plan. There are seven trusties for each
plan, and they are the same trusties. Previously, the trustee
compilation has been two Board Members, the CFO, and four
other trusties. Up until this time it has been two senior
AGM’s, and two middle managers. The trustees decided there

should be a different representation to include two members
from the Pension Plan and two members from the Defined
Contribution Plan. The current trusties are: Director Lubow,
Chair Tobiassen, Scott Reed, Lou Ha, Sylvia Francis and
Heather Copp. She said the trustees have been working with
Steve Weinstein, the attorney for both plans. Mr. Weinstein
agrees with the changes as presented as do the current
trustees.
Director Francone asked when the appointment for the
vacancy will be filled. Heather Copp indicated that as soon as
the Board approves the resolution, an announcement will be
made to employees to ask for applications. Director Francone
inquired if the committee makes the final decision on the
replacement, or will Chair Tobiassen. Heather Copp noted
that the Chair of the Board, the Chair of the Trust and the
Chair of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee
make the decision.
Committee Chair Menten noted that this update makes the
trusteeship much more inclusive. She thanked staff for
bringing this forward.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
SECONDER: Judy Lubow, Committee Vice-Chair
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy,
Lubow, Menten, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Bill James, Gary Lasater, Chuck Sisk
Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• General Manager Contract Review
Cheryl Wallace of RubinBrown, LLP (RubinBrown), reported to the Board that
RubinBrown was engaged to review the terms of the GM contract that was
just signed. RubinBrown reviewed the terms to look at the annual cost of
the contract and verified that those amounts were in accordance with the
contract terms. RubinBrown will come back annually to report to the Board
what the actual incurred costs were for the District and we will compare
that to the projected costs of the GM contract. One item to point out to the
Board that is different from the previous GM contract is that in prior years,
the GM participated in the Defined Contribution Plan. In this contract the
GM is only participating in the Defined Benefit Plan.

• March 2016 Monthly Financial Status Report

Heather Copp stated that sales and use tax was down again. She noted that
staff will be coming to the Board next month with the Amended Budget
where there will be adjustments made to the sales and use tax estimates as
well as Fare Box revenues to account for the changes seen during the first
quarter.
Doug MacLeod reiterated that these are the March results, so the first quarter
of the fiscal year. All of the indicators are red when compared to the budget.
For the first quarter, sales and use tax is under budget by 5.6%, ridership is
under budget 3.7%, and fare revenue is under budget 11.6%. Ridership
continues to not only be under budget but under where we were last year by
4.4%. For fare revenue, year-to-date we are $3.9 million under budget.
Staff has been watching fare revenue and sales and use taxes closely
because those figures are used in the SBP and the amended budget. Staff
will be keeping close tabs on the new fare structure to see how that
progresses throughout the year. To date, the $11.3 million shortfall was
caused by lower ridership, lower fare revenue and lower sales and use taxes.
Staff anticipates that we will be at a $32-43 million shortfall by the end of
the year.
Director Bagley indicated that given the unpleasant situation with lower fare
and sales and use tax revenues, staff ought to be looking at where we are
going to adjust and make potential cuts in our budget for this year. Director
Bagley asked if staff had looked into initiating a thoughtful review of how we
are going to adjust that moving forward. General Manager Genova noted
that staff started that process in January. He said there is a plan going
forward with the amended budget to include some significant adjustments.
Director Lubow asked if staff knew why the projected sales and use tax and
fare revenue were so different from reality. Heather Copp reminded the Board
that the recent Colorado School of Leeds presentation included some of their
reasoning for it. She stated their below trend forecast is what we are
actually seeing. She believes some of the factors are the softening economy,
the GDP not growing as expected, uncertainty with the current political
environment, and the daily Federal interest rate discussions. There is a lot of
uncertainty and in just the last few months, consumer spending dropped
dramatically, especially in the area of new and used vehicles.
Director Hoy said he has heard mixed comments regarding internet sales and
if RTD will receive sales tax from them. Heather Copp noted that in March
we did receive sales tax from Amazon. She said staff was not expecting it
and neither was the Department of Revenue (DOR); however, even with that,
the sales and use tax revenue is still down. Director Hoy noted since
Amazon is self-reporting that works but if an internet company is not selfreporting RTD will not receive any sales tax. Heather Copp stated that was
cored and explained that the DOR cannot give us the information at a
granular level.

Committee Chair Menten noted that in prior years RTD did have to make
some dramatic service cuts. She asked from a historical perspective what
the shortfall was in those years. Heather Copp noted that we cut 7-8% of
service and which equated to $20-$30 million dollars when combined with
other changes including cancelling projects, salary freezes, etc. Heather
Copp stated she does not expect service cuts to be needed as there are
enough projects to defer.

• First Quarter 2016 Investment Report
Brenden Morgan noted that this report has been updated to make it easier to
read. The yield for the District’s unrestricted portfolio for the first quarter
was 0.6%, which would produce annual earnings of $1.8 million dollars. He
explained that the graphs included in the report show the investment
performance over time as compared to the benchmark that is set in the
policy. Historically performance has been just above, but in-line with the
benchmark. That trend continues today.

• SBP First Draft
Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager of Budget and Financial Analysis, noted
that there is a first draft cash flow included in the updated Strategic Budget
Plan (SBP). She reminded the Board that a high level overview of the SBP
was presented in April and tonight staff will discuss the first draft cash flow.
The SBP only includes the base system plan and FasTracks operations
activity. The FasTracks expense and projects are shown separately and
brought to the Board in the Annual Program Evaluation (APE). The SBP
parameters include fiscal management, including requirements to operate per
specified performance measures, and strategic and tactical goals for the GM
while maintaining a balanced budget over a six year period. The SBP also
incorporates building our reserves in both the Board Appropriated Fund and
the Capital Replacement Fund and maintaining our current service levels.
The baseline for the SBP is the 2016 Amended Budget with a fuel lock price
of $2.23/gallon escalated by the national Consumer Price Index. She
indicated capital and expense projects would need to be prioritized as
currently there is a $220 million shortfall
Jannette Scarpino reminded the Board that there are many factors that make
up the SBP, some of which are in staff’s control and some that are not. The
factors include:
Uncontrollable SBP factors –
 Sales/use tax revenue
 Fuel price volatility
 Inflation rate
 Continued nature of economic growth
 Interest rates on debt
 Ridership

 Grant revenue/Federal Appropriations
The areas that we can control are –
 Fare rate increases/decreases
 Service levels
 Operating costs/expense projects
 Capital investment in projects
 Fund balance development
The target for the fund balances is $100 million which represents three
months of operating expenses. For the 2017-2022 SBP Revenue
Assumptions, the next fare increases should occur in 2019 and 2022. The
March 2016 forecast from CU Leeds will be used for sales and use tax
assumptions. Federal Grants are assumed to increase at the rate of inflation
or as identified in the grant parameters. For expenditures, operating and
maintenance costs are inflated based on the CPI, fuel cost is budget at the
2016 lock and escalated at the CPI and capital expenses are prioritized based
on a scoring methodology.
Jannette Scarpino outlined the next steps as follows:
 June 14 – Board adoption of the 2016 Amended Budget and
2017-2022 SBP Update
 July 12 – 2017-2022 SBP Update
 August 9 – Presentation of final 2017-2022 SBP to the
Financial Administration and Audit Committee
 August 16 – Board adoption of 2017-2022 SBP
 August 23 – 2017 Budget Study Session
Heather Copp explained that staff was delaying approval of the SBP so the
Board could see it together with the FasTracks APE. She noted in the current
SBP the fund balances do not reach $100 million until 2022, which had been
something discussed during the Board/Senior Leadership advance as a priority
to reach sooner.
Director Lubow asked how staff would characterize in the current financial
situation. She pointed out that RTD is seeing revenues below projections but
her impression is the economy is okay. Heather Copp indicated Director
Lubow summarized the situation very well. The economy is doing fine and
there is stable growth rate but not as exponentially as was seen after the
recent recession. She stated that RTD is not near a crisis situation, we just
need to be reasonable about spending and prioritize the most important
expenses. There was a long period of time when projects were deferred so
there are a lot of areas that need to be addressed. She emphasized that
revenues are still growing at very good rates of 4-5%, but not the rates of 79% that was happening after the recession. Director Lubow asked if this
was a situation where we should be spending down some of our reserves.

Heather Copp stated no; staff just needs to be conservative and cut down on
expenditures and operating costs. General Manager Genova added that he
cannot remember a year since he has been here there were no deferred
projects.
Director Hoy noted that some people may recall that when Don Hunt took
over CDOT he had money set aside for bridge repair, a highway
improvement, etc., but not enough to complete any one project. He
wondered if it was correct to say that RTD is in a similar situation. Heather
Copp explained that staff is looking at projects to prioritize what gets done.
General Manager Genova added that as staff looks at that prioritization,
information from asset management will be used to help focus on maintaining
our State of Good Repair.

• Smart Media Technology (SMT)
Heather Copp introduced Tonya Anderson as the new Manager of Electronic
Fare Operations and asked her to provide the Board with her background.
Tonya Anderson noted that she has worked on the Smart Card project for 4
years. She brings a lot of insight and history on the program. She was
previously an Officer in the United States the Air Force as an IT project
manager.
Tonya Anderson pointed out that may of the status indicators continue to be
yellow due to an accelerated timeline for the project elements; however, the
project is benefitting from an improved relationship with our vendor, Xerox.
They are stepping up and helping the team meet the project deadlines. There
are no roadblocks preventing the team from meeting the goal to launch the
MyRide web portal on June 30th.
Tonya Anderson noted that for the merchant retail point of sales program,
staff has been in active discussions with King Soopers and very recently
began discussions with Albertson’s. Both are very excited to participate and
key stores have been selected at Denver Metro King Soopers for testing. She
said it was very encouraging progress.
Tonya Anderson pointed out that the handheld readers have changed from
green to yellow since the last update. There have been challenges with the
implementation of the software, but that was resolved within the last week so
the team is proceeding forward. The devices should be distributed for testing
and field training soon.
Director Folska asked when is the anticipated date for going live with the
entire Smart Media program. Tonya Anderson indicated that the web portal
element will be live on June 30th. Staff is working diligently to complete the
rest of the project by the end of the year.

Committee Chair Menten noted that the officers had a lot of complaints about
the handheld readers and this needs a lot of testing. She wondered how long
there was technical support from the vendor. Eric Farrington, IT Program
Manager, indicated that we have one year software support from Xerox from
the date of acceptance, which has not yet been done. The iPhones were
purchased from a different vendor and we have one year of support for those
as well. Committee Chair Menten asked if the equipment would only be the
iPhones or if there was another component. Eric Farrington said there are two
pieces of equipment: the iPhone and the scanner.
Chair Tobiassen noted that 1500 cards over 17 weeks seems like a very small
number. He asked if we were no longer promoting the pilot. Heather Copp
indicated that there are another 219 vouchers that will be mailed this week
but will be slowing down the launch of the web portal approaches on June
30th. She said there was not as much interest as staff was originally hoping.

• Real Time Passenger Information Demo
Rahul Sood, Manager of Software Architecture and Development, reviewed a
Power Point Presentation with the Board that is included in the May 24,
2016 Financial Administration and Audit Committee Agenda Packet. He
explained that the project was started about a year and a half ago and realtime information for bus service is now available to the public through
Google, Transit App and ezRide. The goal of real-time information is to
reduce frustration and increase customer satisfaction. Eventually, the
information will be available on the RTD website as well as the information
display signs at the stations. Staff hopes to have information for Light and
Commuter rail available by the end of the year.
Director Folska asked if the disabled communities were engaged during
testing. She suggested reaching out to the National Federation for the Blind,
CCDC and so forth. Rahul Sood said that right now the real-time information
was only published by third parties. He added that for the work we are doing
for our Next Ride application, Communications is working with that
community
Director Folska noted that instead of tools for playing games while people
wait for their bus or train the apps should send people to Amazon. Rahul
Sood explained that the trend is going that way. There are options based on
location for dining or shopping.
Director Anderson questioned if the app provided options when a service is
unavailable, such as the recent University of Colorado A-Line shutdown.
Rahul Sood explained that the University of Colorado A-Line does not have
real time data yet; however, the apps will offer different route options and
indicate if a service is delayed.

Director Hoy shared that he was sitting on Colfax one day for lunch and
opened Transit App. He did not see the buses show up on the app that he
saw driving by. He wondered what might be the cause. Rahul Sood
explained that at that time, the information was published every 20 seconds
so there might have been a delay in receiving accurate information. Since
that time the information is now updated every 5 seconds.
General Manager Genova added that staff wanted to give the Board a
snapshot on the different transit apps available to the public. He said every
week our data seems to be picked up by a new 3rd party.
Committee Chair Menten asked if the MyStop numbers can be added to
Google Maps. Rahul Sood explained that Google already has that
information.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - June 14, 2016
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Menten adjourned the meeting at 7:08 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

