Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on July 17, 2012
Page 1 of 14

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Erin Klaas, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

July 18, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held July 17, 2012
in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Cohen, Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley,
Daly, Deadwyler, James, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen, Walker and Williams.
Director Hoy participated by telephone.

Board Members
Absent:
Staff Present:

Bill Bell, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Kevin, Diviness, Phil Eberl, Sherry
Ellebracht, David Genova, Terry Howerter, Brian Iacono, Austin
Jenkins, Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod, Anthony Menendez, Barbara
McManus, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Jeanette Scarpino, Daria Serna,
John Shonsey, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike
Turner, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington, Susan Wood, Narciso Garcia
Jr., Maria Garcia-Berry, Sherman Hamilton, Roger Sherman, Brenda
Tierney, Laura Baxter, Chuck Culig, Danielle Smith, Benjamin Sanchez,
L. Skip Brown, Marta Sipeki, Joni Goheen, Tina Jaquez, Stan Szabelak,
George Mattox, ZJ Czupor

Others Present:

Reza Akhovon, Lyle Artz, Bill Bates, Gary Bell, Bruce Benson –
University of Colorado President, Sal Birmttiri, Dave Bishop, Courtney
Brand, Dana Boomsdols, Lynne Bruning, Ishmail Buckley, Lisa Buckley,
Mac Callison, Michael Carrigan – University of Colorado Regent, Amy
Casseri, Chris Chen, Vince Chowdhury, Jeff Cole, Karl Davis, David
Erb, Greg Fischer, Mary Keith Floyd, Claudia Folska, Jeff Framm, Liz
Gehring, Amanda Gonzalez, Yuriy Gorlov, Larry Gray, Tom Grushka,
Lucia Guatney, John Harney, Lucky Highfill, Brent Hillyard, Dick
Hinson, Steve Hogan – Mayor of Aurora, Gloria Holliday, Dave Holst,
John M. Huygens, Rob Jackson, Roxanne Jacobson, Paul Jordan,
David Jurich, Erika Kampe, Melanie Knaus, Lynn Lyons, Tim Mackin,

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on July 17, 2012
Page 2 of 14

Herman Malone, Jim Martinez, Andrew Matusak, Virginia McAllister,
Rich McClintock, Jack McCroskey, Marilyn McCroskey, Marissa
McCroskey, Kathryn Middleton, Wendy Mitchell, Bob Muckle – Mayor
of Louisville, Rick Muntean, Bob Murphy – Mayor of Lakewood, Ken
Neeper, Amanda O’Conner, Daniel Owens, Jim Paulmeno, Rick Pilgrim
– Metro Mayor’s Caucus, Chris Pitaniello, R.A. Plummer, Brandon
Rattiner, Holli Reibel, Ed Riegert, Jacob Riger, Brad Rodenberg, Richard
Romig, Paul Ryan – Representing Mayor Hancock of Denver, Michael
Sharon, Kathleen Sheldon, Jeanne Shreve, Ed Slattery, Eric
Standstorm, Marla Stauth, Karen Stuart, Chris Taylor, Jeff Thompson,
Will Toor – Boulder County Commissioner, Dave Turnquist, Steve
VanNurden, Bob Watkins, Monte Whaley, Jeff Whiteman, Suzanne
Williams – State Senator, Martin Willie, Zach Zaslow
****
Call to Order:

I.

Committee Chair Cohen called the FasTracks Monitoring Committee
meeting to order at 7:41 p.m.

Recommended Actions
 Approval of Contract Award to Kiewit Infrastructure Company for the Design,
Construction and Financial Solution of the I-225 Rail Line Project
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors (“Board”) authorize the General Manager to award the
design build contract and negotiate final terms for a financial solution
agreement with Kiewit Infrastructure Company to serve as the Contractor for
the I-225 Rail Line Project (“Project”).
Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion
to move this item to the full Board
at the July 24, 2012 Special Board
meeting.
Director Tobiassen seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Director McMullen asked for clarification on the layout,
confirming that the track would go over Iliff at I-225 and not be
at street level. General Manager Washington confirmed that this
is correct. Director McMullen went on to ask if this corridor
would be protected from other traffic sources, similar to T-Rex.
He indicated that it appeared there would not be any track at
street level except around the Aurora Mall where other traffic
could interfere like in Downtown. Rick Clarke explained that
yes, around Exposition and getting to the Aurora City Center we
are using public right of way. Director McMullen asked if we

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on July 17, 2012
Page 3 of 14

were still planning to put a station up over Colfax at Potomac.
Chuck Culig said yes.
Director McMullen also explained that years ago there were
numerous discussions about vibration from the trains effecting
potentially sensitive instruments on the Fitzsimons campus and
questioned if this had been resolved. Chuck Culig explained that
is had not been resolved but it is part of the design that will
need to be taken into account. He said that it was not so much
the vibrations that were a concern but the electromagnetic
interferences that will be taken care of with the design around
the Fitzsimmons Campus.
Director Tayer stated that he had a question related to the entire
package that is being associated with the approval of the I-225
proposal, specifically as it related to a letter that was referenced
by the representatives from the US 36 corridor. He asked if
staff had a chance to review the letter. General Manager
Washington indicated that it was received and reviewed.
General Manager Washington stated that staff agrees to work
with the stakeholders and agrees with the letter.
Director Anderson expressed that she thinks this is an exciting
time and that the Board has heard from many people on this
matter. She stated that the Board heard about partnerships and
opportunities and that this certainly is an opportunity for all of
the many, many people who have worked so many years on
transportation issues in our great metropolitan region. Director
Anderson has known Steve Hogan for over 25 years and
worked with him on transportation issues. She also heard from
Mayor Pat Quinn. She stated that while she has not known
Mayor Quinn long, she recognizes his point when he talks about
equity. Director Anderson expressed that she understands the
angst of the North Metro and also the North West corridors and
the equity issues, but to her it seems like equity does not
happen all at once. She stated that we did not have all the
money for FasTracks in 2004, we do not have it today but we
are still talking about equity, how we proceed from here and
taking advantage of the big opportunities. She sees this as a
great opportunity to finish one segment of FasTracks. Director
Anderson stated we have partnerships that we can use to
provide that equity in the future to the North Metro and North
West corridors. When Director Anderson was participating in
the US 36 corridor a year ago and speaking with people at the
Park-n-Ride, there were many people from Boulder who were
going to the Children’s Hospital and University of Colorado
Hospital to work and there is a huge connection. She stated

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on July 17, 2012
Page 4 of 14

that she is going to support contract award and that she
believes in providing equity to the North Metro and North West.
RTD and the Board need to keep getting the job done. Director
Anderson also expressed her thanks to all the people who
worked to put this proposal together.
Director James stated that everything he has learned so far
indicates that this is going to be a cost effective project. He is
very glad that we are going to be able to do it. Director James
stated that is he interested in transportation oriented
development and station area planning. He explained that he
was curious about the rationale behind the identification of
which stations would have Park-n-Ride and which would not.
Rick Clarke explained that we went into this making sure we
were going to provide the parking identified in the original
FasTracks plan and nothing more so we could stay in budget.
There was an extensive environmental analysis that occurred
and that is generally where the station layouts and station
locations are identified, including the parking. He went on to
state that we are in discussion with the City of Aurora about
expanding parking at Iliff with structured parking. Staff would
likely have something to bring to the Board in a few months
related to this as parking and development are a major focus of
the City.
Director Williams recognized that this was the last time she will
speak to the Board about this issue as she has a very important
Brighton Planning Commission meeting next Tuesday. She
believes it will pass by overwhelming numbers and if she
thought her vote would make a difference she would move
heaven and earth to be at next week’s Board meeting. Director
Williams expressed that in her mind it has never been about
whether to build out the I-225 corridor but when to build it out.
Her major objection goes back to something that General
Manager Washington said and that was that this project is going
to suck all the air out of the room. She explained that she has
worked very hard with her constituents up north to try and find
some public/private partnerships and some ways to get the
north line moving faster than some of the projections. She
stated that to know there will not be match money to make
those things happen is very concerning to her and her
constituents. She thinks in her mind, every one of the speakers
was right. This is about economic development and jobs. The
north area has watched while T-Rex was built along with other
transportation improvements and it is no surprise that economic
development follows transportation. Director Williams states
that she has no doubts that the longer it takes to get better

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on July 17, 2012
Page 5 of 14

transportation to the North Metro area, the longer they will lag
behind in economic development and jobs. She also explained
another observation is that when the Board went through the
redistricting process, her district lost more constituents than any
other district because that is where the residential development
took place. She stated that it seems to her that if we were
really trying to be smart we would build transportation and allow
economic development where the people are living rather than
requiring them to travel long distances to get to their jobs. She
feels that this is an equity issue. Director Williams stated that
she, like General Manager Washington, likes to be an optimist
but she is a pragmatist. Maria Garcia-Berry taught her in her
first term in the legislature that when she is counting votes if
someone doesn’t give her a firm vote then she counts them as
not with her. She deals in absolutes and she likes to know what
she can count on today to deliver to her constituency. Director
Williams expressed that she does not feel comfortable delivering
just an optimistic message to her constituency because she
thinks they have been hearing that message for a long time and
we are still not where we need to be in terms of providing
transportation up north. She went on to express that she thinks
this hurts our ability to leverage and it makes it more difficult to
pass a tax that will get transportation to where it needs to be.
She understands that every business wants to see this system
complete but it is the people who are being continually squeezed
by taxes that are the ones who have to be convinced. Director
Williams stated that she will be a no vote because she feels it is
the message her constituency feels she needs to deliver.
Director O’Boyle stated that he supports this measure. He
explained that he has for some time voiced reservations about
any project that sucks the air out of the room and that has been
a concern of his. Director O’Boyle went on to explain that since
this proposal has surfaced, it has been made clear to him that
the Southeast business community, the political community, and
the ordinary guy on the street are solidly in support of this
measure so he will support it. Director O’Boyle stated that we
will need to look for other ways to finance those unfunded
corridors and he will be at the forefront of looking for those
other ways.
Directory Bagley stated that his comments relate to why he got
on the Board, that he wanted to see FasTracks be this hundred
year project that was going to impact the entire region. Director
Bagley explained that his perspective is as a regionalist and that
is why he got on the board. It has always been his intent to
reach out and work with other board members and to look at it

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on July 17, 2012
Page 6 of 14

from a regional perspective. Director Bagley’s past history in
urban planning and commercial real estate relates significantly to
the City of Aurora. He was the planning director, before that
the planning and development manager, and before that the
neighborhood planner for all the area north of Colfax which
includes Fitzsimmons and the end of the I-225 rail line. Director
Bagley explained it is with that understanding and perspective
that he believes this is a major economic development engine
and methodology to bring enhanced economic development to
the entire region. He thinks of this as a regional opportunity for
RTD to participate with its stakeholders. He stated that while
those happen to be mostly stakeholders that are related to this
corridor, he sees this corridor as being much more than Aurora’s
corridor. Director Bagley expressed that he is sensitive to the
issues in relation to the North corridors and he is sensitive to the
issues of the extensions of the Little 3. Director Bagley
mentioned that we just read about one of the lines in Director
Deadwyler’s area, he just met today with people on the
Southwest corridor and he knows in talking with people from
Denver South Economic Development Partnership that they are
concerned about their corridor but everybody is concerned about
their corridor. He understands those issues but as a regionalist
and someone that wants to see something happen, we have an
opportunity to do something he believes is great. Director
Bagley mentioned all the people that have shared the
advantages this will provide and he sees no reason it will not be
approved. Director Bagley stated that he is a firm supporter.
Director Tayer stated that he will stand with the US 36 corridor
representatives. He expressed his sympathy of what Director
Williams said, they are not satisfied, they are not happy, but at
the same time they are not obstructionists. Director Tayer
explained that they understand the political support this measure
has; they understand the value this line offers the region; and
they understand it is a great opportunity. Director Tayer stated
that tonight he was going to support this motion. He thanked
the staff and also the US 36 corridor for working together to try
to develop and build-out a true BRT. He stated that is
absolutely critical for his region as we move forward. He
expressed with that understanding, he is standing tonight in
support of this committee vote.
Director Malpiede stated that as Director Bagley, she too came
on the board with a said goal, the goal of wanting to be the
voice of those who usually are not heard. She stated that this
is a major economic engine but it is also our opportunity to
provide the greatest gift to our most vulnerable community

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on July 17, 2012
Page 7 of 14

members. She wants to work for the people that do not have
choices. Director Malpiede explained that in her community, she
works with the poor. These people have two choices: they can
either take bus transit/rail transit or walk. She told a story
about a 24 year-old woman with a severally disabled little girl
who had several surgeries at Children’s Hospital. Director
Malpiede explained that her biggest obstacle was the
transportation getting to and from Children’s Hospital. She
stated that she was going to be supporting this measure and on
behalf of those that do not have choices, she wanted to express
how thrilled she is that the Board has the opportunity to develop
such a treasure for this region.
Director Tobiassen recognized Director Williams’ comments. He
stated that he was fortunate to be on the Board for another four
years and committed to Director Williams that he would be a
voice for the North. He expressed that when he came four
years ago, the whole thing was melting down. Director
Tobiassen explained that we have made progress and that he
thinks we can continue to make progress. He committed to
Director Williams and the North that he will work, and he thinks
the City of Aurora will work, to do everything he can to get
these other lines completed. He expressed his respect for what
Director Williams presented.
Director Daly explained that the motion presented is a direct
consequence of the industry forum which he thought was a
brilliant idea. He stated that he attended many of the meetings
with small businesses and disadvantaged businesses and these
businesses were clamoring for this work. He explained that a
direct consequence of that was this public/private partnership
with Kiewit. This is coming in at a much lower cost, millions
less than projected, coming in without a tax increase and
building a major line. Director Daly stated that the industry is
hungry and as General Manager Washington said, they may not
always be hungry. We should take advantage of that. He
expressed that he hopes this will happen again with the
unfunded corridors. Director Daly believes we can do this with
private money coming in, our contribution and maybe a small
tax increase to finish the FasTracks Plan. He expressed that as
Director Bagley he is a regionalist; people in his district will use
this and are looking forward to be able to travel around the
whole city on a train. He thinks this is a brilliant move and that
it can be duplicated with other corridors.
Director Deadwyler stated that she too came on this Board to be
the voice of those that cannot or will not speak up for

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on July 17, 2012
Page 8 of 14

themselves. She explained that she has a double dilemma as
the Anschutz Medical Campus is in her district and so is Five
Points. She has one group that is really upset and thinks they
are losing something and then Anschutz Medical Campus that
really needs the line developed in their area. Director Deadwyler
also thanked General Manager Washington. He went to Five
Points early Saturday morning and talked to the community.
Director Deadwyler also explained that she understands what
Director Williams is going through as her daughter lives in
Director Williams’ district and talks to Director Deadwyler
frequently about transportation in her area. She stated that the
end result is she needs to work with the people who need it
most. She believes that the rail line is needed most in this area
especially when we talk about the number of employees that
need to get to the campus and all the veterans that will be
coming from all over the county. Director Deadwyler expressed
that she will be wholeheartedly supporting the I-225 build out.
Director Walker stated that he will be supporting this measure.
He explained that he has to talk to a lot of people and without
exception, all of the private citizens in his district have
expressed support even though most of them will probably
never or rarely use this line. They also still support building out
the complete system to Boulder and Longmont but this is up
first. Director Walker expressed that this is what was seen as
an opportunity by a private firm and his district feels there is
merit in that. He believes we are in the business of moving
people and this is a great opportunity to serve the large number
of people already living and working in this area. He also stated
that he is not as optimistic about the economic development
from seeing how the areas on the Southwest line have not been
built out. Director Walker expressed his support and also stated
that he will support the build out of the other Big Three and
Little Three and will offer his voice, support and time to find
funding.
Director Hoy commented that the Board Report says it will
provide some funding on the US 36 corridor, it speaks to the
Southeast extension in terms of pursuing grants, and for the
North Metro line it states that the line will be a top priority.
Director Hoy expressed that he felt that was too vague and he
finds it a little bit difficult to embrace. He stated that he would
like more commitment to the North Metro line. Director Hoy
also asked to clarify that if a vote was unanimous, this item
would be placed in Unanimous Consent for next week’s
meeting. Chair Kemp confirmed that would be correct.

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on July 17, 2012
Page 9 of 14

Chair Kemp stated that he wanted people to know that he is in
support of this motion. He also said to not underestimate the
people of the North. They will be working tooth and nail when
this decision is made to find funding for their corridor. That
even though they have said they are in support, they will be
working with the Board and RTD to make sure that every stone
is kicked over, every pebble has been squeezed for that extra
dollar. They do understand that this proposal makes sense but
it is about equity. Chair Kemp also thanked the Board. He
stated that the Board has always been able to work together
and look at the common sense approach as to how we complete
this program. He understands these are tough decisions and
thanked everyone for saying this is the right thing to do. Chair
Kemp affirmed that we will get this done; we just need to stick
together and move forward. He recognized that he really
appreciates the comments from Director Tobiassen. He knows
everyone is committed to getting the work done but thanked
Director Tobiassen for saying the words.
Committee Chair Cohen informed the Board that at the Fiscal
Sustainability Task Force Meeting, one of the members, Dee
Wiser, mentioned that he wished there was a way that the
Board could inform the region of all the benefits this project is
doing for economic development regionally. He also explained
that he was at the West Rail Line office and downstairs was the
FasTracks mantra that we will build as much as we can as fast
as we can until it is all done. He stated that he really does see
this plan as falling within that mantra. Committee Chair Cohen
also said that he thinks there is an expressed commitment to
complete this project. He does not think the project is done
until we have addressed mobility within the entire metro region.
Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 13
members in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler,
James, Kemp, Malpiede, O’Boyle,
McMullen, Tayer, Tobiassen and
Walker) and 2 against (Hoy and
Williams).
Committee Chair Cohen declared the
motion PASSED.



Commitment to Provide Funding for the US 36 Manager Lanes Project –
Second Phase

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on July 17, 2012
Page 10 of 14

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring committee that the Board of
Directors commit $15 million to the Colorado Department of Transportation
(CDOT) and the Colorado High Performance Toll Enterprise (HPTE) for the
second phase of the US 36 Managed Lanes Project with the following
conditions:
o If granted, the $15 million request will count against the RTD
FasTracks funding commitment to BRT and a bikeway in the US 36
corridor;
o A 2.5 percent local match will be provided by the corridor’s
stakeholders; and
o RTD staff oversight costs will be included in the $15 million
commitment
Motion:

Director McMullen made the motion
to move this item before the full
Board at the July 24, 2012 Special
Board meeting.
Chair Kemp seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Malpiede thanked Director Tayer for discussing this
issue with her and expressed her total support. She stated that
she was pleased to see this piece of legislation coming forward;
that they were all looking for a strategic plan to move the region
forward.
Director O’Boyle remarked on the comments from the Director
of CDOT about CDOT really valuing their relationships with RTD.
He stated that his experience with CDOT goes back many years
and he finds that to be an amazing revelation and it is much
appreciated from his end. He does not want anyone to
undervalue that relationship when considering this project. It is
another opportunity to work with one of the giants in our state
in terms of resources to further our own ends as well as theirs.
Director Walker echoed Director O’Boyle’s comments. He used
to work for CDOT and the attitude now is very different from
when he worked there. He said he thinks it is really great to see
the cooperation and Director Walker is glad he is on the Board to
see it.
Director Hoy asked for confirmation that this project can be
funded with or without the I-225 proposal going forward. Bill
VanMeter stated that this is accurate; we have the capacity in
the existing financial plan and the financial plan that assumes a
positive Board action on I-225.

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on July 17, 2012
Page 11 of 14

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 15
members in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler,
Hoy, James, Kemp, Malpiede,
McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen, Walker and Williams) and
0 against.
Committee Chair Cohen declared the
motion PASSED unanimously.



2012 Budget Amendment to include 1) the I-225 Light Rail Project and 2) the
TVM Upgrade Project
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board f
Directors adopt Resolution No. _____, Series of 2012 to amend the 2012
Amended Budget for the inclusion of the I-225 Light Rail Project and the
Ticket Vending Machine (TVM) Upgrade Project in the 2012 Budget. The
revisions to the Amended Budget are as follows:
FasTracks I-225 Light Rail Project: the issuance of $557 million in sales
tax bonds net of issuance costs, an increase of $8.2 million in
capitalized interest, and an increase of $93 million in new capital
expenditures
Base system TVM Upgrade Project: the issuance of $1.4 million in COP
debt, and an increase of $1.4 million in new capital expenditures
The result of these revisions is an increase in the District-wide appropriation of
$102.611 million to $1.783.531 million as detailed below.
2012 Approved
Amended Budget
$000s

Amendment to
2012 Amended
Budget
$000s

Operating E xpense
Interest E xpense
Capitalized Interest
New Capital
Debt P ayments
FasTracks Contingency Reserve
Unrestricted Funds
FasTracks P roject (0.4%) Appropriation

$

$

$

136,302
28,991
43,429
862,701
9,822
30,000
8,496
1,119,741

FasTracks P roject P reviously Approved Capital

$

555,761

FASTRACKS P ROJECT (0.4%)

Change
$

$

136,302
28,991
51,640
955,701
9,822
30,000
8,496
1,220,952

$

8,211
93,000
101,211-

$

555,761

$

-

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on July 17, 2012
Page 12 of 14
2012 Approved
Amended Budget
$000s

Amendment to
2012 Amended
Budget
$000s

Operating E xpense
Interest E xpense
Capitalized Interest
New Capital
Debt P ayments
Board Appropriated Fund
Capital Replacement Fund
Unrestricted Funds
Base System (0.6%) Appropriation

$

$

$

414,692
21,088
2,097
40,549
46,741
13,200
6,000
16,812
561,179

Base System P reviously Approved Capital

$

102,034

DISTRICT-WIDE

2012 Approved
Amended Budget
$000s

Amendment to
2012 Amended
Budget
$000s

Operating E xpense
Interest E xpense
Capitalized Interest
New Capital
Debt P ayments
Board Appropriated Fund
Capital Replacement Fund
FasTracks Contingency Reserve
Unrestricted Funds
District-Wide Appropriation

$

$

$

559,490
50,079
45,526
903,250
56,563
13,200
6,000
30,000
16,812
1,680,920

District-Wide P reviously Approved Capital

$

657,795

BASE SYSTEM (0.6%)

Motion:

Change
$

$

414,692
21,088
2,097
41,949
46,741
13,200
6,000
16,812
562,579

$

1,400
1,400

$

102,034

$

-

Change
$

$

559,490
50,079
53,737
997,650
56,563
13,200
6,000
30,000
16,812
1,783,531

$
$

8,211
94,400
102,611

$

657,795

$

-

Director Malpiede made the motion
to move this item before the full
Board at the July 24, 2012 Special
Board meeting.
Director Tobiassen seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Director Deadwyler asked for clarification about the I-225 light
rail and Ticket Vending Machines being two separate projects.
She also wanted to clarify that when they were linked together
as they are in the action, the meaning was not changed. Terry
Howerter explained that these were two separate projects. The
$4 million for the TVMs was approved but it was neglected to
be placed on the budget. He also confirmed that these are well
separated even though they are on the same item. General
Manager Washington stated that this was more of an

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on July 17, 2012
Page 13 of 14

administrative budget action. We did not anticipate completing
another FasTracks corridor and we did not anticipate the TVMs.
Now we have to make sure the budget is correct.
Director Hoy asked if the first item is at all tied to Kiewit. Terry
Howerter stated yes, it is fully tied. He explained that if the
Board sent the contract forward, in order to execute the
contract we would need to appropriate funds for the contract.
Director Williams stated that while some say this is purely
administrative, this vote is more important than the vote on the
I-225 proposal. This is the vehicle that actually appropriates the
money and provides the funding. She expressed that for that
reason, she would be voting no.
Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 13
members in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler,
James, Kemp, Malpiede, McMullen,
O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen, Walker)
and 2 against (Hoy, Williams).
Committee Chair Cohen declared the
motion PASSED.

I.

Other Matters
Director James stated that Director O’Boyle’s comments about CDOT reminded him
that in the past we have had dinners with CDOT. Committee Chair Cohen said that
this is something he has been working on with Barbara McManus and an invitation
will be going out shortly. The date will be September 19th and RTD is hosting.
Chair Kemp clarified that at the Special Board Meeting next week we will be having
public participation.

II.

Next Meeting Date – August 7, 2012

III.

Adjourn
Committee Chair Cohen adjourned the meeting at 8:38 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on July 17, 2012
Page 14 of 14
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307

