Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, October 17, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Lorraine Anderson

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Anderson called the meeting to order at 7:54 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Committee Chair
Present
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present

Arrived
7:48 PM
7:48 PM

Bob Broom

Director, District F

Present

7:49 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Absent

7:49 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Absent
Present

7:50 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

7:51 PM

Ken Mihalik

Director, District G

Present

7:48 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale

Director, District M
Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District H

Present
Present
Present
Present

7:48 PM
7:48 PM
7:48 PM
7:49 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District D
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present

7:48 PM
7:49 PM

Directors Francone and Folska were absent. Director Deadwyler left the meeting early.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Larry Buter, Gina Callahan, Nicole Carey,
Jessie Carter, Charles Castro, Susan Cohen, Lou Cripps, Nate Currey,
Jeet Desai, Kevin Diviness, Martell Dyles, Terry Emmons, John
Flanagan, David Genova, Bob Grado, John Hersey, Ann Marie IsaacHeslop, Jeff Kay, Jim Maguire, Doug MacLeod, John McKay, Heather
McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Mike Millage, Allen Miller,
Mike Nabhan, Tai-Shrae Parish, Kevin Parker, Scott Reed, Jannette
Scarpino, Ruth Seleske, Karl Shoemaker, Kevin Steele, Henry
Stopplecamp, Mark Tieman, Brian Thye, Monika Treipl-Harnke, Bill
Van Meter, Ashland Vaughn, Jyotsna Vishwakarma,

Others Present:

Mac Callison, Daniel Delin, William Gross, Angie Malpiede, Robert
McNown, Mike Peek, Dave Sachs, John Thompson, Joe Triplett,
Gary Van Dorn, Ruth Wallsgrove, Richard Wobbekind,

B. Recommended Actions

• January 2018 Service Change
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the January 2018 Service Change package
as summarized in Attachment A and, further, to authorize the General
Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for
private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
Motion:

Director Solano made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the October 24, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel, Acting Chief Operations Officer and Assistant
General Manager of Bus Operations, stated that staff was
seeking the committee’s approval to move forward with the
January 2018 service changes. He stated that these changes,
which occur three times a year, allow staff to right-size
service delivery based on need and use.
Mr. Abel said that staff had made a variety of
recommendations to either add or re-adjust service based on
ridership. He remarked that the two main items on the rail
side were to create the L Line, or downtown loop, and to
adjust the R Line and W Line on evenings and weekends. He

added that the compromise for the W Line was formulated by
the City of Golden.
Jessie Carter, Service Planning and Scheduling Manager,
commented that there were over 200 people that attended the
public hearings. He also stated that there were quite a few
comments from stakeholders and other groups and because of
that, additional changes were made based off of their
feedback. He stated that staff is looking at ending the 84 and
using the 34 to pick up some of the stops, including going to
Mercy Housing.
Mr. Carter noted that staff changed the frequency of the 42
and 45 to every thirty minutes because those routes were not
achieving the 25 boardings per hour. He added that this
change had been put through an equity analysis and this
represents the least discriminatory alternatives.
Director Deadwyler thanked staff for all of their help. She
noted that the 89 had struggles for several years with low
ridership. She asked if the 34 now reached Mercy Housing,
did that mean that there would not be a bus going to
Anschutz.
Mr. Carter stated that was correct, but those riders could be
directed to the University of Colorado A Line via the 34. He
added that one of the best things about the University of
Colorado A Line was that it was much faster in comparison to
the bus.
Mr. Abel commented that with the proposed elimination of the
89, the 34 would extend its route to serve Mercy Housing,
which would also go to the University of Colorado A Line.
Mr. Carter remarked that when staff talked to the constituents
in Stapleton about Mercy Housing, their focus was access to
the King Soopers on MLK and Iola. He also noted that the 34
during peak service would be every thirty minutes which was
more often than the hourly service it currently had on the 89.
Director Deadwyler asked that staff discuss this with her
further offline.
Director Menten explained that she would be a no vote for this
item because she supported the original efficiencies. She said
that she had received several comments from people who

have said that they do not see people use the W Line. She
added that the R Line’s performance at this point in time is
less than ideal and boosting the weaker system on the
shoulders of the bus riders is not fair. She added that RTD
needs to be running lean and as Mr. Abel had indicated, RTD
can always adjust service based on need. She further added
that she attended many of the public meetings and a lot of the
letter writers are not riding the system.
Director Lubow asked what was the difference in cost
between the original proposal and the new.
Mr. Carter stated that on the R Line, the original proposal
saved $2.8 million and the current proposal saved $1.5
million.
Director Lubow asked what the changes to the BOLT would
look like.
Mr. Carter commented that the changes would reflect a timing
issue, not a frequency issue.
Director Broom thanked staff for listening to the public and
reviewing the original proposal. He said that he still thought
that six months was not enough time to attract ridership and
RTD’s marketing focus should be adjusted. He added that
RTD needs to address street traffic and get people out of their
cars. He stated that he commuted for 20 years and he saw
the ebb and flow of traffic. He remarked that RTD needs to
change the mind-set of the public because RTD is not
efficiently moving goods and people.
Director Tisdale commended staff on their collaboration with
the City of Golden. He said that it was his understanding that
the Mayor and City Council approached RTD with a proposal
that was workable. He stated that the changes now proposed
to the R Line are not severely dramatic, and are similar to
changes on bus schedules for weekends. He added that these
schedules are always up for review and change, and this
accommodation appears to be responsible and addresses the
issues that staff had to look at.
Director Solano said that in order to increase demand, the
system has to be reliable and in addition, staff did not give the
R Line enough marketing time. He noted that he would be a

no vote, and asked if the problem laid in the fact that RTD
was short manpower.
Mr. Abel explained that the driving force behind the
recommendation was that RTD does not have the passengers.
He remarked that RTD has limited resources in terms of
operators, vehicles, and money. He added that mandating
cannot be sustained especially when there are not enough
passengers to warrant the service.
Director Solano commented that demand will grow if the
service is given more time.
Mr. Carter remarked that in comparison to the University of
Colorado A Line which has 23,000 passengers per day, the R
Line is only running at 40 passengers per hour. He stated it
was difficult to say that advertising and or service time was an
issue.
Mr. Abel recognized that RTD’s greatest demand potential was
on a weekday and said that poor ridership manifests itself on
weekends.
Director Williams remarked that RTD is trying to do its best as
an organization to balance its financial situation with its image
and added that RTD is about moving people, not vehicles.
Chair Hoy noted that the City of Golden came up with and
paid for a flex route to do what staff was trying to do. He
commented that it seemed wrong to take away the 15 minute
headways from them after they committed funds. He added
that between the last proposal and the current proposal, staff
and the City of Golden have come up with an agreeable
proposal that is a win win for both parties. He further added
that the City of Aurora seems to be pleased that the weekday
headways will remain at 15 minute intervals, but noted that
those headways might not last forever. He explained that if
ridership continues to dip, staff may need to address this one
more time. He remarked that he would be voting in favor of
this item because if not, RTD will continue to provide more
service than is needed and RTD will end up spending money it
does not need to spend. He said that RTD will be saving
money and satisfying stakeholders, so he will be voting yes.
Director Archuleta commented that RTD should advertise for
the R Line on TV and Radio. He said that it would not take a

lot of money, and if there are going to be savings it should be
applied to advertising.
Director Lubow said that this is a complex issue because there
are a lot of different needs and requirements. She added that
while she would prefer to save money, it is important to show
people that they are listened to and their needs are addressed.
She noted that this was a good compromise and she would be
supporting it.
Director Mihalik noted that when the first iteration of the
service cuts was published he was shocked that the R Line
performance was so low. He said that because ridership has
been increasing he would suspend his belief in the service
standards until the next service change, and if the R Line and
W Line are up for changes again, they should be changed to
the standard service levels.
Director Walker stated that he supported the recommendation.
He commented that staff had shown its flexibility in working
with local governance and while the area along the R Line is
not built for this type of service today, ridership will grow in
time. He added that the multiple years of construction should
have been a good advertising agent.
Director Broom remarked that RTD does the service change
exercise three times a year, and stated that there is not going
to be significant changes to ridership on the R Line in four
months until the next service change. He noted that the W
Line has been in operation much longer, and the R Line has not
been given enough time to build its ridership. He also stated
that the Board should be given adequate notice to prepare for
conversations with constituents if another recommendation
comes up like this again.
Committee Chair Anderson thanked staff for always being
willing and able to listen to the public. She noted that they
attend meetings that can at times be unpleasant.
Director Solano commented that in some areas, the University
of Colorado A Line still has a bad stigma in terms of its ontime performance.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:
AWAY:

PASSED COMMITTEE [9 TO 3]
Paul Solano, Director, District K
Kate Williams, Committee Vice-Chair
Anderson, Archuleta, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk, Tisdale,
Walker, Williams
Bob Broom, Natalie Menten, Paul Solano
Claudia Folska, Tina Francone
Barbara Deadwyler

Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.

• Approval of 2018 Access-a-Cab Agreements
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager, or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to extend an Agreement with Metro/Yellow
Transportation, Northern Yellow, and Union Taxi Inc., to provide Access-aCab services. In addition, it is recommended by the Operations and
Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors authorizes the
General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to
add Green Taxi Cooperative as a new provider for the Access-a-Cab
program.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the October 24, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Broom seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Mr. Abel commented that this is a housekeeping item. He said
that the Board should be aware that RTD’s Access-a-Cab
program has the customer pay for the first two dollars, and
any fare remaining after $14.00. He remarked that RTD’s
legal team had asked that these contracts be entered into
annually, so this will be the first of an annual contract.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:

PASSED COMMITTEE [10 TO 0]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk,
Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Claudia Folska, Tina Francone
Barbara Deadwyler, Natalie Menten, Paul Solano

ABSENT:
AWAY:

Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Approval for Budget Transfer to Accommodate Demand Shift of Access-aCab Service
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize a budget transfer in the amount of
$505,000 from Yellow Cab Access-a-Cab service to Metro Taxi Access-aCab service and Union Taxi Access-a-Cab service in the amounts of
$340,000 and $165,000 respectively to adjust for the shift in customer
demand for these services in 2017.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the October 24, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Mr. Abel stated that this request was only to move money,
and not for additional funding. He commented that when staff
budgeted this service, it was done by the company and not by
the program. He reiterated that this action will only move
funds from one budget line item to another.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:

PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 0]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Kate Williams, Committee Vice-Chair
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk,
Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Claudia Folska, Tina Francone
Barbara Deadwyler, Natalie Menten

ABSENT:
AWAY:

Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Approval to Extend Travel Training Contract
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
exercise option years one and two of the Via Mobility Services Contract
16DH048 for the provision of Travel Training services. The cost of the two
one-year option years shall not exceed $265,700. The total cost of
Contract 16DH048 shall not exceed $399,740.
Motion:

Director Solano made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the October 24, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Tisdale seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Mr. Abel stated that RTD currently has a contract with VIA
Mobility to provide travel training to RTD customers who
typically use Access-a-Ride. He stated that the training helps
teach those individuals how to use fixed route services.
Director Mihalik commented that in the Board Report, there
was a statement which indicated that participation had been
lower than expected.
Mr. Abel explained that staff would like to have more people
move through the program in order to generate additional
savings.
Director Mihalik inquired as to how many people had gone
through the program.
Mr. Abel remarked that 19 people had completed the program
so far.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:
AWAY:

PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 0]
Paul Solano, Director, District K
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk,
Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Claudia Folska, Tina Francone
Barbara Deadwyler, Natalie Menten

Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Approval of Budget Transfer between Access-a-Ride Service Providers
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
transfer budgeted funds totaling $1,120,030.00 from MV Transportation
(Contract 13-DH-053) and Via Mobility Services (Contract 13-DH-055) to All
Aboard Transit (Contract 13-DH-054) and Transdev On Demand (Contract
13-DH-035) to account for changes in Access-a-Ride service delivery during
the period of January 1, 2017 through September 30,2017. Funds will be
transferred from the MV Transportation fuel line item ($240,000.00), from
the Via Mobility service line item ($672,030.00) and from Via Mobility fuel
line item ($208,000.00) and will be transferred to All Aboard Transit
(290,000.00) and TransDev Mobility on Demand ($830,030.00).
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the October 24, 2017
Board Meeting.

Director Archuleta seconded the motion.
Discussion:

Mr. Abel stated that in 2016 and 2017, RTD was having
challenges in the Access-a-Ride program as service providers
were not able to hire employees to provide service delivery.
He added that during the re-bid of the contract, cab drivers
were able to provide some of the services that dedicated
providers could not. He noted that there was no financial
impact with this action item and it was only a reallocation of
funds.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 0]
MOVER:
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
SECONDER: Ernest Archuleta, Director, District C
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Sisk,
Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
ABSENT:
Claudia Folska, Tina Francone
AWAY:
Barbara Deadwyler
Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Purchase of Platform Hyrail Truck
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
enter into a contract for $612,700 dollars with Geismar MTM for purchase
of a platform Hyrail truck (Contract Number 17DR002).
Motion:

Director Archuleta made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the October 24, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Terry Emmons, Assistant General Manager of Rail Operations,
stated that the Platform Hyrail truck will improve Maintenance
of Way’s (MOW) ability to perform inspections and repairs to
the overhead energized wires. He noted that the truck is
considered specialized equipment and it has been vetted
through the procurement process.
Director Lubow asked if the truck was absolutely necessary
and how much RTD would be saving by using this vehicle.
Mr. Emmons explained that this vehicle would be more
efficient as it could do the job of two bucket trucks and a

boom truck. He added that this truck would allow staff to be
more efficient and safer on the rails.
Director Lubow asked if in RTD’s current tight financial time if
this was a luxury or a necessity.
Mr. Emmons commented that this truck would allow staff do
perform work with less operators, but staff could do the work
without it.
Director Solano inquired as to how big the truck was.
Karl Shoemaker, Track Maintenance Senior Engineer and
Supervisor, it is a single axle vehicle and has a 33,000
chassis, which is comparable in size to the current bucket
trucks.
Director Solano noted that was the size of a regular bucket
truck and asked what the benefit was of this purchase.
Mr. Shoemaker said that the Hyrail had a 7x14 platform which
could accommodate multiple people. He noted that instead of
three trucks on the rails to complete one job, this vehicle
would limit that need to just one.
Mr. Emmons added that over the weekend, a contractor who
had a similar vehicle was able to complete work five hours
quicker by utilizing this type of truck.
Chair Hoy said that this truck can drive on and off the tracks
and it has a large platform stage on a scissor type jack. He
remarked that it would allow for repairs to occur quicker, and
it would be a more efficient and safer way to work.
Mr. Emmons added that this vehicle is safer because bucket
trucks have to be maneuvered around, and buckets can limit a
worker’s mobility.
General Manager Genova added that it will also have an arm
on it as well.
Chair Hoy noted that Director Deadwyler left the meeting
early, but she had asked him to relay a comment on her
behalf. She said that this was a very expensive item and felt
that it was a luxury, and if she had been here she would have

voted no. However, Chair Hoy said that in his opinion, this is
a tool that is necessary for efficiency and worker safety.
Director Mihalik inquired as to what was the expected useful
life of the vehicle.
Mr. Emmons stated that the useful life is 15 to 20 years, and
noted that in comparison, one bucket truck is $300,000.
Director Mihalik asked if this truck would replace the need for
three bucket trucks.
Mr. Emmons said yes, it would replace the need for three
trucks performing work on the rail.
Committee Chair Anderson said that anytime staff can work
more efficiently and safely it is worth the cost.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:
AWAY:

PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 0]
Ernest Archuleta, Director, District C
Kate Williams, Committee Vice-Chair
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten,
Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Claudia Folska, Tina Francone
Barbara Deadwyler

Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates

• Lost Service Hours Update 10 17 17
Mr. Abel commented that lost service hours for September equaled 1568
hours. He explained that that figure was the worst since staff had begun to
keep records of lost service hours several years ago. He noted that it was
reflective of RTD’s current challenges and this service loss came in spite of
the need to mandate operators. He added that September 2017 was also
the worst in terms of mandates and staff had to mandate over 36 shifts
over the course of the month, which translated to 90 shifts per day. He
further added that staff is currently 120 drivers short of headcount. He
remarked that continuing to mandate operators is not sustainable nor
acceptable to this extent. He noted that this was a report he was not happy
to present, but staff continues to work with the Human Resources group to
hire additional operators.
Director Lubow stated that when this was first brought up months ago, staff
addressed the steps being taken to manage the operator shortage. She

noted that staff has seemed to have run out of steps and inquired as to
what other avenues staff would pursue to manage the operator shortage.
Mr. Abel explained that there is a $2000 sign on bonus which is paid out
incrementally, as well as a $2.00 per hour split run incentive. He added that
staff has also implemented a $2.00 per hour incentive to work beyond
scheduled hours, and staff worked with the union to increase operator
wages by $1.00 per hour. However, he said that staff will need to discuss
right-sizing service and determine which services are attainable.
He
remarked that the current situation is a difficult conundrum.
General Manager Genova added that staff is also working on modeling
different scenarios which include limiting split shifts, recovery times, and
other items. He stated that a lot of what management has heard is that it is
more than just wages, and staff is weighing different approaches.
Director Lubow commented that this is a conundrum that is unsolvable,
especially when the Board receives letters from people who stated that their
bus had standing room only. She asked what other transit agencies were
doing.
Mr. Abel stated that hiring operators is an issue across the nation, and other
transit agencies are having the same problems.
Director Menten indicated that there was a state statute which limits RTD’s
ability to contract out routes. She asked if RTD was close to that cap.
Mr. Abel said that RTD can contract out 58% and is currently at 56%.
However, he noted that RTD’s contractors are in the same boat that RTD is
in.
Director Menten noted that the legislation, as currently written, could be a
barrier to RTD’s operations. She also discussed Director Deadwyler’s
previous commentary about recruiting retirees who might want or need a
part time job and asked if the union would prevent such an action.
Mr. Abel explained that RTD has a retiree bus operator program which
allows retired bus operators to work part time, and RTD offers part time
employment regardless of age.
General Manager Genova added that within the Collective Bargaining
Agreement (CBA) with the union, the maximum percentage of part time
employees is limited to 21%.
Director Williams commented that when she was in Atlanta for the American
Public Transportation Association’s (APTA) Annual meeting, she told every

bus driver that she met that they should move to Denver. She added that if
there were any recruits from Atlanta, she wanted the credit.
Director Archuleta stated that everyone is skirting the issue, which is that
operators are not paid enough. He said that if they were paid $21 or $22
dollars an hour, RTD would have a plethora of operators.

• Asset Management & ISO Update 10 17 17
Mike Meader, Chief Safety Officer and Assistant General Manager of Safety,
Security and Asset Management, said he along with Lou Cripps and Ruth
Wallsgrove would present. He said that with RTD’s ongoing efforts to
assess and improve how the agency functions, and in keeping in line with
the General Manager’s goal to achieve the International Organization for
Standardization (ISO) 55000 certification for asset management RTD asked
an external consulting company to provide support. He said that company,
AMCL, is a leading asset management consulting firm and has working with
over 200 similar organizations around the world, including current work with
New York’s Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA), the Transport for
London (Tube), Singapore’s Land Transport Authority (LTA) and others. He
added that they bring a wealth of experience and best practices from around
the world that RTD is benefiting from. He noted that the presentation this
evening would be the first in a series of informational briefings as RTD
continues its journey to asset management excellence.
Ruth Wallsgrove, AMCL, stated that AMCL is a dedicated infrastructure
asset management company that works across five continents and a whole
range of sectors. She noted that she, along with her colleagues, work with
many different transit agencies across the world. She noted that the base
of this is that RTD is asset intensive, and assets are critical to meeting
RTD’s core mission. She added that many transit agencies around the world
are facing the same challenges as RTD, and it could be summarized as the
need to do more with less. She commented that her organization would be
bringing some of those lessons with them and highlighted the context in
which her organization would be working. She noted that the Federal
Transit Administration (FTA) had mandated good practices of asset
management to all federally funded transit agencies. She said that this
centers on the requirement to have a good, and coordinated long term asset
management plan. She noted that this new legislation will be a problem for
many transit agencies in the United States who are just realizing what
exactly asset management entails. She stated that RTD has been working
on this for some time, and is in fact recognized as a leader in the industry.
She added that there is also an international standard for asset management
which lays out a framework for good asset management. She commented
that the current asset management plan is a good base on which to build
value, and the intention is to go beyond that measure.

Director Williams said that this is a great plan, but noted that the late hour
to hear all of this information was poor planning. She asked that that the
next presentation occur earlier in the evening.
General Manager Genova explained that the presentation had been on the
schedule for a very long time and it was strategically planned for this date,
and apologized for the late hour.
Committee Chair Anderson said that the ISO standard is the ultimate
certification to receive.
Director Walker noted that he worked for an engineering firm that went for
the ISO 9000 certification and it was a very intensive process. He added
that this is something that the Board needs to keep their eyes on.

D. Other Matters
Director Menten noted that the address for RTD’s administrative offices had
recently changed and it was now 1660 Blake Street.
General Manager Genova remarked that the official effective date of the address
change is Friday, October 27th. He noted that because of the development on the
block, the city required that RTD change its address.
Committee Chair Anderson thanked staff for taking care of late night route that left
people at a bus stop with no driver. She stated that staff made sure a driver was
dispatched to that route so that the people stuck at the stop who were transit
dependent could get home that night.

E. Next Meeting Date - November 14, 2017
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Anderson adjourned the meeting at 9:47 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

