Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, October 17, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Lorraine Anderson

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• January 2018 Service Change
• Approval of 2018 Access-a-Cab Agreements
• Approval for Budget Transfer to Accommodate Demand Shift of Access-aCab Service

• Approval to Extend Travel Training Contract
• Approval of Budget Transfer between Access-a-Ride Service Providers
• Purchase of Platform Hyrail Truck
C. Updates

• Lost Service Hours Update 10 17 17

• Asset Management & ISO Update 10 17 17
D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - November 14, 2017
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: October 11, 2017

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 4, 2017

Board Meeting Date: October 24, 2017

Subject:

January 2018 Service Change

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the January 2018 Service Change package as summarized in Attachment A and, further, to
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private
operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
DISCUSSION
To meet the diverse travel needs of the citizens of the District and maintain a high-performance,
sustainable transit system, RTD has developed a networked family of services for which the different
classes of service have different expectations of performance. We will continue adjusting services in
response to changes in ridership and operational performance of the transit system as a whole. It is also
our responsibility to identify individual services that are underperforming and recommend modifications,
curtailment or cancellation of service as warranted or recommend new services as changes in ridership
and/or the community warrant and as finances allow.
The proposals included herein include a mix of service improvements, adjustments and reductions. A
notable modification to Light Rail operations in the Central and Southwest Corridors is proposed in the
creation of the L Line service plan previously discussed with the Board and as described later herein.
Also, staff is proposing changes in weekend operations on the R Line and W Line Light Rail services as a
result of sub-optimal ridership performance. The proposed changes for the R-Line and W-Line Light Rail
services included in this recommendation represent meaningful modifications from the preliminary
service change proposals initially presented to the Board and represent the results of continued
evaluation of these services and the feedback received during the public comment process. In addition to
these proposed adjustments to light rail service, bus Routes 42 and 45 are proposed for service
reductions to peak hour and weekend service based upon current and past ridership performance.
Additionally, the Route 89 is proposed for discontinuance based on continued poor ridership
performance. We will monitor customer response to the implementation of these service changes and
propose adjustments and service alternatives as appropriate in future service change recommendations.
The guiding principles for proposed service changes continue to be:
 Service performance evaluation based on the RTD Service Standards;
 The effects on the overall integrity of the transit network and on transit dependent markets;
 The availability of alternative services to affected riders;
 Cost-effective distribution throughout the District and Family of Services and the ability to enhance
service when possible;
 Title VI of the Civil Rights Act: benefits and services are provided without regard to race, color or
national origin; also disparate effects on low income and minority populations; and
 Response to changes in the communities where services are provided

Packet Pg. 3

1.B.1

SUMMARY OF PUBLIC MEETINGS
Eight public meetings were conducted in Aurora, Boulder, Curtis Park, Golden, Green Valley Ranch,
Stapleton and at the Blake Administration Building between September 18th and October 2nd. Comments
and further details from these meetings and the service change website are summarized in Attachment B
of this report.
CHANGES TO INITIAL RECOMMENDATION
Staff receives input during the public comment process and continues to conduct additional analysis
after the initial service recommendations are communicated to the Board of Directors. Depending on the
outcome of the public comment process and continued analysis, staff may or may not propose
modifications to these initial recommendations. The following proposals have been significantly modified
from those initially discussed with Board in August of this year:
Route 34 – Bruce Randolph Ave: proposed extension to serve Mercy Housing in place of the Route 89
Route 122X – Wagon Rd/ Civic Center: schedule change, afternoon peak trip.
Route 209/Stampede: schedule adjustments
Route AB – Boulder/DIA: schedule adjustment eastbound to DIA
Route CV/CS/CX – Pine Junction/Conifer/Denver: initial proposal rescinded
R Line – Light Rail: proposal modified to retain weekday off-peak and weekend service south of Florida
Station. Weekend service is proposed to be reduced to 30minute frequency.
W Line – Light Rail: proposal modified to retain weekday off-peak service between Federal Center
Station and Jeffco Government Center-Golden Station. Service frequency for weekday evenings and
Saturday evenings and all day Sunday will be reduced from the current 15 minutes to 30 minutes for the
segment between Federal Center Station and Jeffco Government Center-Golden Station.
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED SERVICE CHANGES

Routes proposed for service improvements:
Route 83D/83L – Parker/Leetsdale Limited: add Route 83D trips via Dayton and Quebec Way
Route 34 – Bruce Randolph Ave: proposed extension to serve Mercy Housing in place of the Route 89

Routes proposed for service reductions:
Route 42 – Montbello via Albrook/Green Valley Ranch: reduce weekday peak period frequency east of
40th & Airport Station from 15 to 30 minutes.
Route 45 – Montbello via 51st/Green Valley Ranch: reduce weekday peak period frequency from every
15 to every 30 minutes
Route 89 – Stapleton/Anschutz Campus: Discontinue route, due to very low ridership
Route BOUND – 30th Street: reduce frequency to 15 minutes, unless the City of Boulder buys up the
service.
Route EV/ES/EX – Evergreen/Denver: discontinue service on the Frontage Road between Lewis Ridge
Road and Chestnut Drive
Route JUMP – Arapahoe: reduce frequency to 15 minutes, unless the City of Boulder buys up the
service.
D, E, H, and W Line: It is proposed to reduce late night service Sunday through Thursday nights.
R Line: It is proposed to reduce service frequency from 15-minutes to 30 minutes on weekends.
W Line: It is proposed to reduce the frequency of service between Jefferson County Government CenterGolden Station and Federal Center Station on weekday evenings and Saturday evenings and all day on
Sunday.

Packet Pg. 4

1.B.1

Routes proposed for mixed service improvements/service reductions:
Route 3 – Alameda Avenue: bus stop consolidation.
Route 9 – West 10th Avenue: convert the one-way loop on Vrain St, 9th Ave, and Utica St
Route 12 – Downing St/North Washington: bus stop consolidation
Route 20 – 20th Avenue: bus stop consolidation
Routes 28 – 28th Avenue: reroute Route 28 and eliminate 28B branch routing
Route 32 – 32nd Avenue: reroute Route 32 westbound
Route 44 – 44th Avenue: reroute via 48th Avenue to Colorado Blvd and 40th & Colorado Station
Route 104X – Commerce City/ Denver: Shift trip leave time for last northbound trip from Union Station
to 5:28pm
Route CV/CS/CX – Pine Junction/Conifer/Denver: the initial proposal is rescinded.

Routes proposed for routine running time analysis/schedule adjustments:
Route 16/16L– West Colfax: minor schedule adjustments to improve on-time performance.
Route 19 – Pecos North: schedule adjustments, weekday only, for better on-time performance
Route 43 – Martin Luther King Blvd: schedule adjustments
Route 90L – US36 & Sheridan Limited: Route name change to ‘FF7’
Route 122X – Wagon Rd/ Civic Center: schedule change, afternoon peak trip
Route 153 – Chambers Road: schedule adjustments
Route 205/205T – 28th Street/Gunbarrel/Heatherwood: schedule adjustments, weekday only
Route 209/Stampede: schedule adjustments
Route 323 – Skyline Crosstown: running time adjustments, weekday only.
Route AB – Boulder/DIA: schedule adjustment eastbound to DIA
Route BOLT – Longmont/Boulder: weekend schedule adjustments.
Route FF4 – Boulder/ Civic Center: minor schedule adjustments
E, F, and H Lines: minor schedule adjustments are proposed
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The overall financial impact contained in this proposal includes a FasTracks cost savings of
approximately $1,802,000 and a base system savings of approximately $884,000 annualized.
EQUITY ANALYSIS
The Federal Transit Administration’s (FTA) Circular 4702.1B provides its recipients of FTA financial
assistance with instructions for achieving compliance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and
Executive Order 12898 regarding Environmental Justice. In this circular, the FTA requires RTD to
evaluate, prior to implementation, any and all service changes that exceed the established major service
change threshold, to determine whether those changes will have a disproportionately negative impact on
minority or low-income populations. Our evaluation of the proposed January 2018 service changes does
not reveal any disparities in impacts absorbed by minority or low-income populations.

ATTACHMENTS:


Attachment A - January 2018 Service Change



Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2018 Service Changes



Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change



Attachment D - R Line Service Proposal January 2018 Service Change (PDF)



Attachment E - W Line Service Proposal January 2018 Service Change (PDF)



Attachment F - 28-28B Proposal January 2018 Service Change

(PDF)



Attachment G – Route 34 Proposal January 2018 Service Change

(PDF)



Attachment H - L Line Concept January 2018 Service Change (PDF)

(DOCX)
(DOCX)

(PDF)

Packet Pg. 5

1.B.1

Prepared by:
Jessie Carter, Manager, Service Planning and Scheduling
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 6

1.B.1.a

January 2018 Service Change Attachment A

Route 3 – Alameda Avenue
As part of RTD’s overall effort to improve service delivery and on-time performance, the
following bus stop consolidation actions are proposed in order to optimize bus stop
spacing and to improve operational speed and service reliability. This proposal eliminates
the following stops, due to close proximity to other stops, and/or low usage:
- Alameda/Grant (westbound)
- Alameda/Logan (eastbound)
- Alameda/Humboldt (eastbound)
- Alameda/Franklin (westbound)
- University/Cedar
- University/Cherry Creek Drive (southbound)
- Alameda/Cherry
- Alameda/Elm
- Alameda/Grape
- Alameda/Jersey
- Alameda/Leyden
- Alameda/Xenia (westbound)
- Alameda/Cedar Circle
No cost impacts are anticipated
Route 9 – West 10th Avenue
It is proposed to convert the one-way loop on Vrain St, 9th Ave, and Utica St to a bidirectional loop operating on Tennyson St, 9th Avenue, and Winona Ct. The grades on
these streets should allow the bus to serve the community at 9th Ave & Vrain St more
consistently during snowy or icy conditions. Minor schedule adjustments are proposed to
improve on-time performance. No cost impacts are anticipated.
Route 12 – Downing St/North Washington
As part of RTD’s overall effort to improve service delivery and on-time performance, the
following bus stop consolidation actions are proposed in order to optimize bus stop
spacing and to improve operational speed and service reliability. This proposal eliminates
the following stops, due to close proximity to other stops, and/or low usage:
- Washington/48th Ave
- Downing/28th Ave
- Corona/14th Ave southbound
- Corona/13th Ave southbound
- Corona/3rd Ave southbound
- Downing/14th Ave northbound
- Downing/Ellsworth
- Louisiana/Pearl eastbound
- Iowa/Emerson
- Downing/Jewell
- Hampden/Ogden westbound
- Hampden/Emerson eastbound

Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: Attachment A - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

BUS

1.B.1.a

January 2018 Service Change Attachment A
Hampden/Emerson and Hampden/Pearl westbound, consolidate into new stop at
Clarkson
- Girard/Lincoln westbound
No cost impacts are anticipated

Route 16 – West Colfax
Minor schedule adjustments are proposed to improve on-time performance. Cost impacts
are anticipated to be an estimated $27,900 annualized.
Route 19 – Pecos North
Running time adjustment, weekday only, for better on-time performance and passenger
load balance. Cost impact is estimated to be $272,700 annualized.
Route 20 – 20th Avenue
As part of RTD’s overall effort to improve service delivery and on-time performance, the
following bus stop consolidation actions are proposed in order to optimize bus stop
spacing and to improve operational speed and service reliability. This proposal eliminates
the following stops, due to close proximity to other stops, and/or low usage:
Eastbound:
- 17th Sherman
- 17th/Pearl
- 17th/Lafayette
- 17th/Race
- 17th/Gaylord
- Syracuse/22nd
Westbound
- 23rd/Roslyn
- 17th/Harrison
- 18th/Vine
- 18th/Marion
- 18th/Emerson
- 18th/Pennsylvania
No cost impacts are anticipated
Routes 28 – 28th Avenue
This proposal reroutes Route 28 westbound to operate on 19th Avenue between Clarkson
St and Broadway and on Glenarm Pl between Broadway and 15th St. Eastbound routing in
this area will be unchanged. It is also proposed to operate all trips currently operating as
Route 28B as Route 28 trips. Route 28B would be discontinued. Alternative service is
available on Routes 28 and 32. This proposal also discontinues the routing on Yates St,
Byron Pl, and Sheridan Blvd for through trips. These trips will stay on 26th Ave between

Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: Attachment A - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

-

1.B.1.a

January 2018 Service Change Attachment A

Route 32 – 32nd Avenue
It is proposed to reroute Route 32 westbound to operate on 19th Avenue between
Clarkson St and Broadway and on Glenarm Pl between Broadway and 15th St. Eastbound
routing will be unchanged. No cost impacts are anticipated.
Route 34 – Bruce Randolph
Extend the alignment of the Route 34 from Central Park Station to the Eastbridge area in
the Stapleton neighborhood. The new routing would extend the route from Central Park
Station via Central Park Blvd and Martin Luther King Blvd as far east as Iola Street (one
block east of Havana Street). This offsets the discontinuance of the Route 89, maintaining
service to the Mercy Housing Development and access to grocers and the greater transit
network. Peak hour service would be improved to 30-minute service, with midday service
remaining hourly. No cost impacts are anticipated. (See map, Att. G)
Route 42 – Montbello via Albrook/Green Valley Ranch
Reduce weekday peak period frequency east of 40th & Airport Station through Green
Valley Ranch from every 15 to every 30 minutes. Peak period productivity through Green
Valley Ranch is 17.4 boardings/hour, versus the 25 boardings/hour needed to justify the
higher frequency. Route 42 all day productivity is 19.4 boardings/hour. Peak frequency
will remain every 15 minutes through Montbello to Central Park Station.
Cost savings are estimated to be $156,000 annualized.
Route 43 – Martin Luther King Blvd.
Running time and trip time adjustments. No cost impacts are anticipated.
Route 44 – 44th Avenue
Reroute via 48th Avenue to Colorado Blvd and 40th & Colorado Station. Present routing via
Clayton/46th/Steele/43rd/Clayton is very awkward and time consuming, with multiple
railroad crossings, and operating under Interstate 70, which will be torn down for
reconstruction as early as 2018. East 48th Avenue between Columbine and Vasquez Blvd.
is presently served by Route 48, and has existing bus stops. No cost is anticipated for
this change.
Route 45 – Montbello via 51st/Green Valley Ranch
Reduce weekday peak period frequency from every 15 to every 30 minutes, over entire
route. Peak period productivity is 19.5 boardings/hour, versus the minimum productivity
standard of 25 boardings/hour needed to justify the higher frequency. Route 45 all day
productivity is 17.0 boardings/hour.
Cost saving are estimated to be $584,000 annualized.
Route 83D/83L – Parker/Leetsdale Limited
Add Route 83D trips via Dayton and Quebec Way at 9:15am and 11:17am eastbound
from downtown, and 10:09am and 12:09pm westbound from Nine Mile Station. Provides
consistent hourly midday service on 83D routing, extends periods of 15 minute frequency

Packet Pg. 9

Attachment: Attachment A - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

Sheridan Blvd and Yates St. Trips terminating at Sheridan Blvd will continue to utilize this
loop. No cost impacts are anticipated. (see map, Att. F)

1.B.1.a

January 2018 Service Change Attachment A

Route 89 – Stapleton/Anschutz Campus
Discontinue route, due to very low ridership. Currently ridership averages 115 boardings
per day, 3 boardings/trip, and 9.7 boardings/in-service hour. See Route 34.
Cost savings are estimated to be $312,000 annualized.
Route 90L – US36 & Sheridan Limited
Route name change to ‘FF7, which would incorporate this route into the Flatiron Flyer
service plan more concretely. No cost is anticipated for this change.

Route 104X – Commerce City/ Denver
Shift trip leave time for last northbound trip from Union Station to 5:28pm in order to
allow for better local and regional connections. No cost is anticipated for this change.
Route 122X – Wagon Road/Civic Center
In order to help balance passenger loads the current N-bound trip leaving CCS at 4:49pm
will be moved to 4:49pm, and the trip leaving 18th/California leaving 5:04pm will now
leave at 5:01pm.
Route 153 – Chambers Road
Running time and trip time adjustments. No cost is anticipated for this change.
Route 205/205T – 28th Street/Gunbarrel/Heatherwood
Running time adjustments, weekday only, block 5 & 11 specific to further improve on-time
performance. Cost impacts are estimated to be $155,900 annualized.
Routes 209/Stampede
Due to on-time performance and operator layover issues, the schedules of Route 209 and
Stampede are proposed to be adjusted; adding the appropriate resources and time for
reliable operation. These two services are operationally linked, with an interline.
Cost is anticipated to be an estimated $233,000 annualized.
Route 225/225D/225E – Boulder/Broomfield via Baseline & US 287
It is proposed to shift the current W-bound trip at 7:04am from Lafayette PnR to 7:19am
to better balance trip time and passenger loads. No cost impacts are anticipated.
Route 323 – Skyline Crosstown
Running time adjustments, weekday only, for better on-time performance. No cost is
anticipated for this change.

Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: Attachment A - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

during the midday to the trunk route on Leetsdale Drive and Speer Boulevard through
Cherry Creek. Additionally, due to insufficient recovery and lengthening running times, add
bus for adequate recovery at Nine Mile Station between 11:00am and 1:30pm.
Cost impacts are estimated to be $78,000 annualized.

1.B.1.a

January 2018 Service Change Attachment A
Route AB – Boulder/DIA
This proposal adjusts the arrival time at DEN of the Route AB by 3 minutes later in the
Eastbound direction. No cost impacts are anticipated.

Route BOUND – 30th Street
This proposal reduces the current 10- minute to a 15-minute frequency on Route BOUND
unless an agreement to buy up the level of service is made between RTD and the City of
Boulder. It should be noted that sufficient capacity exists with the 15-minute level of
service, should the buy up agreement not be signed. Cost savings result in a neutral
impact.
Route CV/CS/CX – Pine Junction/Conifer/Denver
The proposal to shift the CV trip currently beginning at Pine Junction at 6:28am to instead
begin at 6:10am has been rescinded.
Route EV/ES/EX – Evergreen/Denver
It is proposed to discontinue service on the Frontage Road between Lewis Ridge Road and Chestnut
Drive. Cost impacts are anticipated to be $15,500 annualized.
Route FF4 – Boulder/ Civic Center
Shift block 74 trip leave at BJDS from 15:20 to 15:30 for even headways. No costs are
anticipated for this change.
Route JUMP– Boulder/Lafayette via Arapahoe
This proposal reduces the current 10- minute to a 15- minute frequency on the Route
JUMP within the City of Boulder unless an agreement to buy up the service is made
between the RTD and City of Boulder. It should be noted that sufficient capacity exists
with the 15-minute frequency, shout the buy up agreement not be signed. Cost savings
result in neutral impact.

RAIL
C, D, and L Line proposal:
Previous efforts to improve on time performance on the D Line involved both signal and station
changes along the Welton Street segment, resulting in a 3% improvement in on-time performance.
However, the on-time performance standard for rail remains higher than that currently achieved by
the D Line service. As a part of further efforts to improve the on-time performance of the Southwest
and Central corridors and as a means of optimizing passenger capacity on both corridors, the
following changes are proposed:
L Line

Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: Attachment A - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

Route BOLT – Longmont/Boulder
Weekend running time and schedule adjustments. No cost is anticipated for this change.

1.B.1.a

It is proposed to separate the operation of the D Line into two lines. The D Line would operate as
it does today between Mineral Station and downtown, with all trains turning at 19th Street. The
Welton Street segment would operate as its own service, the L Line, as proposed in the Central
Rail Extension Mobility Study. The L Line would operate between downtown and 30th & Downing
Station, with all trains turning at 14th Street. This allows service to be better tailored to the two
different segments, including vehicle assignments and will increase reliability of service along
Welton Street, especially in the northbound direction. (see map, Att. H)
C Line
It is proposed to increase the weekday peak service frequency from 30 minutes to 15 minutes and
also run later at night, similar to the E Line. This would serve the growing demand for service
during special events in the Central Platte Valley Corridor. Vehicle consists will be a mix of 2- and
3-car trains, similar to the W Line. It is also proposed to operate the C Line on weekend and holiday
evenings and late nights instead of the D Line; frequencies and span of service on the C Line would
be similar to the existing D Line.
D Line
It is proposed to reduce weekday peak service frequency from an average of 10 minutes to 15
minutes and increase vehicle consist lengths from three cars to four cars. The lower frequency
during the weekday peak periods would be replaced by the increase in C Line and new L Line
service. It is proposed to reduce weekday midday service from 15 minutes to 30 minutes.
Weekday midday service on the Southwest would have a combined 15-minute frequency between
the C and D, similar to the E and F on the Southeast. It is also proposed to reduce evening and
late night service and cover this service with C Line and L Line trips. This proposal responds to
ridership trends, especially on evenings and weekends, for service to the Union Station area,
including airport connections, and helps with event service in the Central Platte Valley. This keeps
service on the Southwest Corridor at the same frequencies as now at all times of the day.
This proposal has savings in both operating hours and vehicle miles. Total annual car hours saved:
5,100 (approximately 1,800 annual operator hours); total annual car miles saved: 493,400.
E, F, and H Lines: Minor running time adjustments are proposed for the Southeast Lines on all
service days. This will not alter the trips and the same service will be provided. No changes in
hours are anticipated.
Cost savings are anticipated to be an estimated $333,000 annualized

D, E, H, and W Line
It is proposed to reduce late night service Sunday through Thursday nights. The last trips would
depart from downtown Denver after 12:00 AM instead of just after 1:00 AM as they do now.
This action better matches levels of service to ridership demand and provides more time to conduct
daily maintenance of way (MOW) preventive maintenance activities. This impacts one trip on each

Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: Attachment A - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

January 2018 Service Change Attachment A

1.B.1.a

January 2018 Service Change Attachment A

R Line
This recommendation is changed from the original proposal. The revised recommendation is that,
due to low ridership (less than 30 boardings per hour), it is proposed to reduce weekend service
frequency on the R Line from every 15-minute to 30-minute frequency. Weekday services would
remain unchanged. The weekend service would operate the full length of the R Line between Peoria
& Smith Road Station and Lincoln Station. This proposal will better match levels of service to
ridership demand thereby increasing the efficiency and sustainability of the service while also
providing additional time to build weekday ridership. Cost savings are anticipated to be estimated
$1,552,000 annualized. (See map, Att. D)

Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: Attachment A - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

of these lines for a total average daily boardings of 218 (46 D Line, 49 E Line, 64 H Line, 59 W
Line) for Sunday nights and 249 (51 D Line, 57 E Line, 77 H Line, 64 W Line) for Monday-Thursday
nights. Total hours saved: 6 Sundays-Thursdays, 1,530 total annual.
Cost savings are anticipated to be an estimated $283,000 annualized.

1.B.1.a

January 2018 Service Change Attachment A
R Line Ridership by Segment
Mondays-Thursdays
Boardings
Peak
Off Peak
2,138
2,510
1,030
1,293
1,108
1,217
2,014
996
1,018

2,702
1,441
1,261

Boardings/Hour
Peak
Off Peak
48.95
31.34
42.87
29.36
56.37
33.77
46.11
41.46
51.79

31.59
30.63
32.76

Saturdays
Segment
Peoria-Lincoln
Peoria-Florida
Iliff-Lincoln

Boardings Brdngs/Hr
3,467
28.01
1,871
27.49
1,596
28.66

Sundays
Segment
Peoria-Lincoln
Peoria-Florida
Iliff-Lincoln

Boardings Brdngs/Hr
2,801
23.68
1,530
23.51
1,271
23.88

This recommendation differs substantially from the original proposal.
W Line
This recommendation is changed from the original proposal. The revised recommendation is that
W-Line service frequency is reduced from every 15-minutes to every 30-minutes between Federal
Center Station and Jefferson County Government Center–Golden Station on weekday evenings and
on Saturday evenings, and all-day on Sundays. These trips currently run every 15 minutes and are
not meeting service standards as they are currently generating less than 40 boardings per hour.
During these times, westbound trains would alternate between terminating at Golden or Federal
Center and eastbound trains would alternate between starting at Golden or Federal Center. This
proposal better matches levels of service to current ridership demand thereby increasing the
sustainability of the service. Cost savings are estimated to be $250,000 annualized. (see map, Att.
E)

Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: Attachment A - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

Segment
Peoria-Lincoln
Peoria-Florida
Iliff-Lincoln
Fridays
Peoria-Lincoln
Peoria-Florida
Iliff-Lincoln

1.B.1.a

January 2018 Service Change Attachment A

W-Line Ridership by Segment
Mondays-Thursdays
Boardings
Peak
Off Peak
6,691
7,830
6,030
7,001
661
829
5,111
4,583
557

7,202
6,359
900

Boardings/Hour
Peak
Off Peak
214.5
107.6
261.7
130.2
81.0
43.5
163.8
198.9
68.3

Attachment: Attachment A - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

Segment
DUS-Jeffco
DUS-Fed Ctr
Fed Ctr-Jeffco
Fridays
DUS-Jeffco
DUS-Fed Ctr
Fed Ctr-Jeffco

95.5
114.2
45.6

Saturdays
Segment
DUS-Jeffco
DUS-Fed Ctr
Fed Ctr-Jeffco

Boardings Brdngs/Hr
8,991
92.2
8,084
112.3
960
37.6

Sundays
Segment
DUS-Jeffco
DUS-Fed Ctr
Fed Ctr-Jeffco

Boardings Brdngs/Hr
6,899
75.8
6,304
93.8
589
24.7

This change differs from the initial proposal.

Packet Pg. 15

1.B.1.b

January 2017 Service Change
Public Meeting Comments

Wednesday, September 20th, 2017
RTD Administrative Offices
Rooms T&D
NOON
Staff in attendance included Jessie Carter, Diane Marquis, Dan Merritt, Jeff Dunning,
Cesar Ochoa, Jeff Becker, and Tegan Rice. There were 10 members from the public in
attendance, along with Natalie Menten with the RTD Board.
Roberta Rollins expressed her appreciation for the public hearings, and had two concerns.
Roberta catches the 51 from the Westminster Park-n-Ride. It is never on time, and is not
frequent enough. If she is not there before the bus leaves, Roberta has to wait another 30
minutes until the next bus. Robert’s second concern is that she is very frustrated with the
G-line not being open yet. She does not understand the conflict with the two different
operating systems, which is what she believes, is the reason that the G-line is not open
yet.
Tom Richards lives by the Merchandise Mart, and uses the 12 to get around. He is in
agreement with the stop consolidation, but says RTD has missed a few stops on the list.
The southbound at 31st/Downing is an eighth of a mile from the LRT station and
northbound stop at MLK/31st is also an eighth of a mile away from another stop, both
stops need to be removed.
Roger Curtis is concerned about all of the other trains coming downtown not connecting
well with the W line. There needs to be more coordination for connections to the W line
from other lines. The W line does not connect well with the nine at Lamar or Sheridan
Stations. Would like an earlier trip on the weekends so that he can attend morning mass.
Need to eliminate stop number 26662 and 11926; they have other stops within a block of
each other. Roger did not like it when the A-line train operator and Security yelled at him
for standing on the tracks, when he says he was not standing on the tracks. He does not
like the idea of Denver operating their own separate transit entity.
Doug Schroeder wanted to know if there were plans to re-design the light rail stations to
provide pedestrian access over or under the tracks to prevent passengers from walking
across the tracks. Doug does not feel that those at the stations are using common or
good sense while crossing the tracks at the stations. Doug is okay with the changes to
the R-line, especially since he sees empty trains operating. Doug was happy with Jessie’s
explanation that the R-line is interlined with the H-line so passengers would only have to
transfer if they needed to go to the Tech center.
Rosemary Brown wanted to know how much money consolidating stops saves. Rosemary
also wants to know why there is not a shelter, or at least somewhere to sit while waiting
for a bus after a long day at work. Rosemary also wanted to know how much money
from fares goes towards operations costs.
Steven Meyer wanted to know if there were any changes planned for the area around 17th
and Larimer. Are there any changes to the shoppers special, his community heavily relies
on them? Asked if the old mall shuttles are being replaced with the red buses, and if he
could buy and one.

Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2018 Service Changes (3276 :

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings–
January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

Chris Humphries wants better connections to the 12 at the 30th/Downing light rail station,
and one earlier trip in the morning on the 27 so that she can get to church. The LRT never
does the 3-minute curtesy wait for her to transfer from the 27.

Wednesday, September 20th, 2017
RTD Administrative Offices
Rooms T&D
6:00 PM
Staff in attendance included Doug Monroe and David Menter along with Natalie
Menton; RTD Board Member from District M.
A few general questions were asked at the beginning of the meeting not related to the
proposed service changes. These were addressed by Director Menton and staff Mr.
Monroe:
A. When and how does RTD decide to add service on routes?
B. What is RTD doing to address the current shortage of bus operators?
C. When I-70 reconstruction starts, will RTD add bus and rail service frequencies?
Erin B. McConnelll was concerned about the proposed frequency reduction on route #45 at
rush hours. She said RTD should keep the existing 15-minute headways especially since
there are students and educators who use the existing service to access DCIS Middle
School and DCIS High School. She asked why RTD can’t go to 20-minute headways at
rush hours instead of 30. Mr. Monroe informed her that ridership was too low to justify
keeping the 15-minute frequency and that bus system is based on clockface 15-minute
and 30-minute headways. He said that 20-minute headways on route #45 would make it
miss connections with other routes for other riders.
David Smith was concerned about some of the proposed bus stop reductions on Route #3,
especially that Alameda & Ames should be retained for connecting riders to Sb route #51.
He supported other proposed stop reductions. Separately, he supported the proposed
introduction of the new L-Line and increased C-Line service but was concerned that the
commensurate reduction of the D-Line service to the 16th & California area would mean
that on weekends, only H-Line trains would serve the 16th & California area. It would also
mean existing Littleton D-Line riders would be forced to transfer if they wanted to get to
the 16th & California areas. He requested that some existing D-Line service into
Downtown should be retained on weekends. He also said that W-Line needed extra cars
added for capacity at rush hours. Mr. Monroe replied that additional LRT vehicles were
currently on order. He said the additional service on the C-Line had been requested by
many riders and that existing riders of other LRT routes already are transferring with short
waits. He also replied that the bus stop on Alameda & Ames was nearby another bus stop
which would be retained and allow riders to transfer to route #51.
Karlyn Huffman said she has already commented about her general RTD concerns (back in
public meetings in June) but that nothing has happened. She reiterated that the Yale LRT
station has no bus service on the weekends. Routes 27 and 46 should have expanded
service, especially to the west of this station along Yale toward Colorado Blvd closer to
where she lives. There also needs to be a traffic signal on Yale in front of this station.
There should also be an elevator installed.

Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2018 Service Changes (3276 :

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings–
January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

She commented that she was injured earlier this year while riding RTD bus 27. The
operator jammed on the brakes and she fell to the floor and received a shoulder rotator
cuff injury. She said she did not believe she was injured at the time. The operator called
in her injury to dispatch at the time. She filed a complaint over the phone. She
commented that she also fell earlier this year on another RTD bus.
She said she also previously complained about how a route 46 operator refused to give her
a courtesy stop closer to her destination. This was after she had had rotator injury and
the operator then slammed on the brakes.
Helen Bushnell commented that there were too many bus stops being proposed for
elimination. One of the good things about RTD in the past that it was responsive to its
riders and there was good access to routes. She and others sometimes are not able to
walk ¼ mile to a bus stop. She said RTD should not capitulate to private property owners
who may complain about bus stops and/or trash at stops being located next to their
private property and said that RTD should focus on riders’ needs more. She commented
that she believed high quality bus routes in Europe and other countries had bus stops that
were closer together than RTD. Mr. Monroe replied that in general bus routes in Europe
and other areas commonly keep bus stops much farther apart on local routes, ¼ mile
being common in Germany for example, and farther than is currently the case in the U.S.
and on many existing RTD bus routes. He reported that potential riders also report one
reason they don’t ride buses more often is because they are too slow and stop too much.
Joe Elizalde was concerned about the proposed reduction in R-Line service during the day
weekdays. He said he was a veteran who used the daytime service to get from the
University of Denver area, where he lives, to Anschutz. He said other veterans would soon
use and need the service to reach the new VA hospital at Anschutz. Mr. Monroe
explained the cost savings that were involved. He explained that the plan is for H-Line
trains to interline into continuing as R-Line trains (at Florida mid-days). So, for his
particular trip, and potentially for more riders, he would actually benefit as H-Line corridor
riders would have a one-seat ride up to Fitzsimmons. Mr. Monroe explained that while
there was an operational savings, no stations of the R-Line would lose 15-minute
headways.
Mark Kelly commented that routes 15, 31, and Flatiron Flyer have problems with riders
standing often and/or being left at the curb and said that more capacity should be added.
He was concerned about local bus ridership recently being flat. Expressed concern that
RTD is paying too much to service its long-term debt obligations.

Wednesday, September 20th, 2017
Boulder
Alfalfa’s Market
6:00 PM
Staff in attendance included Diane Marquis and Tegan Rice. There were 23 members from
the public in attendance, along with Natalie Stiffler with the City of Boulder.
Peter Lloyd expressed concern about connecting from the 206 to the BOLT. The 206 is
often running late because of traffic in Boulder, so he misses connecting to the BOLT.
Peter would like to have better connections.

Packet Pg. 18

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2018 Service Changes (3276 :

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings–
January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

Anne Mescabb said that she can handle the walk to the JUMP but recommended to
everyone to walk a block to 9th Street to catch the HOP.
Jean Dag Mescabb lives at the Presbyterian Manor Senior and relies on public
transportation. Jean admits that it is not hard for her to go downtown, but there are
many in her home who struggle now just to get to the 11th Street/Arapahoe Avenue stop.
Jean then recommended that since the HOP operates much smaller vehicles that the HOP
should deviate to accommodate the seniors.
Anita O’Connor admitted that she might not be able to continue her volunteer work based
on the proposed service changes proposed to the JUMP. Anita would like to petition RTD
to keep buying 30’ busses to continue operating the loop. Anita is also concerned about
the operators taking off before she has sat down. Anita has had to go to physical therapy
because of getting hurt when operators start driving before finding a seat.
Donna Shay supports and agrees with everyone’s previous comments about the JUMP.
Jackie Course is concerned that with the changes to JUMP it is going to make it more
difficult for her to go the hospital for her treatments. The changes to the JUMP are a
huge inconvenience to the seniors in the area.
Kevin Mooney told the seniors in the room to walk over to the HOP. Kevin is more
concerned about the operators not appearing to pay attention to people running to catch
the FF1 and L. Kevin would also like to see improvements done to the Downtown Boulder
Station; it is dirty and not inviting.
Therese Schwab wants to know where the information from these meetings goes; Diane
explained that the notes go to the board.
Laree Weaver has observed that buses currently are not having a problem making that turn
from Arapahoe to 9th Street; Diane explained that it is due to smaller buses operating
currently. Laree wanted to know why the buses are capable of turning from Arapahoe
onto 14th Street, because the turning radii appears to be the same as Arapahoe to 9th
Street. Laree also would like better signage at the bus shelter at 11th/Arapahoe because
she has observed that people are still standing at the shelter waiting for a bus.
Judy Silver has just recently started riding the JUMP, and has to walk six blocks to catch
to bus on 9th Street. Judy wanted to know what the distance is for people to have to
walk to the bus.

Thursday, September 21st, 2017
Aurora Municipal Center
6:00 PM
Staff in attendance included Jeff Becker, Eric Miller and Jeff Dunning. There were 85
members from the public in attendance; and RTD Board Members Bob Broom.

JM Fey felt that more bus serves was needed at the first and last mile. Service
should be cheap and timely.
Tom Tobiassen said that the disappointing ridership needs time to develop. It
might help to propose reducing weekend service and wait for ridership to build.
Adam Dempsey felt the R line should be given more time, and service should be
increased on the Route 3.
Kevin Hogan stressed that the community trusted RTD and has invested in TOD
around the line.

Packet Pg. 19

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2018 Service Changes (3276 :

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings–
January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

Christine Whaley proposed modest changes implemented over time.
Douglas Howe CCDC felt that the R line has more riders than the C Line.
Rosemary Paoletto rides the R and H Lines. Felt it was too soon to reduce service.
Hillary Lampert also felt it was too soon to reduce service.
Robert McCherry suggested that the R Line terminate at Bellevue instead of
Florida.
Kristin Mallory lives near the Iliff station. She would like to see more bus service
to the Rail line for those transit dependent.
Aly Dewills-Marcano has been a rider for a long time. Her sister needs the R Line
to get to Park Meadows. She also felt the fares were confusing and too high.
RTD needs to improve reliability and connections. Aurora needs to give transit a
higher priority and there should be more market outreach.
Karlyn Shorb is a recreational rider and uses rail on the weekends. She was
concerned about investments made for TOD along the line.
Sarah Berkeland has a daughter that uses the R Line to school and work. She feels
it’s too soon to cut back on service.
Jim McGhee suggested that we find out why ridership is low and do more to help.
He feels we need more service and it’s too soon to cut back. Investments and
TOD projects have been started.
Chuck Montgomerie lives in Heather Gardens and feels that more time should be
given and there was poor planning.
James Sutton’s wife rides the R Line to Lincoln. He’s concerned with the slow line
due to the deviation to City Center. He was also bothered by behavior of
passengers; i.e. feet on the seats, etc.
Kenyon Moon feels the rail needs better bike and pedestrian access. There also
needs to better first and last mile service. She felt there have been too many
investments for TOD in the corridor to pull service now.
Doug Schriner feels the RTD should work on reliability and promotions.
Edward Stout stated that we need more frequent service on the R Line and better
service to City Center and Peoria stations.
Carol Streamer lives in Windsor Gardens. She would like to see more Route 3
service and better reliability.
Mary Berish also felt that reliability and more service would help with ridership.
Vickie Spillane said that it’s too early to cut service. We should keep it as is for
now.
Goodman is an occasional rider on the H Line. He felt it was too early to cutback
service due to TOD investments in the area. He also stated that it’s hard to board
with a suitcase.

Packet Pg. 20

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2018 Service Changes (3276 :

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings–
January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

Thursday, September 21st, 2017
Central Park Recreation Center
6:00 PM
Staff in attendance included Dan Merritt, Cesar Ochoa and Jeff Dunning. There were 19
members from the public in attendance.

Attendees were concerned with the termination of the route 89. Primary concerns
were loss of access to a grocery store/pharmacy and schools for residents of the
area, as well as disruption of commutes for employees of Anschutz Medical Center
Campus. There were multiple residents of Bluff Lake Apartments, an affordable
housing community at 10425 E 31st Ave; some of which stated that their
disabilities prevented them from being capable of utilizing other options.
Suggestions from the community members included rerouting the route 89 to
entice higher ridership, assigning smaller vehicles to the route to save money and
lessen the impact of the route on the neighborhoods, increased frequency to
attract more ridership, and community activism to promote the route. The
overwhelming sentiment was the desire for RTD to give the community until the
May 2018 service change to increase ridership before determining to cancel the
route.
Friday, September 22nd, 2017
NE Denver
Glenarm Recreation Center
5:30 PM
Staff in attendance included Kim Kinnison and Jessie Carter. There were 3 members from
the public in attendance.
Brian Linde expressed concerns about the Route 28/28B proposal and questioned whether
a reroute of the 32 off of Glenarm could be considered when activities are programed on
Glenarm Street. Additionally, he would prefer that the D Line not change as listed in the L
Line proposal, but thought the weekend change to the initial proposal was an
improvement.
Ed Slattery spoke in opposition of the L Line proposal, as he is a resident of the Barnum
neighborhood and uses the D Line to access the US Bank branch on Welton Street. He
also had questions regarding L Line proposal and the future of the Central Corridor
Extension.
Helen Bushnell commented on the consolidated stop proposals, stating that she believed
the closing stops goes against RTD’s goals of serving the customer. She also criticized the
public outreach for service changes, noting the low turnout at the public meeting.

Packet Pg. 21

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2018 Service Changes (3276 :

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings–
January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

Monday, September 25th, 2017
Green Valley Ranch Community Center
6:00 PM
Staff in attendance included Dan Merritt, Cesar Ochoa and Jeff Dunning. There were 4
members from the public in attendance; one of whom was from the Montbello Organizing
Committee.
Most of the comments were against the reduction in service of the Routes 42 and 45.
There were also comments about: more service in Montbello, greater advertising, rude Bus
Operators, safety, multiple language brochures, re-establishment of the Montbello PnR,
and public hearings at Aurania. There was one request for a new local private carrier to
operate additional circulator service within Montbello.
Map of Route 89 Community Access Impact was submitted. See below:

Wednesday, September 27th, 2017
Denver Tech Center
Koebel Library
6:00 PM
Staff in attendance included Kim Kinnison and Jeff Becker. There were 4 members from
the public in attendance, along with RTD Board Members Ken Mihalik and Natalie Menten.

Packet Pg. 22

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2018 Service Changes (3276 :

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings–
January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

Brock Armstrong requested that rush hour goes later than 6:00 pm and agreed that
service reductions made sense. He also stressed that Heather Gardens needs the
R line and that it should be given more time for the public to get used to the
service.
Victoria Bingham was against cuts to the R Line and stressed that more students
will be taking it and passengers with luggage to the airport. She also added that
the VA hospital will be opening next year and adding more demand.
Paul Thomas also would like to see rush hour service extended to 7:00 pm and
mentioned new construction and apartment buildings.
Thursday, September 28th, 2017
Golden Community Center
6:00 PM
Staff in attendance included Eric Miller and Doug Monroe. There were ? members from
the public in attendance, along with Mayor Marjorie Sloan, Ward 1 Councilor Marcia
Claxton, District 1 Councilor Saoirse Charis-Graves, Ward 4 Councilor Laura Weinberg and
Golden Planning Manager Rick Muriby.
Mayor Marjorie Sloan was glad RTD came to Golden for a hearing. She commented that
LRT is a powerful tool. Golden is an RTD partner and has invested money in pedestrian
infrastructure to reach transit facilities, in the Golden Call-n-Ride, and that Golden would
continue to invest. You cannot build ridership while cutting service.
Ward 1 Councilor Marcia Claxton commented 15% of W Line boardings are going to
Jeffco Station and the services offered there. She requested that RTD not discourage
ridership by cutting frequency and that the fare to and from Jeffco Station are too high.
She commented that it is more convenient to take the bus when going to the Civic Center
end of Downtown.
District 1 Councilor Saoirse Charis-Graves commented that the Golden City Council is
committed to transit. They are supporting transit by investing in bicycle, pedestrian, and
call-n-ride to reach the W Line. She commented that reduced frequency will reduce
ridership and that RTD and Golden are partners.
Ward 4 Councilor Laura Weinberg commented that the fare structure makes it cheaper for
people to drive and ride from other stations. Commuters to Golden need the options as do
people traveling to human services in Golden. She requested that RTD partner with service
groups to provide trips and boost ridership.
Michael Laden commented that it was confusing to know which train would run through
all the way to Jeffco.
Leslie Markovchicks commented that decreasing service will decrease ridership.
Alex Cordova commented that he works at 6th and Federal and that it is faster and cheaper
to drive than take the W Line. He commented that he A Line has broken down on him and
would like SkyRide buses to return. He suggested that reducing the fare would increase
ridership.
Judy Wilkinson commented that the Arvada A Line was better than the current transfer
that is required to reach the airport from Arvada and requested that the W Line frequency
remain as is. She said that service to and from Boulder is terrible and requires one to go to

Packet Pg. 23

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2018 Service Changes (3276 :

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings–
January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

Denver off-peak times. She said that global warming should be cause for more transit
service.
Cristina Bishop stated that decreased frequency would cause her to drive to and from the
airport.
Lauren Strain is an LRT proponent. She commented that she can’t make her 5am shift at
the airport with the current schedules. She like the AF bus better. She commented that
the only good route in Golden is Route 16 and requested no cuts to the W Line.
Jim Dale of the Golden Sustainability Advisory Board and Citizens Budget Advisory Board
has the goal of reducing VMT. He suggested that the W Line needs express service and
more marketing.
Dixie Termin said that Jeffco Station is less used because it is a cheaper fare from the
Federal Center and that RTD should redraw fare zones to increase ridership.
Gail Henry asked how cuts can be proposed when the W Line is full and why it is not as
important as other lines.
Deborah Deal said that RTD can’t worry about money now when we are planning for the
future. The W Line is a long term investment and Jeffco Government Center will expand.
Marv Morgan said that cutting services and raising prices is a good way to fail. He
suggested RTD try lower fares for 1 year.
Barbara Calo felt that night and weekend cuts were appropriate, but not weekdays. She
said people don’t want to think about the schedule.
Jordan Beezley of the Community Sustainability Advisory Board has the goal of reducing
VMT and encouraging public transit. He said that because the Call-n-Ride will be every 15
minutes that 15 minute service on the W Line is necessary. He requested that cuts be
deferred by 1 year to allow for ridership to increase. Transit service is about more than
money.
Ivan Soto said that cuts are a step backward and it needs more marketing.
Alex Newman said that public health should promote transit to reverse the obesity and air
quality trend. She commented that we should be decreasing the cost of transit and
increasing the cost of driving.
Georgia Mraz said that LRT is a good idea and there are many cars at the Jeffco garage.
She requested no cuts to service.
Golden Planning Manager Rick Muriby said that Golden is making investments to enhance
the W Line and that the timing is disappointing. They increased call-n-ride service and
want to give it time to increase W Line ridership. He suggested RTD wait 1 year or only
cut nights and weekends.
Bill Kitson said that more marking is needed at Mineral Station.
Don Cameron said that cuts should be deferred for 1 year as they more access is being
provided and more density is planned.
LuAnne Dale said that students need the midday service.
Jennifer Zacker said that Downtown Golden needs bus service to Jeffco Station and a
lower fare on the W Line is needed. She said that the trip planner ignores the W Line and
instructs her to drive to I-25 & Broadway Station.

Packet Pg. 24

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2018 Service Changes (3276 :

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings–
January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

First Name

Last Name

Email

Additional Comments

1

Tammy

Levin

tjlevin@gmail.com

12

1

Rhiannon

Lowrey

toothlessdragongirl@gmail.com

12

1

Scott

Ramming

MSRAMMING@msn.com

It doesn't make a whole lot of sense to eliminate the Louisiana and Pearl
eastbound bus stop for local route 12, considering this is at a light rail
station. Many, many people get on at this stop including me multiple times
per week.
My name is Rhiannon Lowery, and I am a 7th grader at Morey Middle
School off of 14th and Emerson, and your changes to the 12 bus strongly
affect me. The reason that it affects me is because I take this bus to school.
In the morning I get off at 14th and Downing with my Nana, and at 3:055:05 I go to 14th and Corona to go home. Unfortunately however these are
two stops you guys plan to eliminate, which is a HUGE inconvenience to
me, and many other students of Morey and DSISD who take this RTD bus. I
know that the 12 is a long route, so I propose, why not make a 12 L? Have
it stop at all the school bus stops, and the train stations, and any other
highly used stops on the usual 12. It will shorten the ride, and ensure that
there is one route with all of he bus stops, and one route with only some of
the stops. Thank you for your time, and I hope you can take my idea into
consideration.
I support the proposed stop consolidations for Route 12. I'm also surprised
you weren't able to consolidate the two stops northbound on Downing
Street between 31st and MLK. Likewise, I'd also support consolidation of
two close stops southbound on Downing Street on either side of 34th St.

15

1

Lingjia

Hu

lingjia_hu@dpsk12.org

20

1

Joseph

Gergely

gergelme@msn.com

Route
12

Support

Opposed

Inquiry

I am one of teacher working in difficulty service school area at Montbello.
Would you please keep 15' schedule for certain time of weekdays' rush
hours, for example 6:30am to 8am, 3:30pm to 5:00pm. In this case RTD can
provide our students and teachers better transfer service. As a teacher we
can service students better.
20th & Reed is the main bus stop for the Dept. of Revenue (DOR) and
drivers licenses etc. etc. the DOR address is Pierce St. but the building
covers 2 square blocks in each direction and everyone knows you can only
enter the DOR from Reed St. side. This bus stop is for the convenience of
every one who has mandatory business with the DOR especially the
handicapped that would have to travel 2 long blocks west and 1 block
south up the hill, not to mention the cross streets, parking lots and
sidewalks during snow storms, if they even get shoveled. I can offer a
solution, remove the next westbound bus stops at Teller St. both are
dangerous in both directions. There are no sidewalks and the eastbound
bus stop is literally 2 ft. higher than the road and the westbound bus stop is
2 ft. from moving traffic and no where to move without a side walk.
Removing the Teller St. bus stops would also help to keep the westbound
Vance St. bus stop for local riders, the daycare center and as the last stop
and connection to the northbound Route 76. I will do my best to attend all
service change meetings…Thank you sincerely… JOSEPH J GERGELY

Packet Pg. 25

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

20

1

Tiffany

J

tjiff10@gmail.com

20

1

Ron

Smith

FB

Jude

Buemi

j-lbuemi@peoplepc.com

45

1

Diana

Aguilar

863311@dpsk12.net

I am writing regarding the proposed changes to the Westbound 20 bus and
the possible consolidation of the stop at 18th and Pennsylvania Street. I am
requesting that the stop remain on the route as there is a bus shelter at
this stop, which cannot be found at the following stop at Grant Street.
Having a bus shelter with awning is particularly helpful in the winter
months and helps to block the harsh sun in the hot summer months. In
addition, there are many nearby apartments and businesses that benefit
from this stop, which is also fairly safe and clean. Since this stop has a bus
shelter, I ask that RTD reconsider the consolidation of the Westbound 18th
and Pennsylvania Street stop for the route 20 bus. Thank you for your
consideration.
I don't want you to remove the stop at 20th & Reed St. I take the 20 all the
time, and it runs hot and has to kill time in downtown, so why does this
stop need to be eliminated?
I would like to comment regarding the route 37. I did not find this
particular service changes proposed, however I have a change I would like
to propose for this route. What I am proposing and pushing for today is
extending the "morning rush" frequency of every 30 minutes by one
additional trip westbound. Currently after 8:30 AM the rt 37 operates
hourly from 40th/Airport. I propose adding a 9 AM departure westbound
from 40th/Airport. Currently the driver of the eastbound trip departing
40th/Colorado at 8:03 AM pulls into the garage after arriving 40th/Airport
at 8:57 AM. I believe the addition of a 9 AM departure could be
accomplished fairly easily by having this driver departing 9 AM on a
westbound trip instead of pulling in. Thank you for your consideration.
Please feel free to contact me if you wish.
Attached Letter

45

1

Steven

Arias-Serrano

845660@dpsk12.net

Attached Letter

45

1

Bridgett

Grumley

BRIDGET_GRUMLEY@dpsk12.org

Good afternoon RTD! Today you may have received some other letters in
regards to the proposed changes to bus 45 in January. I am a high school
teacher at Denver Center for International Studies in Montbello. I
encouraged my students to choose a take action project this week, and
many chose to focus on bus 45. As a rider of bus 45 M-F during rush hour,
it is extremely important that it runs frequently and every 15 minutes. Our
bell rings at 3:15 and students run to the bus stop pretty much every 15
minutes up until about 4:30, due to after school clubs, tutoring, teachers
taking care of extra business etc. When I say run, I literally mean run. 15
minute increments are pretty convenient, and this neighborhood really

1

37

Packet Pg. 26

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

45

1

Jazmin

Ubaldo

674723@dpsk12.net

45

1

Cristal

vazque

845566@dpsk12.net

needs to convenient public transportation that is accessible during the
peak hours. Our schedules are already quite long with transferring from
the A line, and R line. The schedule as is, works for us getting to and from
work at a reasonable time and safely. Several students get on at the
Albrook stop, and off at the Peoria station. If the time is reduced, I worry
that even more students will be tardy, or be stressed with finding
alternative transportation if they live outside of the school bus boundaries.
Please keep in mind the working people and students as you make your
decision, as the Montbello neighborhood already has limited
transportation. Teacher in Montbello and bus 45 commuter
Dear RTD, today September 26,2017 the bus line 45 decided it should run
every 30 minutes instead of 15 this is going to effect the Montbello
community because at Montbello high school we have students as well as
teachers that take that bus to come and be ready to learn. If students
come in late to class everyday there slowly loosing there education
because everyday will build up more and more. As well with teachers if
teachers came in late they wont be able to teach us as students and the
kids that don't even ride the bus will also loose there education. Changing
the bus schedule will not benifit anyone because it will mess up there daily
routine. Many of our teachers take that bus for example Mrs. Hu, Miss.
Grumley, Mr. Waghmare, and Mrs. Mcconnell. With them taking the bus
and the bus schedule changing its going to effect us students alot because
without teachers we cant get any education. At the moment that the bus
schedule is right now we dont have a really big issue but when it changes it
gunna be a big effect. Hopefully uou got the chance to read this letter and
not change the bus schedule
Bus line 45 is very important to Denver Public Schools.Teachers and
students use this bus to get to and from school. I know students who use
this bus to get to school, and how they don't like walking, because it's far,
and the weather, it gets very hot or very cold. And students have to carry
big books in their backpacks, which I've had to do, walking and it hurts my
back. Students and teachers need the bus line to run every 15 minutes in
order for them to get here on time to teach/learn. My biology teacher
Miss. Grumley, uses this bus line to get to work and to go home, the light
rail is not close to this neighborhood and bus line 45 is one of the few
convenient public transportation options. Changing the time would be
very inconvenient for lot of people, teachers and students and other
people who need to go places. Some students opted out of their Montbello
neighborhood school and go downtown and need line 45 to run every 15
minutes, other students who are outside of the school bus boundary use
line 45 to get to and from school, so please consider keeping the time the
same. Thank you for your time!

Packet Pg. 27

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

89

1

Phillip

Ferrero

Phillip.Ferrero@childrenscolorado.org

89

1

Mary Jo

Impalli

mjidenver@comcast.net

89

1

Coleen

colleenlampron@gmail.com

89

1

Michael

Lampron,
MPH
Lopez

I am asking you to keep the 89 route from Central Park to the Anschutz
Medical Campus. I take this route in 2-3 days per week to get to work on
the campus, specifically to Children's Hospital Colorado. I rely on this
route, and would be adversely affected if this route is discontinued. I see a
number of other riders who use the 89 route to make it to Anschutz
Medical Campus, so closing this route who affect others who work at the
campus, too. I expect that additional infrastructure build out at the
Anschutz Medical Campus and in Stapleton, specifically the space around
Central Park Station, will improve ridership in the coming years.
I am writing because I have just learned that RTD wishes to discontinue
service on the 89. I hope you do not do that. I will be 81 in November and
stopped driving this year. Not driving would make me dependent on my
family but the 89 bus keeps me independent
.I can get it on 29th near my house and go to Central Park Station and then
bus anywhere I need to go. In the other direction I can go to Eastbridge
King Sooper, or, as I did this morning, I can go to University Hospital for
tests scheduled by my doctor. I may be too elderly to be comfortable
driving my own car but I want to be independent as long as I can. The bus
allows me to be independent. I know the ridership is low but I see people
when I ride who are going to work at the hospital or going to work at
Eastbridge King Sooper. They may not be many but they depend on the bus
to get to their jobs. I hope you will take them and their need for
transportation, and my need for transportation into consideration when
you make your final decision. Without the 89, I have no way to get to
Central Park station to get on another bus or to take the train to the
airport.

I catch the 89 bus at the Central Park Station to work at 2700 Moline to
arrive by 6:00pm. It is a very short trip and I get to work early. I pick up 89
bus at 4:55pm and get there at 5:07pm. I know kids take it to school and it
is a whole bunch of them! I do not want you to take it away. You say low
ridership but you only run it once an hour! It isn't our fault that there is low
ridership! Helloooo! You only run it once and hour! If you take it away
that won't build ridership. If you take it away we will not be able to get to
our destination!

Packet Pg. 28

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

1

89

90

1

Sarah

McGregor

smcg21@hotmail.com

So, let me get this straight: you set up a route with such limited service and
illogical route that no one rides it, then you want to discontinue it because
no one rides it? I have contacted everyone I can think of about this route-my RTD board members, councilperson, and neighborhood transportation
association and you did nothing to improve ridership! Here's what I said
then, and it still stands: For the 89 to serve the community: it needs to
run frequently, not every hour. Should be at least every 30 minutes or
better. It needs to serve the 29th Avenue town center, not turn at Central
Park Boulevard. It should run on Martin Luther King Boulevard rather than
29th. How about fixing routes instead of discontinuing them?

Scott

Ramming

MSRAMMING@msn.com

I support renaming the Route 90 Limited from Civic Center Station to US 36
& Sheridan Station as Flatiron Flyer Route FF7.
Ever since the 4:55 PM bus was removed there has been overwhelming
crowding on the 5:10 and 5:25 buses. Most days there are at least 5-10
people that are required to stand while the bus navigates top speeds on I70. This poses major safety concerns for those standing. With the
numerous delays to the G Line, Arvada bus options should not be cut back
in this time of need. The passenger demand clearly exists to bring back the
4:55 bus. Thank you for taking the time to read my feedback and
considering ways to make the bus service better from Arvada to Denver. I
appreciate everything you do to bring great public transportation options
to our city.
I would like to **Requestthat the 4:55 p.m. return from Union Station to
Olde Town Arvada be reinstated. With the current growth of the area, all
55L buses seem to be getting more crowded everyday. However, the 5:10
p.m. has been exceptionally full. Most days there are multiple people left
standing for the 20+ minute ride. Yesterday, the bus arrived at Union
Station a couple of minutes late, and there were people standing all the
way to the back of the bus. Having a 24 minute gap between the 4:46 p.m.
and the 5:10 p.m. during peak rush hour doesn't make sense. Please
consider reinstating the 4:55 p.m. to ease the congestion for the rush hour
commuters.

55L

1

Matt

Hohnholt

matthohnholt@gmail.com

55L

1

Andrea

Vinnola

AVINNOLA@msn.com

Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

1

B/E Line

Bus Stop
Consolidation
20

C

1

1

James

French

JFrench@cobank.com

Renee

Cleroult

cleroultrmf15@centurylink.net

John

Vanderau

vanderau@icloud.com

When looking at the upcoming light rail schedule changes, please consider
travelers trying to connect from the B line to E line. Currently the B-Line
arrives at Union Station at 7:54-7:56 (on an every 30 minutes schedule).
The E-Line departs the other set of platforms (850 feet away) at 7:58 (on
an every 15 minute schedule). I can occasionally make the connection
between the two platforms by being the first person off the train at the
closest door, crossing Wewatta street regardless of the crossing light and
running as fast as I can. If the B-line is more than 45 seconds late, or there
is heavy traffic on Wewatta, I will end up missing the south bound E line by
seconds. This forces me to wait 15 minutes (for the next E line). It also
increases my commute by over 20%. If I miss this connection consistently,
I end up losing over 5 hours a month to this mismatch. I know that I am
not the only person who takes the B-line to the E-line. Please consider the
timing between these two routes. Moving the B-line’s arrival by as little as
2 minutes earlier would greatly improve the commute for the many riders
who take this route.
I find this bus stop useful when coming back with groceries; that way I do
not have to cross Quebec which has a lot of traffic. The shade of the trees
in the park is also welcomed in 90+ weather.
Thank you for proposing to increase the frequency of service of the "C"
line, especially during rush hour. While it is regrettable that "D" line service
must be decreased to accommodate increased frequency of "C" line,
service, hopefully going to four-car trains will adequately offset the
reduction in frequency of "D" line trains. Thanks again for proposing this
change.

Packet Pg. 30

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

C & D Lines

1

Dave

Ostermeier

dfostermeier@avaya.com

C LIne

1

Catherine

Cali

catherinecali@hotmail.com

C Line

1

Bridgett

Glynn

bridget.r.glynn@gmail.com

For years I’ve been riding the H line to Broadway and transferring to C or D
going South to Mineral where I catch the 403 line. The H usually comes in
to the station just as a D line leaves. I’ve asked customer service to see if
the train could wait, especially if it sees the H arriving at the station but I
was told it needs to keep it’s schedule. I asked if there would be anything I
could do but was told it is up to the driver of the D to determine if they can
wait. Also most never have I or the people trying to make the same
connection made the D. This is very frustrating as we seem to only make
the connection if the D line is late. I personally take an earlier train so I
have extra time to get to work on time, as I’m sure the others do. When I
do catch the D line it gets me to the 403 and to my work 30 minutes
earlier.
I have asked if a courtesy wait could be asked for at Broadway for the D
line and was told that is not an option. I asked about a hold for the 403 and
was told I would need to call each day and that I would probably not make
it in time anyway as they only hold the bus a few minutes.
I have been looking at schedules for the trains and others around the
country and found may other locations are better timed. RTD however
scheduled the connections, or lack thereof, to specifically make travelers
from Aurora to the Southwest side miss the connections.
Each H line train is scheduled to arrive one minute after a D line is
scheduled to leave. Can consideration be made to align the connections to
allow Aurora commuters to make the connections? Have the D line arrive
and wait and be scheduled to leave at the same time (or following minute)
which would allow the connection? I have traveled at different times the
same route and see about half a dozen or more commuters in the same
situation. We would all be pleased not to need to wait 10 to 30 minutes
because of poor planning. Other than that, I think RTD is doing a great job.
Dear RTD Management and Board. Until this summer, I was a rider on the
D Line between the Littleton Mineral Station and Downtown Denver. I
truly appreciated the fact that there was a train every few minutes due to
the fact that there were both the 18th and California Line and the 30th and
Downing line. This summer, my Firm moved to a LoDo location close to
Union Station. I now ride the C Line between Mineral and Union Station.
The convenience of being near Union Station is nice, however, the 30
minute span between trains is trying. One evening last week I was
validating my ticket just as the doors closed and the train departed. Having
to wait a half hour for the next train was frustrating enough but there are
also times when it is difficult to get a seat on the busy train. Some days
people are squeezed in like sardines. Following a Rockies game, the
platform is like a mob scene and some people take on a mob attitude
trying to get on the train. I think it would be beneficial, to all, to increase
the C Line schedule to every 15 minutes at rush hour.
Any chance RTD might increase the C line to have more trains per hour.
Right now the its only twice per hour and the train gets really crowded. 30
mins between train times is a really long wait.

Packet Pg. 31

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

C Line

1

Eric

Mannino

manninoeric7@gmail.com

For the January 2018 service changes please don't operate the C line on
weekends instead of the D line please make the L Line & D line run
together on weekends.

C Line

1

Trina

Wallingford

kmwallingford@gmail.com

For the most part - I am onboard with changes to C & D lines. The one
change I am not in favor of is discontinuing the services after midnight. I
believe it is RTD's civic responsibility to provide safe, affordable
transportation to the community. Reducing the service after midnight will
exclude individuals that live on the southwest side of Denver from having
safe & affordable transportation from Denver after sporting events &
concerts. RTD continues to deprive the Southwest corridor of both bus
and light rail services in favor of those communities closer to the city of
Denver. Ridership will continue to decrease in these areas unless those
same riders can count of frequent, consistent transportation from bus/light
rail stations. I feel that RTD should consider that more affluent individuals
are moving closer to the city of Denver that can afford Uber, Lyft & taxis
while individuals who are less affluent are continually losing frequent,
consistent transportation services to access Denver & DTC services.

Packet Pg. 32

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

C Line

1

Sheila

Webb

sheila1923@earthlink.net

I am writing again to express my sincere concerns about the proposed
elimination of some of the D line trains during peak periods and the
“replacement” with additional C line trains and four car trains on the
remaining D line trains. I have been a commuter from Littleton Downtown
Station since its inception and, during peak periods, I have observed that
the D line service is frequented by about 75% of the passengers, with the C
line only frequented by the remaining 25%. Union Station is not central.
Even during the Summer Semester at the Auraria Campus, the peak period
D line trains are consistently crowded, with most seats gone by the time
the trains leave the Englewood or Evans stations going northbound, and
usually the southbound D line trains are standing room only at the
Convention Center or Auraria Campus stops. The proposed “addition” of
an extra car to the remaining D line trains is a non-entity because during
the Fall and Spring Auraria semesters it seemed to me that many of the
peak period D line trains had four cars last year. This year so far, there are
typically only three cars on the D line trains which is a reduction not an
addition. When there were four car trains, the D line was crowded and
seating for people who go to work in downtown Denver was very limited
indeed. However, even given the fact that D line train seating is limited,
passengers still do not use the uncrowded C line trains to downtown,
because, as far as I can see, most passengers prefer to use the D line
service, probably because it is more convenient for their office location and
it is more central than Union Staton. I use the Convention Center station
downtown and D line service is more convenient for me. Going
southbound, having to use the Southeast line trains and change at
I25/Broadway is not an option for two reasons: first, the Southeast Line
trains are already overcrowded when they leave the Convention Center /
downtown area, and secondly, the need to change at I25/Broadway to
catch a C line train could add as much as 15 minutes each way to my
morning commute, and would probably add 30 minutes to my evening
commute as I would probably miss my bus connection at Littleton
downtown station. In addition, changing trains at I-25/Broadway would be
especially difficult during inclement weather. In addition, the front car of
the D line trains is almost always overcrowded with people with disabilities
during peak periods, and often those people with disabilities have to stand
which is dangerous if the train has to make sudden stops. This
overcrowding in the front car occurs now when there are six D line trains
an hour during peak periods, and cutting that number of trains down to
four and adding an extra car to the remaining D line trains will not help this
problem, it will only exacerbate it. For the above reasons, I strongly
question the proposed reduction in D line service and replacement by
additional C line service from January 2018. Providing additional C line
service would increase service for sporting events, etc., but it would
severely inconvenience your bread and butter customers, the daily
commuters.

Packet Pg. 33

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

CV/CS/CX

1

Melissa

Barnes

STEVE.MELISSA@msn.com

CV/CS/CX

1

Pam

Beckhorn

pjb@gallagherindustries.com

CV/CS/CX

1

Debbie

Champion

sadcham@gmail.com

As a loyal RTD patron, long time rider I appreciate RTD and what is offered
to our community. RTD provides a valuable service and plays an
important role in the lives of many. I am surprised to hear of this request
to move the 628am bus to an earlier time, by 20 minutes. I tend to catch
an earlier bus. In light of this proposal I chose to ride said bus this
morning. Seems to be a popular time. Rough count, about 18 riders
boarded at Pine Junction. With three more stops on the trip into Denver,
the bus was quite full. In speaking to other riders, its my understanding
the person requesting this change normally rides the 546am bus. Only
interested in the 628am being changed to 610am as a backup for when she
is running late. I too have those mornings but do not see this as anyone
else’s responsibility or to be addressed at the expense of others. Many
times I have taken the CS at 557am, changing busses in Aspen Park to the
617am CV. There are four departures offered in the 5-6am hour from
Pine Junction. Three more 628am to 705am. Seems to be adequate
options for those on a regular schedule. So what I am saying is I am not
understanding why a schedule that would effect so many be changed for
one rider. And as a backup for when she is late is even more puzzling.
We have just been made aware of the subject proposed change, and want
to share with you that this would be a hardship, and a step backward for
commuters. Kindly see my attached comments and reasons for requesting
this change NOT be approved. We need the CV @ 6:28 a.m., and hope you
will consider our position. Thank you for all you do.
It has come to my attention that you are planning to revise the time I ride
the CV in the morning. It is the CV leaving 6:28 am from Pine Junction.
This will create a hardship for me. I get a ride to the bus in the morning
from my husband who is heading to work at that same time. Changing it to
6:10am will not work. As a result, I will have to sit at the park-n-ride till the
6:49 when the next bus arrives, which will get cold considering this is
during the winter. I did not see anything on the flyer on the window, and
was told to me by word of mouth yesterday. I hope my objection is
registered in time.

Packet Pg. 34

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

CV/CS/CX

1

Stephanie

Kunkel

stephanie.kunkel@judicial.state.co.us

CV/CS/CX

1

Matt

McCleskey

mbmccleskey.1989@gmail.com

I write to you to express my concern over the proposed shift of the CV trip
leaving Pine Junction from 6:28 am to 6:10 am. It appears to have been
slipped into this change proposal at the last minute, possibly in an attempt
to sneak this through without many public comments. This change is not
thoroughly posted on the bus walls/windows for all riders to see, and
merely contained in the flyer. I believe this change is to accommodate the
schedule of a few, only to inconvenience the entire bus load of other
passengers who regularly ride this route at this time. If the few other
riders need to be into the Civic Center and into work by 7:30am , there is
another option of leaving on the 6:17am bus out of Aspen Park. I do not
believe a shift of the entire bus, only to benefit a handful of people is in
RTD’s best interests.
In addition, there are times during the winter when the bus does not show
up or is extremely late due to weather. When this happens, with this
proposed change, it could leave passengers waiting almost an hour for the
next bus. I feel the buses are spread out an appropriate amount of time to
accommodate all riders schedules. If there is not a bus that arrives in Civic
Center when you would need to arrive, with a total of 4 stops along 285
you have many other options and may just have to drive to another park &
ride. Please leave the CV bus schedule alone and do not make any changes
to this schedule or route. lease contact me if you need any further
comments or to discuss any other issues.
It was just made aware to me that there is a purposed schedule change for
the CV bus currently leaving from the Pine Junction Park and Ride at 6:28
a.m.. The proposed time is 6:10 a.m.. I would like to reach out to someone
with the authority to appeal this change before it takes effect in January.
The 6:28 a.m. CV currently carries 22 - 35 regular or semi-regular riders
who depend on the bus at that time in order to make it to work on time.
The overall issue that the purposed schedule change raises is that it is not
conducive to a regular 8-5 work schedule. Secondly, many of us travel
through feet of snow in the winter in order to make it to the 6:28 a.m. CV
on time. Occasionally, we miss it due to weather conditions or other
varying factors. With the current schedule there is a 21 minute wait in subfreezing temperatures for the next bus. With the purposed schedule there
is a 39 minute wait. This can pose a threat to the older passengers who
must endure this wait. Lastly, the passengers who are picked up at the
Twin Forks Park and Ride by the CV have a 37 minute time period between
buses which will be extended to a 55 minute gap with the purposed time
change. This also leaves a scheduling issue with many that depend on the
service of the current CV for work. Please let me know how I may voice my
concerns most effectively in order to influence the decision not to change
the current CV schedule. Thank you for taking the time to read my
concerns. I look forward to your reply.

Packet Pg. 35

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

CV/CS/CX

1

Matt

McCleskey

mbmccleskey.1989@gmail.com

CV/CS/CX

1

Jackie

Nichols

nicholsj53@gmail.com

CV/CS/CX

1

Diana

Padgett

dianakeepsthebooks@gmail.com

I strongly object to the proposed changes to the C line schedule. This
impacts all of us who live in rural Bailey, Pine, Conifer, and the Morrison. It
is critical to my work schedule to have the current schedule remain as it is.
This change would completely eliminate my ability to use public transit!

CV/CS/CX

1

Coleen

Russell

rcolepete@aol.com

I am a daily regional bus rider on the CV/CS route picking up my bus in the
morning at the Twin Forks Park-n-Ride on Highway 285. I am writing to
oppose the proposed shift of the CV trip at 6:28 a.m. from Pine Junction to
instead start at 6:10 a.m. and arrive at Civil Center Station at 7:20 a.m.
There is already a 5:57 a.m. bus that departs Pine Junction and arrives at
Civil Center at 7:16 so you would only be getting riders to Civic Center 4
minutes sooner. In getting those riders 4 minutes earlier to Civil Center you
are depriving Twin Forks riders a bus for 55 minutes (the proposed new
schedule would have the CV arriving at Twin Forks at approx. 6:35 and then
the next bus - a CS - arrives at 7:30). Having that 6:28 a.m. bus that
departs Pine Junction and arrives at Twin Forks at 6:53 a.m. is extremely
important to riders in that area. Many times in the winter it is the only bus
that has shown up. Also, as an added comment, I think just in general
changing all the eastbound CX busses to CV busses would be a great
improvement.

It was just made aware to me that there is a purposed schedule change for
the CV bus currently leaving from the Pine Junction Park and Ride at 6:28
a.m.. The proposed time is 6:10 a.m.. I would like to reach out to someone
with the authority to appeal this change before it takes effect in January.
The 6:28 a.m. CV currently carries 22 - 35 regular or semi-regular riders
who depend on the bus at that time in order to make it to work on time.
The overall issue that the purposed schedule change raises is that it is not
conducive to a regular 8-5 work schedule. Secondly, many of us travel
through feet of snow in the winter in order to make it to the 6:28 a.m. CV
on time. Occasionally, we miss it due to weather conditions or other
varying factors. With the current schedule there is a 21 minute wait in subfreezing temperatures for the next bus. With the purposed schedule there
is a 39 minute wait. This can pose a threat to the older passengers who
must endure this wait. Lastly, the passengers who are picked up at the
Twin Forks Park and Ride by the CV have a 37 minute time period between
buses which will be extended to a 55 minute gap with the purposed time
change. This also leaves a scheduling issue with many that depend on the
service of the current CV for work. Please let me know how I may voice my
concerns most effectively in order to influence the decision not to change
the current CV schedule. Thank you for taking the time to read my
concerns. I look forward to your reply.
Please do not change the CV from Pine Junction from its 6:28 time slot.

Packet Pg. 36

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

CV/CS/CX

1

Colleen

Russell

CV/CS/CX

1

Terence

Sheahan

Terry_Sheahan@cod.uscourts.gov

CV/CS/CX

1

Louanne

Swanson

Received via fax

CX/CV Regional RTD Busses - I would convert the CX bus routes to CV
routes so they include the Twin Forks Park-n-Ride. It is the only stop on the
route excluded on the CX route and you could include more ridership by
including the stop at that location -especially in the mornings on the
eastbound route as it goes right past it on the same side of the road.
Sometimes the CS and CV are late due to bad weather and people stand
out at the Twin Forks as a CX bus goes right by. Thanks for listening.
I am opposed to the proposed January, 2018 service change of the
CV/CS/CX route. I ask that you consider three points:
First, please re-check your departure and arrival figures for the proposed
"shift" to a 6:10am Pine Junction departure. The current CV runs to
downtown are both scheduled to take 60 minutes, which is accurate on
most days. Per your announcement, the proposed, new CV run to
downtown is scheduled to take 70 minutes. The earlier departure would
normally encounter lighter traffic, so this run would more realistically take
60 minutes or less. Thus the proposed CV run would arrive downtown,
most days, at 7:10am.
Second, like many of my fellow passengers on the CV bus leaving Pine
Junction at 6:28am, my work hours in downtown Denver are 8:00am to
5:00pm. We do not have flexible starting or ending work day options.
Currently, we arrive downtown at 7:28am. If this proposed schedule
change is made, the resulting Pine Junction departure options are either to
arrive downtown 50 minutes before the work day begins or be 5 minutes
late everyday. Everyone should agree that either option is unsatisfactory.
The current run is perfectly situated for the 8 to 5 workers. This proposed
change seemingly may benefit one person or a few, but I cannot imagine
the change is welcome by the vast majority of this route's riders.
Lastly, I am concerned that RTD did not offer a public meeting location
more convenient for their customers most affected by this change: Pine,
Mountain View, Aspen Park, and Twin Forks riders. I hope that future
consideration will be taken when a proposed change impacts your
CV/CS/CX route customers.
I am writing to express my concerns with the proposed route change to
shift the CV route to leave Pine Junction at 6:10 rather than 6:28. I am very
much against this change. Irst of all the CS, CV, and CX leaving Pine
Junction currently arrive at the Civic Center Station at 7:16, 7:38 and 8:05.
Fairly well spaced apart. Your proposals would change the arrivals to 7:16,
7:38, and 8:05. It doesn't make sense to have 2 buses arriving within 4
minutes and the next bus 45 minutes later. In addition, for those of s who
work at 8:00, this means we are either 40 minutes early or 5 minutes late.
Many of us spend 2-3 hours of our day on the bus. The thgouht of losing
another 40 minutes each day in order to get to work on time would for me
be prohibitive I would not be able to justify renewing my ecopass next
year and the resulting travel expenditures would pose a significant
hardship. The bottom line is that scheduling the CV and CS 39 minutes
apart is too long of a window for departure. Having the CS and CV arriving
wtihin 4 minutes is inefficient and the CX 45 later is unreasonable.

Packet Pg. 37

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

CV/CS/CX

1

Louanne

Swanson

lougriffith@hotmail.com

D Line

1

Scott

Ramming

MSRAMMING@msn.com

G Line

1

Robyn

Cheatwood

bunnerbutts@hotmail.com

G Line

1

Veronica

Thomas

ronnie.thomas@FaegreBD.com

General

1

Hillary

Lampert

lovez2read@gmail.com

I am writing to express my concerns with the proposed route change to
shift the CV route to leave Pine junction at 6:10 rather than 6:28. I am
very much against this change. First of all the CS, CV and CX leaving Pine
Junction currently arrive at the Civic Center Station at 7:16, 7:38 and 8:05.
Fairly well spaced apart. Your proposals would change the arrivals to 7:16,
7:20 and 8:05. It doesn’t make sense to have 2 buses arriving within 4
minutes and the next bus 45 minutes later. In addition, for those of us who
work at 8:00, this means we are either 40 minutes early or 5 minutes late.
Many of us spend 2-3 hours of our day on the bus. The thought of losing
another 40 minutes each day in order to get to work on time would for me
be prohibitive. I would not be able to justify renewing my ecopass next
year and the resulting travel expenditures would pose a significant
hardship. The bottom line is that scheduling the CV and CS 39 minutes
apart is too long of a window for departure. Having the CS and CV arriving
within 4 minutes is inefficient and the CX 45 minutes later is unreasonable.
Attached Letter

R Line

1

Kritter

42

kritter42@gmail.com

Can you please provide an update on the g line? The last official update
posted on the website was May 1st.
When will we have any additional information concerning the G line
opening? Thank you!
Instead of cutting important lines and losing even more riders than you're
alreafy doing why dont YOU change what is consdered peak hours. In
todays world a lot more people work earlier than the old days thinking of 8
to 5. So change peak hours to 4 am or 4:30 - 8:30 am & 2:30 pm to 6 pm?
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Jill

Adams

bea_flatt88@yahoo.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Dylan

Adler

d12adler@gmail.com

R Line

1

Jamie

Alberico

j.walborn@gmail.com

Hi, my name is Dylan and I take r-line to my work (Walmart) sometimes as
a secondary option if I couldn't make it to 66 bus stop at the Arapahoe and
village center station. Please don't change, cut or reduce the services/time
schedule if R-line because it give me a hard time to get to my work place.
Instead of reducing services, cut into one car of R-line that way it is much
easier for everybody including myself. Thanks for the time of looking into
this.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Andrea

Anderson

ajanderson_1992@yahoo.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
In addition ask the city of Aurora to do away with paid parking at the Iliff
station and make it free. This will greatly increase the ridership on the R
Line.

R Line

1

Jeff

Anderson

olpin@outdrs.net

R Line

1

Russ

Anderson

randers51@comcast.net

Packet Pg. 38

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

R Line

1

Aleta

Antoinette

homesthatgive@comcast.net

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Karen

Arnold

karenarnold@mac.com

Dear RTD Board Member, I live at Le Chateau, the townhome complex
directly across from the Iliff Station. I beg you not to reduce service on the
R Line. Many of us depend upon that line getting to and from work. Please
give the Little Train that could more of a chance,

R Line

1

Rolf

Arnold

rarnold2@earthlink.net

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
I strongly urge the RTD board of Directors to not support or approve any
service reduction in RTD’s rail system. It is completely unacceptable to cut
service on the R Line after just becoming operational within the last five
months. Please RTD leave the R line as is and give it a chance to succeed
your goals. Many of us live in retirement communities which the R line
services. It has been critical to give us a way to get south, downtown, and
to the airport. With our limited abilities physically, the RTD has been a real
service to our community.
Please reconsider, we now have a stress free way to get around, were we
can meet and talk to strangers face to face. And it's all stress free. We like
riding our bikes to Abilene station and taking the train every where. Please
don't cut the service. Can it be advertised??
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

David

Baker

doublehorn@comcast.net

R Line

1

Karen

Barber

TUE2899@msn.com

R Line

1

Hillary

Bates

hillaryanne08@yahoo.com

R Line

1

Barbara

Becker

R Line

1

Miguel

Bernal

mbernal@auroragov.org

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Nicole

Bernal

nicolebe87@gmail.com

R Line

1

Cat

Bloom

mountaincat222@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Kent

Blumberg

kent@kentblumberg.com

Letter attached

Bowie

craig.bowie@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Craig

R Line

1

Michael

Brinkley

michael.brinkley@hotmail.com

R Line

1

Kimberly

Brown

kmopflo@gmail.com

I am a frequent rider of the R line, as I live close to the Colfax station stop. I
think it would be wiser to have the H line come up to Peoria Station and
maintain the schedule that way, as I feel there is enough service to Lincoln.
H line would eliminate a lot of transfers, which would also mean people
getting to their destinations much quicker.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Carmelita

Buchholz

carmelitab@shiputs.net

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Elizabeth

Butt

elizabethbutt@yahoo.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Dan

Cameron

chickencoopmgmt@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Packet Pg. 39

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

R Line

1

Warren

Campbell

WARREN.CAMPBELL@UCDENVER.EDU

R Line

1

Nancy

Charbonneau

nchar123@aol.com

I’m writing to express my disapproval of the reductions to the R Line that
are proposed to take effect in January. I live in Centennial, and I work at
the Anschutz Medical Campus. I take the train to and from work every day.
Currently, my commute home consists of taking the R Line from the
Fitzsimons Station to the County Line Station. If I am understanding the
proposed changes correctly, there would be no R Line service south of the
Florida station after 6pm. This means that, instead of taking a single train
from Fitzsimons to County Line, I would need to take three trains. I would
need to catch the R Line from the Fitzsimons Station to the Florida Station,
then transfer to the H Line, take the H Line from the Florida Station to the
Southmoor Station, then transfer to the E or F Line, and take that train
from the Southmoor Station to the County Line Station. And you well know
that, with each of these transfers, I would be wasting additional time as I
wait for the next train. If these changes go through, I’ll likely stop taking
the train altogether. Even though it results in a longer commute, I take the
train instead of driving because of the convenience. If these changes go
through, the train will no longer be convenient. Furthermore, it was
through slim chance that I was even made aware that these changes were
being proposed. I would imagine that many more patrons are also unaware
of these proposals, and would be unhappy with these changes. Also, all of
your proposed public meetings take place during my work hours. So, even
if I were interested in expressing these concerns in person, I would not be
able to do so. I hope you reconsider, or at least delay the reduction of
services until after 9pm instead of after 6pm.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Patty

Clark

patty@morningsidehomes.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
This is INCREDIBLY premature to make a decision like this. Maybe you
shouldn’t have built into Castle Rock… The citizens of Aurora voted for this.
Do not take it away. I strongly urge the RTD board of Directors to not
support or approve any service reduction in RTD’s rail system. It is
completely unacceptable to cut service on the R Line after just becoming
operational within the last five months. Please RTD Leaders, give the R Line
a chance.
I ride the light rail every day from the Iliff Station to go to school. If you
guys decrease the light rail times and close it on the weekends, how am I
supposed to ride the light rail that I paid for in my tuition? I waited for a
long time for the R-Line to open and now you want to take my access
away? There is new residential development that is going to be completed
within the next year which will also increase the riders of the R-Line. Also
the paid parking at the Iliff Station is rediculous, it should be free for local
residents like at other stations. Or possibly letting people park there for
free for the first 24 hours. I love riding the light rail and I hope you guys
don't make these changes of decreasing the light rail access. It would be
better to increase the rail traffic to every 15 minutes throughout the entire
day.

R Line

1

Tom

Clark

tclark@auroragov.org

R Line

1

Allison

Copeland

alli.copeland3@gmail.com

Packet Pg. 40

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

R Line

1

Susana

Coronel

scoronel21@msn.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Maggie

Couch

magcouch@comcast.net

R Line

1

Michelle

Crawford

michelledawncrawford@gmail.com

It has come to my attention that after only six months, the RTD Board is
considering cutting services on the R Line. I have never heard of anyone
giving up so quickly! Why? More and more residential properties are
being built to provide easy access to the R Line. Aurora will continue to
benefit greatly from increased public transportation. Please give people a
chance to learn about it and use it! Surely you all know that we
desperately need to ease the crush on our roads and highways and added
pollution to our air, and light rail is the answer! Why did you vote to invest
in light rail for Aurora if you are ready to pull the plug after only six
months? Is there something going on that is not being shared?? What a
crushing blow to Aurora and all of its residents! Please reconsider this
hasty and potentially damaging action
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

John

Crouch

airforce1991@comcast.net

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Jose

Cruz

Jose3.Cruz@usfoods.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Lisa

Dagner

ldagner17@yahoo.com

R Line

1

Bob

Dayton

bobdayton@hotmail.com

R Line

1

Michelle

Douglas

adomenge@auroragov.org

I am writing as an Ecopass holder and Aurora resident. An increase in the
frequency of buses which service nine mile station, a decrease in the
number of reserved parking spots at nine mile station or the elimination of
the city of Aurora’s parking fees at the Iliff R line station are all preferable
to reducing the frequency of service on the R line itself. I ride the R line to
the Anschutz Medical Campus for work whenever I can find parking at Nine
Mile. Bus service at my residence (139) is hourly and as such is not a viable
commuter solution. Please reconsider reducing the usefulness of the R
Line.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Eric

Dreas

Eric_Dreas@comcast.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Pat

Dunn

patdunn4@comcast.net

R Line

1

Sheryl

Eddings

sheryleddings@gmail.com

I feel that RTD has not made 100% effort to market the R line, and the
negative publicity RTD has garnered should be something RTD should take
into consideration. I'm asking that you reconsider this discriminatory
proposal that would affect the citizens of Aurora. Thank you for your time.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Dawn

Erickson

dawnaroo@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Linda/Richard

Farrar

dotcommom@gmail.com

R Line

1

Laurie

Fay

laurielfay@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Hannah

Fliegel

laughingpurplerose@gmail.com

R Line

1

Tiffany

Fliegel

im4jc1@comcast.net

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Alondra

Flores

ahernand@Auroragov.org

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Packet Pg. 41

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

R Line

1

Jorie

Fox

didier.jorie@gmail.com

R Line

1

Travis

Funk

travis.funk@me.com

It is unfair for RTD to now, after less than six months, to reduce service on
the R Line, threaten future development in the city and reduce regional
connections. Commercial development isn't even complete near our own
Iliff station - how can RTD cut access before those shops and housing
developments have even been filled? We chose to buy a house near the
Iliff line for the access we would gain to the area. If the R-Line is reduced,
we will lose that access. RTD should be invested in the long-term success of
the R Line, and reducing service will only hinder that growth. I strongly
urge the RTD Board of Directors to not support or approve any service
reduction in RTD’s rail system just yet. It is completely unacceptable to cut
service on the R Line after just becoming operational. This concern should
be re-addressed at a later date once all of the surrounding land has been
built up for use. Without that, there is no sound research to show that the
line is or is not being utilized.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Marcus

Gallardo

marcusgallardo@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Christina

Garcia

asilomar2189@hotmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Gerdin

rachel@listsellhappy.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Rachel

R Line

1

Chase

Gifford

giffordchase@gmail.com

R Line

1

Shane

Glaister

diverwolf@diverwolf.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Shannon

Gomez

shannongomez08@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
I am against any reduction in service on the R-line. We have students,
faculty and staff that use the R-line to commute on off-peak hours to our
school at the Florida station since we teach classes until 11 at night. A
reduction in service would be disruptive to this group, especially our lowincome students. We have been very accommodating with our parking lot
since the Florida station planning did not include any parking spaces. I
hope that RTD will make accommodations for the off-peak ridership of the
R-line.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Chris

Gorrie

chris.gorrie@ecotechinstitute.com

R Line

1

Kim

Gotori

kimberlykgotori@gmail.com

R Line

1

Lana

Graham

ljgraham4444@comcast.net

And if you haven't already, I would encourage you to visit all the new
apartments under construction across from the Iliff Station. This could also
impact the long awaited plans for The Point at Nine Mile, which the
neighborhood has anticipated with great hope for many years!

R Line

1

Louis

Granado

info@tringraphics.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Cameron

Grant-Giles

chickencoopmgmt@gmail.com

R Line

1

Colleen

Green

colleengreen@comcast.net

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Shane

Griffin

raymondsgriffin@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Packet Pg. 42

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

R Line

1

Melissa

Grove

melissa.n.grove@gmail.com

R Line

1

Nathan

Guerrero

guerrerotltc@msn.com

R Line

1

Nikol

Hall

nikol.d.hall@gmail.com

R Line

1

Stephanie

Hammond

stephaniehammond@comcast.net

R Line

1

Chryztii

Harrod

chryztii@gmail.com

I ride the R line every day to work and on Monday nights to attend my
master's classes at UCD. Please do not change the light rail schedule. If the
train stops at 6 pm (or even greatly reduces service times at that point) I
will no longer be able to take take public transportation to work. I chose to
buy a house near a light rail station so that I could take public
transportation to work and not sit on 225 like everyone else. I pay RTD
taxes, and would even pay more, with no issue because I know that I am
receiving a valuable service. Your organization champions a 'way to go'
campaign but by reducing service times so soon after opening the R line
you are not meeting that expectation. Please keep service times as they
are.
Cutting service to the R Line is a bad idea, let alone a public relations
nightmare. This will not increase support of funding light rail in the future.
Disappointed,
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
I'm an Aurora resident who lives down the Street from the new R line. I
work as a professional downtown and take this train everyday at different
times throughout the day, evening and weekends. I also transfer to the A
line. I waited for years to benefit from the this service and it would be a
huge issue for me to only ride it during peak times and not weekends. In
other words, it wouldn't benefit me at all the use the light rail anymore
with these proposed changes. This might be the case for many other
current participants. I think you should allow the R line to run at least
through the winter before you decide after 6 months of operation to
reconfigure the route schedule. Perhaps a lot more people will use the
train this winter so they don't have to drive in the snow. I personally don't
park in the park n ride because I live close enough to walk, might that be
the case for a lot of other participants? How do you gage the participation?
By cars in the lots? Head count? t is really premature to make these
decisions. It might backfire and cause even less participation than you have
now. I am not looking forward to driving in the traffic again (especially in
the winter months), wear and tear on my vehicle, etc. because the new R
line executives want to scrap the routes after 6 months of operation?
Please allow the Aurora residents to vote or have some input in this
decision. After-all, its our taxes that expanded the R line to our area
correct?
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Packet Pg. 43

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

R Line

1

Ryan

Harter

ryan.harter@gmail.com

R Line

1

Jacob

Hayes

sklz711@gmail.com

I'm writing to you in opposition of reduction of the light rail use on the R
line. For one, most of the time I use it is on the weekends. So you'll lose my
usage there. Two, the apartments by Illiff haven't even opened yet. This
seem like it is too soon to do a reduction without seeing what type of foot
traffic that brings. Third, in my opinion the train times need to be revised.
If I remember correctly the frequency kicks up too early in the morning
(4am if I'm not mistaken) for as much as it is used and then by like 5:30p
the frequency is reduced. I still see quite a few people waiting around later
than that and we have to stand around for 30 minutes waiting. Yeah screw
that I'll take an Uber for my time. Forth, why paid parking? I actually use
the train less since I have to pay for parking. With the price of parking and
a light rail ticket, it's almost the same price to use an Uber to DTC from
Illiff. Can we at least get 24 HR parking for free? That might actually be of
more use to a lot more people. The paid parking is probably my largest
deterrent. I think some more planning and long term outlook is needed
before you go and decide to due a reduction of that scale. But train
scheduling on the R line I think really needs to be looked at. It makes no
sense to have the trains running that frequently that early in the morning
and cutting them back so soon in the evening. Also I would consider
removing the paid parking and notifying residents of the change. My
neighbors have even complained about paid parking.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Philip

Henke

trehgr@comcast.net

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Laura

Henry

laurah2468@yahoo.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Monica

Hensen

MONICA.HENSEN@UCDENVER.EDU

R Line

1

Robin

Herlocker

rherlocker@comcast.net

I ride the R Line sparingly but would like to ride more but the lack of
parking makes it an unreliable method for me. I live at Broncos PKWY and
Parker Road, I would park at the 9 Mile stop but the lot is full very early in
the morning. I have two points as to why the schedule should not be
reduced, the theme to both is that more riders are coming. 1) A solution
at 9 mile is coming! The remodel of the shopping center North of the 9
Mile stop and pedestrian bridge will increase ridership. I see almost daily
people attempting to cross Parker Rd where the proposed pedestrian
bridge is planned. 2) The VA hospital is about to open to patients. It is my
understanding that administration and research labs have moved into the
VA at Anschutz location. The medical office and patients will be moved
from Colorado Blvd. before the new year. Thank you for considering my
opinion. I hope you chose to maintain the current schedule through the
end of the year when I expect ridership will increase.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Monica

Hernandez

admin@2040Partnersforhealth.org

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Hess

mohhess@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Hickox

dhickox@auroragov.org

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line
R Line

1
1

Mitchell
Don

Packet Pg. 44

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

R Line

1

Stephen

Hoemke

StephenH@aci-retail.com

R Line

1

Gary

Holbrook

gbhmlh@gmail.com

I have heard of the plans to reduce the service on the R line in Aurora. This
is actually going to be counter productive. You should be considering
starting earlier and ending later…My reasoning? Denver International
Airport! Currently, your first train arrives at the Iliff Station at 4:50 am.
This takes us to the A line and then to the airport. The problem? Most
businesses open at the airport at 5 am, Taking the first R line train gets us
to the airport at 6 am, then we must still go through security and get to the
concourse. Now for the other end of the schedule… The ending or final
train… On weekdays the final train leaves Peoria Station at 11:51 pm. This
means that we must catch the Your last R line train leaves at about 11:50
pm, which means we must catch the 11:27 pm train and hope for no
delays… When our business depends on customer flight schedules, this
means that at times our stores will not close until between 10 and 11 pm,
the associates must then get from the concourse to the train, and then
take the train to the R line. Any delays means that they could miss the final
R line train. What does this mean? It means that our employees must drive
the extra distance to the 40th and Airport park and ride even though many
of them live less than a mile from the R line. We cannot depend on
catching the final train and not getting stranded. In the morning it means
that we cannot take the light rail and get to work on time. Increasing the
service instead of decreasing it would resolve your problem with low
ridership, once people learn about the new schedules.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Mary Lee

Holbrook

gbhmlh@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
Letter attached

R Line

1

Rowena

Johnson

Rowena.Johnson@ch2m.com

R Line

1

Quinton

Jones

sonomadrem12@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Susana

Jones

jones.suzjones@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Judkins

judb303@msn.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Bernadette

R Line

1

Tin

Kadej

theladeks@comcast.net

R Line

1

Jim

Keesey

jimkeesey@comcast.net

Letter attached

R Line

1

Jim

Keesey

jimkeesey@comcast.net

Letter attached - 2nd letter - Topic Public Hearing

Kennedy

reneerita@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Renee

Packet Pg. 45

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

R Line

1

Mike

Kidder

jedi5ive@hotmail.com

R Line

1

JoAnn

Kinsey

jkinsey@auroragov.org

R Line

1

Deb

Kirschbaum

Deb.kirschbaum@gmail.com

R Line

1

Natasha

Kreshi

natasha88@gmail.com

R Line

1

Erica

Krzyzanowski

ericaslp@gmail.com

I strongly urge RTD board of Directors to NOT approve any service
reduction in RTD’s light rail system. If the service reduction is due to a
smaller amount of riders than you thought you would be serving, then I
suspect it is a matter of marketing. Cutting services will be detrimental to
the future of the R Line. Get your thinking caps on and make people WANT
to ride the R Line! Once they try it and use it more than once, they will use
it more and more.
As someone who was excited for the R line to open, I was quite
disappointed when it did open. The train is slow through the north part of
Aurora and does not offer timely and direct transportation that people
expect from a light rail. It takes nearly 40 minutes to go from Peoria to Illif
and if you miss the R line connection from the A train or transfer from the
H train, that trip takes over an hour. The path of the train was poorly
selected with the train SLOWLY meandering through neighborhoods
instead of traveling quickly parallel to the freeway. Also connections to the
A line and H line are poorly timed which add unnecessary time (15-20
minutes) to a commute which have caused me to stop taking the R line all
together.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Greg

Kurrell

gregkurrell@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Hillary

Lampert

lovez2read@gmail.com

So RTD does it again, start the R Line people adjust everything to use it and
now you're taking it away. You dont want the R line starting until 5 am yet
the train that departs southbound from nine mile at 5:10 which would
have left peoria at 4:35am, basically has every seat full every damn day.
Thanks again for nothing, done supporting this shit system you call service.

RTD seem confused that the citizens of Aurora are not happy with your
adjustments to the R line, I assume your current staff does not remember
the G line. The G Line it went from Nine Mile Station to Lincoln Station, it
opened on November 17, 2006 (all the Express buses to Aurora where
discounted at the same time). RTD continually reduced service until it
closed May 3, 2009 due to low ridership. This was the first time RTD
overestimated the need a train from Aurora to the DTC. The citizens of
Aurora see a repeat in the works, service reduction then elimination of the
route, looking to a future of the tracks sitting there with no trains. Like
the light rail flyovers from I-225 to I-25 that sat unused for seven years.
My suggestion is to combine the H and R lines, it would allow for easier
transfers to the southbound trains and access to the A Line. At the
Southmore Station would become a transfer hub for the southbound trains
and the H to the A line.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Packet Pg. 46

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

R Line

1

Hillary

Lampert

lovez2read@gmail.com

R Line

1

Amy

Larchick

larchickamy@hotmail.com

If lines are cut due to low riderships why dont you try to determine what
may be causing the low numbers and trying something to encouraging
more people to ride versus discouraging and punishing those that do use
it? Its definitely coming across as rider discrimination, that those with
early work hours in south metro are less valued than those in your deemed
peak hours. The kicker is some is us do the early horrible hours because its
the only time of day you can find parking at rtd lots, so were pushed to the
early hours then punished st the same time for it and make us less
important.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Jacqueline

Lopez

jdlopez.09@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Luton

ronluton@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
I have read in several places that RTD is considering cutting back service to
the R Line after only 6 months of operation. I am writing to tell you that
this is unacceptable to the community. To start with, our tax dollars go
into building this infrastructure. IT is supposed to bolster our community,
not hinder it. In addition, I think you might find that R Line participation is
a little off due to the fact that you have to PAY TO PARK, and then PAY TO
RIDE. This is not the same at Nine Mile, or any of the other lots I have used
over the years. Isn’t the whole purpose of the train to get cars off of the
road? The value of using the train is greatly diminished if I can’t park there.
I find it to be absurd. The Illiff station lot is constantly empty. I think
paying to park there is why. No other major city with trains or subways
requires pay to park that I have ever seen. The other issue is, that for a
year now, RTD has been unable to get the “train to the plane” line working
as it should. Imagine the costs you could save if you didn’t have to pay
people to sit at all those intersections. Talk about cost cutting! You want
more riders, but can’t get the most important connecting train to work
right. Don’t cut our service. It is an unacceptable answer to issues you
have created. Find better ways to service your customers, and the
ridership will follow. It is simple business.
I have heard that RTD is planning on reducing service on the R Line
between Iliff and Lincoln stations. This would be a massive disservice to
those of us who commute during the off-peak hours between Aurora and
Lone Tree. Although I am usually able to ride the train south to work
during the morning peak hours, if the proposed changes went through, I
would just miss the last train north, and be forced to transfer lines twice
just to get home in the evening. I understand the financial reasoning
behind this issue, however there are still a few of us, including two of my
coworkers, that depend on the current R Line schedule for our commutes.
Changing that would force all three of us and many others to give up on
public transit. I simply ask that you look at all other alternatives before
slashing service outside of peak time frames. Reduced frequency between

R Line

1

Ron

R Line

1

Melissa

Maahs

mmaahs@gmail.com

R Line

1

Andrew

Malkowski

malkoskiandrew@gmail.com

R Line

1

Reid

Matson

matson27@gmail.com

Packet Pg. 47

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

Iliff and Lincoln would be acceptable, as it would still save me time from
having to transfer between multiple lines.

R Line

1

CJ

Matthews

motorboat16@yahoo.com

The people of Aurora are disappointed in the City of Aurora, not RTDa.
COA fails to grasp that it is an urban area, spawl, not a compacted cityb.
COA does not account for the time it takes to walk and ride a bus to a light
rail station or simply drive to a station, that one has already passed their
destination or is halfway to itc. as one single parent stated, she spends
1.5 hours in each direction which is added to her time away from her kids;
she wished she could afford to fix the card. most people still require a car;
therefore, the cost savings is not what most project it to be and frequently
is more costly when considering the time on transportatione. COA built a
station expressly against that of the voters whom denied their fundingf.
the disregard to the housing communities which lost parking in front of
their own homes after decades whom have less parking than condominium
communities nowg. the people were taken aback by the inefficient use of
funds for an RTD parking lot on Blackhawk due to it's size, distance from
businesses and the fact people in the surrounding neighborhoods could
drive easier than take public transportation and walk the additional .5 - 1
mile to a business in good or inclement weatherh. Aurora buses were/are
frequently seen with hardly anyone on them prior to/after the light railI.
the people are well aware that COA has hidden a 5 mil levy tax on any and
all new bond issues for additional transportation funds regardless of the
type of bonds to which the people do not agree....this is not a little bit of
money, nor do the people have control or say in the use of these funds
The people of Aurora felt that Aurora pushed too hard for this segment,
too soon, and it would have been better years from now. COA needs to
accept themselves for what they are instead of trying to keep up with the
Jones' (Denver) which is only heard all too frequently from them. The
issues with the rail left potential riders with no confidence in it. Many of us
wonder how many people lost their jobs due to the breakdowns. It does
not appear that RTD has confidence in their system as their advertisement
at DIA is for their buses, not light rail. If the riders do not justify the
expense; then, routes and stops should be reworked until it is justified.
The COA can take responsibility and be held accountable to those limited
number of people that it impacts for having bypassed the will of the
people.

Packet Pg. 48

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

R Line

1

Hillary

McAfee

hillaryanne08@yahoo.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Rae Ann

McCardell

ramccardell@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
I live in Highlands Ranch and work in Aurora. I was really looking forward to
the opening of the R line, anticipating to save money on gas and avoid
traffic on my home. I did ride the train the first few days it opened, and I
was very disappointed to learn that it did not cut down on my commute. In
fact, it increased - it took me about an hour to get to work and an hour and
15 minutes to get home. If I took the train, I would be gone from home for
about 11 hours - this is time away from my family. Instead of getting home
at 6, I would be getting home after 7 in the evening. If there was an option
of express train from Lincoln station to Anschutz medical campus, I would
definitely give it another try, especially since my employer subsidizes the
train pass
Letter attached

R Line

1

Marina

Mccreight

marina.mccreight@gmail.com

R Line

1

Jim

McGee

jimmcgee12@gmail.com

R Line

1

Jane

McGrath

jmcgrath51@comcast.net

R Line

1

Sarah

McGregor

smcg21@hotmail.com

R Line

1

Polish

Mighty

polishmightytim2@aol.com

R Line

1

R Line

1

Autumn

Mink

autumnlove6635@gmail.com

I know the problem with rtd and the r-line the ones who run rtd demand to
much for tickets and then shock when no one can buy them other cities
run fine with lower cost to ride because more can ride. Should we be
shocked when you demand Higher tax when less ride it after you raise
price again and again
Aurora should have a right to decide what to do about the R Line. Because
City of Aurora put lots of money in to R line project, it's wrong if you only
runs during peak hours like some bus routes. It's better to change the
schedule of R line to 30 minutes each trip weekdays and one hour on
weekends and holidays. Aurora depending on R line to get to place and
businesses will lose money if you reduce the service on R line. I used to be
a RTD's community emergency response team volunteer has spent lots of
time on buses and trains
Letter attached

R Line

1

Orienna

Mitchell

mitchellorieanna071098@gmail.com

Please don't shut the R line down. I use this line to get home and to work.

R Line

1

Alla

Model

alla_model@yahoo.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Veronica

Moody

alla_model@yahoo.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Moon

amoon@wth.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Vincent

Amanda

Mineault

vmineault@gmail.com

R Line

1

John

Morgan

j-morgan-87@hotmail.com

R Line

1

Ian

Morgret

i.morgret@comcast.net

I believe reducing the service time on the R Line is premature and
sentencing the line to a poor performance record. There are still
considerable growth opportunities on the R Line which should be
supported by good rail service. Citizens need more time and awareness to
adjust to the new opportunities. Promote it. Don’t undermine it.
Letter attached

Packet Pg. 49

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

R Line

1

Carolyn

Morris

motoringmorris@gmail.com

R Line

1

Colleen

Mullins

clmullins@comcast.net

You have a large apartment complex being built at the Illiff station and
when it is complete and filled the need for the R line will certainly increase!
I have to believe there are other apartments that could also affect usage of
the R Line. People at Heather Gardens are using the line to go to the Train
and to the airport!
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Marie

Myfanawy

R Line

1

Sharon

momof5boys@comcast.net

R Line

1

Lynn Knoll

actnow2000@comcast.net

Letter attached

R Line

1

Alyson

NaughtonGomez
Neighborhood
Assoc
Noble

As a long time supporter of mass transit, I have been an advocate for RTD
and your commitment to increase transit possibilities and ridership.
However, your decision to reduce the number of trains on the R lines is the
wrong decision. As any behavioral psychologist can easily tell you changing
habits and behavior takes time. We the tax payers have invested millions
of dollars in this project. We the citizens of Aurora have experienced years
of inconvenience while it was built. We expect you to do a more thorough
follow through then just a 6 month trial run. Promote it, do some value
added specials to give people the incentive to give riding it off hours a
chance, and make as long a term commitment to making it pay as you have
done to make us pay, which was years.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

alyswim@yahoo.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Ian J

Palombo

ianjpalombo@gmail.com

R Line

1

Nancy

Parker

nancylparker@msn.com

My husband and I were very disappointed to learn you are considering
reducing the R line schedule. This is the second time we've been
negatively impacted by an RTD change, when the earlier direct line to the
DTC was cut, we found oursel ds daily having to transfer at the Southmoor
station. Please give this line more time to mature. As the hospital staff get
used to using it and more apartments are completed we are sure ridership
will increase. We cannot in good faith vote in favor of RTD desired issues
in the future if RTD doesn't work to better support the needs of it's riders.

R Line

1

Virginia

Parks

vginparks@comcast.net

Dear Member of the RTD board, It has come to my attention, you are
considering decreasing the service hours for the R Line after only 5 months
of operation. Our tax dollars, inconvenience, and expectation of better
mass transit went into the building of this line. You have not given a
chance to the R line nor promoted it enough to make it viable. You will be
letting Aurora residents down!!! (But it's only Aurora, right? )As an Aurora
resident, I am asking you to delay this decision and promote usage of the R
Line. Or why should we support one of your proposals in the future?

Packet Pg. 50

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

R Line

1

Kimberly

Patten

k.patten@att.net

You should not be considering cutting service on the R line. In fact, you
should expand the service hours so employees who work at DIA and the
hospitals would be able to access the light rail. In addition, Aurora's
strategic plan for the area involves developing mixed use housing at
several of the stations and while in the short term you may not be seeing
the ridership you had hoped for, in time it will exceed your expectations.
As a taxpayer and an occasional rider, I strongly recommend you expand
your service in this area (no decrease it).

R Line

1

David

Patterson

David.Patterson@Falck.com

Letter attached

R Line

1

Kerri

Peek

kerripeek13@gmail.com

R Line

1

Susan

Phelan

susanphelanbassist@gmail.com

People built their lives, businesses, condos around the R line which you
delayed. Our taxes went into the R line you can't arbitrarily cut service
because you not only delayed opening but have been have been sucking.
Find another way.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Tamara

Podnosova

TAMARA.PODNOSOVA@UCDENVER.EDU

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Roxie

Pool

ROXIEPOOL@msn.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Robert

Radcliffe

thebattv@comcast.net

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Jonathan

Radin

jradinemail@gmail.com

R Line

1

Scott

Ramming

MSRAMMING@msn.com

R Line

1

Victoria

Raustad

v_raustad@yahoo.com

Please please please! Do not go forward with the planned change to the RLine. I understand the need to reduce frequency, but if you proceed with
the proposed plan you will ensure that no one that rides the R-Line during
these times can do so with out changing trains. This is a massive
inconvenience. I ride the R-Line from Dry Creek 4-5 days a week at varying
times and ridership continues to grow. In fact last week I commented to
my wife that it was getting close to needing a third train. There are plenty
of times I get on the train and it is standing room only. Again, I understand
the need to adjust schedule but I question doing so only 6 months after the
line has opened. I believe with the inclement weather of winter ridership
will go up, unless you make this ridiculous change to the schedule. This
proposed change will cripple the R-line in perpetuity. Please don't do this.
A TIC information agent just explained the change to me as the R Line
would not operate off-peak, and instead the H Line would be extended
from Florida Station to Peoria Station. I oppose this change because it
would make the H Line much less reliable having two on-street portions
(downtown Denver and Aurora Metro Center) at different ends. H Line
unreliability would mean that transfers in downtown Denver would be
unpredictable off-peak, when there are no other lines serving downtown
Denver. I hope it would be possible to have some type of short-turn R Line
option using the storage tracks south of Southmoor station, or better yet,
the cross-over tracks between Belleview and Orchard Stations.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Kristy

Rayner

krismuttz@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Srikanth

Reddy

srreanu@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Packet Pg. 51

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

R Line

1

Bill

Rehm

bill@hbmsupply.com

R Line

1

Cecil

Richardson

cjrich1278@gmail.com

R Line

1

Karin

Rivale

gonegolfin589@gmail.com

R Line

1

Trish

Robinson

ROBINSON17541@comcast.net

My husband relies on the R Line to get home from work. He works
overtime and doesn't want to spend the added time taking the 133 bus
home. In October his hours are changing and he will be getting off 2 hours
later. He would like to be able to catch the R Line and get home before
9:00pm. Please give the R Line time to grow. We had to put up with all the
problems with the train to the airport but kept giving RTD the chance to fix
it. Please don't take something away from us that we are relying on. Thank
you for taking the time to read my letter and please don't limit the R Line.

R Line

1

Noel

Ross

noeljross@hotmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Rothschild

daisyrothschild@icloud.com

Letter attached

R Line

1

Daisy

I writing to ask you to delay the proposed cutbacks on the “R Line”.
Obviously there is substantial growth in terms of housing under
construction in and around the existing stations, not to mention what’s
going on at the University and VA Hospital sites. What is wrong with giving
the growth time to catch up with the current RTD Light Rail Infrastructure.
After all, hasn’t the NTSB and other Federal Agencies shown RTD
considerable patience regarding the A Line and the road crossing issues
along Smith Road from Holly all the way to the Smith-Peoria Station. RTD
keeps getting extensions and continues to operate the A Line even though
the traffic flow and crossing issues remain the same along this route. I
travel that route every day and what you have done in terms of
congestion, disorganization, and a lousy traffic flow is disgusting. Maybe if
you addressed and fixed the problem correctly you could eliminate the
overhead of having full time employees along the crossing route standing
around and manually blocking the route when a train crosses. You could
use that additional money to help fund the R Line for a while.
Instead of reducing the level of weekend service on the R Line Light Rail,
how about changing the service of the 15L, instead? Maybe change the
route so it doesn't go down Sable Blvd. to reach Aurora Metro Center.
Maybe it turns to head back downtown upon arriving at Sable Blvd. & E.
Colfax Ave (the stop in front of Len Lyall Chevrolet, where the 153 & 15
[Going to Tower Road] pick-up). Lowering the fares and bus pass prices
could help, too.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Anne

Rottler

arottler@aol.com

R Line

1

Ammed

Saavedra

ammed.saavedra@gmail.com

I am writing again , not one of you has responded to me. Please so
something about the vagrants living at and round the 9 mile and iliff light
rail stations . People would be more inclined to ride were it not for needing
to walk the gauntlet of the aggressive lurkers.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Valarie

Sandlian

vsandlia@denverlibrary.org

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Kellen

Schull

kellen.schull@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Packet Pg. 52

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

R Line

1

Gail

Seaton
Humbert

gailhumbert1@gmail.com

R Line

1

Lynn

Sebree

Elivra@aol.com

R Line

1

Mary Jane

Seibert

maryja34@aol.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Represetatives

Senators

mike@mikeweissman.com

Petition Letter Attached

R Line

1

Adam

Sharman

asharman@auroragov.org

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Sally

Simon

sallysayssimon@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
RTD promoted the R Line as providing easy connections to and from Aurora
to the Train to the Plane-the A Line, to the Denver Tech Center and to
downtown Denver. Now, , after only six months of operation, you want to
make that access less desirable for commuters (less frequent service and
requiring more transfers and time to get to certain locations) and give
Aurora less access to the region? That is inappropriate and unacceptable.
If RTD wasn't invested in the long-term success of the R Line, it shouldn't
have built it. Now that it is built, your job is to promote it more effectively,
to increase the number of riders. As an elected official, your job is also to
represent Aurora residents, those who already count on the service-aspromised, and those who haven't yet understood its potential value to
them. RTD should be presenting some public service announcements in
the Sentinel and other media, comparing costs to get to Childrens' Hospital
or Anschutz or the airport and to park there versus cost of riding RTD.
More opportunites for free tickets for Aurora residents, to try out the
service, would also go a long way towards getting people to give public
transit a try, and recruit more commuting riders. Please stand strongly for
preserving the R line service as is or adding to it, not diminishing Aurora's
participation in regional public transit! The courtesy of a response, giving
your position on the matter, is requested.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Sonia

SkakichScrima

joejederman@msn.com

R Line

1

Jamie

Smith

jesmith@auroragov.org

R Line

1

Lynn

Smith

Margaret.Smith@viasat.com

Please do not do this. Certainly not cutting service to Anschutz. This is an
exceedingly short time to make such a decision. I just figured out how to
use it and the parking at Florida. After a year's delay I think it should at
least be allowed as much time as that to see if it works. I also think it would
be nice if it had the same kind of heated weather shelters as have been
provided in the Tech Center at Dry Creek and down into the wealthier
areas. This is just like when the call and ride bus service was cut in Aurora
but remains in the Tech Center areas. Just another cutback to Aurora
residents as the redheaded step child of Denver again.
As an Aurora resident and a taxpayer, I am writing to voice my strong
disappointment and objection to the proposed service reduction to the
recently opened R Line. Give this line a chance!

I use this line every morning and every evening to go and come from work
in the tech center. If you change the times that means I either have to get
up earlier or get to work later and I am already working a 12 hr shift and if I
have to transfer on top of it to another train which I had to before it makes
my day now a 14.5 hr day. Please give a person and the R Line a break.

Packet Pg. 53

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

R Line

1

Ron

Smookler

ron.smookler@gmail.com

I understand that RTD is considering limiting times on the R Line. This is a
new line that many people are not aware of being in full operation. It is an
essential piece to the mass transit puzzle, and will gain continual growth,
especially as new residential developments along the line are completed.
Please give this route more time to gain in use.

R Line

1

David

Stewart

davids9223@aol.com

I think it's too early to change the R line schedule. Our family is just figuring
out how to use it. We just got MyRide Smartcards for everyone in the past
week. We are just starting to use it more in the hours where you propose
to cut. I suggest waiting until the line has been operating for at least a year.

R Line

1

Ted

Stump

tedstump1@mac.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Ludvik

Svoboda

lousvoboda@comcast.net

R Line

1

Sandra

Taylor-Day

sandrataylorday@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Allen

Therous

atheroux@auroragov.org

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Todd

erinbowkertodd@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Erin

R Line

1

Melissa

Toering

mtoering@auroragov.org

R Line

1

Sunshine

Trujillo

sunshine.shellina@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Heather

Turner

heatherturner922@gmail.com

R Line

1

Sheree

Van Buren

shereemv@gmail.com

I am a frequent rider of the R-Line Light Rail. In fact, I ride no less than 5
times a week, round trip to work and back home every day. Reducing the
service on the R-Line will do nothing but hurt the community and the
people like myself who use it daily as an easier route to work. The line
itself is only 7 months young, I know for a fact that for a long time the HLine suffered the same sort of issue around 5 years ago with low ridership
during off-peak hours. Reducing the line wasn't the solution then and it is
not one now. Given that the line is so new and the traffic in Aurora is
becoming congested with the number of cars on the road, please; as a
resident that lives down the street from the Aurora Metro Center Station,
let the rail have more time to gather a following. Tout the benefits of the
line in your advertising for it, faster transport, less hassle, convenient
locations, access to Park Meadows, Downtown and whatnot. Give the RLine some more time before you begin cutting back the service, work with
the City of Aurora and it's mayor, make it better, but don't cut the service
back.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Ada

Van Riejek

ada.vanroekel@gmail.com

Letter attached
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Nicholas

Walker

actnow2000@comcast.net

R Line

1

Dale

Wang

sioux85fan@gmail.com

It's a waste of tax money shut it down, people who ride it don't pay taxes.

R Line

1

Christine

Waters

christine_waters23@yahoo.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Weeks III

haroldweeksiii@yahoo.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Wegener

regina.aldrete@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

1

R Line

R Line
R Line

1
1

Harold
Regina

Packet Pg. 54

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

R Line

1

Rachel

Wilcoxson

rwmocha@hotmail.com

R Line

1

Melissa

Wilson

melissa.wilson@ucdenver.edu

R Line

1

Travis

Wilson

travis.wilson2000@gmail.com

I'm an RTD rider asking you not to make cuts to the R line. Please allow
folks to get used to the schedule and time for 6 more months before you
assess the ridership. Thank you,
I am very concerned about the proposed reduction in service to the
Fitzsimmons station. This station serves a unique population - patients,
students and shift workers - whoes commutes do not conform to the
typical morning and evening times. I think it is entirely premature to
propose these changes 6 months into service with very limited
advertisement to the public. The opening of another large hospital on the
campus is eminent and limiting the options of veterans and the people
who serve them seems ill-advised. Perhaps, if the lines were better
coordinated- this would also help encourage riders. While the morning A
and R lines are compatible - I almost always get off the R in the evening
only to see the A pulling away - extending my already 1 hr 30 min
commute.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Dianne

Winkler

diannewinkler@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Gary/Peggy

Wright

garyw420@gmail.com

R Line

1

Chris

Yedo Johnson

CHRISYEDO@msn.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Anna

Zapata

azapata0173@comcast.net

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Zounis Brown

joycezounis@yahoo.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
Letter attached

R Line

1

Joyce

R Line

1

City of Aurora

shogan@auroragov.org

R Line

1

Tristin

telltristen@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
We are moving into one of the new large warehouses in the Majestic
Industrial Park in Aurora (east of Tower Rd between 38th Ave and 32nd
Pkwy). We have several warehouse employees that are in need of public
transportation, and I’m guessing other Distribution Centers in that area
would be in the same situation. With the rapid growth in that area do you
have any route expansions upcoming that would travel down WINDSOR
DR(or Himalaya Rd) between 38th Ave and 32nd Parkway?
Good day rtd. My question is from 40th And gateway airport park station
to amazon fullfillment warehouse. Have a public transportation going or
back and port there. Because i
am the one new hire there and im thinking about that. Please help
Please consider adding a bus line that would make it easier to get to the
light rail stations from the Ruby Hill area. I'd love to take public transit to
work, but it would be a huge time suck. Driving takes me about 20 minutes,
and using RTD would be close to an hour and a half.

RFS* - East

1

Brian

Vyhlidal

bvyhlidal@qualitycustomdistribution.com

RFS* - East

1

Leah

Hartman

samanthaleaj18@yahoo.com

RFS* - West

1

Chandra

Jones

chandrajones73@gmail.com

RFS* - West

1

Brandy

Moe

brandy_moe@hotmail.com

Please consider adding a bus line along Florida Avenue between Federal
Boulevard and the Broadway light rail station.

Packet Pg. 55

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

1

RFS* - West

Scott

Saari

ssaari@gmail.com

Stop
Consolidation

1

Ann

Luke

annwluke1664@gmail.com

W Line

1

Burt

Andrew

aburt@tech-soft.com

Jackie

Barnes

jdemmel94@comcast.net

Jordan

Beezley

jordan.beezley@gmail.com

1

W Line
W Line

1

I would love to see service on Florida to the light rail stop. This would help
work commutes and increase use of public transport to the Levitt Pavilion
in Ruby Hill Park.
Letter attached
As much as I applaud RTD; as much as I would personally love to use the W
line; as much as I think it's a great concept... the reason I can't use is that it
simply takes waaaay too long to reach my destination. I would primarily
use it from the Taj or Fed. center all the way to downtown. While this is a
path I could drive in 20 minutes or less, using the W line would take over
an hour of real time (including getting to the station, waiting for a train,
and getting from the station to my destination). A factor of three time
difference simply rules out using light rail.
If there were some way to speed up the light rail, which I notice travels
quite slowly, and reduce the wait time at the station and at each stop
along the way, to bring my total transit time down to, say, 30 min. (so the
W line component would need to be under 20 min. across the whole
stretch), then I could justify the time. I would note that this problem isn't
limited to light rail. Should I want to use RTD to get to DU, where I'm a
retired professor, the trip planner estimates it would take me close to two
hours(!) each way. -- I can drive that in 17 minutes! (driveway to parking
lot) The only solutions to these problems would be more and faster
service, not cutting service. It seems to me that subway systems in most
large cities run very frequently and have many stations very close to where
people go. Cutting service only further discourages people from using it, so
it seems like that's a vicious death spiral.
The morning trains are very crowded. Will you bring back 7:30 stop?
The City of Golden in partnership with RTD just invested an additional
$100,000 into adding a new circulator bus that will match the 15-minute
train intervals. This investment was designed to increase ridership on the
W line. If you change to 30-minute train intervals, this investment will be
for nothing and have wasted taxpayers money. I believe RTD owes it to the
City of Golden to give our efforts to increase ridership a chance. It is unfair
to our community for you to have worked with us on adding the additional
bus without providing notice that cuts to the W line were on the table. As
a user of the W light rail line, I believe having 15-minute interval rail service
is necessary for utilizing rail service without preplanning your schedule.
Being able to show up at a rail station knowing that your wait time will be
15 minutes or less is crucial to getting additional users. Outside of your
typical commuter, that can reliably plan their daily route, train intervals
greater than 15-minutes will result in fewer riders on the W line and fewer
riders transferring to other routes. The design of the W line is already
flawed in that it takes just as long as the 16L to get from Golden to
Downtown Denver. Don't disadvantage the W line further by increasing the
train intervals to 30 minutes. I believe that increasing the interval between
trains will cause a downward spiral of ridership; just the opposite of what
we as a community and you as RTD are trying to achieve.

Packet Pg. 56

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

W Line

1

Jacinda

Brown

jacindanbrown@yahoo.com

Attached Letter

W Line

1

Jane

Burke

janbur1@comcast.net

W Line

1

Matt

Christie

mattchristie1@me.com

W Line

1

Christine

Dingman

cding1@gmail.com

W Line

1

Kim

Domenico

Kim.Domenico@mortenson.com

I would like to see that Golden have time to work on increasing ridership
with the extra green bus they are adding. I mainly take the light rail home
from the airport. When the problems with delays on the A line end, I can
then use it to get to the airport without risking missing the plane. It is
unfortunate that these A line problems at RTD are impacting ridership. If it
was consistent I imagine a lot more people would take the light rail from
Golden to the airport because of cost, convenience of exit at airport and
not having to deal with traffic. I am unable to attend the meeting tonight
in Golden due to prior commitments, but would appreciate being involved
in the discussion as the proposed route adjustment moves forward. My
understanding from listening to the CPR interview with RTD today is that W
line ridership is increasing.
As a frequent rider of the W line, I oppose any shoetening or changes of
scheduled service.
I am writing to express my disagreement with reducing weekday frequency
from every 15 minutes to every 30 minutes between 6:00 p.m. and 9:00
p.m. At a minimum, service frequency should be every 15 minutes at the
same time the MetroRide bus runs. In the afternoons, this bus runs
between 2:30 p.m. and 6:35 p.m.; if your service changes are put into
effect, people who ride this bus after 6 p.m. are subjected to a longer wait
due to the service reductions. I think that if service its reduced, it should be
reduced between 7 p.m. and 9 p.m., making it consistent with the other
service being provided in the area. Please let me know if you'd like to
discuss; while I'm unable to make any of the public meetings, I'm happy to
call someone.
I am a new rider as of this year and I love the W Line. I take it from Golden
all the way to Union Station. I like the every 15 minutes because if I am
running late and miss the 6:58 train I can jump on the next one in 15
minutes and still make it to work on time! Please reconsider changing it to
30 minutes. In the morning when I am on the train it fills up and it is
standing room only until about the campus drop off then it clears out. This
is a very busy train especially when school is in session. Please reconsider
and don’t do the 30 minutes routes. Thank you a faithful rider.

W Line

1

Keneth

Dykes

findken@gmail.com

I'm writing in support of the Golden City Council's recommendation to the
RTD Board to delay W line service cuts for at least one year, allowing the
city and RTD time to evaluate impacts of the city's new investments in
public transportation. As a Golden resident who uses trains departing
from the Jeffco station, I believe a thirty minute departure interval creates
a poor experience and will limit ridership growth just at the time our
community is increasing investment in transportation alternatives. The
timing also seems particularly bad with the upcoming Central 70 project
that could create exceptional traffic challenges. I believe the City Council's
proposal is a fair compromise and preserves a reasonable schedule that
addresses these concerns. Thank you for considering this feedback.

Packet Pg. 57

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

1

W Line

Jacob

Emmel

jdemmel94@comcast.net

W Line

1

Jacob

Emmel

jdemmel94@comcast.net

W Line

1

Katie

Finnegan

finnegan.katie.marie@gmail.com

W Line

1

Ysa

Hammond

yleigh13@gmail.com

W Line

1

Elizabeth

Hughes

ehughes75@aol.com

I wanted to make sure I’m following the proposed January service changes
to the W line correctly. The description says that trains would alternate
between arriving/departing from the Golden and Federal Center stations;
is this throughout the day, so headways in Golden would be thirty minutes
in peak periods and an hour otherwise?
Since I’m wasn’t able to attend the meeting tonight, I am writing with
regards to the proposed service changes to the W line. I wanted to express
my support for the Golden city council’s resolution regarding the proposed
cuts, favoring the path of waiting a year, in the interest of giving the
increased bus service pilot a better chance to succeed and supporting a
situation where a city is actively—and financially—encouraging transit use.
I also personally would prefer the service levels stay the same, since I use
the W line in off-peak hours to get to work after class.
As a Golden resident and an almost daily RTD W line rider when I'm not
biking to downtown, I would like to share that I hope the decision to cut
service along the W line does not happen. Having a frequent and reliable
public transportation service within two miles of where I live was key to my
decision to move this area and is what I count on for my daily commute
and other Denver-area outings. There are many evenings where I have
meetings after work or attend events downtown, and having a reliable way
to return home is imperative. I have just missed the lightrail before, coming
from the A line to the W line in the late evening, and having to wait for a
half hour, especially later at night, was not very convenient nor did it feel
safe. Knowing how congested traffic can be in the Denver metro area, it
seems like this move to reduce service might push more people to drive if
service isn't as frequent. This could be a decision maker on people
commuting to downtown for a variety of events, including work, but also
for baseball games, football games, performing arts events, etc. I hope
the proposed cut is reconsidered based on feedback from this community
that uses and relies on this service. Thank you for your time and the
opportunity to voice concerns about the proposed cut.
Please maintain the current schedule of trains every 15 min on the W line.
Ridership will continue to grow if the train is quick and easy.
Please continue the "15 minute" service between Golden and Denver to
advance ridership during non-peak hours. Seniors like us traveling with
luggage and/or grandchildren intentionally avoid rush hour traffic.
However potentially long waits in inclement weather will lead us to rent
cars rather than continuing our use of the light rail.

Packet Pg. 58

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

W Line

1

Caitlin

Hungate

caitlinhungate@gmail.com

W Line

1

Jennifer

Hunt

jenniferk14@comcast.net

W Line

1

Mari

Johnson

marijcastello@gmail.com

I am unable to attend the public meeting on September 28th and want to
submit a comment for the meeting. I am strongly against reducing services
on the W line to Golden. The public needs more access to public
transportation, not less. I use the W line to commute from Golden to
Denver Union Station for work about 1-2 days per week. If anything, I wish
there were more lines and even an express line option with fewer stops
from Golden to Union Station. Climate change is happening and we need
to build a resilient community. Resiliency involves fewer cars on the road
and utilizing public transportation more. Decreasing access on the W line
does not help our community prepare for a warming climate. I
understand RTD is facing budget issues, but I see this is a reflection of our
state's poor choices when it comes to tax revenue and lingering effects of
TABOR. Constituents in JeffCo should not have to suffer with fewer options
on the W line because of our state's poor fiscal choices. RTD should also
look at how lines were set up (i.e. open spaces without entrances for riders
to scan their fare card on entry/exit) and how many riders may go without
paying their fare. Look to mass transit options like BART in San Francisco
and the Metro in Washington DC.
I am unable to attend the town hall meeting so I wanted to provide my
feedback on the W Line proposed changes. I would prefer to keep the
every 15-minute schedule during non-business hours. At times, I have to go
to the doctor or take my daughter to school and have to go into work late
or leave early. I am already concerned that I am running late to work. An
additional 15 minutes is a huge difference in getting to work. And the same
goes for the return trip home. If I have to leave work early, I'd rather leave
15 minutes early rather than 30 to try and make the train. Please consider
keeping the 15-minute schedule. Thank you.
I am sending this email to request you reconsider changing the frequency
of the W line. My husband and I both rely upon the W line to get us too
and from work. We also use it in our free time to get to events such as the
Avalanche and Rockies games downtown. We use it to get too and from
the airport, and it was a major driver in the reason we purchased our
house within walking distance of a station. The timing of the line, every 15
minutes, is already not really frequent enough. Most highly used transit
systems such as those in Paris, Chicago, and Atlanta, are every 5 minutes. If
you increase the timing to 30 minutes, less people will utilize public transit
and there will continued traffic issues. The suburbs of Denver continue to
grow and there doesn't seem to be any slowing projected so instead of
giving up on the public transit system, more needs to be done to
encourage usership and make it more usable. I ask you to please
reconsider the service changes to the W line. It will directly impact my
family's daily life as well as many of my neighbors daily life.

Packet Pg. 59

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

W Line

1

Eugenia

Joukova

ejoukova@comcast.net

W Line

1

Greg

Knopp

gmknopp@gmail.com

W Line

1

Katya

Kovalenko

philarctus@gmail.com

W Line

1

Christina

Lane

CHRISTINA.LANE@UCDENVER.EDU

I’ve been living in Golden last 24 years seeing many changes in public
transportation. One change which upset me the most was eliminating the
bus service from Union street/Federal center to DIA (Denver International
Airport) which happened after W Line was implemented. Thanks to RTD
instead of a bus our family now takes Uber or driving themselves to airport
thus increasing pollution and congestion in the city because it takes at least
2 hours 20 minutes to get to DIA via W Line. I am quite fine with cutting
back the service on this line but maybe RTD will consider adding bus line
Golden-DIA. And it will be beneficial for CSM students as well. I think we
are only one student city where taking a public transit to airport takes
almost half a day and it should not be.
Before changes are made to the W-Line schedule, RTD should consider
where the mid-day traffic comes from and align your bus routes to
facilitate it. Most don't walk to the stations, nor do they park in the station
garages. My experience is that there are always a considerable number of
boardings at Wadsworth, most arriving from the 76 crosstown route.
These crosstown routes should be realigned to feed the rail in an optimum
manner. They aren't. 76 Northbound routinely runs late and arrives at
Wadsworth station just as the train is departing, which automatically adds
15 or more minutes to travel times. A train arrival never aligns with a bus
departure. Additionally, it shouldn't take longer to go 4 miles on the 76
bus than it does to travel from Wadsworth to Union Station. 76 should be
realigned to serve the station. Break the route up into segments 4-5 miles
long and then the route should become an express to the station. NB
should be local from SW Plaza to Alameda, then express to the station
where it should turn around and reverse the process. Similarly for other
segments. Eliminate the 10+ minute stop at Lakewood Municipal Center
and replace that stop and the Belmar east and west detours with a circular
shuttle between Belmar and the station. Driver breaks should be taken at
the end of the route when no one is on board.
Please give Golden a chance, don't cut the last mile of W line service! It
takes years for people to start relying on public transport, and this would
be a step in the opposite direction. It may discourage current riders and
make this incredible investment fail. Missing a train and having to wait 30
minutes would be a deal-breaker for most riders. Judging by daily average
of boardings per hour, W line is not way below the next one up, and it has
been slowly getting better (and is likely to continue doing so with the new
line to the airport). And, although I am not using the R-line myself, cutting
it when it just opened seems very unfair. Thank you for considering this.
As a regular rider of the W Line out of the JeffCo government building stop,
I oppose any changes being proposed to the schedule beginning January
2018 that would reduce the frequency of trips into the City. I am lucky
enough to work for a consulting firm where my hours are flexible and I do
not work a regular 8/9-5 job. Instead, I catch an earlier train (before most
commuter traffic) and leave downtown well before the normal 3-6
afternoon traffic. Cutting trains to and from my final destination will only
discourage my use or require I drive to another station. Doesn't this defeat

Packet Pg. 60

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

W Line

1

Joey

Lubinski

joeylubinski@comcast.net

W Line

1

Corrin

MacLuckie

cmacluckie@gmail.com

the purpose of RTD and their goal to get people off of roads and onto rail?
It is not uncommon to have a late morning, miss my initial train, and have
to catch the following. With the proposed schedule change, I would no
longer have a short wait and instead a significant one that is more likely to
put me back in my car in order to complete my commute. I do not
understand how cutting two stops from the regular schedule would benefit
RTD - I would imagine costs associated with the approximately 10 miles of
rail in each direction are minuscule compared to the environmental and
human health costs associated with forcing more individuals back into their
cars. Instead of discouraging use of the rail system for those who may not
have a normal schedule, continue the current service schedule and assume
ridership will continue to rise as the RTD rail network continues to expand.
I hope you reconsider your proposal and continue the current schedule
that benefits so many of your users.
I ride the W Line everyday from Golden to Union Station. As a professional
working downtown, it is rare that I leave the office before 6pm. While I
certainly understand the thinking behind moving trains to every half hour,
the additional reduction of having only half the trains go beyond Federal
Center really means that service is being cut to once an hour during a time
that many downtown are still commuting home. That degree of change is
punitive to those of us out west who have committed to making the W Line
"work". At every hour, I will have to choose among not seeing my kids any
evening during the week, driving to another park and ride, or simply
abandoning transit and driving to work. Given those options, I will most
likely simply abandon the light rail. Making service once per hour will doom
light rail to Golden. Please don't do it.
I am unable to attend the meeting tonight regarding the proposed cut of
the W line service as I will be riding the W line home from work. I hope you
consider leaving the train schedule to every 15 minutes. There are many
commuters, including myself, that rely on the frequency of the W line to
get to and from work each day. I do believe there is a sufficient amount of
commuters to keep the schedule as is. In fact, the amount of cars in the
Jeffco parking garage in the mornings has increased dramatically since I
started taking the train 2 years ago. Additionally, I fear the usage of the W
line will dramatically decrease if you change the schedule. If the train only
runs every 30 minutes, each train will be more crowded during rush hour.
This will leave less room to sit and even stand. If this happens, I feel people
will stop seeing the rail line as convenient. I hope you reconsider changing
the W line schedule. Coming from using Septa in Philly and the lack of
convenient public transportation in Pittsburgh, I have come to know RTD as
a superior transportation company.

Packet Pg. 61

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

W Line

1

Michelle

Magnero

michellemagnero@gmail.com

W Line

1

Ashley

Meyer

anpluskis@gmail.com

W Line

1

Christopher

Neinhuis

cnienhuis@deloitte.com

W Line

1

Alexandra

Newman

anewman@mines.edu

W Line

1

Chris

Nienhuis

cnienhuis@deloitte.com

I am a community member and longtime resident of West Denver. I am
writing regarding the proposed January 2018 service changes to the W line.
These changes propose reducing service from every 15 minutes to every 30
minutes at select stations during weekends and non-peak weekday hours.
The W line is a vital resource for the West Denver and West Suburban
community. Many people use the W not only to get to work and school,
but also to shop for groceries, to get around town and to attend cultural
and sporting events that are accessible from the downtown stations this
line services. Additionally, the W line provides an accessible alternative for
those unable to walk long distances to bus stops on the West Side, some of
which may have long service wait times. For these reasons, I ask that you
reconsider the service reduction proposal for the W line. Thank you for
yoiur service to the community and for taking the time to read this letter.
I can not attend the meeting tonight to discuss cutting the W line from
every 15min to every 30min BUT if I could I would voice my opinion that I
am VERY against this!! I moved here from Chicago 3 years ago and have
been living in Golden for the past 2.5 years. Having the W line has been
amazing!! It is quick, clean and always on time. It is a great way to get
downtown which we love coming from a big city. If it only came every
30min that would be an inconvenience getting to events on time and does
not make it work using when there is no traffic I can get to downtown
Denver in 30 min driving. PLEASE PLEASE leave the W line to run every
15min. OR as a comprise have it run ever 30min only during off hour
times. If you left it to run every 15min during weekday mornings and
nights and then had it run every 15min on weekends that would be
perfect!
Please don’t change the Golden W line to every 30 minutes. I’ve just
started taking the light rail for work from Golden and it’s been awesome!
And it’s so important for the town of Golden to decrease traffic here and in
Denver, downtown parking is awful and expensive in downtown. Again,
please keep the rail running every 15 minutes, so we on the west side can
enjoy it!
I live in downtown Golden and take the W line to the A line to the airport
once or twice a month, on average. I am requesting that you not cut back
the W line service from every 15 minutes to every 30 minutes. If, in the
future, you could extend the W line all the way to downtown Golden, not
only would that serve Coors employees and School of Mines students and
employees better, but I would also take the W line far more frequently
(i.e., just about every time I went to downtown Denver).
Not going to make the meeting in Golden tomorrow, but want to voice my
opinion – please keep the lightrail running to Golden!!! (every 15
minutes)!!! It makes so much difference to commute to Denver and for
people coming to Golden to enjoy our town. I take it both ways every day
for work and sometimes very early morning and later evenings.

Packet Pg. 62

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

W Line

1

Josh

Parker

joshbparker@yahoo.com

W Line

1

Karyn

Peabody

karynpeabody@gmail.com

W Line

1

Scott

Peabody

feldybikes@gmail.com

W Line

1

Mel

Perkins

melperkins1@gmail.com

I use the W Line from Golden on a regular basis to travel to Denver Union
Station and the airport. The 15 minute schedule is so convienient I have
given little thought to alternative (driving) transportation. If the change is
made to 30 minute intervals, I will most likely drive more. PLEASE DO NOT
change the schedule to 30 minutes.

W Line

1

JoAnn

Piasecki

drjmpiasecki@comcast.net

The proposed weekday changes to the W line would be very disruptive to
my husband and I. For the past 18 months, since construction began on
the intersection of Hwy 6 and 19th St., we have made far less use of the
light rail than we had previously. Until the CallnRide stopped coming to
our neighborhood because of the construction, I was using it to get to the
light rail station. My husband was routinely riding his bike from our house
on Mt. Zion Dr. to the light rail station and then taking the light rail to his
job at the University of Denver. The construction at the intersection made
it more dangerous to ride his bike and he had taken a break from riding
and light railing until very recently. Neither of us commutes during regular
hours. In fact, we are most likely to be using the W line during exactly the
time frames the proposed changes identify - 9AM - 3PM and 6-9PM
weekdays. We encourage RTD to work with us and with Golden to continue
service every 15 minutes all day during the entire work week.

I am writing in opposition of the proposed reduction in service for the W
line. The western suburbs are vital to growth and economic contributions
throughout the Front Range, and limiting the number of serviced trains to /
from the West Line will hurt the community.
I am writing to advocate for continued every 15 minute light rail service to
and from Golden. The whole reason my family rides the light rail is because
it is easy and convenient to use. We love the fact that whenever we arrive
at the station a train will be arriving shortly. By cutting the service down to
every 30 minutes, it will make the light rail much less convenient and
decrease our interest in riding it.
Please keep the service all the way to Golden at every 15 minutes. Moving
it to every 30 minutes makes taking the light rail incredibly inconvenient
and eliminates the point of having it.

Packet Pg. 63

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

W Line

1

Rachel

Plessing

rplessing@hotmail.com

W Line

1

Kathy

Plonsky

kathrynplonsky@gmail.com

W Line

1

Anne

Silverman

silverman.ak@gmail.com

I would like to express my concern regarding possible service cuts to the W
Line. I am unable to make the September 28th public meeting at the
Golden Community Center. I have not seen much information regarding
this potential change, but I would hope these changes would not be
affecting the route during peak hours. Since the seven-minute train to the
Fed Center was cut last year the trains are extremely crowded in the
mornings and evenings. They are packed to the point there’s difficulty
getting people on and off the trains at stops. I don’t usually ride the train
outside of the commuting during peak hours on work days, so I don’t have
much knowledge or a strong opinion for service outside of commuting
hours. However, I’m worried that overcrowding during peak hours and
sparse scheduling in non-peak hours might cause potential users to opt for
transportation by car instead. However, if there isn’t a high demand
during non-peak hours and service cuts happen there, perhaps room can
be found in the budget for one or two seven-minute Fed Center times to
come back? It’s reached to point that I opt to bike or drive instead of taking
the train because of crowding, so I assume there are others making similar
decisions as me.
Instead of cutting the W line, why don't you make it more convenient for
people to take it? There is only one line I have found in the morning (the
7:43 from Golden), where I can make a transfer from the W Line at Auraria
West, get the E line back to Osage, and then pick up a D line to central
downtown, in an amount of time under 45 minutes. Otherwise I have to
go all the way to Union station and take the mall shuttle, walk, or the slow
19th Street bus, to get to to work (at 18th and Stout). I have limited
mobility and this process takes at least an hour. If you do cut the W line,
why don't you use the money to build that L shuttle line between Auraria
West and Colfax/Auraria station? I bet your ridership from Golden would
substantially increase. Not everyone coming from Golden goes to Union
Station, and it is silly that the central downtown trains are so close but we
can take them without a bunch of transfer issues. You need to make it so it
does not take an hour to ride from Golden, versus 20 minutes to drive, to
central downtown.
I am writing to voice my concern about the proposed reduced frequency of
the W line. I believe that having frequent arrivals/departures at Jefferson
County Govt Center is important for our community and to reduce traffic
congestion. While I do not use RTD for my daily commute (I live within
walking distance of my office), I frequently use the W line (at off peak
hours) to get downtown for evening events, meetings, and also at least
once a month to transfer to the A line to the airport. This reduction in
frequency would reduce the likelihood that I would take public
transportation for these events downtown and to DIA. In addition, I know
Golden has just recently made a significant investment and has added
another community shuttle to run between the JeffCo station and
downtown Golden. This investment is to encourage ridership, and will not
be achieved if RTD reduces service.

Packet Pg. 64

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

W Line

1

Linda

Spangenberg

l.spangenberg@comcast.net

Thanks so much for asking our input. I understand the need to be
financially sensible, but could you cut the trains to every 20 minutes,
instead of every 30? Honestly, I think I'll stop riding the light rail from
Lakewood--I'll drive my new little car into Denver and to DIA, instead, if the
opportunities to take the light rail are decreased. Thanks for your hard
work,

W Line

1

Marcus

Staley

mstaley75@yahoo.com

W Line

1

Clayton

Stock

cstock085@gmail.com

W Line

1

Amanda

Stone

amanda.g.stone@gmail.com

I will be unable to attend the public meeting in Golden regarding the
reduced services on the W Line to Golden. This is a disservice and to the
community and will ultimately reduce the total use of the W Line because
of the inconvenience. I live in Golden and regularly utilize the W Line to
access downtown Denver and DIA via a transfer to the A line at Union
Station. Changes in availability in the W line will reduce my use of the rail
system all together. It is imperative that the entire W line maintain the
same 15 minute interval service or face even less use of the entire line by
all users. Thank you for considering to maintain the current 15 minute
train interval all the way to the end of the W Line in Golden.
We frequently use the W Line from Golden Station during non-commuting
hours, please keep service to every 15 minutes and don't change to 30.
Doing so would actually make us use the rail less and find other
alternatives such as Uber or Lyft. Please don't make it more inconvenient
to get from Golden to Denver (or vise versa)!
Letter Attached

W Line

1

Mike

Sullivan

mike.t.sullivan@gmail.com

I keep reading in the Post that the W line is underperforming. I thought I
would tell you why I, as a prime candidate to take the W, gave up on RTD.
For years I was a daily rider of the AF from Cold Springs to Market Street
station. My commute from door to desk was about 40 minutes. I could
usually drive it in 30 minutes. After the W opened and bus service was
drastically reduced, my door-to-desk time jumped to over an hour. I will
add 10 minutes to my commute to take mass transit, but not 30 or 40. And
yet... my drive goes past Federal Center Station and my office is a block
from the Convention Center. The issue is, the W line only goes to Union
Station. From there is it a trek to get into the heart of downtown. So, any
commuters who work downtown are worse off with the W than they were
before, by a lot. If RTD had connected the W to the tracks going
downtown, and then alternated trains between downtown and Union
Station, I would have stuck with RTD.

Packet Pg. 65

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

W Line

1

Leanne

Thompson

blackbear582@hotmail.com

W Line

1

Cindy

White

cmw61359@gmail.com

W Line

1

Shaine

Wieber

shainewieber@gmail.com

I was quite disappointed to read that RTD is considering cutting back WLine service to Golden. I am a regular rider and the change would
definitely cause hardship. It seems to me that RTD should be looking for
ways to encourage more Golden residents to use the train. Instead, they
appear to prefer to make a more miserable and effort filled experience
which will only attract riders that must use the service. As a resident of
Golden that lives near downtown, I was disappointed that the train only
serves the southern end of the town. Has anybody considered expanding
the line to 19th street so that Mines students and tourists can be closer to
downtown attractions?

W Line

1

Roy

Willey

roy@roywilley.net

I’ve been told that RTD intends to cut the service on the W line from every
15 minutes to every 30 minutes, except during morning and evening
commute times. (What times are those exactly?) PLEASE KEEP THE
SCHEDULE AS IT IS. Cutting service defeats the purpose of the light rail. My
son commutes to downtown Denver to work, but as a restaurant employee
does not commute during the morning and evening commute times. I use
the light rail frequently to go downtown for shopping and entertainment
(so I don’t have to drive and park), and I always use the light rail to go to
the airport. Every time I ride the W, it’s full of students heading to the
Auraria campus. (Even on non-commute hours.) PS. Here’s a thought: If
you want to increase ridership, how about lowering the fares? This is the
most expensive public transit system I’ve ever used. Cutting the service in
half will decrease the motivation to use the light rail. I believe this move
would reduce ridership, not consolidate it. Please do not decrease service
on the W line.

Between 9 - 3 changing the hours from 15 to 30 is ok. But, between 6 - 9
makes no sense! If somebody gets off work at the Tech Center at 5 or 5:30
and has to ride to downtown to transfer to the W line to get home, it
needs to be every 15 minutes. I think it should be 7 - 9 at a minimum. But,
if you want people to take the trains downtown for the theatre or sports
events maybe you can't change the evening hours at all. If it isn't
convenient, they won't ride. I think late hours should stay at 1 am. You
would have to stop your social event ~11 or taking a train from the airport
to arrive by ~11 to walk to catch a train by 12. Stopping earlier defeats the
purpose of having a train. Since I board at the Federal Center, I don't have
a problem with alternating as I would always be able to catch a train. But,
having the Jeffco driving to Fed Center to catch a train at off times defeats
the purpose of the train. I still think it needs to be cheaper to ride from the
Federal Center. I am not going to drive to Wadsworth to get a cheaper
rate and try to find a parking place when I live right near the Federal Center
and can. The extra fee adds up if you aren't getting it paid by your
company. It needs to be really cheap to ride for everybody lot like Boston;
not based on zones. Besides it takes too long to get downtown. You need
express trains that only stop at certain stops like you used to do with the
buses (16 vs 16X).
I would like to see the w line expanded not decreased.

Packet Pg. 66

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

1.B.1.b

W Line

1

Doug

Wilson

doug@onpaperwings.com

W Line R
Line

1

Katie

Sellers

kmyhand@hotmail.com

I just learned about your proposed changes to the W Line rail service and I
STRONGLY urge you to not implement these changes. I use the W line
starting at the Lakewood/Wadsworth station for commuting to Metro
State to teach several times a week and although I know the proposal does
not effect commuting times, I use the W line with my family for other
purposes outside of commuting times. With the increase of traffic and
population in Denver, RTD should be *adding* more frequent service on all
of the lines rather than decreasing service. This will only discourage use of
public transit throughout the metro area. Additionally, when the heck will
the G line finally open?!
Attached Letter

W R Lines

1

Karen

Oxman

karenoxman@aol.com

Letter Attached

Total

1

266

15

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
Dear RTD Board Member, As an Aurora resident and a taxpayer, I am writing to voice my strong disappointment and objection
to the proposed service reduction to the recently opened R Line. Aurora waited patiently for the R Line to open in February, and
now, after less than six months of operation, RTD wants to reduce service and doom the entire line to fail. RTD itself promoted
the R Line as providing easy connections to and from Aurora to the Train to the Plane-the A Line, the Denver Tech Center and
Downtown Denver. Now you want to make that access less desirable for commuters and give Aurora less access to the region?
RTD touts Light Rail as a connection to the region and yet your actions don’t reflect that. Aurora residents and businesses
believed your message then, and we believe it today, but your proposed actions don’t support it. Both RTD and the city have
invested millions of dollars in making the dream of light rail a reality. It is unfair for RTD to now, after less than six months, to
reduce service on the R Line, threaten future development in the city and reduce regional connections. RTD should be invested
in the long-term success of the R Line. Your efforts should be to market the line and offer incentives to increase the number of
riders, not discourage them from using public transit. I strongly urge the RTD board of Directors to not support or approve any
service reduction in RTD’s rail system. It is completely unacceptable to cut service on the R Line after just becoming operational
within the last five months. Please RTD Leaders, give the R Line a chance.
**RFS - Request for Service

Packet Pg. 67

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change

1.B.1.c

September 28th, 2017

However, it's not clear to me what's being proposed on weekends during the day. A TIC agent
wasn't able to help me out, and instead referred me to the Service Planning Department. I'm
still awaiting a call from Eric Miller.
However, given that today is the last day of public hearings, I'm assuming it's also the deadline
for email comments.
Therefore, I'm structuring my comments based on three possible interpretations of the not
terribly clear description from the RTD web site.
Option 1.
No changes to Saturday and Sunday midday service.
D Line remains at 4 trains per hour.
While this has the advantage of the most service to Colfax at Auraria Station - your busiest
station - I cannot support it because I think it would be confusing to passengers to have more
weekend D Line midday service than corresponding weekday midday service.
Option 2.
Saturday and Sunday midday service matches weekday midday service.
D Line reduced to 2 trains per hour.
New C Line service provides 2 trains per hour, staggered with D Line.
This doesn't have as much service to Colfax at Auraria as Option 1, but the consistency with the
weekday schedule is good. I support this option the most of the three.
Option 3.
No D Line weekend midday service.
C Line provides 4 trains per hour.
This is what was proposed and then retracted for the August 2017 service change.
I do not support this option because it provides the least service - only four H Line trains per
hour - to Colfax at Auraria station, your busiest station. I am also concerned about the reliability
of the H Line during off-peak periods including weekends if it's made to take on the R Line's
route between Florida Station and Peoria Station. The surface street portions of the route
around Aurora Metro Center will make the H Line less reliable. I'm also concerned that since I
live near the L Line, I'd naturally want to use it to access downtown Denver. However, if
transfers to the H Line aren't reliable, and there are no other routes in the downtown loop to
connect to, I'd probably not bother with downtown Denver, and possibly use the CU A Line
instead.

Packet Pg. 68

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

I'd like to comment on the proposed D Line service changes.

I'd also like to repeat my question about the feasibility of extending the L Line - perhaps only
during off-peak periods - from the Convention Center turn-around - to the Colfax at Auraria and
10th & Osage stations, and using Mariposa Yard to turn around (and offer operator relief). I
have had no response from RTD regarding this possibility.
In summary, I'd like to note that my experience attempting to comment on the proposed light
rail service changes has been particularly frustrating in that RTD doesn't seem interested in
creative ideas that can better meet their riders' needs, but in only making obvious - but
draconian - cuts without regard to how greatly passengers will be inconvenienced.
Thank you for bringing these concerns to the RTD Board for further discussion.
-Scott Ramming

Packet Pg. 69

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

1.B.1.c

1.B.1.c

I just wanted to share my thoughts on the proposed cuts to both the W and R Lines. I work full
time, 5 days a week in Aurora at UCD. I have taken the R Line to and from work several times
since it came on line and really appreciated the service. Taking the R Line from Centennial does
increase my overall commute time to over an hour compared from roughly 40 minutes each
way when I drive. However, it helps that it's an option when money is tight and I need to save
on gas, especially since gas prices have gone up significantly in recent weeks. It's also relaxing
when I can read or respond to emails instead of battling traffic. While I don't yet depend on the
R Line daily to get to and from work, my lease is up very soon and my family hopes to move
closer to a park and ride on the R Line so that I can use it everyday for a better commute. I hope
that you will consider how new the R Line is and respect that some of us just need time to
adjust our lives so that we can fully take advantage of this new route. It would be a shame to
cut it before it even has a chance to succeed. I hope you have also considered that during the
summer months the weather is so nice that lots of people bike or drive when the roads feel
safer. Please put off the cuts until after fall and winter so that you can examine ridership when
the weather makes biking, walking, and driving personal vehicles more difficult. In addition, I
hope you have considered all of the students, faculty, staff, administrators, patients, and
veterans at the Anschutz Medical Campus that rely on this transportation. Obviously ridership
has been down throughout the summer as there are fewer classes offered, so both students
and faculty tend to take summers off and staff also have more flexibility in the summer. Now
that the fall semester is up and going again, I hope you find that ridership increases. There are
lots of families, patients, and (soon) veterans that use the R Line to get to the various hospitals,
clinics, and specialists on campus who physically cannot drive themselves. Reducing this service
severely impacts so many people and given that the R Line has not been up and running very
long, I urge you to reconsider any cuts until it's been open and going for a full year and
experience all seasons that may effect the ebb and flow of ridership.
As for the W Line, me and my family do not use it often but when we do, we really appreciate
the service. My spouse is a firefighter for the city of Golden and uses the W Line to commute
when it's feasible. Given our current residential location, it is not always the best, safest, or
quickest option.
Again, I hope you consider that ridership obviously is down during the summer months given
that schools, college campuses are out and the weather is nice enough to explore alternate
commuting options like biking. The fall and winter are the worst times to consider cuts as many
people rely on public transportation when it's not possible to bike, walk, or drive (either
because they don't have snow tires/chains or fear of driving in the snow). If cuts are to be
made, I hope that those cuts could be made during the late spring and summer only.
Thanks for your consideration.
Katie Sellers

Packet Pg. 70

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

September 26th, 2017

1.B.1.c

September 18th, 20187

Dear RTD Leaders,
I’m taking the time to write you, to please not support nor approve any service reduction in
RTD’s rail system for Aurora.
Please give the R Line a chance— it just opened!
If you want to increase ridership, I have a few ideas.
Invest in some advertising that the Light Rail is here, NOW, and that it is open. Do you know a
lot of people don’t know that it is, or even where it goes? I’ve discovered this by conversations
with my neighbors.
There is a misunderstanding the R line goes to the airport, but most don’t know where it goes.
Offer free ride days, like the SCFD does for Parks and the Zoo. Maybe once a month. A great
educational opportunity.
Offer a free Senior day, perhaps in conjunction and collaboration with another event that could
be along the line that would be attractive to them. Have friendly and patient employees there to
show them how it works, until folks catch on. Once they do, others will help them. I’ve seen this
in action.
Offer pamphlets in Aurora’s top 5 or 10 languages, say a z-fold brochure that explains how it
works. Do you know we have over 100 different nationalities/ cultures that now call Aurora
home? We do.
Another problem is parking. Yes, I know it is there, but there are plenty of folks that don’t know
where it is, or how it works, it’s a bit confusing and they don’t want a ticket.
Restrooms. More on that later.
But consider this radical idea— in a few short years, this ‘older’ (translation: established) section
of Aurora, will soon become its own hub, a NEW hub, a downtown Denver of its own, if you
will.
Aurora is changing and growing… the Anschutz Medical Campus, Childrens’ Hospital, the new
VA hospital and other medical centers, along with the accompanying housing for medical
personnel, and hotels for out-of-town patients’ families, for the state of the art cancer treatment
centers. They are building luxury condos and housing and hotels and stores, from every corner
you look. And what of that new huge conference/ entertainment facility planned for Aurora? The
Gaylord Hotel, is it not? "Gaylord Rockies will be the premier Colorado meeting and convention
center hotel with sweeping views of the Rocky Mountain foothills.” 1500 rooms, 10 minutes
from DIA, a massive facility that boasts everything from nearly 500,000 sq ft of meeting space,
as well as restaurants, ballrooms, pools and, if it is to be believed, a Lazy River flowing around it
like a moat.

Packet Pg. 71

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

Subject: Please consider my letter-- R Line suggestions

Well, the moat remains to be seen, but this massive conference center is slated to open in 2018,
right around the corner... and you could be right around their corner, if you’re in the
transportation business, that is.
In fact, with its proximity to Aurora City Hall, I-225, I-70, and so much more than I’ve
mentioned, you should be adding more connecting Light Rail lines out to these new areas, not
cutting them.
Here’s a big one. There are no restroom facilities. None!
One day my spouse and I decided to ride the new R line, just for fun, to see where all it went and
what it was like. We were very pleased with the speed, how clean and safe it was... We rode out
to the Commuter A train to the Plane, and that was fun too. So we turned around at the cool new
Westin hotel, looked at the art, and came back to the Peoria station, where we’d catch the R line.
Now, it was a hot summer day, so we both took bottled water with us… and then to our horror
we realized— there are no restrooms! Anywhere! Not at any of the stations. Not one! Now, there
are facilities for RTD employees, we were informed by a bus driver. But who among you can
forgo the restroom, and for how long? That’s a long ride, no matter how fast the rail line is.
There are no restroom facilities. How many people aren’t riding it for lack of human necessity? I
had wanted to take my father, but with his medication, he had to go to the restroom every 20
minutes. What about families with toddlers and children? And no changing stations for babies?
And not even hand sanitizer, or a water fountain.
How many people are avoiding it because of simple, basic things like this? The long distances
from Union Station, out here to the plains need to be more humanoid friendly.
I implore you to reconsider, and instead find ways to reach out more to people to try the New
Light Rail, and make using it more attractive, and friendly to use, not less. Perhaps the pricing
structure needs revisiting. On that I do not know, but when the first Light Rail was built as an
experiment in the 90's to 5 Points, we were so excited! “Who wants to go to 5 Points?” people
opined and rolled their eyes. Well, we and our friends were such strong proponents of the mass
transit concept, that we used to buy fares, and ride it up and down just to prove that people would
use it. And — they did.
“Who wants to go to Aurora?” (eye roll)
It has been said, “If you build it, they will come” — and they will— trust me. The boom that is
coming is not far away--- but it’s not quite here yet. Stop thinking of Aurora as Denver's poor
distant prairie cousin wearing flour sacks and kickers. You’re looking at a future money maker
of international flair.
Cutting services to the light rail you just put in, after just barely starting services to Aurora, the
3rd largest city in the state, the 54th largest in the United States, just seems short sighted in the
extreme, at this early juncture.
I respectfully submit my letter, and ask that you circulate it among the powers that be.
Particularly the ones with an eye to the future, and long range vision. I’ll let you borrow my
long-range binoculars.
Just flip them around, and look through the right end.

Packet Pg. 72

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

1.B.1.c

Aurora Resident, Homeowner, and Taxpayer,

Daisy L. Rothschild

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

1.B.1.c

Sincerely,

Packet Pg. 73

1.B.1.c

R Line Cutbacks

I am traveling to NY next week on business and will not be able to attend the public hearing on the 21st
to discuss the proposed R line changes. However, I wanted to express concern in my absence. As a
homeowner, tax payer, and resident, I hope you will listen.
Reducing service on the R line outside of peak hours presents several challenges in RTD's mission to
serve the community.
1. Business travelers need a connection to the A-line. I work in the DTC and if I need to travel to the
airport, as I will do over the next 6 weeks, most of my flight times prohibit me from utilizing the R line to
the A line to the airport without schedule mishap. Sure, I can be a driver and help clog up 225 and pay
ridiculous fees in parking, but I would rather have a reliable schedule. It really really sucks to be stuck at
the Peoria station at 11pm, for example, knowing you only have access to surcharged Uber if you don't
want to stand in the cold! Alternatively, if I have a plane to catch at 2:30pm, from DTC, I guess I have to
travel to Southmoor, then transfer, then to Florida, then transfer, then get on the A line. This is why
people would utilize it even less.
2. RTD's choice to operate as a commuter line only means that anything outside of commuter-life =
more likely to drive. Need to go to an exercise class after work? oops, guess the trains stop at 6pm
unless I want to deal with rerouting. Have to do some repair on my car? Guess I better get home straight
away lest I might need another 30 minutes to get home (2x what it would normally take). Have to stay
late at work because getting out of the office before 6pm is difficult? Too bad. The point is that the
scheduling makes it more inconvenient to take public transit when the goal should be making that an
easier, alternative option.
3. What if I'm not a normal 9-5 worker? Which is increasingly common for all types of populations:
students, part-timers, retirees. Some of these populations may not have a car and may also be schedule
oriented. We shouldn't reduce the options for more vulnerable populations to "just have to deal with it"
because they have lives and families and constraints too.
4. The R line services several medical facilities and removing or limiting some access hurts. Assuming it's
not an emergency visit (because, yeah, let's just pay for $200 ambulance rides instead), should
scheduled visits only occur when RTD can accommodate these needs? It's bad enough that several
medical facilities are not open past 5pm. Let's just make it all worse - sounds like a great idea!
5. RTD and Aurora's business climate is connected and without regional connection, we probably won't
have a shot at Amazon HQ2 either. Do you really want to cripple that or whatever lurking deal is on the
horizon?
6. Aurora is one of the few places with access to the metro area AND that still has affordable housing.
Housing and transit are 2 sides of the same coin: make it more difficult to buy housing close to where
people work, face traffic congestion. Reduce RTD access, make traffic congestion worse. So what are we
really trying to do here because it sounds like the opposite of remove traffic congestion and allow more
access to more types of people.

Packet Pg. 74

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

Dear RTD Committee members:

1.B.1.c

I think I have pointed out several concerns at this stage, so let me offer some recommendations:
a. Market the line and offer incentives to increase ridership
b. Maybe travel all the way to Lincoln is difficult, but removing the link from Belleview to the A-line is
the worst option. How about turning around at Belleview? Why did we build 3 RTD lines to travel to
Lincoln when only 1 line travels between Peoria and Belleview? (I know, the H line travels between
Southmoor and Florida, but after that, what are you left with?)
c. Match service to the business community. For example, peak store hours across the line (not just 9-5
workers), whether events are held and what time they get out (like Fiddler's Green), because offering
shorter, more direct routes = RTD is the best option!
Feel free to reach out for further clarification on any point. My cell is 913-777-9619
Ada Van Roekel

Packet Pg. 75

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

7. More people will want to take the R line when the weather changes. I know that I more frequently
rely on the train when I don't want to be part of the slip-n-slide-n-crash traffic! These are never limited
to commuter hours, either.

1.B.1.c

Dear RTD Board Member,
As an Aurora resident and a taxpayer a regular RTD user and a disabled teen on my own, I am
writing to voice my strong disappointment and objection to the proposed service reduction to the
recently opened R Line, The train helps many people I live in an apartment community with
many People, people with disabilities, single fathers and single mothers, elderly and less
fortunate people who cannot afford a vehicle or who do not have the capability to get their
driver's license or in some cases are not 21 years old and have no one willing to help them get
their license and no funds for a car or insurance, they barely have enough funds to afford to ride
the RTD. As Aurora waited patiently for the R Line to open in February, all of us were very
happy and thrilled that the our line was coming to Aurora and now, after less than six months of
operation, RTD wants to reduce service and doom the entire line to fail and put many of their
regular customers who ride RTD every single day at risk and in jeopardy for some people they
are line is the only way to get to work or school, we have had / 345 people move to this complex
since they are lined opened just for the easy access to the R line, RTD itself promoted the R Line
as providing easy connections to and from Aurora to the Train to the Plane-the A Line, the
Denver Tech Center and Downtown Denver. Now you want to make that access less desirable
for commuters and give Aurora less access to the region? RTD touts Light Rail as a connection
to the region and yet your actions don’t reflect that.
Aurora residents and businesses believed your message then, and we believe it today, but your
proposed actions don’t support it. Both RTD and the city have invested millions of dollars in
making the dream of light rail a reality. It is unfair for RTD to now, after less than six months, to
reduce service on the R Line, threaten future development in the city and reduce regional
connections. RTD should be invested in the long-term success of the R Line. Your efforts should
be to market the line and offer incentives to increase the number of riders, not discourage them
from using public transit.
I strongly urge the RTD Board of Directors to not support or approve any service reduction in
RTD’s rail system. It is completely unacceptable to cut service on the R Line after just becoming
operational within the last five months. Please RTD Leaders, please give the R line a chance it
has already improved the lives of many as well as Aurora as a whole there are many people
counting on the r line and also RTD to hold their word up and not let us down as Citizens and
daily public transportation users. Thank you for your time I hope you guys take this seriously
and read this letter to the end it is very crucial and important that you read this and please
consider your customers the city you gave word to and the millions of dollars that Aurora to help
the RTD R line and how upsetting that will be to the city your customers and everyone who
supports RTD that you let your word down and also put a city in major debt.
Thank you for your time.
Autumn Mink

Packet Pg. 76

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

Subject: R-Line - Aurora - from a Disabled young adult

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 77

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 78

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 79

1.B.1.c

September 22, 2017

As a member of the Aurora business community, as a former Board Chair of the Aurora
Chamber of Commerce, as a member of the Aurora Economic Development Council, and as a
resident of Aurora, I am writing to voice my disappointment and objection to the proposed
service reductions to the recently opened R Line.
Aurora tolerated missed deadlines and delays in the opening of the R Line, and now, after less
than six months of operation, RTD has proposed significant service reductions. RTD promoted
the R Line as providing easy connections to and from Aurora and the Train to the Plane (the A
Line), the Denver Tech Center and downtown Denver. While I understand that the economic
viability of any public transit schedule is important, it seems premature to propose this drastic of
a cut this soon after the line opened, and before much of the associated transit oriented
development (TOD) along this line is complete. I believe that additional TOD will spur ridership
numbers on the R Line. The current proposed cuts will make access less desirable for
commuters and give Aurora less access to the region, and likely reduce ridership even more. In
my opinion, public transit must be accessible, convenient, and affordable for it to be successful.
I’m not confident this proposal is consistent with those tenets.
Aurora residents and businesses that supported FasTracks did so out of an assumption of trust
and an implied promise from RTD. However, this proposed service cut so soon after the
opening of the line doesn’t reflect this trust. Both RTD and the city of Aurora have invested
millions of dollars in making the dream of light rail a reality. It is unfair, after less than six
months, for RTD to reduce service on the R Line, threaten future development in the city,
negatively impact those who rely on this new transit method, and reduce regional connections.
RTD should be invested in the long term success of the R Line. In my opinion, RTD’s efforts
should be focused on marketing the Line, providing service at a fee that competes with alternate
modes of transportation, and offering incentives to increase the number of riders - rather than
discouraging them from using public transit by creating a schedule frequency that is
unworkable.
I strongly urge the RTD Board of Directors to vote “no” on this proposed premature schedule
reduction for the R Line. I encourage you to allow the R Line to mature and grow – with focused
RTD support - and following this effort and the additional associated TOD, re-evaluate ridership
at a sensible time in the future.
Respectfully,
-----------------------------------------------------David Patterson
Chief Executive Officer
------------------------------------------------------

Rocky Mountain
10703 E Bethany Dr
Aurora, CO 80014
E-mail:

David.Patterson@Falck.com

Packet Pg. 80

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

Dear RTD Board Member,

1.B.1.c

I am out of town so I cannot attend the meeting tonight about RTD's proposed cuts of service to
Golden. However, I attended a neighborhood meeting last week & voiced my disappointment.
They should be trying to fix the problem of why no one takes the lightrail, which is it takes 48
minutes to get from Golden to Union Station with 14 stops. They could offer an express train
that only makes 3 or 4 stops during commuting hours. None of us want to sit in our cars in traffic
commuting to Denver, but we also don't have 1.5 hrs to commute each way. After driving to
station, parking, waiting for a train, getting off at Union Station and walking to catch Free shuttle
to 17th & Lincoln I can tell it it completely impractical to think anyone will do that daily. Even in a
blizzard it is faster to drive to work. How do I know this? I've tried it both ways.
Cutting the service to every 30 minutes will render the train useless. If RTD's ultimate goal is to
end service to Golden then the cuts of service are a great idea. However, since the money has
already been spent on infrastructure it would seem that improving services like adding express
trains during rush hour to cut commute times in half would be a win. I suggested this at our
neighborhood meeting last weekend & EVERYONE agreed, even adding that any city they had
ever visited with a train had offered an express option during rush hour.
The vast majority of stops do not see anyone getting on or off, they are in peculiar locations that
someday may have more riders, but today do not and instead just make the ride from Golden to
Denver too long for a commute.
Again, I think it's time for RTD to make it clear what their ultimate plan is for the lightrail in
Golden. Would like like to do away with it completely or increase ridership?
And someone at the neighborhood meeting asked me if getting a free Ecopass would change
my mind, the answer is NO. I'm giving the choice between a parking place or an Ecopass. I
should parking space because I have 2 young kids & time is more valuable to me than money.
Golden should not be spending money to provide Ecopassed to it's citizens until after they have
figure out a way for the train to make sense to use. Again it takes much too long to get to
Denver & then drops you on the west side of downtown, so unless your office is on that side of
downtown the rider still has another 20-30 minutes to get their actual building. I had such high
hopes for the lighrail, but i find it rather useless unless I'm taking it to the Broncos game.
Traffic during rush hour is now so nightmarish that I think long term my family with either have to
move back to Denver or I'll have to quit my job. RTD, CDOT, Denver, etc. Needs to figure out
public transportation & traffic before courting more companies to open offices in Colorado. Bike
lanes are not the solution for the majority of us with kids.
Jacinda Brown

Packet Pg. 81

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

September 28, 2017

1.B.1.c

I attended the RTD meeting Thursday night. I did not speak as the comments I would have
made would have echoed what was said. I have had time to think about the meeting and am
compelled to add some comments at this point.
I am concerned there was an elephant in the room that was not addressed. I am very
concerned that every day the metro areas roads, due to volume, are becoming more and more
dysfunctional. Aurora’s issues are at the forefront of this problem. This city is growing and
growing rapidly.
RTD’s system is the only system that can reduce vehicle usage that’s practical - yes we can
walk more, we can ride bikes more, we can carpool more etc. -- but with Denver’s sprawl the
non RTD options present huge management issues.
There is a greater need for RTD to step up and help than there ever has been. I cannot believe
RTD came to us and basically said we do not need them because their graphs show we are not
using them. What their graphs show is that RTD has an incompetent inept management team
that is not addressing our transportation needs. RTD’s graphs show that we are not using their
systems because, even with the increasing vehicle usage issues we face each day, we choose to
use other forms of transportation.
The RTD board needs to step up and come up with solutions to the dysfunction that is
systemically torpedoing an excellent alternative transportation system. Perhaps RTD should
bypass their current management team that does not seem to understand the horrific
transportation issues we are facing, or fire them save the money and reduce fares. Perhaps the
government entities in the region need to encourage Dr COG to develop a regional
transportation planning group to provide alternative options, or the legislature needs to
establish a committee. Perhaps Aurora and other government and nongovernment
stakeholders need to take RTD to court to set up a supervision structure to help them
understand their responsibilities. Or perhaps the RTD board needs to start doing some work
and fixing the dysfunction in the system to compel more and more people to accept them as an
effective efficient transportation system.
The meeting, demonstrated a huge disconnect between the transportation problems our region
is facing and the issues that RTD think is important. There is a huge, huge, need for RTD to
change its focus, do its job, and help manage our transportation needs. It is a shame that so
much time and energy is being focused on the wrong problem.
Thanks

Jim Keesey

Packet Pg. 82

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

September 24th, 2017

1.B.1.c

Instead of reducing service to save costs, please work the agency to
A) address unrealistic projections that propagate to an unworkable financial plan
1) Who is accountable for the miss
2) Correct the math for future projects
B) Identify the challenges that are leading to the low passenger counts
1) enact action items to address each potential concern
2) what marketing and outreach successes are there to 'brag' about?
C) Challenge the agency to get riders on board and fare / pass revenue up
1) Schedules (large challenge)
2) Pricing (I am ok with it - but it needs to be looked at)
3) Accessibility of transit lines (buses to the rail)
4) Safety (I am personally OK with it, but I hear it is a concern with neighbors that will not
use it)
I hope the board holds someone accountable for the media "black eye" of the "R line" needing to
reduce service, right on the heels of the very expensive A line opening debacle. I feel RTD has
been given great amounts of capital to create some amazing projects, and they are wasting the
opportunities granted. Please hold them ACCOUNTABLE
In the meantime, I expect that my daily sales tax revenue be used to maintain this capital
investment and turn it into a worthwhile revenue generating asset.
Cutting service will harm (likely "kill") revenue.
Jim McGee
Aurora Resident
PS - I really like this comment a neighbor made on the "NextDoor" neighborhood public media
site, please get public feedback and implement fixes to save this great investment. The rail now
goes out to the Airport - that is amazing... we have the city 1/3 to 1/2 connected don't choke out
these gains.
Frank M., East Quincy Highlands
The reason that the mass transit systems work in big cities like New York is because it runs 24x7 365. anything
less dooms that system to low ridership and eventually to failure. Why would anyone ride a system that could
leave you stranded or could take hours to get a relatively short distance. A successful transit system needs
municipal support in addition to rider support. Consider the already wasted funding before you make it so that
even less people will use it.

Packet Pg. 83

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

Subject: Proposed R line service cutbacks (suggestions)

“This is a Season of Elevation, Escalation, and Engagement…!”
”Come Soar with the Eagles of Lyn Knoll”

Veterans Assistance League Of CO (VALCO) is the designated Fiscal Agent for LKNA. Please view:
www.valcoinc.org EIN: 27-2652491

14 September 2017
Greetings! Great Day Neighbors and Friends of Lyn Knoll!
To: RTD Board of Directors; Folska, District E Specifically
To and Cc: AUR / LKNA Leadership; Veterans

Bcc: Neighbors (Limited until confirmed)
Ref: NextDoor.com Neighbor Message received TODAY! ALL: Please also inquire to RTD!
If you are NOT signed up for www.NextDoor.com, you may have missed this.
Call 720-532-0836 or Write: econdev13@comcast.net to lend your time, talent, and treasury to your
neighbors. - TODAY!.
RTD Board Member,
The Lyn Knoll Neighborhod Association (LKNA) is a volunteer collection of neighbors and comprise an area
of @ 325 homes bordered by 2nd Ave to 6th Ave; Potomac (east and west) to Del Mar Cir (east) / Peoria.
RTD serves the 2nd Ave Light Rail Station and points north and south. While the neighbors voiced
disappointment for RTD’s unilateral decision to move bus service stops from Potomac at 2 nd (both
directions), we are completely disappointed and we protest ANY consideration for limiting service on the R
Line.
Based on the information received today, as Aurora residents (This director is a personal RTD rider) and as
taxpayers, LKNA writes to voice our strong disappointment/objection to a “proposed service reduction” on
the recently opened R Line. If true, what specific reductions, problem resolution steps, or any action are
planned and when are any public meetings regarding solutions/implementations scheduled?
Aurorans waited patiently for the R Line to open in February, and NOW, after less than six months of
operation, RTD wants to reduce service and doom the entire line to fail. RTD itself promoted the R Line as
providing easy connections to and from Aurora to “Train to Plane” (A Line); access to the Denver Tech
Center and to Downtown Denver. NOW, RTD wants to make that access less desirable for commuters and
give Aurorans less access to the regional destinations?
RTD touts Light Rail as a connection to the region and yet the Board actions may not reflect that
commitment.
Packet Pg. 84

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

1.B.1.c

Aurora residents and businesses accepted your message then, and we believe it today, but your proposed
actions don’t support it. Both RTD and the City of Aurora, with federal funds, have invested millions of
dollars in making the dream of light rail a reality. It is unusual for RTD to NOW, after less than six months,
consider any reductions in service on the R Line, threaten future development in Aurora and reduce regional
connections. This rider observed construction activity on the Peoria Station just recently, so any threats to
curb service may be a marketing option.
Please confirm, however, RTD’s:
 Investments for the long-term success of the R Line.
 Commitment to market the line and offer incentives to increase the number of riders.
 Steadfast Strategy to remain cost competitve with any other form of transportation while
considering and promoting environmental value.
LKNA strongly urge the RTD Board of Directors for a vote of NO Support for any service reduction in RTD’s R
Line system.
Any vote otherwise, would certainly be a “game changer” for our District Representative, and LKNA
guarantees outreach to other customers throughout the RTD sytem.
Any additional questions are welcomed. Please "chime in" and, more importantly, roll up your sleeves and
lend your time, talent, and treasury to your neighborhood and to your neighbors. We need each
other! Mission: Possible!
Please. "Come Soar with the Eagles of LKNA"
There's plenty Good Room! Lend Your Neighbors: Time, Talent, and Treasury! Get Started
TODAY!

Founding Board of Directors – LKNA
Call: 720-532-0836 / Write: econdev13@comcast.net.
720-532-0836 (Ofc) / 720-325-4382 (Cell)
www.lynnknoll.NextDoor.com
P.O. Box 5872, Denver, CO 80217
Also, Check out: www.nicholasowalker.legalshieldassociate.com , a member of Team Prosperity, dedicated
to:
Protect You, Your Family, or Business and Consider Opportunities for Your Tool Belt! 20% of
ALL income is returned to LKNA.
Worry Less. Enjoy More!

Packet Pg. 85

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

1.B.1.c

1.B.1.c

September 21st, 2017

I’m not going to send you a canned letter that someone else has written. I’m sending you my own
thoughts, my own concerns, and my own plea, which I hope you will find more meaningful
I’m writing to you as someone who lives in Aurora very near the R line and who works near I-25 and
Lincoln. In fact, I’ve worked near the I-25 corridor for nearly nine years. I took the Light Rail to work for
all but two of those years. I was a member of the RTD Customer Panel during that time and I still
participate in RTD’s on-line surveys. When I moved to Aurora, one of the pluses for me was the
proximity of the R line and the fact that it ran non-stop to Lincoln, since both my previous and current
jobs have been near Lincoln.
I recently became aware of RTD’s proposal to reduce service during off-peak hours because of
“insufficient ridership.” I hope you will consider the following:


I don’t think RTD can accurately gauge ridership after only six months, particularly since the R
line didn’t open until late February. By that time, winter was almost over. I believe ridership
will pick up in winter, particularly once we get our first big storm. Rather than reducing service,
RTD would be better off advertising the convenience of not driving I-225 and I-25 in snow,
especially since the snow is always worse near Lincoln.



I was infuriated at RTD’s comment on its website that the proposed reduction in service “would
maintain 15-minute frequency through Aurora most of the day.” Per the current schedule, the R
line starts at around 4 a.m. and ends around midnight. That’s 20 hours. After the proposed
change, the R line will run 5 a.m. to 9 a.m. and 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. That’s 7 hours. That’s not even
half the day. It’s certainly not “most” of the day. In my opinion, it’s cutting service to the bone.



I feel like RTD is being punitive and “punishing” the residents of Aurora for the lack of ridership
by discontinuing the R line except during so-called peak hours. Not everyone needs to be
somewhere by 9, and not everyone leaves between 3 pm and 5:30 (which allows time to get to
the Light Rail Station by 6). Many of the people going to the Anschutz medical center will need
to arrive in the middle of the day. Rather than discontinuing service at Florida during “off peak
hours,” it would be far more socially responsible (and better customer service) to simply reduce
service to ½ hour intervals during non-peak hours if cuts are absolutely necessary. And I feel
strongly that peak hours should run through 7 p.m., not 6. The trains are crowded enough
between 5 and 6 as it is.



When I first moved to Aurora, I took the H Line from Nine Mile. One of the biggest drawbacks
was having to change trains at Southmoor. It added at least 15 minutes to my commute, and
since I use a walker, it added a great deal of stress in trying to navigate up and down the ramps
and from one end of the station to the other. My current hours are 9 am to 6 pm, which means
I could take the Light Rail directly TO work after the service change, but would have to backtrack
to Southmoor at night, when it’s dark and cold and snow is starting to freeze, to get home. I
think it’s inconsiderate, at a minimum, to require people to change trains unnecessarily during
the winter months. I also think it’s going to decrease the ridership of the R line still
further. Once people start having to change trains, especially when it’s only part of the time,
they start deciding it’s too much hassle to deal with Light Rail.

Packet Pg. 86

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

Dear Sirs and Madams:



The commute to Lincoln via the R line is nearly an hour; by car, my commute is 30 minutes in
good traffic, 45 minutes in rush hour. Again, why would anyone who owns a car choose to take
the R line after the service changes take effect when that’s going to add yet another 15 minutes
(or more) to an already over-long commute? Especially when it’s just as cheap to drive as to buy
a monthly pass.

In conclusion, I hope RTD will seriously reconsider the plan to discontinue full R line service during nonpeak hours beginning in January 2018. I think RTD has other, more socially responsible options available
for reducing costs, and I think the proposed service reductions would ultimately result in reducing
ridership still further. I can assure you, it would definitely affect mine.
Rowena R. Johnson
Subcontracts Professional
D 1 720-286-3476
rowena.johnson@ch2m.com
9191 South Jamaica Street
Englewood, CO 80112
USA

Packet Pg. 87

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

1.B.1.c

1.B.1.c

Con todo el respeto me dirijo a ustedes para hablarles sobre el cambio planeado a la linea de autobus 45, yo
quiero expresar que estos cambios no son de lo más favorable para las personas que vivimos en Montbello ya
que muchas de los habitantes usan este transporte para llegar a sus destinos como es la escuela y el trabajo,
por lo tanto cambiar el horario de la ruta crearía una situación crítica para muchos.
Yo se que ustedes conocen que este el el medio de transporte más usado en Montbello ya que es el más
cercano por lo que le pido que realmente consideren no realizar estos cambios ya que uno de los principales
inconvenientes sería el tiempo, además en mi opinión creo que todos los habitantes y ciudadanos merecen
tener acceso a este tipo de transporte rápido.
Mi recomendacion seria que esto se quedará igual, principalmente por todos los alumnos y maestros de las
escuelas de Montbello y así no perjudicar la educación, lo que para mi es lo más importante.
De antemano agradezco su tiempo y la atención a esta carta y realmente espero que reconsideren esta
situación por favor.
Translation
With all due respect I am writing to you to talk about the planned change to the bus line 45, I want to express
that these changes are not very favorable for the people who live in Montbello since many of the inhabitants
use this transport to reach their destinations as it is school and work, therefore changing the schedule of the
route would create a critical situation for many. I know that you know that this is the most used means of
transportation in Montbello as it is the closest so I ask you to really consider not making these changes since
one of the main drawbacks would be time, in addition I think that all inhabitants and citizens deserve access to
this type of fast transport. My recommendation would be that this will remain the same, mainly for all the
students and teachers of the schools of Montbello and thus not to harm the education, which for me is the
most important thing. Thank you in advance for your time and attention to this letter and I really hope that
you will reconsider this situation, please.

Packet Pg. 88

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

September 28th, 2017

1.B.1.c

I believe that the rtd is important to the denver public schools because without the public
transportation it would be harder for people to get to places on time. Three reasons why the bus is an
important thing in the Denver neighborhood is because not only do students ride the bus to school
there are also adults that need to get to work on time.
My first reason why the bus is critical to the students would be that with a later come and go it makes
more students miss out on important things that they could use on later in their lives, like work skills,
athletic participation, clubs.
My second reason why I believe the rtd is an important role in many people's lives is because not every
student is able to drive or walk to school from where they live in this Denver neighborhood.
My final reason why it is necessary is because The light rail is not close to this neighborhood and bus line
45 is one of the few convenient public transportation options.
The privilege of being able to ride the rtd every morning within 15 mins when needed is a big help to
those who can not get to places on time when it is urgent. The rtd is depended on by many students and
adults to get to work or even get to school on time. Many students who ride the bus have to be accurate
so that they don’t miss the bus and if the time changes from 15 min to 30 that it will create a big impact
on the students lives. The rtd is very important to students because not every student is able to drive
themselves to school and many other student rely on the rtd for public transportation because not all
students who go to Montbello live close to the school so it makes them use the rtd.
The big impact that will happen if the time changes from 15 minutes to 30 is that The light rail is not
close to this neighborhood and bus line 45 is one of the few convenient public transportation options. A
lot of people rely on the bus every 15 minutes when it passes because not everyone live as close as
other students. The students that take the bus wake up early so that they could catch it and if the time
changes students will have to wake up even earlier than usual time for the rtd to reach the school or if
they miss it then they will have to take more time waiting on a public transportation to take them where
they need to be.
In conclusion, we strongly disagree with the time being changed for public transportation because we all
rely on rtd’s to take us on time and take us back safely.
Sincerely, Steven A ,Montbello High School

Packet Pg. 89

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

September 28, 2017

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 90

Attachment: Attachment D - R Line Service Proposal January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

Attachment D - R Line Service Proposal January 2018 Service Change
1.B.1.d

Packet Pg. 91

1.B.1.e

Attachment E - W Line Service Proposal - January 2018 Service Change

W Line Service Proposal
Westminster

38th •
Blake

40th •
Colorado

Central
Park

40th Ave &
Airport Blvd •
Gateway Park

Peoria

61st •
Pe ña

Denver
Airport

Union
Station
Pepsi Center •
Elitch Gardens

DENVER
Fr

Fitzsimons

ee
M

de

ee

Ri

Fr

ro

St

et

th

M

16

30th • Downing
18th • Stout

al
lR
id

27th • Welton

e

Sports Authority
Field at Mile High

15-Minute Service

Attachment: Attachment E - W Line Service Proposal January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

25th • Welton

Weekday and Saturday nights,
Sunday all day
30-Minute Service

Colfax

16th • Stout
20th • Welton
Theatre District •
Convention Ctr

13th Ave

18th • California

Colfax at
Auraria

Civic
Center

Auraria West

2nd Ave • Abilene

16th • California

l

ox

ra
de

Kn

Fe

rry
Pe

De

ca

tu

r•

Sh

er

id

an

ar
m

or
sw
W
ad
d

oo

Alameda
I-25 • Broadway

ke

w

La

th

n
so
rri
Ga

ak
O

Re
d
Co Roc
lle ks
ge
Fe
de
ra
lC
en
te
r

Aurora Metro Center

La

Je

ffC

o

Go

v’

tC

tr

•G

ol

de

n

10th • Osage

Florida

Louisiana•Pearl

University
Iliff

Colorado
Evans

Nine Mile

Yale
Southmoor

Dayton

Englewood

Belleview
Oxford•City of Sheridan
Orchard

Arapahoe at Village Center
Littleton•Downtown
Dry Creek

County Line
Littleton•Mineral
Lincoln

Packet Pg. 92

Attachment: Attachment F - 28-28B Proposal January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service

Attachment F - 28-28B Proposal January 2018 Service Change
1.B.1.f

Packet Pg. 93

Attachment: Attachment G – Route 34 Proposal January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

Attachment G – Route 34 Proposal January 2018 Service Change
1.B.1.g

Packet Pg. 94

Attachment: Attachment H - L Line Concept January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service

Attchment H - L Line Concept January 2018 Service Change
1.B.1.h

Packet Pg. 95

1.B.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: October 11, 2017

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 6, 2017

Board Meeting Date: October 24, 2017

Subject:

Approval of 2018 Access-a-Cab Agreements

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorizes the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to extend an
Agreement with Metro/Yellow Transportation, Northern Yellow, and Union Taxi Inc., to provide Accessa-Cab services. In addition, it is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to add Green Taxi Cooperative as a new provider for the Access-a-Cab program.
BACKGROUND
In March of 1997, the RTD Board of Directors introduced the Access-a-Cab program to our Access-aRide program participants. The program offers flexibility in transportation services for individuals with
disabilities. Passengers would be permitted to schedule same day trips with Metro/Yellow
Transportation, Northern Yellow, Union Taxi, and Green Taxi.
The subsidized Access-a-Cab program has proved to be very popular. Trips that are taken using the
Access-a-Cab service involve a smaller RTD subsidy per ride than trips taken on the regular Access-aRide service. All persons using Access-a-Cab are certified as eligible to use our Paratransit service. Trips
taken by those passengers on the regular Access-a-Ride service costs RTD an average of $49.00 per
trip, as opposed to$12.00. At the current meter rates, RTD’s subsidy allows passengers to travel an
average of 4 miles. Passengers are responsible for covering any charges beyond a $14.00 fare.
DISCUSSION
During 2016, Access-a-Cab provided 175,797 cab trips at a cost to the District of $2,109,564. Those
same trips on Access-a-Ride would have cost the District approximately, $8,614,053. Funding for the
Access-a-Cab service is budgeted annually based on ridership and anticipated demand.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funds for the Access-a-Cab service are included in the 2018 recommended budget. Funds for Access-aCab service in future years will be requested as part of the budget process.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Approve the recommended action for the Access-a-Cab program.
2. Do not approve the recommended action for the Access-a-Cab program and attempt to absorb
the increase in ridership onto the Access-a-Ride program at an increased subsidy per boarding.
This alternative is not recommended.

Packet Pg. 96

1.B.2

Prepared by:
Larry Buter, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 97

1.B.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: October 11, 2017

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 6, 2017

Board Meeting Date: October 24, 2017

Subject:

Approval for Budget Transfer to Accommodate
Demand Shift of Access-a-Cab Service

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize a budget transfer in the amount of $505,000 from Yellow Cab Access-a-Cab service to Metro
Taxi Access-a-Cab service and Union Taxi Access-a-Cab service in the amounts of $340,000 and
$165,000 respectively to adjust for the shift in customer demand for these services in 2017.
BACKGROUND:
RTD currently has agreements with three (3) taxi providers, Yellow Cab, Metro Taxi, and Union Taxi, to
provide Access-a-Cab services for ADA eligible customers. In February, 2017, Yellow Cab sold a portion
of its operation to Metro Taxi, which included a number of the Yellow Cab taxi cabs. Since that time,
Yellow Cab has limited its operation to providing Access-a-Cab service only in the northern parts of the
RTD District (Boulder and Longmont). Consequently, Metro Taxi and Union Taxi have been picking up
the additional Access-a-Cab service demands in the Metro area.
DISCUSSION:
When preparing the 2017 recommended budget, RTD staff was not aware of the pending agreement
between Yellow Cab and Metro Taxi. The budget was prepared using projected service demands based
on historical data. In the months following the sale of operations/vehicles between Yellow Cab and
Metro Taxi, the number of Access-a-Cab trips operated by Yellow Cab dropped substantially, and the
number of Access-a-Cab trips operated by Metro Taxi and Union Taxi increased substantially. Although
the total number of trips to be performed in 2017 is still within the projected total for 2017, it is
necessary to shift funds from the Yellow Cab budget account into the Metro Taxi and Union Taxi budget
accounts in order to pay for services through the end of 2017.
FINANCIAL IMPACT:
There is no financial impact. This action simply provides authorization to move funds from one budget
account to other budget accounts.
ALTERNATIVES:
1. Approve the recommended action item so that funds will be available to pay invoices for Metro
Taxi and Union Taxi Access-a-Cab services through the end of 2017.
2. Do not approve the budget transfer. This course of action is not recommended as it will not allow
RTD to pay for Access-a-Cab services provided by Metro Taxi and Union Taxi.

Prepared by:
Larry Buter, Manager
Carolyn Conover, Senior Manager, Contracted Services

Packet Pg. 98

1.B.3

Approved by:

Packet Pg. 99

1.B.4

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: October 11, 2017

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 6, 2017

Board Meeting Date: October 24, 2017

Subject:

Approval to Extend Travel Training Contract

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to exercise option years one and two of the Via Mobility
Services Contract 16DH048 for the provision of Travel Training services. The cost of the two one-year
option years shall not exceed $265,700. The total cost of Contract 16DH048 shall not exceed
$399,740.
BACKGROUND
In March, 2017, RTD entered into a Contract with Via Mobility Services to provide Travel Training
services. The program is designed to train individuals with disabilities to use fixed route services for one
or more trips in lieu of using ADA paratransit services, Access-a-Ride. Via Mobility Services, an
established ADA paratransit service provider and nationally recognized travel training pioneer, has
provided travel training services for Access-a-Ride customers for several years. With the current
contract, Via has been focusing its attention on Access-a-Ride passengers who voluntarily agree to
participate. Unfortunately, the participation has been lower than desireable. Consequently, RTD staff is
working to re-design the travel training program to better use the available resources and have a greater
impact on Access-a-Ride service. Due to complexity of the program redesign and the desire to fully
engage the disability community, we are seeking the authority to extend the current Travel Training
Contract by two years in order to facilitate the program’s redesign. The redesign should improve the
effectiveness of the travel training program in terms of transitioning passengers from Access-a-Ride to
fixed-route service.
DISCUSSION
During 2018 and 2019, staff will work with the ADA Paratransit Advisory Committee (APAC) in order to
modify the approach of Travel Training. In the redesigned Travel Training program, Access-a-Ride
customers will be trained to use fixed-route service so that Access-a-Ride can potentially incorporate a
fixed-route service component into an Access-a-Ride passenger’s trip. For example: Access-a-Ride will
pick up a passenger at their home, transport them to a Park-n-Ride where the individual will transfer to a
fixed-route bus. Then, Access-a-Ride will meet them at the tail end of that trip and transport them to
their final destination. The APAC members have agreed to this service concept and to share their
recommendations for the new travel training design. This two-year extension of the current Travel
Training Contract will provide RTD staff adequate time to fully analyze and develop the Scope of Work
for the modified Travel Training and will allow individuals to continue to receive Travel Training services
through 2019.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funds for 2018 have been included in the proposed 2018 budget. Subsequent funding for 2019 will
be requested in the proposed 2019 budget.

Packet Pg. 100

1.B.4

ALTERNATIVES
1. Approve the recommended action to extend the Travel Training Contract.
2. Do not approve the recommended action to extend the Travel Training Contract. This will
eliminate the Travel Training program. This alternative is not recommended.

Prepared by:
Larry Buter, Manager
Carolyn Conover, Senior Manager, Contracted Services
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 101

1.B.5

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: October 11, 2017

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 6, 2017

Board Meeting Date: October 24, 2017

Subject:

Approval of Budget Transfer between Accessa-Ride Service Providers

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to transfer budgeted funds totaling $1,120,030.00 from
MV Transportation (Contract 13-DH-053) and Via Mobility Services (Contract 13-DH-055) to All Aboard
Transit (Contract 13-DH-054) and Transdev On Demand (Contract 13-DH-035) to account for changes
in Access-a-Ride service delivery during the period of January 1, 2017 through September 30,2017.
Funds will be transferred from the MV Transportation fuel line item ($240,000.00), from the Via Mobility
service line item ($672,030.00) and from Via Mobility fuel line item ($208,000.00) and will be
transferred to All Aboard Transit (290,000.00) and TransDev Mobility on Demand ($830,030.00).
BACKGROUND
As the Board is aware, during late 2016 and into 2017, the Denver Metro region experienced a low
unemployment rate. This, along with other factors, impacted the ability our contracted service
providers, including our Access-a-Ride contractors, to hire qualified operators. This had a negative
impact on Access-a-Ride’s ability to operate all scheduled driver manifests without significant amounts
of last minute adjustments and also negatively impacted Access-a-Ride on-time service delivery. As a
result, RTD re-bid the provision of Access-a-Ride service rather than execute options to continue existing
service provision contracts. As a result of this environment and the competitive procurement process,
two things occurred, 1) there was a shift in demand from the then-existing service providers to Yellow
Cab (TransDev on Demand) who was not as severely impacted by the hiring challenges as were our
other service providers, and 2) there was a change in service providers effective October 1, 2017 as a
result of the procurement process.
Due to these changes it is necessary to reallocate and transfer funds among our various Access-a-Ride
service providers in order to account for the changes in the service delivery patterns realized during the
early parts of 2017 as well as to pay for contract close-out and transition costs not initially anticipated
when the 2017 budget was initially prepared and subsequently amended. This reallocation of funding is
due to the fact that All Aboard Transit is not continuing as an Access-a-Ride service provider and All
Aboard and RTD have negotiated mutually agreed close out and transition costs, and TransDev on
Demand has picked up much of the work that MV, VIA and All Aboard were not able to provide in the
early months of 2017 and was thus operating at a level in excess of that originally anticipated.
DISCUSSION
The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) requires that public entities operating a fixed route system
also provide paratransit service to individuals with disabilities that is comparable to the level of service
provided to individuals without disabilities. RTD adheres to the U.S. Department of Transportation, Part
37 regulations (Transportation for Individuals with Disabilities) which regulate paratransit services. This
includes having zero trip denials. RTD is required to provide all of the Access-a-Ride trips that are
requested each day. The ability to shift trips from our dedicated vehicle providers to Transdev On
Demand (our non-dedicated vehicle provider) has enabled RTD to meet the demand for ADA paratransit

Packet Pg. 102

1.B.5

service on a daily basis. This in turn ensured that RTD was in compliance with ADA requirements and
that we continued to meet the needs of our passengers.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no financial impact as the funds are simply being transferred between existing Access-a-Ride
service accounts. No additional funds are being requested.
ALTERNATIVES:
1. Approve the budget transfer from the MV Transportation and Via Mobility Services accounts to
the Transdev On Demand and All Aboard Transit accounts. This is the recommended alternative.
2. Do not approve the budget transfer from the MV Transportation and Via Mobility Services
accounts to the Transdev On Demand account and All Aboard Transit accounts. This course of
action is not recommended as it will not allow RTD to pay for Access-a-Ride services provided by
Transdev On Demand nor the transition costs incurred by All Aboard Transit.

Prepared by:
Larry Buter, Manager
Carolyn Conover, Senior Manager, Contracted Services
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 103

1.B.6

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: October 9, 2017

From:

Terry Emmons, Assistant General Manager,
Rail Operations

GM

Date:

October 9, 2017

Board Meeting Date: October 24, 2017

Subject:

Purchase of Platform Hyrail Truck

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into a contract for $612,700 dollars with
Geismar MTM for purchase of a platform Hyrail truck (Contract Number 17DR002).
BACKGROUND:
RTD’s overhead wire infrastructure is aging on existing corridors. Acquiring a platform truck will improve
Maintenance of Way’s (MOW) ability to perform inspections and repairs to the overhead wire, allowing
MOW to maintain a state of good repair. Currently MOW utilizes small bucket trucks to perform
inspections and repairs. If a major incident occurs involving the overhead wire or if a section is found to
be out of compliance, then MOW is required to use multiple trucks to make the repair. Acquisition of a
platform truck will allow MOW to minimize the number of trucks on the track and allow more employees
to work on the repairs. Minimizing the number of trucks on the track increase safety as there is reduced
risk to vehicle collisions. Typically wire repairs use 3-4 trucks (boom trucks and bucket trucks),
depending on the repair the use of a hyrail platform truck could reduce that number by 2-3.
DISCUSSION:
RTD issued a Request for Proposals (RFP 17DR002) on May 17, 2017. The criteria to evaluate were
cost- 50%, conformance with specifications- 30%, history and proven track record with this equipment10%, and quality of references- 10%. RTD’s evaluation committee consisted of Karl Shoemaker, MOW
Senior Supervisor, Track Engineer; Brian Farris, Manager of MOW; Robbie Hunter, Senior Equipment
Engineer; and Leo Fautsch, Senior Buyer.
RTD received three proposals; one from Geismar MTM, one from Diversified Product Development LLC,
and one from Autotruck Group. The evaluation committee recommends Geismar MTM, the proposer that
met our specification.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The cost of the platform truck is funded in the Board approved 2017 RTD budget.
ALTERNATIVES
1. It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into a contract for $612,700 dollars with
Geismar MTM for purchase of a platform Hyrail truck (Contract Number 17DR002). This is the
recommended alternative.
2. Do not authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute a contract with Geismar MTM to
purchase needed platform truck. This action would result in RTD’s continued use of multiple
trucks to repair the overhead wire. This is not the recommended action as it would not allow us
to improve efficiency, safety and service.

Packet Pg. 104

1.B.6

Prepared by:
Mike Smith, Senior Administrative Assistant
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 105

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: October 11, 2017

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 5, 2017

Board Meeting Date: October 17, 2017

Subject:

Lost Service Hours Update 10 17 17

ATTACHMENTS:


Lost Service Hours 10 17 17

(XLSX)

Prepared by:
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 106

1.C.1.a

Lost service hours review
weekday hours

2013
Jan-13
Feb-13
Mar-13
Apr-13
May-13
Jun-13
Jul-13
Aug-13
Sep-13
Oct-13
Nov-13
Dec-13
total
2014
Jan-14
Feb-14
Mar-14
Apr-14
May-14
Jun-14
Jul-14
Aug-14
Sep-14
Oct-14
Nov-14
Dec-14
total
2015
Jan-15
Feb-15
Mar-15
Apr-15
May-15
Jun-15
Jul-15
Aug-15
Sep-15
Oct-15
Nov-15
Dec-15
total
2016
Jan-16
Feb-16
Mar-16
Apr-16
May-16
Jun-16
Jul-16
Aug-16
Sep-16
Oct-16
Nov-16
Dec-16
total
note:

note:

rtd
missed runs

pullout delay

5714.00 wkday
subtotal %

rtd & contractor
missed runs
pullout delay

10218.00 wkday
total
%

0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00

1.20
1.32
1.17
0.49
0.49
0.46
0.46
0.00
0.54
0.00
0.00
0.00
6.13

1.20
1.32
1.17
0.49
0.49
0.46
0.46
0.00
0.54
0.00
0.00
0.00
6.13

1.33E-05
1.47E-05
1.3E-05
5.44E-06
5.44E-06
5.11E-06
5.11E-06
0
5.99E-06
0
0
0

0.00
2.40
0.00
0.00
0.28
0.00
0.00
0.44
0.00
0.00
0.00
2.42
5.54

8.26
6.09
3.24
5.51
5.54
3.31
3.52
3.02
7.58
3.00
7.10
5.19
61.36

8.26
8.49
3.24
5.51
5.82
3.31
3.52
3.46
7.58
3.00
7.10
7.61
66.90

7.23E-05
7.43E-05
2.84E-05
4.82E-05
5.09E-05
2.9E-05
3.08E-05
3.03E-05
6.63E-05
2.63E-05
6.21E-05
6.66E-05

0.00
2.40
0.00
0.00
0.28
0.00
0.00
0.44
0.00
0.00
0.00
2.42
5.54

9.46
7.41
4.41
6.00
6.03
3.77
3.98
3.02
8.12
3.00
7.10
5.19
67.49

9.46
9.81
4.41
6.00
6.31
3.77
3.98
3.46
8.12
3.00
7.10
7.61
73.03

0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00

0.27
0.39
1.06
0.17
0.14
0.59
0.36
2.20
0.08
0.10
1.13
1.23
7.72

0.27
0.39
1.06
0.17
0.14
0.59
0.36
2.20
0.08
0.10
1.13
1.23
7.72

3E-06
4.33E-06
1.18E-05
1.89E-06
1.55E-06
6.55E-06
4E-06
2.44E-05
8.88E-07
1.11E-06
1.25E-05
1.37E-05

2.10
12.27
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
2.47
0.00
0.00
0.00
16.84

12.16
12.05
4.03
8.05
3.59
4.49
3.42
7.19
6.59
7.27
8.11
7.40
84.35

14.26 0.000125
24.32 0.000213
4.03 3.53E-05
8.05 7.04E-05
3.59 3.14E-05
4.49 3.93E-05
3.42 2.99E-05
7.19 6.29E-05
9.06 7.93E-05
7.27 6.36E-05
8.11
7.1E-05
7.40 6.48E-05
101.19

2.10
12.27
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
2.47
0.00
0.00
0.00
16.84

12.43
12.44
5.09
8.22
3.73
5.08
3.78
9.39
6.67
7.37
9.24
8.63
92.07

14.53 7.11E-05
24.71 0.000121
5.09 2.49E-05
8.22 4.02E-05
3.73 1.83E-05
5.08 2.49E-05
3.78 1.85E-05
9.39 4.59E-05
9.14 4.47E-05
7.37 3.61E-05
9.24 4.52E-05
8.63 4.22E-05
108.91

0.00
0.44
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
9.11
23.48
54.09
93.55
385.21
264.07
829.95

0.37
1.22
0.27
2.19
1.31
0.51
9.11
16.56
19.51
38.49
91.16
100.33
281.03

0.37
1.66
0.27
2.19
1.31
0.51
18.22
40.04
73.60
132.04
476.37
364.40
1110.98

4.11E-06
1.84E-05
3E-06
2.43E-05
1.45E-05
5.66E-06
0.000202
0.000444
0.000817
0.001466
0.005288
0.004045

1.49
0.00
0.00
1.37
5.22
2.20
7.43
0.00
15.14
1.24
30.23
77.25
141.57

8.15
9.38
7.16
7.28
8.41
5.16
16.58
9.55
5.50
16.47
11.08
35.32
140.04

9.64
9.38
7.16
8.65
13.63
7.36
24.01
9.55
20.64
17.71
41.31
112.57
281.61

8.44E-05
8.21E-05
6.27E-05
7.57E-05
0.000119
6.44E-05
0.00021
8.36E-05
0.000181
0.000155
0.000361
0.000985

1.49
0.44
0.00
1.37
5.22
2.20
16.54
23.48
69.23
94.79
415.44
341.32
971.52

8.52
10.60
7.43
9.47
9.72
5.67
25.69
26.11
25.01
54.96
102.24
135.65
421.07

10.01
11.04
7.43
10.84
14.94
7.87
42.23
49.59
94.24
149.75
517.68
476.97
1392.59

4.9E-05
5.4E-05
3.64E-05
5.3E-05
7.31E-05
3.85E-05
0.000207
0.000243
0.000461
0.000733
0.002533
0.002334

210.12
522.58
794.17
27.30
27.08
7.13
1.50
18.26
273.44
508.47
288.29
402.13
3080.47

61.15
56.12
22.57
15.59
12.02
9.14
6.17
9.22
79.36
134.03
64.51
86.29
556.17

271.27
578.70
816.74
42.89
39.10
16.27
7.67
27.48
352.80
642.50
352.80
488.42
3636.64

0.003011
0.006424
0.009067
0.000476
0.000434
0.000181
8.51E-05
0.000305
0.003917
0.007133
0.003917
0.005422

90.12
353.01
297.34
126.16
38.56
84.22
89.34
45.37
36.04
99.36
20.58
83.30
1363.40

41.03
41.22
13.41
9.11
11.21
17.01
6.28
7.35
10.34
4.54
8.14
14.49
184.13

131.15
394.23
310.75
135.27
49.77
101.23
95.62
52.72
46.38
103.90
28.72
97.79
1547.53

0.001148
0.00345
0.002719
0.001184
0.000436
0.000886
0.000837
0.000461
0.000406
0.000909
0.000251
0.000856

300.24
875.59
1091.51
153.46
65.64
91.35
90.84
63.63
309.48
607.83
308.87
485.43
4443.87

102.18
97.34
35.98
24.70
23.23
26.15
12.45
16.57
89.70
138.57
72.65
100.78
740.30

402.42
972.93
1127.49
178.16
88.87
117.50
103.29
80.20
399.18
746.40
381.52
586.21
5184.17

0.001969
0.004761
0.005517
0.000872
0.000435
0.000575
0.000505
0.000392
0.001953
0.003652
0.001867
0.002869

February 2016 hours attributable to Feb1-3 snowstorm:
february 2016 lost hours excluding snowstorm

2017
Jan-17
Feb-17
Mar-17
Apr-17
May-17
Jun-17
Jul-17
Aug-17
Sep-17
Oct-17
Nov-17
Dec-17
total

4504.00 wkday
subtotal %

125.23
173.27
66.35
97.38
100.40
58.58
174.28
468.39
811.88

46.37
44.53
31.26
9.15
26.04
22.09
93.51
237.01
362.40

2075.76

872.36

171.60
217.80
97.61
106.53
126.44
80.67
267.79
705.40
1174.28
0.00
0.00
0.00
2948.12

0.001905
0.002418
0.001084
0.001183
0.001404
0.000896
0.002973
0.007831
0.013036
0
0
0

February 2016 hours attributable to Feb1-3 snowstorm:
february 2016 lost hours excluding snowstorm

4.63E-05
4.8E-05
2.16E-05
2.94E-05
3.09E-05
1.84E-05
1.95E-05
1.69E-05
3.97E-05
1.47E-05
3.47E-05
3.72E-05

443.00
529.93

78.00
28.58
174.42
52.53
32.51
97.07
34.08
49.06
335.58

21.16
51.27
11.41
22.55
26.21
25.39
13.41
20.35
58.35

881.83

250.10

99.16
79.85
185.83
75.08
58.72
122.46
47.49
69.41
393.93
0.00
0.00
0.00
1131.93

0.000868
0.000699
0.001626
0.000657
0.000514
0.001072
0.000416
0.000607
0.003447
0
0
0

203.23
201.85
240.77
149.91
132.91
155.65
208.36
517.45
1147.46
0.00
0.00
0.00
2957.59
#VALUE!
#VALUE!

67.53
95.80
42.67
31.70
52.25
47.48
106.92
257.36
420.75
0.00
0.00
0.00
1122.46

270.76
297.65
283.44
181.61
185.16
203.13
315.28
774.81
1568.21
0.00
0.00
0.00
4080.05

0.001325
0.001456
0.001387
0.000889
0.000906
0.000994
0.001543
0.003791
0.007674
0
0
0

Attachment: Lost Service Hours 10 17 17 (3277 : Lost Service Hours Update 10 17 17)

contractor
missed runs
pullout delay

443.00
529.93

Packet Pg. 107

1.C.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: October 10, 2017

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 5, 2017

Board Meeting Date: October 17, 2017

Subject:

Asset Management & ISO Update 10 17 17

ATTACHMENTS:


Asset Management & ISO Update 10 17 17

(PPTX)

Prepared by:
Lou Cripps,
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 108

Asset Management and ISO 55000
Informational Briefing for
RTD Board of Directors
October 17th, 2017

Attachment: Asset Management & ISO Update 10 17 17 (3278 : Asset Management & ISO Update 10 17 17)

1.C.2.a

Packet Pg. 109

Asset-intensive organizations and Asset Management
Attachment: Asset Management & ISO Update 10 17 17 (3278 : Asset Management & ISO Update 10 17 17)

1.C.2.a

Packet Pg. 110

FTA Requires Asset Management
Attachment: Asset Management & ISO Update 10 17 17 (3278 : Asset Management & ISO Update 10 17 17)

1.C.2.a

Packet Pg. 111

Integrating key organizational functions
Responding to
stakeholder needs
Driven by RTD
priorities
Based around better
strategies and plans
Smarter decisionmaking at all levels
Understanding our
business risks
Supported by building
effective capabilities

Attachment: Asset Management & ISO Update 10 17 17 (3278 : Asset Management & ISO Update 10 17 17)

1.C.2.a

Packet Pg. 112

The roadmap is now underway

Interview functional
groups

Compare against ISO
55000, develop roadmap

Implement Roadmap
to ISO certification

Complete

Complete

Underway

Attachment: Asset Management & ISO Update 10 17 17 (3278 : Asset Management & ISO Update 10 17 17)

1.C.2.a

Packet Pg. 113

Asset Management and ISO 55000
Informational Briefing for
RTD Board of Directors
October 17th, 2017

Attachment: Asset Management & ISO Update 10 17 17 (3278 : Asset Management & ISO Update 10 17 17)

1.C.2.a

Packet Pg. 114

