Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 14, 2009
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

April 14, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 14, 2009 at
4:00 p.m.
****

Board
Members Present:
Board
Members Absent:

Chair Juanita Chacon, Vice-Chair Chris Martinez, Director Bagley,
Director Brohl, Director Kemp, Director McMullen, Director O’Boyle
Director Busck, Director Christopher, Director Cohen, Director Daly,
Director James, Director Pulliam, Director Tayer, Director Tobiassen

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Rick Clarke, Phil Washington, Kenn Hardin, Michael
Washington, Jerry Nery, Brian Middleton, Martell Dyles, Johanna
Medina, Ty Perry, Caitlin Magee, Adrina Gibson

Others present:

Jeff Leib (The Denver Post)
****

Call to Order
I.

Director Chacon called the meeting to order at 4:06 p.m.

Public Private Partnership (PPPs)/Eagle P3 Project - Chair Chacon thanked Brian Middleton for
answering the Board’s questions regarding the P3 Project. Chair Chacon expressed concern
about sending a very strong message regarding DBE/SBE participation. Mr. Middleton
mentioned that in July 2008, there was a public forum introducing the proposal teams to the
business community. At that time it was expressed to the teams that DBE/SBE would be a
very important part of the proposal. Both Brian and Rick Clarke have been working to reach
out the DBE/SBE community and have given presentations at many different organizations and
continue to do this as the Small Business Opportunity Office gets requests for them to present.
What are the important elements of the contract, the evaluation criteria? 50% of the points
are related to cost, another 10% for robustness of financial proposal, faith that the proposer
can actually deliver,
40% for other matters broken down into these areas: technical
approach, quality of the operations maintenance plan (safety), how all the parts will be put
together (operations, maintenance, infrastructure) quality of team and approach (ability to
deliver project on time and on budget and the quality of key personnel). Director Chacon
asked if in our contracts we ensure that the people we give them points for being part of the
team stay. Mr. Middleton responded that yes, if the contract removes someone without the
District approval that is part of the team, they must pay $100,000 and the District has to
approve the replacement.

Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 14, 2009
Page 2 of 4

Director Martinez expressed an idea of having an incentive program to ensure cohesiveness in
a team and keeping the key personnel. Cal Marsella said one incentive is being paid the
contract and expressed concern about adding another cost item to the contract. Director
Martinez said maybe the incentive could be for a period of a year as he realizes that people will
come and go. Rick Clarke said he felt that the penalties that are in the contract really protect
the District. Brian Middleton said it might create a balance to put in a clause that if they keep
the team together for two years they could get a bonus of $100,000.
Director Chacon also expressed concern about the DBE/SBE component and making sure that
the DBE/SBE teams that are included in the proposal are really the ones that get the work.
Brian Middleton said that the last element under the quality of the team is incorporating
DBE/SBE. Cal Marsella said goals will be set according to the type of work and the availability
of DBE/SBE companies to perform the work. Typically goals for this kind of project have been
running about 18-21%. This part of the contract will be worth 10 points. Rick Clarke said
that the price element of the contract is so heavily weighted because of the financial pressures
and funding shortfall for FasTracks. Last five points are tied into value added, areas where the
contractor might go above and beyond. Failure to comply with the DBE/SBE component could
result in termination of the contract. Director Chacon felt that this wasn’t strong enough that
someone could still work around it. She still wants a really strong statement regarding the
commitment to DBE/SBE.
Brian Middleton said that none of the teams have pushed back on the DBE/SBE goal. They all
understand how important this is and their commitment to it.
Phil Washington said that RTD had a very good reputation around the country and that we set
aggressive DBE/SBE goals and we follow up on the compliance. Not only are we pressing jobs
for the DBE/SBE goals but we are pushing creation of lots of local jobs.
Director Kemp said how we are creating our own stimulus by creating our own jobs. For every
dollar spent we are bringing $6 back into the local economy. Once the West Corridor is fully
up and operational there will be $10 million going into that economy.
Cal Marsella said we need to really make more public the amount of jobs that will be created
by FasTracks. This really is a stimulus.
Kenn Hardin addressed the goals for the P3 RFP. The design piece is 19%, construction piece
is 20%. These are very aggressive goals. There is a section of the project that goes from
Pecos to DUS that will be utilizing local funds and that will be a SBE project, of that piece the
SBE goal is: design is 19% and construction is 18%.
Third piece is Operation and
Maintenance (that goes for 40 years) with an established SBE goal of 17%, looking at it in
increments of five years. This gives companies some long term opportunities. Kenn said these
are aggressive goals and he feels they are achievable.
Director Martinez asked how many jobs will be created by FasTracks. Rick Clarke said he
would have to pull the numbers on that. Director Martinez requested that be sent to the entire
Board.

Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 14, 2009
Page 3 of 4

Cal Marsella said that one reason the DBE/SBE goals can be so aggressive is because we have
so many firms that are certified. The Small Business Opportunity Office has worked very hard
to certify a large number of firms.
Director Bagley expressed concern about public outreach. Mr. Hardin shared that he had
appeared on a morning news program and they were inundated with calls.
Mr. Hardin mentioned a meeting that he had with CDOT and the City and County of Denver
and both entities were mentioning an increase in the amount of applications to get certified.
Phil Washington said the gauge is the goals that we set. When we first went out, the goals
were around 7% and now that we have more firms certified, the goals can increase.
Director Kemp asked how many certified DBEs we have. Kenn Hardin responded that we have
600 DBEs in house and CDOT and City and County of Denver have a database of 900.
II.

DBE/SBE Program Overview - Phil Washington introduced the Small Business Opportunity
Office staff. DBE is a Federal program governed by the Department of Transportation. There
are guidelines to this program that we have to adhere to because it is looked at to obtain Full
Funding Grants. A DBE must be 51% owned and operated by one or more socially
disadvantaged individuals and certified by CDOT and the City and County of Denver. Ninety
percent of the DBEs on FasTracks are local. We cannot give preference to local companies
because the funding comes from the Federal level.
Director McMullen spoke about the downside of this program, is there a downside to the
program, if the goals aren’t met, do you lose money? Mr. Washington said there is a good
faith clause in the program that if a contractor is not meeting the goal, they can submit a good
faith application showing the ways in which they tried to meet the goal. The SBOO office is
available to help contractors meet the goal.
Phil Washington said that we have a compliance officer that is working to correct problems
“on the ground.” There are corrective measures in place to help corporations make their goals.
Director Brohl asked about procedure, once a DBE gets certified what does RTD do to help
them get work? Do we broker deals? Phil Washington responded that not everyone is going
to get work. There are outreach events all over the District to let companies know of the
opportunity. Cal Marsella said that sometimes primes will come to us asking for DBE firms and
then we will provide the list so they can solicit them directly. The District is not actively
involved in brokering deals as that would show favoritism.
SBE program mirrors the DBE program in that 51% ownership has a net worth of $750,000
or less and doesn’t exceed SBA size standard. SBE program is race and gender neutral it is
specifically about economics. RTD has established categories within the SBE program.
Category 1 – companies with gross receipts between zero and $1 million, Category 2 – 1
million to $5 million, Category 3 $5 million - $10 million and Category 4 - $10 million and
above. The reason for that is to have an opportunity for a level playing field. When Kenn
Hardin sets a goal for SBE, he looks at those categories to help determine the goal.

Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 14, 2009
Page 4 of 4

III.

RTD Contracts – Participation Summary - Kenn Hardin spoke to this and distributed a
handout. The handout is available in the DBE Meeting Minutes Notebook. This handout
summarizes the RTD contracts with goals that the SBOO monitors. We have a total award of
$53, 747,839.75. There was a D/SBE goal of 15% and the To Date Prime Commitment is
43%. Total performance with SBE/DBE is 59%.

IV.

FasTracks

Contracts – Participation Summary - Ty Perry presented this item. A handout was
distributed summarizing contracts on FasTracks. The handout is available in the DBE
Meeting Minutes Notebook. Any firms not meeting their goals will be brought in at
25%, 50% and 75% of contract completion for monitoring. Director Chacon wanted to
know if there were any penalties for not being in compliance. Mr. Perry responded that
yes there are. Staff is proposing to withhold payments if they are not meeting goal.
One of the highlights is of 90% participation of Local D/SBE’s contract amount on
FasTracks.


West Corridor - Rick Clarke addressed this. Everyone at FasTracks takes the DBE/SBE
goals very seriously. There will be another reinforcement meeting very soon. West
Corridor is ready to go with full construction. No relaxing of the DBE goal – 18% must
be set. The District wants a good price and good DBE. The Committee suggested
working with contractors so that they can really spread the news about available work.
Staff has to be out there early and often to verify compliance. Staff is going to meet
quarterly with the prime and the DBE community. The Board is welcome to attend
these meetings.



Denver Union Station (DUS) - This item was tabled until the next DBE Committee
meeting.



Vendor Payments - This item was tabled until the next DBE Committee meeting.

V.

Contractor Communication Protocol – Staff reviewed the communication protocol for
contractors. First they should speak with the Project Manager and then the chain would go
Rick Clarke, Cal Marsella, and then Board. Staff suggested that the Board make sure
contractors have gone through the chain of command and allow staff a chance to fix
problems. Director Chacon suggested giving a matrix to the Board on how to handle the
communication.

VI.

Managing Expectations -This item was tabled until the next DBE Committee meeting.

VII.

Committee Meeting Content Moving Forward – The DBE Committee will meet monthly on the
evenings of the Study Session.

VIII.

Adjourn – Hearing no objection Chair Chacon adjourned the meeting at 5:27 p.m.

