Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 17, 2012, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 1 of 6
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of
Directors

Date:

May 17, 2012

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 17,
2012 at 12:00 a.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room
***
Board Members Present:
Chair Kemp; 1st Vice-Chair Tayer, 2nd-Vice-Chair
Cohen, Treasurer Bagley
Other Board Members
Present:
Subject:

Board Member Absent:
Others Present:
Call to Order:

Secretary Malpiede
Paula Perdue, General Manager Washington,
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 12:00
p.m.

I.
Approval of May Board Review
General Manager Washington introduced this item. Chair Kemp noted a
discrepancy in the quantity of buses listed in the resolution report to use the
proceeds from a tax-exempt obligation… (47) from the quantity listed on the board
report to award contract to supply 48 intercity buses and requested correction.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move
the May Board Meeting Agenda before
the full Board at the regular Board
meeting on 5/22/12.
Director Cohen seconded the motion.

Vote on the
Motion:


The Motion PASSED.

Unanimous Consent


August2012 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that the Board of Directors approve moving the proposed August2012

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 17, 2012, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 2 of 6
Service Changes (Attachment A) on to public review and comment.


Award of “Evergreen call-n-Ride” Demand Response Services
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager,
or his designee, to enter into a contract with the Seniors’ Resource
Center for the provision of the “Evergreen Call-n-Ride” contracted
demand response transit services. This contract is for one year for an
amount not to exceed $535,356 with four (4) one-year options in the
amounts of $543,567 (option year 1), $559,603 (option year 2),
$576,133 (option year 3) and $593,158 (option year 4), for a total
five year amount not to exceed $2,807,817. These costs are based
on an hourly rate and include estimated fuel costs, which will be
treated as a “pass-through” (RTD will reimburse the Contractor’s
direct fuel costs). This proposal represents the most responsive and
responsible proposal received in response to Request for Proposals
(RFP) 12-DO-001, to provide “Evergreen Call-n-Ride” Public
Transportation Services. The contract to provide this service is
scheduled to begin June 1, 2012.



Route 15/15Ltd Colfax Avenue Transit Priority Project
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager,
or his designee, to enter into a contract with Apex Design for the
study and preliminary and final design and engineering for Phases 1 &
2 of the Colfax Avenue/RTD Route 15/15Ltd Transit Priority Corridor
pilot program in an amount not to exceed $500,000.



Award Contract to Supply48-45’ Intercity Buses to Replace 14-Year
Old 1998 – MCI buses
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager to award the contract to Motor Coach Industries (MCI) for
the purchase of 48 - 45’ intercity buses and associated spare
components to replace RTD’s existing 14-year old 1998 Model Year
MCI buses.



Architectural / Engineering Contract with Short Elliot Hendrickson
(SEH), Contract 11 DO-025 - Contract Amendment.
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager
to amend contract 11 DO-025 with SEH to allow for additional
architectural / engineering design services in the amount of
$1,500,000 for a new, not-to-exceed contract amount of
$2,000,000. Work is administered on an as-needed, work order
basis. The amended amount is to be funded by the Civic Center
Rehabilitation project.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 17, 2012, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 3 of 6


Adoption of 2013 Performance Measures
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors adopt the attached 2013
Performance Measures for Goals 1-7.



Presentation of 2011 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report
(bound copy enclosed) and Report to Governance
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors accept and enter into the
record the District’s audited financial reports relating to the year ended
December 31, 2011 as prepared by Staff and audited by the District's
independent auditor, RubinBrown, LLP.



Resolution No. ___, Series of 2012 declaring the intent of the District
to use proceeds from a tax-exempt obligation in the form of a lease
purchase agreement to reimburse itself for certain capital
expenditures made in connection with the acquisition of buses
and other transit equipment
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors approve the attached
Resolution Number __ (the “Reimbursement Resolution”), declaring the
intent of the District to use proceeds from a tax-exempt obligation in
the form of a lease purchase agreement to reimburse itself for certain
capital expenditures made in connection with the acquisition of buses
and other transit equipment.



State Legislative Liaison Services
It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an
agreement
(for
state
legislative
liaison
services)
with
Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BMPA) to exercise a one-year
option (July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013) to extend Contract No.
17-DX-001, at a cost of $107,000, pursuant to the Contract Award
agreement.



Eagle P3 Property Acquisition
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors pass the attached property acquisition resolution
certifying certain additional properties as necessary for construction
of the Eagle P3 Commuter Rail Project and the associated Commuter
Rail Maintenance Facility and authorizing staff to proceed with all
requisite legal process under state eminent domain law.



Grant of Easement for Roof Overhang Encroachment and Trellis
Encroachment over RTD owned property at 18th and Wynkoop
Street, near Denver Union Station, 1701 Wynkoop Street, City and

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 17, 2012, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 4 of 6
County of Denver, Colorado
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his
designee to execute all documents necessary to convey a nonexclusive easement allowing for the roof overhang encroachment of
the adjacent office and retail building to be constructed by North Wing
Building Venture, LLC containing approximately 1,096 square feet
allowing the roof overhang and trellis to encroach onto property
owned by RTD to be developed as a sidewalk near the intersection of
18th Street and Wynkoop Street, near Denver Union Station at 1701
Wynkoop Street, City and County of Denver, Colorado.




Authorization for the Conveyance of Property, Acquisition of
Property, and Participation in a Condominium Association for the
Boulder Transit Village and Depot Square
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee
to negotiate and execute all documents necessary to (i) convey
property interests in the RTD property to Pederson Development
Company LLC (“Pederson”), or its approved assignee, in order to
effectuate the development of the Boulder Junction TOD as provided
in the authorizing resolution attached as Exhibit A; (ii) terminate all
remaining rights and obligations between RTD and the City of Boulder
pursuant to the Boulder Transit Village Land Acquisition Funding
Agreement, executed 4/29/2002 as amended, and the Boulder Transit
Village Master and Site Planning and Preliminary Construction
Agreement executed 12/31/2007; (iii) authorize an increase in the
contract amount of the design build contract previously awarded to
Adolfson & Peterson Construction (“A&P”) and Pedersen by Board
action on September 20, 2011 (the “D/B Contract”) of up to
$830,873.00 (the amount of the proceeds from the transfer of
property rights to Pederson); and (iv) amend the scope of the DesignBuild Contract to provide that A&P / Pederson will provide RTD with a
single level of parking in the shared parking structure to allow RTD to
manage and operate its commuter parking independently if required. It
is further recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the RTD Board authorizes a transfer of $830,873 from the
unrestricted fund balance to the Boulder Junction Project to fund the
increase in the contract amount. These funds will be replenished in
the 2012 amended budget from the proceeds of the property interest
transfers.

Recommended Action
 Withdrawal of 2012 FasTracks Financial Plan and DRCOG SB 208
Submittal
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors withdraw the 2012 financial plan and

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 17, 2012, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 5 of 6
accompanying RTD 2011 Annual Report to DRCOG (SB 208 Report)
submitted to DRCOG in March 2012 for review as required by a
DRCOG Board Resolution pursuant to Senate Bill 90-208. The RTD
Board of Directors further directs RTD staff to develop options for
the timing, approach and assumptions to be included in a new
submittal to DRCOG in the summer of 2012, and to report back to
the RTD Board of Directors on this topic on a monthly basis. With
this action, the RTD Board of Directors also confirms that RTD will
not pursue a sales and use tax election in 2012.
II. Other Matters

Chair Kemp asked the Executive committee to consider making a
change to the Board Bylaws to require approval by the Executive
Committee for a term limited Board member to travel for conferences
and other Board related business during the last six months of the
term. Obtaining this approval does not require a special called meeting
of the Executive Committee but can be handled through email or the
most expedient method of communications.
Chair Kemp requested approval to attend the APTA annual in October,
2012.
MOTION: Director Tayer made the
motion to approve Chair Kemp
to attend the APTA annual in
October, 2012 based on his
capacity as current Chair of the
Board and the importance of
staying informed.
The motion was seconded by
Director Bagley.
VOTE ON
THE MOTION: The Motion passed.
Paula Perdue was instructed to make these changes to the Board
Bylaws.


General Manager Washington shared that we will be ramping up the
media on the opening of the West Corridor. RTD has a good story to
tell coming in about 8 months ahead of schedule.



General Manager Washington shared that from the arbitration ruling
there is a clause that has a provision tied to when RTD meets a
particular sales tax threshold, RTD will make a lump sum payment to
the represented employees with a specified amount going to full time
and part-time employees. RTD reached that threshold and will be
making this lump sum payment to the unionized employees.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 17, 2012, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 6 of 6


III.

Director Tayer inquired about a letter that was sent to the retired
employees from the Union. Phil Washington explained there are
some issues associated with the union pension fund that the union
has chosen to address by getting rid of the part-time retiree program
used by RTD to supplement workloads. Both staff and the union
representatives are exploring options.

Motion to Move into Executive Session
C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(f) Personnel Matters-General Manager Contract
MOTION:

Director Cohen
made the motion to
move into executive
session to discuss
C.R.S.24-6-402(4)
(f) Personnel
Matters-General
Manager Contract.
Director Tayer
seconded the
motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion
PASSED.

The meeting adjourned to executive session at 12:25 p.m.
IV. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned from Executive Session at 1:00 p.m.

