Summary of the Operations/Customer Service meeting held on Wednesday, November 14,
2007
Page 1 of 3

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

November 14, 2007

Subject:

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee Meeting held on
November 14, 2007 at 5:00 p.m. Rooms T&D
****

Committee
Members Present:

Co-Chair Kinton, Co-Chair McMullen, Elfenbein, Kemp, Daly, Quinlan,
Ruchman, Yamrick

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Ron Dodsworth, Dave Genova, Lloyd Mack, Scott Reed,
Manny Herrera, Daniel Pinto, Johnnie Thomas, Jeff Becker, Bill
Porter, Tony McCaulay, Daria Serna, Joe Berdaus, John Perry, Caitlin
Magee

Others:

Holman Carter, Howard Alton, Herbert Jacobs
****
Co-Chair McMullen called the meeting to order at 5:11 p.m.

Call to Order:
I.

Review of current RTD Wellness Program – Dan Pinto, Physical Therapist/Wellness
Supervisor, gave this review. About four years ago the District brought physical
therapy in house and it has saved the district a significant amount. At the time that
Mr. Pinto took over as Wellness Supervisor, the Worker’s Compensation budget was
over $7 million and now it is just over $1 million. He reviewed the specific programs
the District has implemented. For more information, please see the presentation that is
available for review in the Operations/Customer Services Meeting Minutes Notebook.
Director Quinlan asked that they come to the next Study Session to discuss the
savings in Workers Compensation.
Dr. Herbert Jacobs gave a presentation on Wellness. Please see the presentation
handout in the Operations/Customer Service Meeting Minutes Notebook.

II.

Recommended Actions:
 2008 Funding for Off-Duty Denver Police – David Genova, Assistant General

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee meeting held on Wednesday,
November 14, 2007
Page 2 of 3
Manager, Safety, Security, and Facilities presented this action.
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute a 2008 purchase order for
the Denver Police Secondary Employment for $463,008.00 Funds for the 2008
purchase order are in the 2008 requested budget.
Motion:
Director Kemp made a
motion for full approval
before the Board at the
November 20, 2007 Board
Meeting.
Second:

Vote on
Motion:

Director Quinlan
seconded the motion.

The motion passed
unanimously.

 Contract Amendment for Contract No. 23DM013 with Carnation Building Services for
Bus Shelter Cleaning & Maintenance, Option Year Four – David Genova presented this
action. Carnation Building Services is an SBE company and they do provide health care
for their employees.
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to exercise the fourth and final Option Year
and amend Contract 23DMO13 by $180,000 to a revised contract amount of
$604,000.
Motion:
Director Yamrick made a
motion for full approval
before the Board at the
November 20, 2007 Board
Meeting.
Second:
Vote on
Motion:

Director Quinlan
seconded the motion.
The motion passed
unanimously.

III. Customer Service Audit Update – Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager, Customer and
Contracted Services gave this update. Staff has had conversations with APTA regarding
their Audit program. Staff would like a clarification on what the Board is looking for in

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee meeting held on Wednesday,
November 14, 2007
Page 3 of 3
this audit process. Staff felt it would be good to look at the current customer information
system and then see what the Board would like to be studied. Scott Reed, Assistant
General Manager Public Affairs, Customer Information gave a presentation on the
Customer Information Department. Please see the Operations/Customer Services Meeting
Minutes Notebook for more information. Staff would like to tailor the Customer Service
audit to the process that would best fit the District’s needs. The Committee decided to
discuss the scope for the audit in depth at the December 12, 2007 Committee meeting.
IV. Annual Service Evaluation - Bruce Abel introduced this item. Every year the staff provides
an evaluation of miles/hours of bus service. Jeff Becker went through the results of the
2006 Annual Service Evaluation.
Three times per year staff makes specific
recommendations for specific changes and a lot of these changes come from the service
evaluation. Performance should go up for 2007 quite a bit because of the introduction of
the southeast light rail and the elimination of some underperforming bus routes. The mall
is number one in performance followed by light rail.
V.

Bus stop placement – This was an issue that Director Kinton was concerned about in
regards to bus stops at medical centers, major clinics, etc. Ron Dodsworth will follow up
with Director Kinton in regards to specific bus stop locations.

VI. Other Matters – Bill McMullen brought up the subject of the GM goal – It was proposed
by staff to create a website where drivers can log on and communicate issues with
service (i.e. run times, passenger loads, etc.). This could be an additional tool for creating
a communications link. The goal is to complete live implementation and utilization during
2008. This is a way for management to capture real time issues. Staff is proposing giving
incentives to get driver’s to use the website like Visa gift cards for the first number of
drivers that use it. This is an additional tool, not a replacement for other communication
methods.
Bruce Abel spoke about the 2008 budget and 1% of service hours have been allocated
to system maintenance to fix run time problems, overloads, quality of service. Some
adjustments will be made to the January 2008 run board over and above the service
changes. These are adjustments to routes, not expansion of service.
VII. Next Meeting Date – The next meeting date of the Operations/Customer Services
Committee will be December 12, 2007 at 5:00 p.m.

VIII. Adjournment – Hearing no objection, Co-chair McMullen adjourned the meeting at 6:42
p.m.

