Summary of the Financial Management Committee held on Monday, September 10, 2007
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

September 10, 2007

Subject:

Summary of the Financial Management Committee meeting held on Monday,
September 10, 2007 at 5:00 pm.
***

Board Members
Present:

Director Kemp, Chair; Directors; Tayer, Daly, Pulliam, Kinton, McMullen,
Christopher, Busck, Ruchman and, Yamrick.

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Bruce Abel, Phil Washington, Dave Genova, Joe Smith, Scott
Reed, Robert Merriman, Pat Seifert, Daria Serna, Paula Perdue, and Lisa
Trujillo.

Others Present:

L.W. Morrow, Jeff Leib – The Denver Post, Kevin Flynn – Rocky Mountain
News.

Call to Order:

Director Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:03 PM.

1.

Recommended Actions – the following action items were passed and forwarded to the
full board for the September 25, 2007 board meeting.
 January 2008 Fare Policy
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Contracted and Customer Services discussed
the reasons for the fare increase. Sales and Use Tax has been below projection for a
number of years, diesel fuel and gasoline have experienced major increases in cost,
demand for access-a-ride service continues to grow at 8-10% a year and employee health
costs continue to be volatile.
A total of 15 public hearings were scheduled and held between August 15 and 28, 2007.
The public was invited to provide comment at these hearings or by email, fax or mail.
Two issues received the greatest number of comments. Concern over the increase on low
income individuals was the subject of approximately 100 comments, including 57 persons
who signed a petition and concern over the increase in the price of the Teen Pass was
cited by over 60 individuals.
After evaluating the input provided through the public participation process, staff is
recommending several changes to the preliminary fare policy proposal. For specifics,

Summary of the Financial Management Committee held on Monday, September 10, 2007
Page 2
please see Attachment A of the back-up.

The recommendation is as follows:
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the recommended fare policy changes, as outlined in the Attachment A, to take
effect beginning January 1, 2008.
Motion:

Director Christopher moved to forward this
item onto the agenda for the September
2007 Board Meeting.

Second:

Director Yamrick seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The Motion passed.

2.

2007 Second Quarter Performance Report
These measures are mostly year-to-date and provide a framework in which RTD
determines how weill it provides service to its passengers and the citizens of the District.
Due to the excessive and atypical snow patterns in January 2007, staff has eliminated
January Statistics from several of the performance measures, and footnoted them
accordingly. Performance Measures that should be noted are: Goals 1.1, 2.1, 3.1, 3.3,
4.2, 4.5, 6.1, 6.2, and 6.3.

3.

July Financial Status
Joe Smith quickly touched on some highlights. Please see the July 2007 Financial
Status Report for detailed information.

4.

2008 Posted Budget
State local budget law required that the budget be posted for public review by October 15
of the prior year. Prior to the posting, the budget is presented to the Board of Directors
for its review and discussion.
The board was given handouts that provided line item detail of the operating budget and
capital projects. Also included are the decision packages that were submitted by board
members.
In the interest of time Cal asked if it would be okay to jump to page 11 to discuss the Bus
Operations. Some highlights of the discussion were:




Down on rail because the board agreed to cut out G-line,
Bus service operations even with fare increase remain about the same,
Starting this year in the hole because when service was restored to the P,

Summary of the Financial Management Committee held on Monday, September 10, 2007
Page 3
T, W, CC and the Air Shuttle it was above our baseline.

5.

Other Matters
No other matters were discussed.

6.

Next Meeting – October 2007 at 5:00 PM

7.

Adjourn
Hearing no objections, Chair Kemp adjourned the meeting 6:35 pm.

