Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, August 11, 2009
Page 1 of 2

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

August 11, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, August 11, 2009 at
5:30 p.m.
****

Board
Members Present:

Board
Members Absent:

Chair Chacon, Vice-Chair Martinez, Director Bagley, Director Brohl,
Director Christopher, Director Cohen, Director Daly, Director James,
Director McMullen, Director O’Boyle, Director Pulliam, Director Tayer,
Director Tobiassen
Directors Busck and Kemp

Staff Present:

Rick Clarke, Brian Middleton, Gary Googins, Eric Farrington, Susan
Cohen, Dave Genova, Terry Howerter, Robert Merriman, George
Hovey, Joe Berdaus, Julie Skeen, Carolyn Conover, Larry Buter, Kenn
Hardin, Bruce Abel, Cal Shankster, Teresa Sedmak, Martha Hecox,
Greg Yates, Marla Lien, Scott Reed, Phil Washington, Bill Van Meter,
Bill Holmes, Brian Iacono, Lisa Trujillo, Caitlin Magee, Martell Dyles,
Liz Telford

Others present:

Jeff Leib, Maria Garcia Berry, Ty Perry, Roger Sherman, Mei-Ling
Rodriguez
****

Call to Order

Chair Chacon called the meeting to order at 5:34 p.m.

I.

Small Business Opportunity Office Revised June 2009 Status Report - Kenn Hardin
expressed his thanks for DBE being a monthly committee. Mr. Hardin reviewed the
updated information in the report that was distributed in the Board packet. Staff took
Director Bagley’s suggestion and added a memo to the front of the report highlighting
changes to the document.
Mr. Hardin pointed out that Denver Transit Construction Group has identified the DBEs
that will be getting awards on the first phase of construction on the West Corridor. Mr.
Hardin stressed that this is just the beginning of opportunities for DBEs on the West
Corridor.

Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, August 11, 2009
Page 2 of 2

Director Chacon asked if we had the Government agency on board as far as what their
participation level will be at DUS. Mr. Hardin replied that yes we do and he would
provide the Committee with more information next month.
II.

2010 DBE Annual Goal – Kenn Hardin addressed this item. Each year, as a part of the
responsibility as a recipient of federal funding the DBE office must establish an agency
goal based upon the projects that we have for 2010 and grants coming into the
agency. The District’s goal for 2010 is 14.35% which Mr. Hardin feels is a very
achievable goal for the agency.
Director Martinez expressed his concern that the 2010 goal was lower than 2009, he
understands the reason but was concerned about how we communicate this with our
stakeholders. What will be the outreach? Kenn Hardin explained that the full
methodology is available on the SBOO website and that the goal will be explained at
the quarterly DBEAC committee meeting.

III.

Other Business Office Updates – Mr. Hardin introduced Mei-Ling Rodriguez who is
working as DBE Project Manager for DUS and US 36.
Director Martinez gave an update on the GM Transition and Executive Search
Committee. The three finalists for the Search Firms were interviewed today. Firms
were scored on 60% technical expertise and 40% cost. A recommendation will be
made to the Board on August 18, 2009. Krauthamer and Associates was selected by
the Committee.
Director Brohl wanted to know what document will be given to the Board to help make
this decision. Director Martinez explained that the details will come in the Board report
this Friday.

IV.

Adjourn to Operations & Customer Services Committee – Hearing no objection, Chair
Chacon adjourned the DBE Committee at 5:55 p.m.

