Nov 13 2018
Operations & Customer Service Committee
BARBARA DEADWYLER: --Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorized the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to
enter into funding agreements Via-- with Via Mobility Services and the Seniors' Resource Center
to provide RTD financial support for non-urbanized services for Boulder County, Adams County,
and Jefferson County. These agreements are for the calendar year 2019, and for the amounts not to
exceed $387,271 for Boulder County, $380,813 for Adams County, and $135,243 for Jefferson
County. Can I get a motion?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Was that you again?
KATE WILLIAMS: That was Claudia.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK. OK, reports?
FREDERICK WORTHEN: Good evening. I'm Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations. I have
Carolyn Conover, Senior Manager of Contracted Services, and Brian Matthews, who is the
Manager of Special Services. We're here to answer any questions you may have.
These are basically routine agreements that are renewed every year. We go through the process of
having the Board approve them annually. And we have staff here to answer any questions you may
have about them.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Are there any questions from Board Members? OK, so let's go ahead
and move to a vote. Director Folska is the mover. Director Williams second.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: I have a question.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: I'm sorry, Director Anderson. Go ahead, please.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: You know, I just had one of my constituents contact me. And I just
want to say this. I think that this would cover his issue with the Senior Resource Center. But I think,
if-- what he was saying is that none of the people that worked with him and dealt with his issues
knew how this happened. So I think we need to check and make sure that everyone in our specific
counties in social services knows that this is available. Thank you, and I will be voting yes.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Chair Anderson. Director Sisk, do you have anything you
want to add?

CHUCK SISK: Thank you, Chair Deadwyler. I will be voting in the affirmative as well. Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you very much. So shall we go ahead and move to a vote?
Director Folska's the mover. Director Williams, the second. Please vote.
It's not coming up. So let's go ahead. Oh, OK, it's-- oh. It's up now. Let's see if it's going to work.
Sorry. Did it work? All right. Yeah. It's working. No.
OK, I see that we have 12 yes votes, and three nos. Is that correct?
NATALIE MENTEN: No.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Let me see that.
NATALIE MENTEN: We got 12, and then we got 2 phone votes. 14 total.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We have 14.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: 14? OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Counting Sisk and Anderson.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK, so it's 14. So that passes.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
BARBARA DEADWYLER: So that's 14, but it's still unanimous. So they're moved to unanimous
consent. The next item on the agenda is the DRCOG Vanpool Cost Share. And most of the Board
Members, most of us-- some of us that's been here the longest know that we do look at this every
year. And the only difference between last year and this year is they want to expand a little bit.
So before I-- I don't know if I need to read all of this for you all to think about just the expansion
for $780,000. Can I get a mover on that? Or do I-- want me to read the action?
KATE WILLIAMS: I'll move.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: All right. It is recommended by the Operation and Customer Service
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute
all documents necessary to enter into agreement with the Denver Regional Council of Governments,
DRCOG, to provide RTD financial support and expansion of the DRCOG Way to Go Vanpool
Program in the Denver metropolitan area.
This agreement is for calendar year 2019, and shall be in the amount not to exceed $780,000. This
action-- this recommended action supports the General Manager's task goal one, successful delivery
of transit services. Can I get a motion?

PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: Second.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Williams. Any report?
FREDERICK WORTHEN: No, ma'am.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK, any questions from the Board? Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Deadwyler. Can you tell me how many accessible vans
they have in this pool?
BRIAN MATTHEWS: This is Brian Matthews, Manager of Special Services. Last time I checked,
they had two active accessible vans. But they can put one in at any time, because they're part of the
Enterprise system. So all they have to do is request one.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And how many vans are there in this pool?
BRIAN MATTHEWS: 93 right now, 93 current active ones.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And how-- are the accessible vans being utilized by people with disabilities?
BRIAN MATTHEWS: Yes. Whenever somebody needs an accessible van, they can get one to them
in just a matter of a day or two.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So what is the appropriate ratio for accessible vehicles, say, out of 100?
Make the math easy.
BRIAN MATTHEWS: I wouldn't know. It's just, whenever somebody needs an accessible van,
they can get one to them.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, I think there should be an appropriate number that people can expect
of having accessible vans available, like, say, 30% or 25% or 10% or 5% or whatever that is. Can
you do me a favor and research that for me and get back to me next time?
BRIAN MATTHEWS: Absolutely.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Folska. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. The $780,000 is RTD's contribution. Do you know
what the entire budget for the program is?
BRIAN MATTHEWS: This is Brian Matthews again, Special Services Manager. The arrangement
is, I do not know the entire budget. But the $780,000, plus what they charge the customers, is
DRCOG-- it's kind of a breakeven point. So Enterprise charges the cost of a van based on our

subsidy, and the passengers contribute, and they make their money in that sense. But I do not know
the total cost. I think it's about 1.5, but I'd have to check on that.
KEN MIHALIK: So DRCOG breaks even, plus RTD pays $780,000.
BRIAN MATTHEWS: Yes.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. That's all I've got. Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Mihalik. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I'm going to explain why it will be a no vote, simply by repeating
two of the sentences within this document. "RTD financial support is used to help underwrite the
vanpool pricing structure, in order to make vanpool fares more competitive in the transportation
marketplace. By subsidizing vanpool fares, vanpools are able to compete with other transit
alternatives, and are perceived as a more attractive alternative for area commuters."
So in other words, it's competing with private sector by government subsidy, which is an excellent
reason for me personally why I will vote no. Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I served on the DRCOG Board for a number of years. And this
service provides people that work at one place, generally, an opportunity to kind of like carpool to
that place. So it's very known as to who the riders are going to be in each one of these vanpools.
And so, you know, getting back to Claudia's question about how many of them are accessible for
people with wheelchairs and that type of thing, you're going to know well in advance if somebody
like that signs up. And it's not going to change every day. It's going to be something that'll be pretty
consistent going forward.
And of course, DRCOG's purpose in getting involved in this is to try to promote clean air in the
metropolitan area. And they use federal funding that's provided for that particular purpose. And I
think this is a good program, and I will support it. Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Broom. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. First of all, my compliments to Mr.
Worthen on the most brilliant delivery of a report I've had the pleasure to hear since being here at
the RTD. So I thank you personally.
And Mr. Matthews, when you have that information, if you would please recall, get it to Ms.
McManus in the Board office, so that she can distribute it to all of us at the same time, because I
think we are all curious about that information, and it would benefit all of us. Thank you very much,
Madam Chair.

BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I also understand that DRCOG's vanpool program
is designed to reduce congestion, and to supplement public transit, and to bring people out of their
cars. And I think a move to help people move away from individual transportation and more toward
group transportation, which is-- RTD is a form of group transportation. So I personally am in favor
of this and will support it.
And I would hate to see Director Menten retract herself from this program for not having a full
grasp of it. So perhaps we could have some more information on it later. Thank you very much.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Williams. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Deadwyler. As I sat through service change public meetings
earlier this year, as particular routes were proposed to be dropped, the alternative that was presented
was forming a vanpool. And it seems to me that if service can be provided in lieu of a fixed route,
that we're providing-- that our investment in this program is prudent, because it does provide
another form of mobility for those people who lost their transit service. Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Catlin. I'd like to go to the phones and start with
Director Sisk. Questions or comments?
CHUCK SISK: I have no comments, and would vote in the affirmative.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you very much. You mean that includes Director Anderson?
When you said both?
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Excuse me, I'd like to make a comment.
[LAUGHTER]
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Anderson.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Director Sisk does not speak for me.
[LAUGHTER]
CHUCK SISK: Would I ever try to speak for you, Lorraine?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Go ahead, Director Anderson.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: OK. You know, this is a really great program for those groups of people
that work together and perhaps even live in a way that they can all help each other. When I was

chair of DRCOG, I even tried to do this for a high school in my town, but you know what? Those
16-year-olds had to drive their car two blocks to school.
But I will certainly be supporting this because it takes single-occupant vehicles off of the road. And
when we don't vote to increase transportation dollars, then we have to find ways to increase ride
share. So this is one of those ways. So I will be voting in the affirmative.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Anderson. So can we go ahead and move this to
a vote? Director Williams, the mover. Director Solano, second. Please vote.
OK, we have 12 yes, with Director Sisk and Director Anderson voting in the affirmative. We have
two nos from Director Menten and Director Mihalik. So this will be on our Board agenda under,
what is it?
DOUG TISDALE: Recommended actions.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Recommended actions. Our next topic is the City of Englewood
trolley cost-share program. It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a cost sharing agreement with the City of Englewood, and to provide RTD
financial support for the operation of the Englewood trolley circular bus service in the city of
Englewood. This agreement is for the calendar year 2019, and is for an amount not to exceed
$433,738. Can I get a move on this?
JEFF WALKER: So moved.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Second.
SPEAKER: Jeff.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Do we have a report on this?
FREDERICK WORTHEN: Fred Worthen, AGM with Bus Operations. Just very briefly, this
agreement has been in place since 2003. This year, we are expanding operations on the trolley for
an hour and a half. It will allow employees from Swedish Medical Center and Craig Hospital to be
able to utilize the services to access our rail services. So it is a minor adjustment in services.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you. Questions? Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Deadwyler. I just sort of have noticed that-- and I'm in
support of all of these. I think they're wonderful programs. And there's somewhere between
$300,000, $400,000, $700,000 that we're giving annually to encourage people to ride our fixed
routes.
And I'd like you to keep that in mind when we're talking about the $300,000 we're looking for to
support not raising the fares for Access-A-Ride. Thank you.

BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Folska. I'd like to go to the phone lines. But this
time, we'll start with Director Anderson. Do you have any questions or comments?
LORRAINE ANDERSON: I have no comments. This is always a good service. And I believe it
does service a great deal of people in Englewood. So I am in support of it, and will be voting yes.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Anderson. Director Sisk?
CHUCK SISK: Thank you, Chair Deadwyler. I will be voting in the affirmative as well. Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK, let's go ahead and take it to the vote.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We're just waiting for Director Solano to get back into the system.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK. Director Walker is the mover, as well as-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK, as well as Director Williams.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Director Folska. OK, so we have 14 yes. So this moves to unanimous
consent. We have no descending votes. So this passes, and will be on unanimous consent.
Next on the agenda is the City of Boulder HOP cost-share. It is recommended by the Operations
and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his
designee to execute all documents necessary to enter into a cost-sharing agreement with the City of
Boulder to provide RTD financial support for the operation of the HOP circulator bus in the
commercial areas of the City of Boulder, the University of Colorado at Boulder, and adjacent
businesses and residential areas.
This agreement is for the calendar year 2019, and is for the amount not to exceed $1,559,509. Can
I get a motion on that?
BOB BROOM: Move Approval.
JUDY LUBOW: Second.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Who was the second?
DOUG TISDALE: Broom, Lubow.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Do we have a report on that? No report? Are there any questions or
comments from the Board? Go ahead, Director Folska.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you very much. Could you tell me what the contribution from Boulder
County and City is to this program?
BRIAN MATTHEWS: This is Brian Matthews. I don't have the exact amount. But we're paying
about 48% of the total operating cost.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Folska. Anyone else? OK, let's take it to a vote.
DOUG TISDALE: Anderson.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Oh, I'm sorry. Director Anderson, do you have any questions or
comments?
LORRAINE ANDERSON: I have a yes vote.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Anderson. Director Sisk?
CHUCK SISK: I do vote yes, and really strongly favor this program. It's very beneficial, and it's
cost-efficient for not only RTD, but the City of Boulder.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Sisk. So let's go ahead and take it to a vote.
Director Broom is the mover. Director Lubow is second. So it passes 14 to zero, with Director Sisk
and Director Anderson in the affirmative. So this will be on unanimous consent.
Next item. This is for a bus donation to Flatrock Law Enforcement Training Facility. It is
recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the donation of a 40-foot bus that has reached the end of its useful life to the Flatrock
training center to provide a permanent asset for regional law enforcement and first responder
training. This action-- this recommended action proposed-- supports GM goal effective
communications and community outreach. Can I get a mover on that?
BOB BROOM: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: Second.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Who was the mover? Broom? OK. Report?
MICHAEL MEADER: Hi, this is Mike Meader. [COUGH] Excuse me, Chief Safety Officer here
at RTD. Basically, RTD is required to perform emergency drills throughout the year. The new
regulations that they have just-- the FTA has just put out now on our safety management system
requires an increased number of those, and documentation. As such, the reason we do this is to
make sure that local and regional first responders are familiar with how you access and respond to
an emergency on an RTD vehicle.

So typically, what happens is some of the different regional or local folks will ask us for a bus. And
we have to end up taking a bus out of service, or pulling it over there for them to do an exercise.
And it can happen at each one of the local facilities that request that.
So what we're proposing is that we take one of our buses that's reached the end of its useful life.
We donate it to the Flatrock Regional Law Enforcement Facility. This is a facility that's used by
over 50 different first responder agencies right now, and the list was in your packet.
So this would be a-- it's a 2000 Orion V bus that was purchased with local funds, that's set to go to
auction. That's our typical disposal method. But because it was purchased with local funds, our
policy is that a charitable donation can be made with Board approval. So that's what we're proposing
here today.
This will benefit RTD and its customers, obviously, because first responders will be better prepared
to respond to emergencies, should they arise. Any questions?
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Deadwyler. Mr. Meader, you were saying it's not really
our policy to donate our buses, even after the end. The real policy is that our vehicles go to auction.
And what does RTD receive from that auction?
MICHAEL MEADER: It depends. I know in your packet it said about $500 to $1,500. And that
was kind of the broad scope of all of our different vehicles. Typically, for a 40-foot bus, it's
anywhere between $1,000 and $2,500 is what we typically receive at auction.
This is one that is not running. The guesstimate is that it's going to receive some dollars on the low
end of that range.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So I'm wondering if we could have a broader discussion about changing and
modifying this policy. I know that in the past, like, for example, Chief Oates, who is the Chief of
Police for the City of Aurora, wanted to buy from us, or have donated, a vehicle so that-- it was a
really cold time. I don't remember. But he wanted to pick up some homeless folks. And at that time,
it wasn't possible.
So I would be willing to vote yes on this if I can have a commitment from you and Mr. Genova to
look into this in a deeper way, because I think it is important that we support our local communities,
whether they're homeless, or whether it's for safety and security. Are you going to be shooting and
blowing these buses up?
MICHAEL MEADER: No, this is going to be a bus that's going to be permanently parked there.
It's primarily for boarding the bus. So if there was some kind of an incident, if there was someone
on the bus, the police could practice boarding the bus. If there was an accident or something, the
first responders, the EMS, could practice getting people off of the bus.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Great. So I would like to ask you to include some wheelchairs, and some
electronic ones, so they know how to get those off the buses too, and onto them, or what have you.
And are security people using it to train also?
MICHAEL MEADER: Yes, throughout the region. And our folks could train on it-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: But the RTD people specifically will be using it.
MICHAEL MEADER: Absolutely. We can use it to train as well.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Will you be using it? I know you can. But will you be?
MICHAEL MEADER: We will make sure that we train our security people on the bus as well. We
have buses that we can use in our yard for our folks without disrupting that.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh, OK.
MICHAEL MEADER: So we would probably do it there. But if there's an opportunity for a regionwide exercise, we'll make sure our folks are involved in it.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you very much, and I'll be in support.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Folska. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I guess my only issue is the wording of it, the way it's
described. I don't see the Sheriff's office as a charitable organization. I see it more as just a less
expensive, less disruptive way of satisfying this new regulation. So that's it. Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Mihalik. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'd like to point out that we have done training,
RTD has done exercises with wheelchairs and disabled people on the commuter rail, an exercise
that was done some time in, I think within the last year. And that we have had discussions about
doing repeated exercise on light rail.
We have not made any plans to do one on a bus. But I think this same group of people would be
happy to do that. So I just wanted to point out that we have done some of those exercises. Thank
you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Williams. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I shared some of the concerns that Director Mihalik
had, yet what I think was persuasive here was that you would not have to take another serviceable
bus out of service, that this could serve, or this could be used instead. So that, to me, was persuasive.
Thank you.

BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just a brief observation relative to
donation to the Sheriff's office, or some affiliate thereof, and particularly for the training center
purposes. When I was mayor, we were able to secure what I thought was at least an appropriate
legal opinion that donations to cities could constitute a deductible tax donation for you. So at least
in the sense that the IRS looks at it, municipal government is allowed to accept those charitable
donations. And the Sheriff's Department, being a division of the state, could accept the same thing.
For that matter, I think we could, at RTD.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Accept.
DOUG TISDALE: Accept. Yes, but that's not the issue. The issue is, can you accept the donation?
And can the person, as a result of giving that donation, enjoy the benefit of a tax deduction? And I
believe the answer is yes, under those circumstances, for a municipality or government agency.
And I am in support of this, because I think it's just-- it's a bloody good thing to do. And yes, I agree
with Director Williams that we do actually, to Director Folska's points, a lot of training exercises
with wheelchairs and so forth. And we need to keep doing it. And we know that. Thank you very
much, Madam Chair.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Going-- Director Hoy?
LARRY HOY: Thank you, Madam Chair. So the only thing I'd like to add to this discussion is that
this-- unless the Sheriff's department blows it up, but they don't intend to, this is a one-time deal.
It's not like we're doing this every year, or every six months, or-- it's a one-- you know, what?
$2,500 max, not of our cost, but of foregone revenue, revenue we won't get. So it's once in a lifetime.
And then, as to the organization, it's really a subset of the Sheriff's Department. And they operate
that on a-- I don't know what the actual legal structure is, but it's not part of the Sheriff's Department.
It's-- the Sheriff's Department is running the operation. They built it, but it's basically your police
department or your sheriffs or US marshals go there and train. They do pay for training, but it's not
a profit center, I guess is the way I need to put that. It's not intended to be a profit center. It's for
everybody to share and get trained.
And it's really a great facility, by the way. It's fascinating what they do out there. So that's all I'll
say.
Oh, and I guess I wanted to add that we've-- personally, I've worked on this a long time. So if it
passes tonight, that would be a culmination of a lot of effort. So thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Hoy. Going back to the phone, this time I'll start
with Director Sisk. Comments, questions?
CHUCK SISK: Thank you, Chair Deadwyler. I'll be voting in the affirmative. Thank you very
much.

BARBARA DEADWYLER: Director Anderson?
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you, Chair Deadwyler. I will be supporting this. As a former
City Council person, I always wanted our police department and first responders well trained. And
this is one way to do it, at a very simple cost to everybody. So I will be a yes vote.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Anderson. If we could go ahead and take it to a
vote. Director Hoy is the mover. Director Tisdale is second. Please vote, please.
We have 14 yeses, so this passes, and it will be on our unanimous consent agenda. Now we're going
to move into updates. And our first update is autonomous vehicle update. And I'd like to invite
Bruce Abel up, front and center, who happened to disappear when his name was called earlier, but.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah.
[LAUGHTER]
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK.
BRUCE ABEL: Good evening. It's nice to see you all again. One works, one doesn't? OK.
It's good to see everybody again. I'd like to thank you for the opportunity to follow up on the
conversation that we had at the September 11 Ops Committee, where we introduced the idea that
RTD is involved in evaluating autonomous vehicles.
Before I provide a new update, I would like to introduce Lauren Isaac, who is with EasyMile, the
autonomous vehicle manufacturer that we will be working with. Lauren is the EasyMile Director
of Business Initiatives. And I've just asked her to join in case, when we're done with the brief update,
if there are any technical questions, we have someone other than myself, someone who actually
knows what they're talking about.
NATALIE MENTEN: Bruce?
BRUCE ABEL: Yes?
NATALIE MENTEN: Do you have this on the screen there, that you're supposed to be clicking?
Postpone?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SPEAKER: Bruce, this cuts into your presentation time.
[LAUGHTER]
DOUG TISDALE: We have the slides.

BRUCE ABEL: Yes. I was going to say, I am about to begin, slide or no slide. So thank you.
But as we discussed back in September, RTD is working with a group of partners and stakeholders
to evaluate the concept of autonomous vehicles and their possible role in addressing mobility
concerns in the community. So towards that end, we're involved in the development of a six-month
demonstration or pilot project to demonstrate how AV technology might work in a transit
application.
This pilot would operate from the A Line's 61st and Pena rail station, and will circulate in that
general vicinity. The pilot will be conducted under the guidance of and within the regulatory
framework developed by the state's Autonomous Vehicle Task Force, or AV Task Force. This was
created by the state legislature to oversee AV activities in the state of Colorado, and the AV Task
Force consists of representatives of CDOT, Colorado Department of Revenue, Department of
Motor Vehicle, and the Colorado State Patrol.
Other partners in the pilot include EasyMile, the manufacturer of the autonomous vehicle; the City
and County of Denver; both Denver International Airport and the Department of Public Works;
Panasonic; and Fulenwider, who are the developers of Pena Station NEXT, the smart city that's
being developed out in the vicinity of 61st and Pena rail station; and Transdev, who will provide
the service as part of their operating contract with RTD.
Phase one of the project, which has been dubbed 61 AV, will utilize an AV shuttle vehicle to
connect the 61st and Pena rail station with the nearby Panasonic building and the 61st and Pena
park and ride. A possible phase two of the pilot may extend the route out to connect to the 61st and
Tower bus stop. But phase two is dependent on the development occurring in the area, a second
round of regulatory approvals, as well as the identification of some additional funding for a possible
phase two.
The goals of the project really are to safely introduce an autonomous vehicle on a public roadway
in Denver-- most of the AV pilots that have been done in the country are operating on private
property-- assess the reliability and availability of an AV shuttle and its suitability for a transit
application, demonstrate the potential of an AV shuttle to address first and last mile issues to and
from RTD bus and rail facilities, and align the interests of all of the stakeholders in order to advance
a project like this.
I hate to touch it.
[LAUGHTER]
The project would provide AV shuttle service Monday through Friday, for eight to 12 hours a day.
And the final hours are being determined as we complete our assessment of the battery life of this
electric vehicle in this service. There will be an attendant, that we will call a customer service
ambassador, onboard the vehicle at all times during the demonstration. And the role of the
ambassador will be to address questions that might be posed by passengers, as well as to report on
a variety of technical metrics that we'll be monitoring throughout the project.

I just mentioned passengers, so I want to highlight something at this point. This pilot is really a
demonstration of AV technology, and not a ridership initiative. And I think it's important that we
all have this definition of success in mind as we proceed down that path. There is very little ridership
potential out in this area at the moment. But again, that's not really important at this stage, because
this is a demonstration of technology to see how the AV technology does or doesn't function in a
transit application.
We may generate some ridership later in the project, as development continues in the area. But
again, that's not the purpose of this pilot.
The route for phase one is depicted on the Board packet, as well as on the screen. The AV shuttle
will run from the 61st and Pena rail station, which is on Richfield, go down Richfield Street to 60th,
60th to Salida, Salida to the backside of Panasonic-- along the backside of Panasonic building,
down the side of the building to Panasonic Way, along Panasonic Way, stopping at the 61st and
Pena park and ride, and then continue down 61st to Richfield, and back to the rail station. There are
some apartment buildings being constructed at the corner of Salida and 61st that should come online
during the pilot period. This could possibly introduce some potential riders, other than the existing
folks that are parking at the park and ride, going down to the rail station.
If additional development occurs within the timeline of this project, and if additional regulatory
approvals are secured, we may modify the route to turn to run down 61st to 61st and Tower, and
then back down 61st to Richfield and the Pena-- 61st and Pena rail station.
So in terms of regulatory approval-- and this is a photo of the vehicle. For those of you that had the
opportunity to see the demo last year at the Pepsi Center, this is the vehicle that we demoed at the
Pepsi Center. This is an EZ10.
But in terms of regulatory approvals, we have received initial approval from the USDOT National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration, hereafter referred to as NHTSA. And I say "initial" because
we've received their approval, but we've now requested that we change from one particular vehicle
to another, so we have requested an approval, an amendment to our approval, just to change VIN
numbers of the vehicle being used in this project. We've been advised that this is sort of a
housekeeping task at NHTSA, and that we should have this approval within the next week or two.
We've also been working with the state's AV Task Force. We have received approval from the
Colorado State Patrol for the vehicle itself and for the route. We're waiting for the amended NHTSA
approval to submit it to the AV Task Force. We have received tentative approval from DIA for this
pilot, given that a portion of the service will operate on land that's technically owned by DIA.
We're also waiting on the City of Denver's approval of the traffic signage plan, so that we can
submit these last two elements to the state AV Task Force. We believe that we'll get these approvals
in the very near future, because-- and these are the last things that we're aware of that we need to
submit to the state for their regulatory approval.

Transdev has begun training the customer service ambassadors in anticipation of the service,
because we do hope to kick this service off this winter, because we want to have operating
experience both in winter and then moving into spring and summer.
We are hopeful to kick this off by the end of the year. But again, the regulatory approval process
will really dictate that timeline.
Budget for this approval for this project is coming from a variety of sources. Most of the partners
are contributing in-kind resources in order to advance the project. For example, EasyMile is
providing the vehicle at no cost to the project, and is also providing the maintenance of the AV
vehicle at no cost. Fulenwider, the developer, is providing the engineering service for the traffic
signage plan and is building the concrete pads for accessible bus stops.
The City of Denver has provided traffic engineering assistance to help develop the signage plan,
because we will have slow-moving vehicle signs, as this vehicle will operate 12 to 13 miles an hour.
So they've helped us develop the signage plan. Hopefully that's expediting their approval.
Operating costs are being shared as a sponsorship between Panasonic, as well as some funding from
Transdev and some funding from RTD. The overall project budget is between $200,000 and
$300,000, depending on whether we're looking at phase one or phases one and two. The RTD
contribution is approximately $15,000 and staff time.
We will be gathering a bunch of metrics showing how the vehicle performs in the transit application,
such as-- transit application means it will be running according to a predetermined schedule. Are
there things occurring in an AV technology that messes that up? So these are the kinds of things
that we'll be looking for.
Really, other than that, I guess I would just ask if there are any questions.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. My understanding, Bruce?
BRUCE ABEL: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: --is that we did have some wheelchair people come and try out the bus, and
ride the route?
BRUCE ABEL: When we had it at the Pepsi Center, Vivian Stovall, did come and try it out. I've
spoken with Jamie Lewis about coming out to the Panasonic facility, because until we get the state
approvals, it can't be operated on a public road. So we're working on setting that up. We have had
our ADA office go out and assess the service, assess the vehicle. And we believe that we are
complying.
KATE WILLIAMS: I just want to make sure that we knew that that was part of the planning as we
went forward. Thank you very much.

BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Williams. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. RTD's portion was $15,000, or $50,000?
BRUCE ABEL: 1-5.
NATALIE MENTEN: 1-5. And what was that again for, with RTD's portion?
BRUCE ABEL: To help provide operating expenses, to pay for operating expenses. The
ambassador on board for eight to 12 hours a day for a six-month period. We're all sharing it in
various levels.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And then, because this is a big Panasonic project, the whole
development out there, have they already taken rights to naming rights?
BRUCE ABEL: They are working on selling a sponsorship, and they will either sell a sponsorship
to a third party, or they will be the sponsor, in terms of not naming rights, but wrapping a vehicle
in much the same way that we secure advertising revenues from wrapping a vehicle.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. And so, with the $15,000 that we are putting out, will that be the
limit? I mean, will it be their baby from there on?
BRUCE ABEL: No, this is the 61 AV, and the name comes from our protocol for naming bus routes
as the roads on which they operate. This will operate primarily on the 61, so this would be Route
61, just like our other services are out there. And we gave it the AV just for a little splash, to help
people understand this is an AV pilot.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, so I'm-- we're going to be providing the ops, the manpower.
BRUCE ABEL: Correct.
NATALIE MENTEN: Majority of these things. But then we've given away any kind of a profit to
this with the naming rights issue, plus maybe some other things, because we should never make
money on just fares. Right?
BRUCE ABEL: In the immortal words of whoever said it, this is a non-profit organization. We
didn't intend to be. It just turned out that way.
So there is no profit to be given away. The funding generated by either a third party wrapping the
vehicle, or Panasonic paying to wrap the vehicle, will go to support the operations, because again,
we're putting in $15,000 out of a $200,000 to $300,000 budget. So a variety of people are
contributing to make this happen.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And where would I find the most information on tax incentives that
Panasonic has gained leading up to this point?

BRUCE ABEL: I have no idea. I don't know.
NATALIE MENTEN: Office of Economic Development, or?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Sounds good.
BRUCE ABEL: I have no idea.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Pick one.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I would be interested to know what taxpayer money Panasonic was
given a leg up. Those have always been a concern for me on certain issues. So this is a publicprivate partnership, but I'd just like to know all the pieces of the puzzle, so.
BRUCE ABEL: We'll attempt to get that information back to you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Great. Thank you. That's it.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Could you describe the operation of the line? In other words, is this kind of like an
elevator, where you have a certain number of stops, and you press the button, and then this will stop
at that stop, and if there's nobody there, it would go on by? Or if you were on the vehicle, and the
ambassador wasn't on there, I guess you'd push a button or something to say that you'd wanted off
at a certain stop? Or how does all that work?
BRUCE ABEL: Great question. Thank you. The vehicle itself is programmed to operate the route
that I'm looking at but you are not. So on the phase one route-- let's just call it the circuit-- the
vehicle is programmed to operate along this circuit. It will operate in what is often referred to as
subway mode, which means that the stops are programmed in, and so the vehicle will stop at those
stops regardless of whether or not there is someone there.
The vehicle stops. The doors will open. Doors will close. And the vehicle will then go on its way.
And so that is the operating profile of the vehicle. The ambassador will be onboard to answer
questions. This vehicle, through its programming, knows where to go. It knows to stop if things
encroach upon the cocoon around the vehicle.
We did the demonstration with Colorado State Patrol, CSP. Everything worked fine. If it comes
within x distance, it slows down. If it comes within y distance, it stops.
If a vehicle, for example, were to pull in front of this, the AV, the vehicle will stop. If, so a
construction truck pulls in, the AV vehicle will stop. If the construction truck gets out of the way,
the AV vehicle knows to proceed.

If the vehicle, the construction truck, parks there, the ambassador will have to manually maneuver
around the vehicle, the construction truck, because now a permanent impediment has been placed
in the way of how it's been programmed to operate.
PEGGY CATLIN: It even stops for tumbleweed.
BRUCE ABEL: It has been known to stop for tumbleweeds, or incredibly heavy snowfall. So these
are all the kinds of things we want to see how it works in our operating environment.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
BRUCE ABEL: Did that answer your question? Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Broom. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Deadwyler. Have you been here all night, Bruce?
BRUCE ABEL: I've been in and out.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. And you know, I think it would be a really good idea if, as we move
forward with this project, and as we initiate new projects, that we have people who have a disability,
of sorts, at the table from the beginning of the process. And I know there are very competent and
qualified people who can make a decent contribution to the entire process. And in my mind, that's
part of this whole problem, that we're another other. And I know I've said that a few times, but I
think that's really important.
When you say that we have people from our ADA office going out and evaluating it, how many
people in the ADA office actually have a disability?
BRUCE ABEL: That is why we had Vivian Stovall and our-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So we have zero people with disabilities in the ADA office, and that's
troubling. And I think that needs to be rectified.
When you have somebody with a disability getting on or off, you know, I think about our 16th
Street shuttle. Somebody is there. I mean, do you have a ramp that just automatically comes down?
Will there always be a human ambassador on these things? Or is the vision to not have anybody on
there at all, except whatever human feels like using it?
BRUCE ABEL: There are three buttons on the outside of the vehicle, and four buttons on the inside
of the vehicle. The three buttons on the outside of the vehicle are to open door, close door, or open
door and deploy ramp. On the inside of the vehicle are those same three buttons, as well as a fourth
button for emergency, which then communicates back to a call center, or to an operations center,
where they can then look in and see what the issue is.

So it will require, not unlike light rail in many cases, some training of individuals in the disability
community, that here are where the buttons are, and this is how to activate the ramp. So it is
envisioned that it would be self-service, I don't know, is the best way to put it.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. Well, what I'm thinking, you know, is people with disabilities move
around the world, right? And so while we may be able to train folks here, sometimes people visit
here with disabilities. And they may not have the kind of training and familiarity with the service
that our local people have. And so I think my hope would be that it's legible to people who are
unfamiliar with the system.
So maybe I could suggest that some sort of ding-ding gets embedded in that. You know, on the
Auraria campus we have these emergency blue light telephones in case you have a predator chasing
you. And I could never find them, because I don't know where they are. You can see them. But if
you're blind, you can't.
And I'm wondering if you could start thinking about how you can make it legible to people without
sight. I mean, there are people who are blind in wheelchairs, for example. So being able to get on
and off and press some kind of-- like, I think it would be very fun if you could say "Open sesame,"
and then it opens.
BRUCE ABEL: We-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: It would be.
BRUCE ABEL: EasyMile is partnered with the university towards working on issues just such as
the type of thing that you're describing. But your point is well taken.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Folska. Director Hoy?
LARRY HOY: Thank you, Chair Deadwyler. So, and if I could piggyback on what Director Folska
just said, I think all of those things are important issues, but that I also believe that while we've
incorporated all of what we can imagine to happen into this pilot program, that's exactly, I think,
the point of a pilot program, is that, gosh, hopefully nothing goes wrong, but that's why it's a pilot.
And I think that's a good thing. It's a start. It's where we have to start.
So let me ask you, when-- did you tell us when this is going to start?
BRUCE ABEL: I did not.
LARRY HOY: I didn't think so.
BRUCE ABEL: I told you, it is our hope to start before the end of the year.

LARRY HOY: OK. All right. Well, that's fun. I also didn't hear you say-- I hope I didn't hear you
say this. I mean, I don't remember you saying this. Might be because I'm getting old, right?
When we hear about it on the news, are they going to say, RTD is deploying a new bus route, and
it will be an automated bus? Or are we going to hear, EasyMile is doing this, or Panasonic is doing
this? How's that going to be communicated to the press?
BRUCE ABEL: So far, you've hit three-sixths of the press release.
LARRY HOY: All right. Help me.
[LAUGHTER]
BRUCE ABEL: I would envision that you will hear this being introduced as a collaboration between
RTD, EasyMile, the City and County of Denver, Denver International Airport, Panasonic, and
Fulenwider, the developers of Pena Station NEXT.
LARRY HOY: And I don't want to take all the glory from everybody that's put a lot of work into
this. I understand it. But I think that it would be nice if people think of that as another RTD bus.
All right. So, and then I have a couple other ones. This goes in a circuit. It goes by itself. But I don't
believe it-- while it probably always runs on the same speed and circuit, it's not really a timed stop,
right? Nobody's going to say, well, at 5:47, it needs to be here. It just shows up when it shows up.
They get on and use it, and get off when they need to get off.
BRUCE ABEL: It will be scheduled, so that at the stops, there is a scheduled time.
LARRY HOY: Really?
BRUCE ABEL: And that is one of the things that we will be monitoring, the ability of an AV to
keep up with a predetermined schedule, operating along a fixed route.
LARRY HOY: Huh. Well, I'm excited about it. And I've had a lot of discussions with people in the
organization about it. And it looks like it's going to be very successful.
And frankly, I hope for EasyMile it's very successful too, because you've been a great partner in all
this. I wondered why you couldn't just switch serial numbers on those vehicles, instead of asking
for permission. They all look the same to me. But I won't go there.
BRUCE ABEL: So long as there's no one from NHTSA in the audience to hear that.
LARRY HOY: Yeah, I'm just talking. You know, who am I? All right. Thank you very much.
Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Hoy. Director Walker?

JEFF WALKER: Thank you. I didn't catch the headways.
BRUCE ABEL: We anticipate that it'll be operating on every 15 minutes, that the running time for
one circuit would be about 10 to 12 minutes, and then a couple minutes' recovery time.
JEFF WALKER: OK. All right. Thanks. So I spoke with someone in Las Vegas who's associated
with the-- there's an AV vehicle on the Strip. And he said that it works really well.
Folks test it. People test lots of things on the Strip-- their luck, for one. And they jump out in front
of it, and it stops. It knows to stop. He also says it has a program, or a function, where they could
teach it to swerve, but they-- or have it swerve, but they haven't operated that one yet.
So I'm really excited to see how this one operates in this setting. And I think it's a perfect place for
it, because it's low-traffic, low-vehicles, a great time to test it. When Chariot started its service at
DU, University of Denver, it did it during a low-student period, when if something went wrong, not
very many people would be impacted.
So I think this is it. So thanks to all the partners that are kicking this off. I'm excited to be a part of
it. And I'm excited that we're all part of it.
And I think that this-- like I said, at Revolution, and at [INAUDIBLE] and the conferences I've
been to over the last year or so, things seem to be more collaborative than they have in the past,
where cities won't be looking just to RTD to get the buses through, or to get the trains through, but
RTD-- but they'll be looking to RTD and all of our partners. And we're one of the partners of the
City of Denver and EasyMile, et cetera, et cetera. And we'll all help further mobility for everyone.
So thanks a lot. That's it.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Walker. Let's go to Director Solano.
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: Thank you, Chair Deadwyler. I'm just curious, how does this vehicle
respond to weather changes? Let's say all of a sudden it starts snowing. Is it a four-wheel-drive
vehicle?
BRUCE ABEL: It is not a four-wheel-drive vehicle. And one of the things that we'll be monitoring
is how it responds in weather. Right now, there have been experiments done in other cities-- or not
experiments, pilots run in other cities.
We're anticipating an operating environment of from zero degrees to 95 degrees. There are wind
thresholds, that should the wind exceed this threshold, we will have to cease operation. We will be
seeing what type of impacts snow provides. This vehicle has been tested up in both Minnesota-LAUREN ISAAC: Calgary and Edmonton, Canada.
BRUCE ABEL: OK.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]

LAUREN ISAAC: Just whispering. So this past winter, we actually, in partnership with Minnesota
Department of Transportation, did a whole season of winter testing with our vehicle. So we learned
a lot, and we made a lot of improvements on the vehicle.
This past couple of months, we've actually been in Canada, in Calgary and Edmonton, and operating
there in some snowy weather. You can actually look online and see some amazing video footage of
that. So we have a very good understanding of where the vehicle's thresholds are. And that's the
kind of thing that we're going to want to see in the Denver operating environment.
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: OK. Thank you. Can I just have one more follow-up?
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Yes, Paul.
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: OK. What distance is the circuit that we're going to be testing?
LAUREN ISAAC: It's approx-BRUCE ABEL: It's approximately a mile. It might be, like, 1.1. But-PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: So it's pretty short.
BRUCE ABEL: Yeah. And the vehicle operates at a speed of about 12 or 13 miles an hour.
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: OK. Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Solano. Director Folska, before I come back to
you, I'd like to go to the phones. Director Sisk, comments, questions?
CHUCK SISK: Great to hear from you, Bruce, and I'm very excited about this project. Let's go
forward on it. And obviously there are a lot of hurdles to overcome, but this is very exciting. Thank
you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Sisk. Director Anderson? Director Anderson?
OK, Director Folska, you have the floor.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Deadwyler. As you were talking, Bruce, some other things
came to my mind, a couple of things. So with the weather, it reminded me, up to 95 degrees doesn't
seem very robust, especially in light of global warming. You know, it reminds me that-- I don't
know if it was last summer or the one before, when-- yeah, the summer before, where airlines
couldn't take off from Phoenix, because it was too hot. And I was surprised with that. So I'm
wondering about that 95 degree thing.
And then I was-- sorry-- are you all envisioning that these AVs are going to possibly, potentially
provide 100% of the bus services at RTD or across America?

BRUCE ABEL: I don't know that anyone ever envisions an autonomous vehicle providing 100%
of the services. I think part of the pilot is we want to see what type of a role, in an overall network,
an AV might play. I don't think anyone envisions this replacing traditional bus services in the
entirety. But there will certainly be niches where an AV vehicle could provide first and last mile
solutions, for example. I don't think we expect it to provide the 15L down Colfax, but who knows?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, I mean, we don't have bathroom breaks to worry about. And you know,
the human is the most expensive part of providing the service. So, and what I keep hearing in the
news is that 50% of all the jobs in America are going to be taken away by robots and AI, right? And
I'm wondering if that's something that people have really been thinking about.
I know that some of my constituents are concerned about that, considering we have so many
employees who drive our buses, and what does the union think? So my question is, has the union
been a part of this conversation?
BRUCE ABEL: The union, Transdev, has been part of the conversation, because the ambassadors
are ATU members.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. And finally, you know, you hear a lot now about the Amazon web
services. And I don't know what you guys are using. But can you talk a little bit about that, and
what kind of protective measures you've put in place?
LAUREN ISAAC: Yeah. So we have cybersecurity measures that we have in place that protect
both the physical, actual physical vehicle, so that it never is left unaccompanied when it's out of
[AUDIO OUT] secure location. And then we also have a lot of security measures around the actual
access to the technology to be able to make the vehicle work. So everything from how the
technology was developed all the way through to how it's accessed today to be able to make the
vehicle run, everything has very significant cybersecurity protocols.
What I will tell you is that, internationally, there are no official cybersecurity standards that we can
say we comply with x. So it's something that's being developed internationally, nationally. I mean,
this is something that, frankly, government agencies are struggling with.
But from an EasyMile perspective, it's obviously really, really important to us. And that's why
[AUDIO OUT] so at the physical vehicle. So it's not like anyone could ever actually access the
vehicle without any permission or training.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, that's the point of the pilot, as Director Hoy mentioned, is that you're
going to really design and develop those safety and security protocols. And that seems to me that
that's what you're saying is the biggest challenge for our legislators federally, right?
LAUREN ISAAC: One of a few, yeah.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Folska. OK, so that concludes that report.

BRUCE ABEL: Thank you very much.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: So-- bye. Thank you. Our next report, our next update, ADA expert
review third annual report.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Service availability.
FREDERICK WORTHEN: The service availability will only take me-BARBARA DEADWYLER: Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I skipped down one. Service availability.
FREDERICK WORTHEN: So Fred Worthen, AGM, Bus Operations. I'll make this very brief.
Fixed route provided 99.49% of our scheduled service hours for the month of October. We'll have
changes to how we're managing services. The new CBA and recruitment efforts have really helped
to improve our direction, with regard to service delivery.
Year to date, we've added 48 coach operators to our full and part-time ranks. So we're seeing
positive gains on the recruitment and retention efforts. We have 33 coach operators in training.
We're still short 125 operators. But this year we've made quite a bit of progress in filling our ranks.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK, any questions? None? All right. Then let's go to the ADA expert
review.
FREDERICK WORTHEN: So again, Fred Worthen, AGM, Bus Operations. In 2013, the Colorado
Cross-Disability Coalition filed a lawsuit asserting violations of the Americans with Disabilities
Act and also section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act. In early 2014, the RTD entered into a settlement
agreement to change certain aspects of our bus operations and also have an outside party review the
implementation and enforcement of these changes. This outside expert comes in on an annual basis
for-- the agreement covered for three years. This is the third and final review by that expert. And
I've asked Carolyn Conover, our Senior Manager of Contracted Services, to provide a brief
summary of the expert review.
CAROLYN CONOVER: Hi, this is Carolyn Conover. As Fred said, this is our third and final report
from the ADA expert. The positives that we saw out of her report is that the processes that we put
in place to respond to the concerns from the settlement agreement have definitely improved service
for people with disabilities that use mobility devices. Majority of the time, when we see that a
person with a mobility device cannot board a bus, is because the securement area is already full
with people in mobility devices, or either a wheelchair or a person with a walker.
So I think our processes have definitely helped improve the situation from where we were. And we
as an agency have decided we will continue those processes. So when a bus operator pulls up to a
stop, and someone with a mobility device wants to board, and they cannot, usually because the bus
is full, the operator fills out a pass-up form, gives that to the individual, and then that information
is tracked. So we continue to track that information on an annual basis, to see where we're passing
up people, and looking to see what we can do maybe to alleviate some of those issues.

But the ADA expert also reported no deficiencies from what we were doing, and also added some
other recommendations, which we are taking under advisement. So overall, I think-- I'm pleased
with the progress we've made, and we'll hopefully continue on.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you. Did I just hear you say something about if you give the
passenger a pass-up form?
CAROLYN CONOVER: That's correct. We have a two-part form. So the operator fills it out. It's
got the route, the block, the time, the bus number. And they tear it apart. They give the passenger
one copy. They turn the other copy into the office.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: I see. And you really think a mad passenger is going to fill that out
and turn that in for tracking?
CAROLYN CONOVER: No, the operator fills it out.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: What about the passenger? You say you give it to the passenger. The
one that's been passed up.
CAROLYN CONOVER: What they do is they also check to make sure that-- look at the headways,
to see when the next bus is available. If the other bus will not be there within 30 minutes, then they
call dispatch, and dispatch-- well, I should take that back. When they first have the incident where
the passenger cannot be boarded on the bus, they push a button on their radio that gives them
immediate response to dispatch. So dispatch then is looking at headways. And if the bus is not going
to be there within 30 minutes, they'll dispatch another bus out there to accommodate that passenger.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: So when does the bus operator fill out this form?
CAROLYN CONOVER: They fill it out right there at the time.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: So they stop the bus, fill out a form, give half of it to the passenger,
push a button, and then they're on their way.
CAROLYN CONOVER: And they let the passenger know what they've heard from dispatch, that
the follower is 15 minutes behind me. He should be here shortly.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Deadwyler. Carolyn, that's really encouraging to me. I was
wondering if you could elaborate a little bit on the things that-- you didn't elaborate on the things
that need some work.
CAROLYN CONOVER: One of the things that she recommended-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Efficiencies.

CAROLYN CONOVER: One of her other recommendations was that she had seen in another
transit agency is where they put special upholstery in the securement area, that has the blue fabric
with the ADA symbol on it, so that it makes it much more aware for people boarding the bus that
this area is designed for people with disabilities. So that's one thing that we are looking at, the
possibility of doing something like that.
She also asked about possibly expanding the extra space area onboard the buses, because when she
was out riding buses, she noticed that people with large walkers, if they could not fit into the
securement area, they had a hard time getting into that extra space area with their walker. And I
know a lot of walkers cannot be folded up. So it's important to have that extra space.
So we had the-- that's another thing to meet with our folks in bus maintenance, is that a possibility
to expand that space, because it would probably require the removal of some additional seats.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, I think it would be a proactive idea to do that in the first place, since
we have a silver tsunami coming, and a lot of older folks will need those walkers when they have
to go to work to supplement their pitiful income.
CAROLYN CONOVER: Definitely. Yeah.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I didn't see in the chart, or in the report, times-- sorry-- times of passups, because I ride the 0, which is one of the routes that has one of the highest pass-up rates, in the
morning, mostly in the evening, on the way home. I don't see that-- I haven't noticed it. When I get
on on a Saturday, or a Sunday, it's pretty much like rush hour traffic, except more than rush hour
traffic, I guess. So I'm wondering what days and times of day, if you have-- well, I guess you do-CAROLYN CONOVER: I don't have that handy, but that is the information that we do capture.
And we can sort through the data from last year and share that with you.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, and that's just a curiosity of mine. I'm sure you're working to fill those
needs. But I'm just curious, because I haven't experienced it in the years I've been riding the 0.
That's it. Thank you.
FREDERICK WORTHEN: So just, if I may, just for an order of magnitude, we provide around 99
million rides a year on our complete service. There were 720 pass-ups reported in 2017 in total.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I guess, when I read through this the other day, what I was impressed
with was the level of training for the operators. And also, you didn't mention it, before they fill out
a form for being passed up, they have to try and remedy the situation, which might be moving other

passengers. And I think that trying to resolve it that way, prior to having a pass-up, I think is a
positive step.
CAROLYN CONOVER: That's correct. Yeah, a lot of times you will find peer pressure, that if
other passengers realize the bus isn't going anywhere until we can accommodate this other
passenger, they will move.
FREDERICK WORTHEN: The other thing I'd like to point out is, out of the pass-ups that we
mentioned, 86% occurred because two wheelchairs were already onboard the vehicles.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Hoy?
LARRY HOY: Thank you. So I kind of like the special fabric idea, or whatever. You know, I think
in general, people are courteous enough to not sit where they shouldn't be sitting. They really don't
think about it. They get on and they plop their-- like, plop down.
One other thing I've spoken about for years now, and it hasn't gotten legs, and it may not be
something that should get legs, I don't know. But I'm going to say it out loud, and we'll kind of
socialize it here.
I think, in a lot of cases, like on our commuter trains, the seats are movie-theater-type seats. So the
normal position of the seat cushion is up. I think that might-- maybe the bottom of the seat would
have a special little symbol. But I think it just tells people that maybe they ought to leave that seat
for somebody that needs it.
And so if you needed to sit down, you could push it down and sit down. If you were in a chair or
had some other disability, maybe you would have to push it down, too. But it's just another indicator,
go find another place to sit, if you're able-bodied.
And you know what I mean with movie-theater-type seating. That's the way the commuter trains
are.
CAROLYN CONOVER: And I know our flip-up seats on the bus, those do have a detail, the ADA
on the-- when it's up. But a lot of times, passengers come in, they put the seat down.
LARRY HOY: They stay down.
CAROLYN CONOVER: Yeah, it's because the operator is busy driving. They don't have time to
go back and flip it back up.
LARRY HOY: Yeah. Just a thought that's always been buzzing in my head. Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd like to ask if there are any directors on the phone who would like to
comment. Director Anderson?

LORRAINE ANDERSON: I sure would. I pressed the wrong button and disconnected myself at
the last one. You know, I am really concerned over the 52 bus, because it goes from way out in my
community down to Denver General. Excuse me. I don't know if-- I'm an old person, so it's always
Denver General.
And it carries a lot of handicapped people. So I think we're on the right track. I think perhaps it's
good to make sure that on those particular routes, that carry people to health care, that we make
sure we have enough routes, or enough buses, to take care of that. And I've been on there when it's
been particularly bad.
And oh, by the way, in the winter, it's even worse, because of the snow issues. So I appreciate what
all of you are doing. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Anderson. Director Sisk?
CHUCK SISK: Thank you, Chair Williams. It's interesting that we're having this discussion because
just the last two days, I received a email from someone that just moved here recently from Germany.
And she was distressed that we were affording too much space for wheelchairs and not allowing
baby strollers to be used in that area.
So while we've been having this discussion, I've forwarded that email for response from our RTD
staff. And by the way, I'm not suggesting we change our direction. But again, I think it's important
that we continue to send out the right message here as to why we're doing what we're doing. And
it's imperative that the other passengers comply with that. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Seeing no one else-- Director Walker? Sorry.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks for the second bite. So as Mr. Worthen noted earlier, and to pick up on
what Director Hoy said, my comment earlier was because I'd rarely see anybody-- I've never seen
anybody not get up for somebody who needed to sit down. This is probably one of the most polite
places I've ever lived, when it comes to bus riders.
One of the problems I might guess could happen is that not all of our passengers-- some passengers
who are disabled need to sit. So removing seats, understandably, for more wheelchairs, or folks
with more mobility devices, could create a-- could, on some routes, I guess, create a problem for
folks who need to sit because of their disabilities and their ailments.
And I'm sure that you guys have thought of that. But it's just an observation that I've noticed in my
years of riding.
But my comment earlier was, let's just say that, I'm wondering where these pass-ups occur, because
the 0 is one of the highest ones. There aren't many to begin with. Most of them are because there
are two wheelchairs. But I don't see them, so I was just wondering where they-- when they occur,
because it's not during the rush hour when I typically ride. Sometimes on the weekends.

But this is one of the nicest places I've ever lived, when it comes to folks making way for folks who
need a place to be on the bus. So I think that's it. Thank you for the second bite.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for your comments. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you so much, Chair Williams. Could you clarify what those numbers
were? For the pass-ups, was 720 out 99-- what was that?
FREDERICK WORTHEN: So according to the report, there were 720 pass-ups in 2017. Of those,
620, or 86%, occurred because two wheelchair securements were already occupied.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: 86%. And what were the total number of pickups overall? 99 million?
FREDERICK WORTHEN: As a district, we provide around 99 million trips a year.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. OK. Thank you. And 86% was because there were already two
wheelchairs onboard.
FREDERICK WORTHEN: Yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I think that's all from everybody on this. Anybody have any further
comments? Carolyn? Fred? Michael?
OK. Thank you very much. We don't need to vote on anything here. Natalie? I'm sorry, Director
Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm lined up for the next item.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK then. I think we'll go to the next item, then, which is our Call-n-Ride
renaming. And I am-- do I need to read it? No? Just no. I didn't think so. We're going to talk about
Call-n-Ride renaming. And who's up here to talk to us about that?
FREDERICK WORTHEN: It's Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations. I have Brian Matthews,
Manager of Special Services, and Steve Reilly, our Manager of Marketing Communications.
Just as a little bit of a brief background, RTD began operating Call-n-Ride services in 2000. We
have approximately 21 areas where we provide these services. They are typically demandresponsive services open to the general public. They operate in low-density areas, and a defined
geographic area where typically, fixed-route services are not feasible. They're customized to each
one of the service areas.
Traditionally, when the services first started, these were primarily, you called in advance. As we
have evolved, though, the characteristics of our ridership have changed. Now we have

approximately 60% of our trips that are not booked in advance. So the name "Call-n-Ride" really
doesn't fit the way our services are provided today.
Staff engaged our marketing and our market research divisions, and we compiled a panel of folks
online, 400 individuals who use RTD services on a regular basis, whether that be bus or train. We
asked them to provide information with regard to what service attributes are most important to our
customers. Based upon that feedback, the name FlexRide was developed and selected to reflect the
fluid, flexible, and more contemporary nature of the services we're providing.
In addition to the name change, we have new features under development that include changes to
our trip booking app, that would reduce the amount of time required for advance reservations from
60 minutes to only 10 minutes. And to correspond with the new name and enhancements, we've
modernized the look of the new FlexRide fleet. And we'll be debuting 32 new FlexRide vehicles
with the January service change. And I've asked Steve Reilly, the Manager of Marketing and
Communications, to introduce the new look.
STEPHEN REILLY: Thank you, Fred. Steve Reilly, and I have Cheryl Holmes from our marketing
department also helping us out here. She's just going to debut the new FlexRide vehicle. It's
basically in line with the strategic agency-wide brand refresh, or update, where we're seeking to
strengthen, consolidate, and modernize our existing agency brand across our agency. That includes- can you guys show the FlexRide vehicle, please? There we go.
OK, so you'll notice an updated mountain presentation on the vehicle that is very reminiscent of our
current fleet of vehicles. We've just contemporized that and modernized that. And we simplified it
a bit so that it can be-- can be more flexible across all of our vehicles, accenting our color palette
of red, blue, yellow, and orange. We also have the word "FlexRide" displayed prominently, in a
very legible type, across the vehicle, our RTD logo prominently displayed, and we also have a red
header bar across the top-- obviously our core corporate color-- to signify exactly what the service
is and to distinguish it.
And also, we have an identifier across the top that says, "Your Neighborhood Connection." That is
also something, in addition to the new name, that came out of the online customer panel. Individuals
really wanted us to identify what that service was. And since that service is, as Fred alluded to, in
various geographic areas, we wanted to point out that it is within neighborhoods and set areas, and
it is a connector. It is a first and last mile. And it is a conduit to rail and other services within the
network.
In tandem with that, I'm just going to have Cheryl share a few of the other brand elements that we
are updating as well. These would include new timetables and new passes. As everyone knows,
with the coming year, we are introducing new fares. And we are also having a large service change
in January. And so we thought this would be a perfect opportunity to get a lot of materials out.
In the middle, situated there, is also a new look for a shelter board that will be at all of our stations
where we have shelter boards and scheduling information. You can see they're all taking on a very
commonality of look. It's really just an evolution and an update of what's currently out there. But
we're trying to bring it all together.

We had a great opportunity to do that right now, because come January, when we do have the
service change, and the fare change in particular, everything that has a fare or a schedule on it will
require update anyway. And so this provides us a great opportunity to get a great deal of exposure
out there with a very consolidated and standardized look.
FREDERICK WORTHEN: Thank you, Steve. One other thing I'd like to mention is that 32 new
vehicles are also being replaced as part of their normal vehicle replacement cycle. We will have 22
vehicles that are still in service. We will change the logos to reflect the new service. And then, as
these buses are replaced over the next couple of years, we'll refresh the look on the newer vehicles
to match the new look that we have on the new Call-n-Ride services that we will be renaming as
FlexRide. So that-STEPHEN REILLY: That's it.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Thank you for that. I particularly like your backup crew there. OK, see
that Director Menten had something to say.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. So my question before you showed the boards has now been answered.
And my question had been whether we were going to keep the green, because that's really, to me,
the defining thing that makes it easier for constituents in my area that don't use the service a lot to
know which-- what is it? It wasn't as much a name and the confusion, frankly. It was, look for the
green shuttle.
And right now, what I'm concerned about-- and I know you've put time into it, and you've talked to
the 400 panel people-- is that, how much time does it take now to get somebody to know, from a
distance, who might have somewhat vision issues or something else, what's the big difference
between the ADA paratransit shuttle that was white, red, blue, orange, yellow, whichever you want
to go with there, versus the green?
And now we've got white with red, blue, orange. And I thought I was really scaring you, but no, it's
a sneeze. Two that look somewhat maybe similar. And it kind of looks to me like an airport shuttle,
which, you know, it is a shuttle.
But that's my question, is, how long will it take to recoup? When I think of branding, I think it's
consistency, something that years and years and years, it may be a stale logo, but when people look
at it, they know it's McDonald's. They know. So that's my question.
Along with, I'm sorry, one other. How often-- now that we're going to get through 32 vehicles-how often do we have pass-ups because we don't have enough bicycle space on our now FlexRides?
FREDRICK WORTHEN: You want to take that one?
BRIAN MATTHEWS: This is Brian speaking. First of all, I'm not aware of ever having a pass-up
because of the bicycles. Remember, we're only carrying, usually it's two or three people at a time,
except in the commuter traffic.

Part of the reasoning that the vehicles went to white is to bring them back into the RTD fleet. When
we created this brand back in 2000, there were different people here. But green is not part of the
RTD color scheme. Never has been. Steve can talk much better on this subject than I can.
But I can tell you, as a manager, over the years, I can't tell you the countless number of people I've
talked to that did not realize this is an RTD service. They thought it was part of Jefferson County,
or Evergreen. We've never been able to properly market it as an RTD service. And I think part of
the reason is because they're green buses.
And Steve, I don't know if you want to expand on that.
STEPHEN REILLY: I would agree with that, Brian. When we talk about branding, we're really
talking about creating a consistency across the entire agency, and across the fleet. And that's
something I believe has been not as effective as it could be over the last several years.
And as Brian said, the green color, which has been-- actually dates back even further than 2000,
has really never been a part of the color palette. And it's always been a problematic service from
that standpoint, because we have received quite a bit of feedback from individuals who don't really
understand what that service is, and don't understand that RTD runs that service.
So what we're attempting to do here is, in terms of bringing the brand down to a standardization
and a consistency across the fleet over time, and to also standardize all the other materials that you'll
see, whether they be shelter boards or passes or timetables or ads or billboards or signs on the side
of buses over time as we produce them, that that brand refresh-- or evolution, or update, if you will- will take on a consistency, and people will start to understand that there is a consistent look across
the entire agency. And hopefully, that will start to catch on. That is our intention.
FREDERICK WORTHEN: So one other thing that I'd like to add, too, and I have ridden the Calln-Ride services, is I think this goes beyond the look at the vehicle itself. The services that are
provided in these neighborhoods is very personalized. In many cases, the drivers know the names
of the people that they're going to pick up. Oftentimes, they'll even walk in to go solicit ridership
at, like, a senior center. So the service is a little different than a traditional fixed-route service.
NATALIE MENTEN: I understand that. Thank you. OK. You've answered my questions, from
your point of view and reasoning. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska, I think you're next.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Vice Chair Williams. Brian, this sounds like a souped-up version
of Access-A-Ride, really. Like, I think people with disabilities would love this level of service.
BRIAN MATTHEWS: This is Brian speaking.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh, I'm-- what did I say? Brian?

BRIAN MATTHEWS: We have-- we actually work with Access-A-Ride. When an Access-A-Ride
client calls in, if the origin and destination is within a Call-n-Ride area, at that time, an invitation is
made about Call-n-Ride. We have been actively marketing to people with Access-A-Ride passes
for about six years. And we're doing about 400 boardings per week, people with an Access-A-Ride
pass.
So, because it's free. If you have the pass, and you're riding on a Call-n-Ride, it's free. So that trip
to the library, that trip to go shopping, the trip to the movie theater, you can now ride Call-n-Ride- or FlexRide, as it will be known in January-- with an Access-A-Ride pass.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And you call in and you get a 10-minute response time?
BRIAN MATTHEWS: If it's available, right.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Uh-huh. Like, that blows my mind. And it's the exact same vehicle.
BRIAN MATTHEWS: Same vehicle.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Same vehicle. I don't know. Am I missing something?
BRIAN MATTHEWS: No.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I mean, we can fix the geography and all those details. But basically, we
have been providing a service, primarily to people that don't have a disability, that surpasses the
service for people with disabilities, that is accessible to people with disabilities. I find it, like, a lot
of overlap, redundancy. And it's kind of mind-boggling. That's just my-- I'll have to learn more
about it, and why we have these distinctly different services.
Mr. Reilly, it just so happens, last night, I was giving a guest lecture at the University of Colorado
Denver. And one of the people in this lecture-- this was a master's graduate class-- is a teacher. And
she is currently teaching high school. And her sophomore student won the art contest in 2014 for
Aurora school districts.
And all she could talk about last night was what an incredible art contest that was. I love my RTD
youth art contest. And that the communities who participated in it still love it, and commended you
and Georgeanne, by the way, for your efforts, and how seamless it was, and how much they liked
it.
So it occurs to me, as you step forward in rebranding this, suppose you did some other sort of
community outreach competition that engaged your community. And then they tagged it, they
owned it, they put their own artwork on it. And maybe, there could be a distinctive thing that
everybody in the community agrees, OK, this is what our FlexRide looks like.
STEPHEN REILLY: I think that's a very interesting point, Director. And I appreciate you passing
on those sentiments to us. It's so glad-- I'm so glad to hear that the art contest had such tremendous
reach, and continues to do so. That was a fantastic program that you led, and really pushed to get

off the ground. And I'm so glad that that was able to be accommodated, because we just had such a
great time with that, so much great feedback and publicity from that.
I think your point is well taken. And right now, we're looking into opportunities to promote and
market this FlexRide service, and to create a distinction within the marketplace, in terms of exactly
how we're going to roll it out. And we're not quite there yet, in terms of the timing on everything.
But your point is very well taken.
We're thinking at this point that it's going to roll out in January with pretty much a soft launch,
simply because fare changes and service changes are obviously the two messages that we want
people to come away with in the month of January, and really understand and digest those. But then
shortly after that, within the coming months, we're planning some particular events and rollout. And
we may even tie them to the agency's 50th anniversary next year.
So there's definitely a lot to think about. And there's a lot of really great things to consider in the
statements that you just made. So we will take that under advisement for sure. And I'll look forward
to having more conversation with you about that. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Folska. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. I will be voting yes on the change. It seems reasonable to me.
But my comment is about something else, which is that Call-n-Ride, or FlexRide, is one of the tools
that we have at RTD to help the folks in low-population-density areas. And I represent one of those
areas. And I know that people-- I'm sorry I keep popping my Ps. I know that people in those areas,
I think justifiably, feel aggrieved that just because they live in a low-density area, they pay the same
taxes for RTD, but they don't get the fixed routes. And that is true.
And so I just wanted to stress to RTD management and the Board that I think we should be
supporting these programs-- these Call-n-Ride, FlexRides, the vanpools, and whatever else can
successfully be used in these low-density areas to fight the inequity that I think is very real. And
that's just something I think would be very good for us to support, making sure that these programs
don't go away. There's always a fight with Call-n-Rides, always a fight, because you're in lowdensity areas, and so the rides are low-density. Surprise!
Anyway, but I think these, they fill a need. And I want to have a shout-out for that need. Thank you
very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I have a couple questions. One is, you are turning over 32 vehicles
with the new branding, and then some of the green vehicles will remain. And I'm assuming that
you're selecting certain Call-n-Ride areas where you'll be deploying them, because it would concern
me if you had a mix of both in a certain Call-n-Ride service area.

FREDERICK WORTHEN: That is correct. We may have some mixes in a particular area, just
because of the fleet numbers that we have. But most of the older vehicles are in the northern county
area, or the northern district area. So they'll be seeing the earlier buses. And then as the other ones
are replaced over the next two to three years, they'll all filter in to have the same look.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might?
PEGGY CATLIN: I guess what I would be interested in knowing-- since I represent a couple of
those areas, the South Jeffco and the mountain communities-- when some of these vehicles would
be turning over, so that we could effectively communicate it to our customers. I personally like the
new look. And then, as we did on the replacement of the Route 85, I believe at the time, last May,
that we referred to that as a flex route. But that is kind of a hybrid of fixed-route service in the peak
hour-- four trips in the morning peak and in the evening peak-- and then in the off-peak, you use
the vehicle as a Call-n-Ride vehicle. So I think the term FlexRide route, or whatever, is very apt.
I'm wondering if we're going to be doing more of those kinds of things for some of the lowerdensity areas. I know the people that Route 85 served were quite happy with the accommodation. I
think the issue was more in finding the scheduling online, and where they had to look in order to
see what the schedule was, because on the fixed-route schedule, it was completely dropped. So as
we move towards some more of these pilots, it would be helpful to me to really understand clearly
how we could communicate that to our customers.
FREDERICK WORTHEN: Absolutely.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten, again?
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. It's for a good cause. As we were talking earlier about how we
get rid of our normal vehicles when they're worn out, we may be able to get a little bit of an extra
premium for those green ones we're going to get rid of, if we do advertise them to the marijuana
market.
[LAUGHTER]
Just a way to make a little extra few bucks. OK. That's it.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah. Smoke-n-Ride. General Manager Genova, if you wait one second, I will
get the people on the phone. Director Sisk, can you top that?
CHUCK SISK: I'm not even going there. Thank you for the engaging conversation. I'm going to
bid you adieu for the evening. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for joining us. Director Anderson?

LORRAINE ANDERSON: I think that the new Flex-n-Ride is really the best. Call-n-Ride never
worked. Back in the day, when RTD provided Call-n-Ride for the City of Arvada, you could never
call and ride. And more people complained to me. And it was interesting, because it didn't work.
And consequently, all the people that wanted to ride couldn't ride.
And that's a tale for another time, perhaps. But I think the new flex route is really on top of it. And
I am entirely supportive of it.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. General Manager Genova?
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Chair. I just want to make a couple comments around some of the
questions, and then just some of what's happening in the industry nationally. So this service that
we've been providing for a couple decades now is really mobility on demand. It's micro-transit. But
we don't get the credit for that. And we've seen, you've all seen in the articles around the nation an
agency will put on one cut-away, and it's a six-month pilot, and this is micro-transit. Isn't it great?
But you know, I just want to take a moment to recognize that this agency has been doing it a long
time. And I think, with the renaming, and with the application that we'll have, where people will be
able to schedule maybe as close as 10 minutes, is pretty incredible. And that we operate these not
just, like, one in one area, and it's not a pilot, but we operate them in 21 different areas.
And so to one of the questions-- I think, Director Catlin, maybe you had asked it, about are we
going to be looking for other opportunities to use FlexRide, we're certainly looking at that now, to
see where it makes sense to possibly use FlexRide, because one of the other parts about this is this
is a service that we contract out, so it doesn't hit our headcount shortage on the operating side.
And also, since we did the Mobility Summit, I did show a mock-up of the FlexRide at our Mobility
Summit. And I've already been contacted by one TMA that says, you know, I've been talking to
other providers. But then I saw this. And I said, if-- and we're talking about trying to garner up some
funding to put together to operate exactly what you described. And I said, well, we've been doing
it a long time.
So we're having active conversations, because we actually went out and told folks about this, that
we're just not associating Call-n-Ride at all with the RTD brand or with the RTD family of services.
So I think this is a great opportunity for us. And not just with FlexRide, but with, as Steve said, I
don't want it to be lost that because we have to touch so many of our materials with the fare change,
we have a great opportunity to refresh a lot of our materials at no budget impact, because we would
have been doing them anyway.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. Sorry for doing that. Gosh, what was I thinking? Are you
marketing this heavily to the ADA community?

BRIAN MATTHEWS: This is Brian. Yes, as I mentioned earlier, every person who calls in through
our Access-A-Ride, if their origin and destination is within a Call-n-Ride area, it's flagged right
there and then.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, like, so, this 10-minute thing, is that like-- when I go on my phone and
I use Uber, is it like that? I mean, how-- does somebody call Call-n-Ride and they get 10 minutes?
Or they do it on their phone? What is that?
BRIAN MATTHEWS: We have what's called a five-minute-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I'm sorry, FlexRide, or-BRIAN MATTHEWS: FlexRide.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah.
BRIAN MATTHEWS: Five minutes early, 10 minutes late. So if you called at 3 o'clock and
nothing's going on, and the vehicle is available, and you're 10 minutes away, yes, we could pick
you up in 10 minutes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So I call dispatch.
BRIAN MATTHEWS: You call the bus directly, or you can book online.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK.
DAVE GENOVA: Or soon to use an app.
BRIAN MATTHEWS: Or soon to be an app. You can actually book online through your phone
right now. But if it's available, it's booked. We're actually doing it right now.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. So what I'm suggesting is that people in the disability community really
know that they have that availability on their phones, should they like to use it. And when the app
becomes available, likewise. They can try that, because they can still have a longer wait when they
go through dispatch. I mean, just going to call your Access-A-Ride could take a long time in itself,
waiting on hold, to be-- you know what I'm saying? So I think if we could tie those services together,
that it could be more efficient for everybody.
DAVE GENOVA: I think that's a great point. And as we do the big marketing rollout of this after
we do our mid-January fare change and service change, we'll include that.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Folska. I have a couple of things that I want to say, too.
And you can call me Vice Chair. You don't have to call me Chair.

I think that-- I do some work in Broomfield, and they have had wonderful successes with their Calln-Ride. They added a second Call-n-Ride to their area, as you guys well know, because they have
been so successful with it in a less-densely-populated area.
The Call-n-Ride-- and I'm still using the old name, because that's who it was at the time-- got
national recognition in the part of the Go Centennial project that involved Call-n-Ride there. It's of
interest to me that the new Chariot project is exactly what Call-n-Ride is. And the City of Denver,
City and County, put a quarter of a million dollars into one route that has a couple of buses to
replicate a Call-n-Ride project.
So we, I agree, have been at the forefront of this service for a long time, and have not gotten the
recognition that we deserve. So I think it's great that we're doing a little rebranding. I love the
mountains on there. I think it's great that we are willing to step up and say that this is what we not
only are going to do, but have been doing for some time.
So I'm 150% in favor of it. I have just had one question since I first came to RTD, which is why
Access-A-Ride and Call-n-Ride are two separate services. And I think that that's where we're
moving in this discussion tonight, about how those work hand-in-hand. So now I'll shut myself up.
Thank you, Director Williams. You're welcome.
Seeing no one else on the agenda, I thank you gentlemen. And I guess we'll go to the last item on
the agenda, which is the presentation of the RTD Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan. And I
see Mr. Meader approaching the table. So you may speak at will, sir.
MICHAEL MEADER: Thank you, Chair Williams. This is Mike Meader again, Chief Safety
Officer. And I have with me Richard Lobato, who is a Manager of Safety, so that we can answer
any questions you might have.
I'm going to go through this fairly quickly, so that we can get on with the second half of our
scheduled program tonight. But if you recall, about a year ago or so, I spoke with you about safety
management systems and what was coming, from a regulatory standpoint. I said this year, we expect
to have two regulations in place, and now we do.
One of those regulations was a state safety oversight regulation that replaced one that had been in
place for about 12 years. The second one is a new regulation regarding the public transportation
agency's safety plan. And that is the Safety Management System, or SMS, framework approach to
the safety plan.
So the reason I'm here tonight to talk to you about this is because that new regulation that came out
states that our safety plan for the agency now must be approved by the Board of Directors. So in
the past, we had a regulation. It was a System Safety Program Plan. That's been in place for about
12 years. There was no requirement for the Board of Directors to approve that. It was endorsed by
the General Manager and CEO, Dave Genova. And we had that in place, and it served us very, very
well for those years.

The new approach now, with the Safety Management System, is still signed by the accountable
executive, our General Manager and CEO. He is the accountable executive responsible for ensuring
that the safety management system plan is executed and implemented, and all the resources required
to make sure that happens are available.
The other thing that it states is that the Board of Directors, or equivalent authority-- and since we
have no other equivalent authority to the Board of Directors, you will approve the plan annually.
So the plan that was in your packet is 183 pages long, so I expect all of you have had a chance to
read through it. And so, great.
So what this is, is this year, it's kind of a bridge document. So because the state safety oversight
plan just went into effect in August of 2018, but it was published in 2016, the transportation agency
safety plan was published this year in August of 2018, and isn't effective until August of 2019, and
we don't have to be fully compliant until July of 2020.
So in the infinite wisdom, they aligned them extremely poorly. And so some of the items that are
in the safety plan don't align, necessarily, with the state safety oversight role. And we're going to
correct that over the course of the next 18 months.
So the document you have is kind of a combination of those two regulations. We've actually put
our safety plan in the SMS framework way ahead of schedule. But right now, it primarily contains
all of the elements of our system safety program plan, along with some new processes that we've
already put in place that will satisfy the new state safety oversight.
And incidentally, I just heard today that the PUC approved what we submitted November 1 as being
compliant. It will only be fully compliant when the Board approves it, and that we expect to bring
to you next month for your approval. And then it will be filed completely, and we will be completely
compliant with the state safety oversight rule going forward.
So next year, and all years after that, we'll be coming to you in the fourth quarter of the year to
present the plan to you. We'll present data to you, and expect to get your approval on the plan each
year after that. But there will be training coming to you next year on the new plan and some of the
processes we have. So you have that to look forward to throughout the year next year as well.
So with that, we'll take any questions you have.
KATE WILLIAMS: I don't-- ah, there we are. Make a liar out of me. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Vice Chair. I read through most of it. It was a trade-off between that
and another task that I was procrastinating. But I'm pleased to hear that we are going to see some
training next year. That's awesome.
MICHAEL MEADER: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: One of the things that struck me as I read through it is, you know, there's roles
and responsibilities outlined very carefully. It makes no mention of the Board's responsibility, other

than approving the document. And what I thought would be helpful-- to me, anyway-- would be
some sort of mention of the Board's responsibility in, I don't know, supporting or executing or
something on the document. That was-MICHAEL MEADER: Absolutely. The regulation doesn't actually state any responsibilities
beyond approving the plan. But if you notice, in your Board packet, I did put a slide in there for
your roles and responsibilities in general terms. And those things are really, just as anyone else here
at RTD, is to promote safety as a core value, help reinforce that safety culture and that safety
reporting risk management culture, reports concerns, hazards, near-misses, all of those things.
The one thing that it does infer is that really, it's to support the General Manager, the accountable
executive, to ensure that the resources are allocated properly, so that we can implement the plan
and be compliant. And then approve the PTASP.
But I'm not shy. I'll certainly come to you when we do the training, and let you know what
expectations we have for the Board, just like the same expectations we have for all the other
employees.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: I think that's a good point. And we can expand that part of the document, because
there really is a lot involved, as far as kind of understanding as we do the training, but then as we're
reporting data and other key factors that we're going to be using to support the plan or to support
resources and those kinds of things. So I think that the Board has-- you know, approval of the plan
is one thing. But there's a lot that's built into that. So there will be quite a bit.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Vice Chair Williams. Mr. Meader, I think this is great, and it's
really helpful to have this. But I would defer to the Colorado state statute that spells out specifically
the roles, duties, and responsibilities of this body.
MICHAEL MEADER: Absolutely.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: That's it. There's no more than that. Thank you.
MICHAEL MEADER: Great. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Seeing no one else in queue, anyone else have anything else to say? Do
we have a part two to this?
MICHAEL MEADER: No, next month we'll be asking for your vote of approval.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. So are we on to other matters, I believe? Does anyone have anything that
they want to bring up under other matters? I see Director--

LORRAINE ANDERSON: I do.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, I'm sorry. I am so sorry. Director Anderson, please speak to us.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you, Vice Chair Williams. I would like to know if there is any
update on the G Line.
KATE WILLIAMS: We'll see if there's anybody in the room that wants to speak to an update on
the G Line. General Manager Genova, you have the floor.
DAVE GENOVA: The latest information is really more around the optimizing the grade crossing
timing. So the G Line has 15 grade crossings that are under the PUC authority, or under application.
And so out of those 15, we have five of the crossings that we believe are dialed in pretty well,
considering the buffer time that we're targeting. Same as University of Colorado A Line and B Line,
the activation's falling within the minus 5 or plus 15. So we think five crossings are performing
very well.
And then we have another, I believe it is six that we talked to Denver Transit Partners about late
last week, that we believe are performing within that buffer time. And then there's four more that
they're still having to make quite a few adjustments on. So we continue to work with the Public
Utilities Commission and the FRA to come out and do their verification testing on those timings.
But there's still some work to be done on a few crossings.
Once we have all of those crossings within the buffer time zone, and then we have at least five days'
worth of data that demonstrates they're all functioning according to those timing requirements, then
we'll submit that to the Federal Railroad Administration and request that the G Line be added on to
the operational waiver for the University of Colorado A Line and the B Line. And then, once we
get that waiver amendment, then the Public Utilities Commission can file all the documentation and
get it on the document and get the grade crossings through the Public Utilities Commission.
So couple parallel processes that are running. The other big piece, of course, is the quiet zones. And
I think everyone's well informed on the process on the University of Colorado A Line. We filed for
a petition for a waiver from constant warning time.
That was advertised in the federal register. It went through its comment period. And it's been-- that's
been since about October 19.
We've not heard back from Federal Railroad Administration on whether they're going to issue that
waiver for constant-- excuse me, for constant warning time yet. They continue to look at the grade
crossings throughout the entire system. And so we continue to work with them on trying to get a
response on that. But that's the latest I have, in terms of update today.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you, Mr. Genova. I just want to say this. I have a question, then.
Did the City of Wheat Ridge sign off on the quiet zone document?

DAVE GENOVA: Yes, thanks, Director Anderson. So we did prepare, in conjunction with the
cities-- so Wheat Ridge, Arvada, and also Adams County and Denver-- on the packages that will
be submitted for the constant warning time waiver. I believe those are all complete, and are
completely executed and ready to file. And we anticipate filing those very shortly.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: That's great. I want to say this. I hope that you and Chair Tisdale are
prepared for tomorrow evening. My community is really disgusted over this whole process. And I
want you to know that, as I am.
It is over two years from the actual advertised opening date. And if DTP cannot optimize-- optimize,
optimize-- all of the crossings sooner rather than later, I think you need to find somebody else. And
that's where I am right now.
I am-- my community is upset over this. And they would all like to be currently riding the G Line,
as are people from Westminster on the B Line, as are people all over the City of Denver riding the
A Line. So I don't know why we are continuing to hold the G Line hostage to this whole process.
So I appreciate what RTD staff is doing. But I think we ought to really do more. And I'm not going
to stay for the next committee meeting. So I appreciate your help. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Anderson. Anyone-- oh, Director Lubow, do you have
some other matters?
JUDY LUBOW: I do. I have something very positive to say, which is very nice.
[LAUGHTER]
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. I went to a Broomfield LCC meeting, and one of the Broomfield employees
there said that she and several people from Broomfield took part in the RTD training experience
that the CAC has started, and they loved it. They loved it. I mean, she was practically jumping up
and down. She just loved it so much. It was like, ah! It was terrific.
And she said that people-- it taught them how to use transit. And several of the people have gone
out and paid money and got a ticket or something for it. So, and she also requested that this be
offered regularly for people who want to use it.
So I wanted to share that with you, because it was such good news. Anyway, that's all. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lubow. Anybody else, other matters? Going once, going
twice?
Seeing no other matters, we will be closing this meeting momentarily. The next meeting date is
December 11, same time, same location. Hopefully we'll start a little earlier. Thank you all. Meeting
is adjourned.
Five-minute break until we have the next committee meeting.

