2021-08-10
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
PEGGY CATLIN: No, I don't think we need one. Because this is going to be pretty quick. It should be
pretty quick.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. I'll turn it over to you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Unless somebody else-- unless somebody else really needs one, I don't know. OK. I'd
like to call to order the Financial Administration and Audit Committee at 9:30 PM on Tuesday, August 10.
We have one recommended action. And that action is to direct staff to update the recommended action
discussed during the July 13 FAA meeting to incorporate additional stakeholder feedback and to further
postpone the item for the Board's consideration during a special Board meeting held on August 24.
Do I have motion?
ERIK DAVIDSON: So moved, Director Davidson.
PEGGY CATLIN: Is there a second?
SHELLEY COOK: Second, Shelley Cook.
PEGGY CATLIN: Pardon? Who was the second?
SHELLEY COOK: Shelley Cook.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you, Directors Davidson and Cook.
There's a script here that's been prepared for me, and then I might add GM/CEO Johnson to add
anything.
But at the July 13 Finance Administration and Audit Committee meeting, consideration of the Northwest
Rail Peak Service Study recommended action was postponed to today in order to allow staff additional
time to confer with stakeholders and update staff's recommendation. To recap, the motions made on July
13 were the following. Director Guissinger moved that the recommended action be moved to the full
Board for consideration during the July 20 Board meeting, and Director Buzek seconded.
The second one, Director Guissinger made a motion to amend the total cost of the study from $12 million
to $8 million with a 10% contingency, for a total not to exceed $8.8 million. Director Buzek seconded.
Third bullet, Director Whitmore made the motion to postpone to a date certain today with the motion to
amend intact. Director Buzek seconded, and that motion passed 11 to 3, with one absence.

Since that meeting, General Manager and CEO Debra Johnson staff have been working diligently to
confer with stakeholders, and they are requesting additional time to do so in order to start with a clean
slate, clean procedural slate. So we're suggesting that the Board proceed by unanimous consent to direct
staff to update the Northwest Rail Peak Service Study recommended action and to further postpone
consideration of this item until the August 24 Special Board Meeting. This will allow staff more time to
work with our stakeholders and revise the recommended action accordingly. This will mean that we will
start fresh, rather than being encumbered by the previous motion, on August 24 without any pending
motions, including the prior motion to amend.
Is there any objection to allowing staff additional time and proceeding as I suggested in the script? I'm
seeing a lot of head shakes, so I don't see any objection. So hearing none, I'm stating that the motion
passes unanimously with three, or two absent.
So with that, are there any other matters for the FAA Committee? Or Ms. Johnson, would you like to
comment on that at all? I think you have the go ahead to extend your time for another couple weeks.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, you covered it completely and I think we're all aligned. So thank you
very kindly.
PEGGY CATLIN: We'd rather, as you're fond of saying, take the time to do it right. So—
Are there any other matters? OK. Our next meeting date of this committee is August 17, 2021.
So with that, we are adjourned at 9:34. So it was a four-minute committee meeting, which is shorter than
what a break would have been. So good night, all.
SHELLEY COOK: Good night.
DOUG TISDALE: Good night.

