2023-05-31
Board Meeting
LYNN GUISSINGER: --the recording? Thank you. I will now call the Wednesday, May 31st RTD Board
Meeting to order. We're convened as of 5:31 PM. I would respectfully ask everyone to remain muted
unless you're recognized to speak. And that, I think, goes especially for our people online, too.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. As the Board has moved to in-person for the monthly board
meetings, please note that committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will still be held remotely
via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes
of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Visit rtd-denver.com. And a
livestream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube. Director Dishell, would you lead us in the
Pledge of Allegiance?
BOBBY DISHELL: Certainly.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Can you do this?
ALL: I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it
stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Sloan, would you please read the land acknowledgment?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes, it would be my privilege. The RTD Board of Directors acknowledges that the
land on which our buses and trains operate is a traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and
other contemporary tribal nations that are historically tied to these lands. We honor our Indigenous elders,
who have traveled, inhabited, and stewarded these mountains, hills, and plains throughout generations.
May this acknowledgment demonstrate a commitment to working to dismantle the ongoing legacies of
inequity of the Native and all historically oppressed peoples, and recognize their current and future
contributions in the district as we move forward.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. I will now call the roll. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Director Bouquet is online. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.

LYNN GUISSINGER: First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second Vice Chair Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Treasurer Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal. Not yet. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Secretary Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I am Chair Guissinger, and I am here as well. So I believe we had 14 present
and 1 absent. We have a quorum. There are no retirees for the retiree awards tonight. The next retiree
recognition will occur during the June 27th board meeting.
It is nice to see people in the room again. Some of the public are here. This is our public participation
period, which is open to anyone who would like to address the Board.
We have both in-person and remote attendees. So in-person comments will go first, followed by those
who are participating remotely. Do we have any in-person speakers today?
JULIE: No, we do not.

LYNN GUISSINGER: And do we have any online speakers?
JULIE: Yes, we do.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. OK, for those attending virtually, if you wish to speak and have not already
done so, please raise your virtual hand, or press Star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it's
your turn to speak. If you are dialed in, please press Star 6 to toggle your Mute settings.
Bear in mind that by participating in this process, you're being recorded. If you do not wish to be recorded,
then your comments will have to be submitted in writing. If any speaker has documentation or reference
materials, or if any member of the public would like to submit written comments, please email those to the
Board at rtd.board@rtd-denver.com.
During this time, as a reminder, the RTD Board will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff
may contact speakers if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow up. Speakers should begin their
remarks by stating their names and will have up to three minutes to provide their comments. OK, who is
our first speaker?
JULIE: Our first speaker is last name Flattum.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. If you would, please state your name, and you may proceed.
JAMES FLATTUM: Good evening, everyone. My name is James Flattum. I'm one of the founders of
Greater Denver Transit. Unfortunately, tonight I need to raise the severe disruption issues that Light Rail
riders have been experiencing over the last month and a half.
I come to you with an overwhelming amount of accounts that have been presented to us at our meetings,
and also just other riders that we speak with when we ride on the Light Rail over the last month and a half
that just people have had it. We've been-- this morning, I was speaking with a woman who says that she
is going to be buying a car, even though she can't afford it. The experience has just been paralyzing
unreliable on the E line and most of the southeast corridor in general.
And part of this stems back to an issue that's been going on for over a month and a half. We analyzed the
Light Rail schedule that was published after the summer maintenance program had started. And what has
been designed is five months, or excuse me, five minutes were budgeted for Light Rail Transit travel
between Southmoor and Belleview. This is taking upwards of seven, eight, sometimes even nine minutes
and creating a cascade of trains that are being held-- that are unable to cross the area that is being
worked on with maintenance crews. And this is cascading into just chronic delays in the afternoon, with
journeys taking just exorbitantly long amounts of time.
I myself was on a Light Rail train yesterday. This route that's supposed to take 40 minutes took me about
an hour and 50, 5-0, minutes to get to work. For a point of comparison, I drove this morning, and it took
me 18 minutes to get from downtown to Belleview and the Tech Center, just an unacceptable difference.
And this is happening all the time. This is not a one-off.
Culmination of just issues-- we saw last week a 72-hour period happen where the spine of the entire RTD
Light Rail network wasn't just disrupted or disturbed. It was entirely unworkable. Trains did not run.
People could not cross on Light Rail north to south along the spine between 10th and Osage and I-25 and
Broadway. And there was no relief bus service. 72 hours, and this was planned.

This is something that does not happen on peer systems around the United States and is just miles away
from global best practices. This is something I would urge the Board and management, this is not
something that can be laid at the feet or be blamed on the operator shortage.
Cities like Seattle and LA across the US are experiencing comparably severe operator shortages. And
they mandate, they prioritize relief service so that riders are not being stranded. This is something that's
undermining public trust and public willingness to ride RTD. And we can already see the narrative is
getting away from us. This summer that's supposed to be celebrating free fares is being labeled by the
media as "the Light Rail summer from hell."
So we just urge you, we urge the Board, we urge management to do what needs to be done to restore
reliable service around this maintenance. Thank you. That concludes my comments.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Flattum. And thank you for your comments. If you want to follow up
with an email, sir, we could talk with you. Some of the staff could talk with you some about the issues. So
thanks.
Who else do we have? Anyone else in line?
JULIE: Next up is Jaime Lewis.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Mr. Lewis, could you please state your name? And you may begin.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Jaime Lewis. I am representing the Colorado CrossDisability Coalition. I also work for the Alliance to Transform Transportation.
Just wanted to drop a note, we're very excited about the fare-free summer, July and August. As you
recall, last year we had a collection of nonprofits helping RTD with festivals and activities to help promote
that event. And we look forward to doing that again. We've already work-- we're currently working with
your staff, Stuart Summers and Mr. Davies. And we're just excited and look forward to hearing about the
results in September. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Lewis. I think we're excited, too. And we appreciate the help. Who
is next?
JULIE: Last name Bonney.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. or Mr. Barney, please go ahead.
ELIZABETH BONNEY: Good evening. My name is Elizabeth Bonney. I've lived in Glendale for over 10
years. And I rely on RTD, my bicycle, and my shoes to get me everywhere I need to go.
I got a new job in South Inverness last month near County Line Station. My new office is about two blocks
away from an office I'd worked at some years ago, so it's a familiar commute for me from Colorado
Station. Back then, I used to get to work reliably on time, and often faster than my coworkers driving the
same commute during rush hour. On snow days, I'd get to feel downright smug about how easy it was. It
wasn't perfect, but I wasn't worried about having to make that trip again to my new workplace.
This month's commutes on the E line have forced me to consider what other options I might have. Halfhour frequency is incredibly inconvenient for a route that has no alternative options. I don't mind so much

that my closest local bus route's on a half-hour schedule-- shout out to 46, best bus-- because if I miss it,
the 11 will probably show up in less than 10 minutes. Or I could walk a few blocks to catch the 40.
There's no way to do that with the E line. And that's assuming it's keeping to the posted service disruption
schedule, which it isn't. I don't know how long my trips to or from work will take or how early I should
leave. The only thing I know for sure is that there will be unscheduled delays, some of them absurdly
long.
Yesterday morning, my southbound E train sat at Yale Station for 45 minutes. I can't keep doing this, and
I know we can do better. Thank you for your time.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Ms. Bonney. [CLEARS THROAT] Excuse me.
JULIE: Next up is Rogers, last name.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Mr. Or Ms. Rogers, please go ahead.
SCOTT ROGERS: Hi, my name is Scott Rogers. I live in DPC by the Belleview Station. So I do commute
to work and for leisure.
And yesterday, I left my house at 7:15 for the 7:26 train downtown Lincoln, where I'd get a flex ride to my
work. That train didn't show up for a half an hour. It showed up at 7:56, which is unacceptable.
And from my experience, this has been the norm, where the southbound trains scheduled at 30-minute
Intervals are still showing up late, not the scheduled time. And this is totally unacceptable. We want
people to ride RTD, to be reliable.
Another issue I do have and I want to raise is the issue of the homeless and the drug issues on the trains.
Nearly every day I walk by the station or pass by the station, somebody's doing something. They're
smoking on the elevators. They're smoking in the elevators. And this is not-- this is a daily occurrence.
I strongly urge the Board to work with the City of Denver and work with local agencies to fix the homeless- to work with the homeless issues as well as to look at the scheduling of the E line during this disruption.
That's all I have. Thank you so much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Rogers. Who's next?
JULIE: Next up is last name Bob Dinegar.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ah, Mr. "Dine-ejer"-- did not do that right. Go ahead, please.
BOB DINEGAR: Hi. Thanks for allowing me to speak here. I'm a little nervous. I have some prepared
notes.
My name is Bob "Dinn-egar." And I've had the opportunity to speak with all of you directors individually,
some on multiple occasions. I've been able to speak with several members of senior management.
And as you know, I operate an RTD bus. Over these past few years, I've offered my thoughts and
perspective to those willing to listen. I've seen and heard a lot. During that time, I've taken various

leadership roles, helped put on some candidate forums, and even saw my name in the paper alongside
the words "transit advocate."
But my reason for reaching out tonight is to offer some insights about the crisis RTD, along with most
large transit agencies in the US, has been facing since before the pandemic. First, like most crises, it's
best viewed as an opportunity. In this case, you folks have an opportunity to reconsider what might be
termed a siege mentality.
You're under a ton of pressure. In fact, we've heard some callers adding to that pressure. I'd like to point
out that the first syllable of the word "pressure" is "press." But I want to give a shout-out to The Fourth
Estate because they're providing a valuable service and like yourselves, and yours truly, are grossly
undercompensated.
They're not the enemy. A culture of cover-up and that siege mentality I mentioned is the enemy. That
nobody ever got fired for doing things the same old way mentality is the enemy.
Everyone, despite certain preconceived notions, is rooting for RTD's success. We're so lucky there are
many fine individuals and organizations dedicated to helping that happen. They are our friends.
In my opinion, RTD needs to bust out and set itself apart from the pack in a positive way. Start by
encouraging what might be perceived as dissident voices at the highest levels. Consider that the May '22
CBA, though well-intended, has failed. Recruitment still lags at a 20% deficit.
Current financial realities demand a more aggressive approach. The 2024 openings for directors will once
again find few, if any, takers at the current rate of compensation and workload. It's time to make some
noise if the System Optimization Plan is ever going to become a reality. Let's get together and agree on a
definition of success for RTD. Then let's get together and put pressure where it needs to be to get the
necessary funding to make that a reality. Thank you for your time.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Dinegar. Who's next, Julie?
JULIE: Next up is last name Solorzano.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Mr. Solorzano, please state your name. You may proceed.
PAOLO SOLORZANO: Hi, Paolo Solorzano. Thanks. So the Regional Transportation District is
responsible for providing efficient and reliable public transportation services to the residents of Colorado.
One of the key components of this service is accurate and up-to-date signage for Light Rail stations.
Unfortunately, many commuters have noticed that the signage at some-- at a lot of Light Rail stations is
outdated or incorrect. This can cause confusion and delays, especially for those who are new to the area
or unfamiliar with the transit system.
According to a recent survey conducted by RTD, over 70% of riders reported experiencing confusion due
to inaccurate signage. This not only affects their daily commute but also impacts their overall perception
of RTD's ability to provide quality service. Furthermore, inaccurate signage can lead to safety concerns,
as passengers may miss important information about train schedules or platform changes.
We call on RTD to prioritize maintaining accurate and up-to-date signage at all Light Rail stations. This
includes regular inspections and updates as needed as well as clear communication with passengers

about any changes or disruptions in service. By ensuring that all passengers have access to reliable
information about their transit options, RTD can improve overall rider satisfaction and promote safe and
efficient travel throughout Colorado.
Thanks, and I agree with the last voter-- I'm sorry, the last caller in that, yeah, we need to make some
noise. There's been years of outreach trying to be done. But thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Solorzano. Who's next?
JULIE: I do not see any more hands in the queue. We did receive one email from Benjamin Barber
regarding the R line. It will be attached to the transcripts.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. With no other participants in the queue, we'll close public
participation period at this time. As I said before, the Board doesn't respond or address the comments.
But we do appreciate your comments, and we hear you. Thanks.
External Entities Report is next on the agenda. This month, we have one External Entity Report. Tonight's
report is from the Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee, or APAC. Julie Jennings, please start
when you're ready.
JULIE JENNINGS: My name is Julie Jennings, and I'm reporting on the May 9, 2023, meeting. Two exofficio members were in attendance, Joe Beaver of the Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition, and Catrice
Thomas from Atlantis Community for the System-Wide Fare Study and Equity Analysis. RTD is
recommending a new fare structure, changes to existing discount and pass programs, as well as
introductions of new programs. RTD is seeking community input on the recommendation prior to the RTD
Board meeting-- Board making decisions at their July board meeting.
Eric Farrington of RTD gave us an update on Keyride software in the mobile app that will be replacing the
Route Match in the RTD mobile app. Keyride software is for the Access-a-Ride call center scheduling and
tracking. It includes a mobile app to the online system for customer self-scheduling and real-time vehicle
tracking. The software and app will go live in July.
The call center vendor RFP process-- the RFP was released and advertised. The next steps are June 8,
a selection committee determines a recommendation. In July, the RTD Board votes on the
recommendation. And October 1, the new vendor contract begins.
Access-on-demand vendor status-- all vendors are up and running. Lyft, Metro Taxi, Uber, and Z-Trip
have direct booking apps and information on their websites. The enrollment is close to 2,000 customers,
with many customers enrolled with more than one vendor.
One third of all paratransit trips are access-on-demand trips. 23,000 access-on-demand trips were
completed last month. Thank you for your time. That concludes this summary.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you so much, Ms. Jennings. We appreciate it. Next is the TABOR Ad Hoc
Committee report. Director Broom, do you have anything you would like to report?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. At this time, we have nothing to report. We're still in a accumulating
information mode. But we should have something in the next month or two to report forward to the Board.
Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, great. Thank you. The Audit Committee, Committee Chair Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. The Audit Committee met earlier this month and is bringing
forward the recommended action before you as Agenda Item 17(b). Largely spent most of our time
reviewing the internal audit plan.
The Audit Committee will not be meeting in June. We needed to push that meeting to July, due to a minor
delay in delivery of items to the external auditor from our salaried trustee plans, Defined Benefit and
Defined Contribution plans. But we are very excited about the proposed internal audit plan and look
forward to discussing that with everyone later this evening. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And I would note for the record that Director Rosenthal has joined us.
So all 15 Board members are present. Finance and Planning, Committee Chair Tisdale, do you have a
report?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. The Finance and Planning Committee met on
May the 9th. And there was one recommended action that was approved unanimously by the Board. It is
not on the agenda tonight here, but it is the recommended action to transfer funds to effectuate an IGA to
be entered into between RTD and the Colorado Energy Office to have the Zero Fare for Better Air
operate for both July and August of this year. Notably, that would be at roughly the same cost as we
spent last year for just one month, the month of August.
We had two discussion items. One was the Zero Fare for Youth Pilot Program proposal. That will come
before us in July, with a view to implementing that as of September 1 for a 12-month period. Again, the
idea is that we'll have July and August as free fare, and then September 1 to have, hopefully, if the Board
should act in this manner, the Zero Fare for the Youth Pilot Program kick in September 1-- very positive
and supportive discussion concerning that.
Then secondly, we had a discussion of our Board Retreat summary relative to the exploration of financial
resources and sustainable alternatives and related matters. Our Finance and Planning Vice Chair
Davidson is consulting with Chairman Guissinger, with General Manager CEO Johnson, with CFO
MacLeod, and with me to coordinate regarding next steps. And our next Finance and Planning Committee
meeting is set for Tuesday, June 16. Oh, wait, it's been moved, hasn't it?
It's-- I'm sorry, it's the week before. I apologize. These are old notes. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: The week before. Thank you. Great. I'm sorry. Debra?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Madam Chair, just a point of clarification to Chair Tisdale's report, relative to
Zero Fare for Youth. It's not just contingent upon the Board. We have to work with the Federal Transit
Administration to see if we can obtain a waiver because as it stands, relative to any pilot program, it's only
for six months. So we are working with the FTA in hopes that we'll be able to leverage that for the entire
academic year. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Operations and Safety Committee, Committee Chair Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'd like to defer this month to my Vice Chair, Director
Whitmore, more to give this report.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.

TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair and Madam Chair. We met. The committee met. Five of
the seven members were in attendance on Wednesday, the 10th.
We had a 58-minute meeting. Took a lot of pride in having a meeting that lasted under an hour. But we
did have good, robust discussion on a couple of matters, one of which is on our action agenda later this
evening.
We had no public comment or information from external entities we had one recommended action that
passed on a 3-to-2 vote. And that was the Allied Universal Security Services second contract option year.
It's item C on our recommended actions tonight. And that's to extend the second-year option to Allied
Universal Security for total cost not to exceed $20,455,000, $20,455,408, to be precise.
Secondly, we had a presentation from staff, including Jessie Carter and CEO Michael Ford regarding our
upcoming fare-- excuse me, upcoming-- I lost my notes here-- service changes. I must have the wrong
minutes here. But, yes, we had a nice conversation about upcoming service changes. Sorry about the
faux pas there. I'll never get to do another report again. But that's OK.
[CHUCKLING]
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, you're fired.
TROY WHITMORE: Yeah, so anyway, we had that comprehensive discussion, not a lot of huge changes
proposed, so in short meeting. And thank three other Board members, Catlin, Guzman, and Tisdale for
joining us as well.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director-- Committee Chair Davidson, you have a report on the
Performance Committee?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. Most importantly is what we're doing on the go-forward
basis. So for committee members and also for other members of the Board I highly encourage
attendance at the next two meetings of the Performance Committee. We will be meeting twice in June, on
June 5 and on June 26.
On the purpose of the next meeting, our Chief People Officer, Charlene Polege, has generously offered to
present to the Board with regards to a compensation philosophy, what that is, what that isn't, and our
need for one. I would propose that the Performance Committee should adopt a compensation philosophy
by the end of this summer. We will anchor a lot of what we do from here to that compensation philosophy.
So we'll have a first part, which will be a presentation on the 5th. Then we will have some discussion
amongst the performance committee members into June 26. We do have a scheduling issue related to
our July meeting, so please keep an eye out for an email for a July meeting as well of the Performance
Committee so that we can conduct that work.
Thank you very much. Once again, I would ask those Performance Committee members that are on there
to please make sure to attend those meetings. I realize we have a high density of meetings coming up,
and would definitely encourage other Board members to attend as well, particularly for this June 5
meeting, which I think will be highly informative as this Board contemplates adopting a compensation
philosophy. Thank you, Madam Chair.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. The Board and committee minutes were included in the
Board packet. Are there any corrections from the directors? Seeing none, unless there is objection to
considering these minutes all at the same time, may I please have a motion to approve the minutes for
the following meetings-- April 25, 2023, Board meeting; May 9, 2023, Audit Committee; May 9, 2023,
Finance and Planning Committee; May 10, 2023, Operations and Safety Committee; May 18, 2023,
Executive Committee? Do we have a motion and a second?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
DOUG TISDALE: Second, Tisdale.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, I hear Director Williams is the movement, and Director Tisdale is the second. Is
there any discussion on this motion? I'll now call for the vote. Are there any "no" votes on this action?
With 15 "yes" votes, and 0 "no" votes, and no abstentions, the motion passes.
OK, now it's time for the Chair's Report. That would be me. Thank you, Director Williams.
We've had some good meetings recently. Debra Johnson, Michael Davies, Bobby Dishell, and I have had
the opportunity to meet separately, of course, with each Kelly Brough and Mike Johnston, Denver's two
mayoral candidates in the runoff. They asked some great questions and were very interested in the
updates to our proposed fare changes. The idea of the proposal to-- the pilot for youth fares to be zero
fares, there's a lot of interest in that as well as the expansion of the zero-fare program. And we took the
opportunity-- Ms. Johnson in particular was able to update them on a number of other issues and
programs that we have going here. It was good meetings.
I think we mentioned that we had a good meeting with the governor and some of his team on April 6,
including Lisa Kaufmann, his former Chief of Staff, who's now working on Special Projects, including
transit and rail and transit-oriented development. It was largely regarding the RTD Zero Emission
Transition Plan. But we were also able to raise the Fare and Equity Study and our intent to pilot, again,
the program offering youth zero fares year round.
At that meeting, the governor invited Ms. Johnson and me to join a study mission with Governor Polis and
several members of his cabinet to Switzerland to look at the education system, and specifically moving
people into the workforce. We also were able to look at the transportation system and some of the
transportation training facilities, training for a number of different jobs. The governor and four of his
cabinet members were on the trip. And we had some good opportunities to discuss RTD and CDOT and
other state agencies and how we might work together in the future.
I spoke yesterday with a representative from Kearns & West. It's a consulting firm working for CDOT on
Front Range Passenger Rail, and particularly on they're setting up stakeholder meetings and public
meetings. I asked them to send me the meeting schedule because they are starting stakeholder
meetings. They're dividing them into North, Central, and South meetings. I think the first one actually was
today, after I got their memo, but there's one tomorrow.
It doesn't really matter which one you go in. It's the same information, apparently. But we will-- I need to
get that to the Board Office to hopefully get out tomorrow morning, so if you want to attend any of those
and get the latest on Front Range Passenger Rail, and on their Service Development Plan is what they're
working on at this point.

Stuart Summers and his team-- just a couple of quick reminders-- have begun the process of sending out
speaking information, PowerPoint information every Friday following the monthly Board meeting. So you'll
see an update later this week. Our local government staff, Michael Davies, and Jen Webster, and others
are working with a number of you. I know there are meetings planned in Thornton and Golden and other
places. I think Ms. Johnson's going to speak about a couple of those.
And just a reminder to be sure to review the monthly Board briefing documents. This is for the public, too.
The link is at the top of the agenda every month. And there's a lot of great information there-- financial
reports, updates on recruiting and retention, and ridership numbers, a lot of things like that.
Thank you. That's all I have. We're going to have Ms. Johnson's report. And then if you have any
questions for either of us, we'll take those. General Manager Johnson, please share with us your report.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly, Madam Chair. And good evening to all of you Board
members and to those who are assembled. As introduced, I am Debra Johnson and serve as the General
Manager and CEO of the Regional Transportation District.
This evening, I will share with you the following information centered around our strategic priorities.
Regarding community value, I will discuss meetings and events in which I have engaged since the last
regular Board meeting, which was held in April, including a meeting with small and disadvantaged
business enterprises. That was hosted by the Civil Rights Division, the cities; Summit of the Americas,
which was held in Denver; a meeting with the Executive Director of the E-470 Public Highway Authority; a
meeting regarding the LA Metro Industry Advisory Council; the WTS International Annual Conference,
held in Atlanta, Georgia; the North American City Transportation Officials 2023 Designing Cities
Conference that was also held in Denver, for which I participated in the closing plenary session; a
meeting with representatives from Denver Urban Gardens; my participation, along with Chair Guissinger,
in the Colorado delegation that visited Switzerland last week; and a meeting, which you just heard the
Chair reference, relative to Denver mayoral candidate Mike Johnston that was held today.
Regarding customer excellence, I will discuss Respect the Ride outreach events, as well as our SystemWide Fare Study and Equity Analysis engagement efforts. Speaking to employee ownership, I will touch
upon the 2023 Employee Ownership Survey, which was conducted for four weeks that spanned the latter
part of April into May; and then the Eno Multi-Agency Exchange, or what we know as the MAX Program;
and also-- some good news here-- the Telephone information Center hours of operation.
So transitioning into our first strat priority, which is community value, on April 26, I participated in a
meeting of the Small/Disadvantaged Business Enterprise Advisory Council. This group was established
13 years ago in 2010 by RTD's Small Business Office within the Civil Rights Division. The council meets
bi-monthly to accomplish various aspects of helping increase ridership building across disadvantaged and
small-business communities, increase contractor participation and remove barriers to agency contracts,
assist in the development of outreach programs, remedy discrimination and obstacles in contracting, and
review any comments regarding federal triennial goal-setting.
And what I mean by that is the Federal Transit Administration, with us being a recipient, reviews our
practices every three years. You've probably heard me reference that when I say, we must adhere to
procurement standards. This is one thing in particular, as we talk about goal-setting relative to
disadvantaged business enterprise. Those are race-conscious and race-neutral goals in reference to
getting people into the contracting space.

The cities of-- the City Summit of the Americas was held in Denver from April 24 through the 30th. City
and community leaders representing jurisdictions from across the Western Hemisphere gathered to
promote regional cooperation. Events included plenary sessions, stakeholder roundtables, expert panels,
networking sessions, commercial engagement, public outreach activities, all intended to address priorities
shared by local communities across the Americas.
I was invited to participate by the Federal Transit Administration to engage in a panel discussion held on
Thursday, April 27, regarding urban mobility and infrastructure. The panelists jointly discussed zeroemission transit services across the Americas, promoting equity for all and achieving mobility through
equity and access. The session was facilitated by FTA Administrator Nuria Fernandez. And among the
other panelists were mayors from cities across the United States, Canada, Chile, Mexico, and Uruguay,
as well as public- and private-sector representatives.
On Friday, April 28, I met with Beau Memory, who serves as the Executive Director of the E-470 Public
Highway Authority. And we basically discussed partnership opportunities between our respective
agencies.
The 2023 Designing Cities Conference, hosted by NACTO, which stands for the National Association of
City Transportation Officials, was held in Denver from May 15 through the 18th. The annual conference
brings together over a thousand municipal officials, planners, and practitioners to advance the state of
transportation in cities. During the conference closing plenary session, I participated in a fireside chat in
which I was asked questions pertaining to restoring and maintaining RTD's welcoming transit
environment, people power problems, transit's role in the fight against greenhouse gas emissions, access
to transit, and the power of mentorship and leadership in the realm of diversity, equity, inclusion, and
belonging.
On Friday, May 5, I engaged in a conversation with Stephanie Wiggins, who serves as the CEO of the
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority, regarding my participation as a member of the
LA Metro Industry Advisory Council. In order to thoroughly address the challenges and opportunities
associated with the city's hosting of the 2028 Olympic Games, coupled with rapidly changing industry
changes from the transit-- excuse me, from the transition to zero-emission operations, LA Metro is
seeking to leverage the knowledge and experience of a panel of seasoned industry leaders, such as
myself, who have varied experiences with large-scale events as well as alternative fuels.
From Friday, May 8, through Friday, May 12, I attended the WTS International Annual Conference, held
in Atlanta, Georgia. WTS, or Women's Transportation Seminar International, of which I serve as a board
member, is an organization dedicated to creating a more diverse, inclusive, and equitable transportation
industry through the global advancement of women. During the conference on Tuesday, May 9, I and
Leslie Richards, who serves as the General Manager and CEO of the Southeastern Pennsylvania
Transportation Authority, SEPTA, which is in the Greater Philadelphia area, we jointly led an executive
women's roundtable discussion, in which we, along with other women leaders in the transportation space,
engaged in a robust discussion centered on being a female champion of equity, diversity, inclusivity, and
belonging. Topics of the discussion included leading lasting organizational change with respect to equity,
diversity, inclusiveness, and belonging and finding your voice against naysayers and changing toxic
cultures.
On Monday, May 15, I, along with RTD architect Ignacio Correa-Ortiz, met with representatives from
Denver Urban Gardens, as well as the Lower Downtown Neighborhood Association-- and I see some of
those members here in the audience-- to discuss the group's plans for establishing a community food

garden adjacent to the Whole Foods Store above the Denver Union Station bus concourse, and also the
potential going forward relative to our pavilion, Chestnut. As Chair Guissinger shared, she and I were
invited to attend a study mission by Governor Polis's administration with other leaders from around the
state. And in addition to what Chair Guissinger said relative to transportation, we also engaged with
business enterprises focused on IT, communications, health care, and financial services, among other
sectors focused on training and workforce development.
And just today, as Chair Guissinger indicated, Director Dishell and Government Relations Officer Michael
Davies and I met with Denver mayoral candidate Mike Johnston. And specifically, we shared information
regarding the possibility of the Zero Fare for Youth Pilot Program and the steps required for the program's
implementation, which I commented on earlier. First step is ensuring that we can work with the FTA to get
a waiver. But more specifically, we talked about the value public transit brings to the communities it
serves relative to volume over-- value over volume and background information pertaining to agency
fares, the potential shift as we look at having one standard fare instead of having a local and regional fare
and then additionally an airport fare, with the conclusion of the System-Wide Fare Study and Equity
Analysis, should this Board decide to act on that in a favorable fashion.
Regarding customer excellence, staff has been engaging in a two-month effort to share information
related to the proposed code of conduct revisions, now branded as Respect the Ride. The revisions are
intended to eliminate redundancies, simplify the existing guidelines, and emphasize respect for other
customers and RTD vehicles, facilities, and employees. As a culmination of staff's efforts, the agency held
an event at Chestnut Pavilion near Denver Union Station on Saturday, April 29, to answer questions
about Respect the Ride and solicit feedback. Remarks focused on a welcome transit environment.
Attendees completed dozens of feedback surveys during the event.
And I must say, it was well attended. And we have other people in the audience that were there as well.
So relative to the System-Wide Fare Study, in order to bolster customers' and communities'
understanding of the ongoing System-Wide Fare Study and Equity Analysis, staff has participated in
numerous community events, including the Cinco de Mayo Festival; Viva! Streets "Ciclovia," the Boulder
Farmer's Market; and the Sun Valley Night Market.
The focus on these events was primarily to educate customers about proposed changes to the fare
structure. Media outreach regarding the project continue-- sorry, media outreach regarding this project
continued throughout the course of the month of May, including with Spanish-language media outlets,
which aired live interviews on Friday, May 12, and Tuesday, May 16, during their broadcasts. And further
staff hosted four virtual public meetings, two of which were held in Spanish, as well as two open houses,
and over a half dozen station pop-up events to share information and collect feedback about the Fare
Study and Equity Analysis.
In relationship to the strategic priority of employee ownership, on Friday, May 12, staff conducted this
year's iteration of the survey intended to gauge employee ownership. During the four-week survey
window, which began on Monday, April 17, employee volunteers visited all the agency's facilities, which
consists of nine. And we had 23 different events in which we were able to connect with employees from
all shifts.
This year, employee survey response surpassed last year's response, where by last year we had about
37%, this year 47%. But I do want to qualify that our headcount relative to employees did increase by 7%,
so you have to factor that in as well. So we looked forward to sharing information with the Performance
Committee in future months, recognizing the survey just closed. That data is being compiled currently.

So from May 15 through the 18th, the 2024 Class of the Eno Multi-Agency Exchange Program
commenced, the first agency visit of the year here at RTD. Eno Max is a structured eight-month program
during which aspiring agency leaders engage with peers and transit agencies from across the country to
develop leadership skills, expand their knowledge of the public transit industry, and develop business
cases aimed at enhancing or improving facets of agency operations. Also participating in RTD's cohort
this year are representatives from the Washington Metropolitan Transportation Authority, Pittsburgh
Regional Transit, and Dallas Area Rapid Transit.
And I'd like to touch upon quickly our customer care hours. On Sunday, May 28, the customer care
Telephone Information Center, or TIC, reopened on Sundays from 9:00 to 6:00 PM. You may recall, some
time ago I came before you and stated, due to the people power, we were having to forgo hours on
Sunday.
With that being said, we were able to shore that up. And the TIC resumed also its typical weekday
schedule back in December of 2022. So with all that information I just aired, that concludes my report.
And I will yield the floor. Thank you very kindly for your attention.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Do we have any questions for either of us? No?
I did forget one thing. I wanted to introduce Jack Kroll. And Jack is over here.
I'm going to-- I'll do more of an introduction and let him say hello to the Board when he starts, which is
June 12. Our Board Office staff invited him to come down today. And I guess they met and had some
good planning.
And we look forward. He will be our new Board Executive Manager. So when you get a minute, you can
all say hello if you haven't yet. So thanks for coming, Jack.
All right, we are at the Unanimous Consent Agenda. There's one item on the Unanimous Consent
Agenda listed under Section 16 as Action A. That item is grant agreement with Colorado Energy Office to
implement the 2023 Ozone Season Transit Grant Program. For the Board of Directors to authorize the
General Manager and CEO, or her designee, to enter an Intergovernmental Agreement, or IGA, with the
Colorado Energy Office and to authorize the transfer of up to $2,200,000 from the Unrestricted Fund to
effectuate the 2023 Ozone Season Transit Grant Agreement-DOUG TISDALE: Point of order, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Mm-hmm.
DOUG TISDALE: I have to apologize. I believe during my comments, I indicated the item was not on the
agenda. It was not on the recommended Action Agenda. It's on the Unanimous Consent Agenda.
I appreciate that. And I'll steal my point of order now to move the approval of the recommended action on
the Unanimous Consent Agenda. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Second, Buzek.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right, we have a motion and an approval. I do want to ask if anybody wants to
move this off the Unanimous Consent Agenda. No? OK. [CHUCKLES]

We have Director Tisdale as the movement and Director Buzek as the second to a motion to approve the
Consent Agenda. Are there any "no" votes? All right, with 15 "yes" votes, 0 "no" votes, and 0 abstentions,
the motion passes.
We have two recommended actions on the agenda tonight listed as Section 17, Actions B and C. The first
action is for the proposed 2023 to 2024 Internal Audit Plan, for the Board of Directors to approve the
2023-2024 Internal Audit Plan. Do we have a motion?
BOBBY DISHELL: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And the second?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right, I heard Director Dishell as the movement and Director Davidson as the
second. Is there any discussion on this motion?
BOBBY DISHELL: I believe we have staff.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is there a presentation?
BOBBY DISHELL: It's their presentation. I believe we have our-LYNN GUISSINGER: Looks like our CFO Mr. MacLeod is coming forward.
BOBBY DISHELL: We also have-- I see Matt Marino, as well, from RubinBrown, who is our outsourced
chief audit-- or RubinBrown is the outsourced chief audit executive. I don't think Matt in his individual
capacity does that. But I'll turn it over to Mr. MacLeod.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, thank you, Matt.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair. And thank you, Director Dishell. This is Doug MacLeod, Chief
Financial Officer.
Yeah, so within the package is the audit plan that's planned for the next 18 months. As the Board is
aware, RTD contracted with RubinBrown to provide internal audit services. As part of that, the charter for
the Internal Audit Committee, an annual audit plan has to be approved in order to perform those services.
Within that Internal Audit Report, even though it does cover 18 months, we don't have full scopes of work
for each of those audits. But each of those audits was identified through the enterprise risk-assessment
process. And it is subject to change through working with our Chief Audit Executive Matt Marino from
RubinBrown with the Audit Committee.
So just wanted to point out that that schedule is subject to change. But it is driven by the risk assessment
that was performed. And with that, we don't have a formal presentation, unless you'd like us to go
through-- provide more detail, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm OK. Suggestions? Do you think we should--

BOBBY DISHELL: I don't think we need a formal presentation. I know everyone on the Board reads the
packet. But it is part of our fiduciary duty to make sure that the Board is thoroughly reviewing the Internal
Audit Plan. This is when we refine the Internal Audit Charter.
It was-- we heard loud and clear, the Internal Audit Committee and the Ad Hoc Internal Audit Committee
heard loud and clear that the Board wanted to have oversight and wanted to get a strong report from the
Audit Committee on its activities and the proposed Internal Audit Plan. And so the Audit Committee
removed this from unanimous consent for discussion tonight, to the extent anyone has any questions or
comments. And we've made sure our auditors are available as well.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I see Director Ruscha in the queue.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just have a question regarding this proposed plan. Would
this be appropriate time?
LYNN GUISSINGER: The appropriate time.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you. Thank you. So I don't know what page this is on. But under Audit
Project Title, it's RTD Operations-- Shift Scheduling, which I think, but I can't be certain, might have been
amended since the Audit Committee. And I just wanted to flag-- I have a question in the Scope
description.
It says that "we will analyze routes, shifts, and hours worked by full-time union-represented operators." Is
my understanding that not all of our operators in paratransit have union representation? If I am incorrect,
please correct me. But I was wondering why specifically only union-represented operators?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, and great question. The paratransit operators-- all of our paratransit
business is actually contracted out to a third party. So they're not part of the ATU Local 1001.
The focus of this particular audit was driven in part by the results of the recommendations from the state
audit that was performed as well as the Accountability Committee really looking at working conditions and
trying to improve. We had a history of mandated overtime for our operators, and we've been working
significantly on that issue for several years and rectified that, to a certain extent. We're still obviously short
on our staffing. However, that has been an ongoing focus of the agency to try to improve those working
conditions, operator fatigue and the like.
JOYANN RUSCHA: If I may ask a follow-up?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. Thank you. I appreciate that. And, I mean, to be clear, I believe that
every individual, whether you're represented or not, has a right to safe and equitable working conditions.
The reason why I had flagged this as a potential concern is because in the 2015 State Auditor Report, it
was flagged that some of our vendors were having our paratransit-- their paratransit staff drive in excess
of 70 hours per week, which is against federal regulation, and I'm going to assume maybe in violation of
our contract at the time. And since the audit did not share which vendors were non-compliant, the Board
would have no way of knowing where additional oversight would be needed. And so I guess I would just
say for the record as we move forward and maybe look at the scope as we get closer to these audits that
we just consider that and make sure that we are looking at all of our operators, represented or not, in

terms of safety compliance. Even when we are not directly hiring a driver, their work experience impacts
us as an agency. And it also impacts our customers.
So those were my only comments. And I thank you for your feedback. And happy to follow up later, if
you'd like. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you, Director Ruscha. I see Mr. Marino has his hand up.
MATT MARINO: Yes, thank you. Thank you for the feedback on the Internal Audit Plan. We'll make sure
to take that into consideration.
I think that'll fit in a couple different areas. If you notice, on that same slide we do have a slated review of
one of our contracted services and their adherence to the agreement and whether they're performing in
alignment with the agreement. And so audits similar to that could be performed for other contracted
services to make sure that they're complying with the portions of the contract as far as financial
performance, service level, safety, and all that sort of stuff. And so we could add that in. We appreciate
that feedback.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just further to the point, recognizing my
previous comments under a separate topic that I talked about the Federal Transit Administration and
triennial reviews, recognizing we are recipients of federal dollars, we have to ensure that we are adhering
to certain protocols as it relates to the US Department hours of service. More specifically, as we talk
about rail, that would be the Federal Railroad Administration.
So we do have those regulatory compliance reviews that happen on a three-year basis. but more
specifically as well with having individuals come into the organization, we have to ensure we're adhering
to procurement practices. So I just want to [AUDIO OUT] the record. It doesn't discount what Director
Ruscha said, the supplemental [AUDIO OUT]. I think that's important for everybody to be cognizant of.
Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Anything else, Director Ruscha? OK, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. The State Auditor's Office does a periodic review of RTD
operations. Where are we in that cycle? I know we spent an awful lot of time working with them to review
various operations.
And then the other concern I might have is, how are we going to coordinate what our Internal Audit Plan
calls for versus what the state might be looking for? Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly, Madam Chair. And, Director Broom, thank you for the
question. I received correspondence just a couple of months ago from the State Auditor saying that they
were preparing to commence with the state audit sometime in July of 2024. This is a follow on from the
previous audit that had commenced when I joined the agency. And we received that final report in
December of 2021.

So relative to what's being included in here, there was a recommendation put forward by a member of the
State Audit Committee in which we're doing follow-up relative to these items. So there is linkage as it
relates to what is being presented in this audit plan versus where we're going with the state audit.
BOB BROOM: I thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. So I'm looking at one of the slides in regards to the
budgeted hours. And it appears over the next couple of years that it's quite a large number of hours that
the auditor will be working and performing. And so my question relates to our internal staff, whether we
have sufficient staff or availability of our staff to actually interact with these auditors in order to make sure
that we have a swift and accurate audit.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Thank you for the question. Yes, and that was one of the issues with the-outstanding issues, to a certain extent, with this audit schedule.
This is a tentative schedule. Some of the dates may change, particularly due to staffing availability to
ensure that it doesn't conflict with other duties. So certainly, our partners at RubinBrown are working with
us and will coordinate that so it isn't disruptive to our normal daily activities.
And part of that will be working with the senior leadership team, too, to coordinate those audit activities.
So there may be some changes with some of the timing of this. But, yeah, it is significant hours.
For the most part, many of these audits, the involvement from staff is providing information, and then the
auditors actually going through that information, testing, et cetera, and then following up with questions.
So it depends on the size of the audit and the involvement the extent to which there will be staff
involvement. And I would ask Matt Marino, do you have anything to add to that?
MATT MARINO: No. We're going to work with RTD staff to make sure that we're not interfering with their
jobs, but also making sure that we're getting you all relevant information so that you can help guide the
organization from a fiduciary-responsibilities perspective and report out the information so that you-- when
you're making your decisions on alignment with the strategic priorities of the district, that you have the
information you need. And so if you notice, in the Internal Audit Plan, we definitely tried to focus things
around when you might be making decisions, such as major contract renewals, making sure that we're
providing information regarding budgetary adherence prior to budget approvals and all that sort of stuff so
that we're providing the most useful information while also keeping the internal audit function moving
down the path because we understand the great importance behind the role. And we're going to make
sure that we drive home getting the audits done, but also being cognizant that you have a transit agency
to run, in addition to providing audit information.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. Director Guzman.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So I don't know whether this is for you, Mr. MacLeod, or for Mr. Marino. But is there
any reason to anticipate that these hours that are listed here may not be sufficient to complete the work?
Are we going to come back? Are we going to be sat down and asked to extend hours, which will have a

financial compensation part to it? Or do we believe at this point going forward that there is sufficient time
to complete the scope of work within the budgeted process as planned?
DOUG MACLEOD: And I'll start, and I'll ask Matt to comment. Mr. Marino actually put together the
estimates of the hours, just based on initial scope development. So as we develop those scopes, it will
refine those hours a little bit more closely.
I think there is a page here that shows that-- it's actually at the end of the Audit Schedule that shows
there's some cushion in those hours, some of that being-- it's on packet page 31. You'll see those last
several items really include additional hours for planning and other administrative tasks as well as some
cushion within their contracted hours. So we're trying to be careful that we don't over-commit. And we do
have sufficient-- we believe we have sufficient hours over the three-year, contract plus two option years.
Should that change, and should we find additional work being necessary, then we would come back to
the Board to ask for contractual adjustments. Matt, can you talk just briefly about how those estimates of
hours were arrived at?
MATT MARINO: Yeah, we-- based on our historical experience with like sort of audits, we did put
estimates to it. And like Mr. MacLeod said, if there will need to be adjustments, we would come back to
the Audit Committee and the Board to ask for adjustments, either pushing audits down on the priority list
and pushing it out further in the future, reducing scope of audits to really hit it the stuff that's the most
important. If there are matters that require additional time or things that are not even on our audit plan
right now that might become, as a result of changing environment and economic factors.
And so there could be a chance where we would table some audits and push them out into future years.
But that would-- we would report back to both the Audit Committee and the Board to make sure we work
to stay within our overall budget, but reallocate the audit plan to be the most useful to the Audit
Committee and the Board. Hopefully that helps.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Any other questions or comments? Anybody from the Internal Audit Committee?
Did you have something-- Erik.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, I think, so Madam Chair, I just wanted to take a moment, first of all, again to say,
thank you to the Board, to staff, and to RubinBrown. Everybody-- there's a lot of fingerprints on this. And
we have an audit plan in place, which is wonderful and the strongest we've had in quite some time. So
thank you to everybody on that.
I also did just want to remind my fellow Board members that we do have two external members that are
on this Audit Committee, which is something, as many of you know, we discussed at length last year
about the proper structure of that, Jim Brendel and John Ollenberger. And just wanted to take a moment
to thank them as well. Their contributions have been very strong to this committee.
I think the thought that went forward to build in continuity in terms of how we stagger terms, how we mix
outside expertise with the internal Board members has been very well thought out. I think it behooves us
to revisit this in a year or 18 months perhaps to make sure that we are achieving the objectives that we
set out to achieve, make sure we're doing what we set out to do. But so far, I can just say from
participating in the committee that we're on the right track. And I thank everybody for their involvement in
that.

And thank you to the chair of the committee, Director Dishell. I think the meetings have gone very well
this year, and very appreciative to how those have been conducted. So long-winded way of saying, thank
you very much. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. First Vice Chair Catlin, I see your hand.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I would like to echo the comments of Director Davidson. I am
so relieved to finally get this plan over the goal line. It's been a long time coming. And I'm very pleased
with the quality and the seriousness with which the Internal Audit Committee has taken on this task.
And I would also say that it's been my experience previously that not only in this agency but also other
agencies that there are times when there's some passive resistance for providing information to get these
audits moving. And whereas I don't anticipate that with current RTD staff, I would encourage the utmost
cooperation and expediency so that we can have some quality audits on our-- that we will be able to see
in the near future. So I didn't mean to lecture because I don't anticipate that being a problem.
But I'm really excited that we finally have this plan and that we're moving forward, and want to thank
everybody that's played a role in this, and for CEO GM Johnson and her support of this effort, and all of
her staff. I just I'm so pleased that we have this moving forward. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And I'll just add that I have been attending the meetings when I can.
And it's been a lot of hard work and a lot of really smart work.
And I was very pleased to see this particular lineup. I think you came up with a very good lineup of
internal audits. I think this will help us with the State Auditor. And thanks for all the work.
I'll call for the vote. Are there any "no" votes on this motion? All right, with 15 "yes" votes, 0 "no" votes,
and 0 abstentions, the motion passes.
The second recommended action is for the Allied Universal Security Services second contract option
year. It's for the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and GM's CEO, or her designee, to
execute the second option year of the existing security services contract with Allied Universal Security, or
AUS, for a total cost not to exceed $20,455,408. Do we have a motion?
BOB BROOM: So moved.
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I heard-TROY WHITMORE: Hi, pick us.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right.
[CHUCKLING]
I'm going to say, I heard Director Broom as the move and Director Whitmore as the second. Is there any
discussion on this motion? It looks like we have a staff presentation. Or is this-- is there some discussion
from staff? We have Chief Fitzgerald and Deputy Chief Martingano here with us.

JOEL FITZGERALD: We're just available if there is some discussion on it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Questions, comments, discussion? I see Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Oh, thank you, and thank you all for being here. Allied Universal has had some public
challenges, including public challenges here on our own system, which have created liabilities for the
agency and caused some challenges with community value. Has Allied Universal, as they come up for
another $20 million extension, done any affirmative action or taken any steps to demonstrate a change in
practice, whether that's on hiring or retention or evaluation or training, in order to address some of those
concerns that have been raised historically?
JOEL FITZGERALD: Thank you. Joel Fitzgerald, Chief of Police and Emergency Management. We have
worked intently with Allied to ensure that they have increased their standards for hiring, also factoring in
what they need to do insofar as staffing. We have a liquidated damages portion of our staffing, which they
have to attend to and pay for if they are not executing the contract. If they do not train their people up to
the standards that we've assigned them, they will be in violation of the contract.
And my Deputy Chief does weekly reports on that to make sure that Allied is meeting the standards. We
can't-- again, we can't say that we're 100% happy with everything that we get all the time. That would be
a misnomer. That's one of the reasons why our CEO and General Manager and I have worked intently
together to create a police department that reports to RTD and to enhance that department using some of
the salary savings that we have from unexecuted portions of the contract.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Director Rosenthal. I'm sorry.
MELANIE SNYDER: Pardon me, Madam Chair. I'm sorry, General Counsel Melanie Snyder. If I could just
make a clarification to the comment that Director Dishell made.
So I think you were referencing when you talked about some prior challenges here at RTD. We, of
course, are all aware of the lawsuit that was filed against Allied Universal and RTD by Raverro Stinnett.
As a point of clarification, Allied Universal did stand up. And they did honor their indemnification
requirements under the contract. So RTD didn't actually pay out any damages or any portion of that
settlement.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
MELANIE SNYDER: You're welcome.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. So Chief Fitzgerald, question for you. As the-- so as I
look at this extension, it will result in a reduction in the scope of services, which means we are contracting
for fewer contracted security.
And I'm also aware that you are-- your effort to increase our-- RTD's own internal police force. So as
we're drawing down on-- or we're seeing a drawing down on one, we're seeing you try to ramp up on our

internal force. If you don't mind letting us know what those numbers are looking like of hiring and
recruiting and retaining of our internal police force, and also describing the diversity of that force.
JOEL FITZGERALD: Thank you for that question, Director Rosenthal. I'd first like to-- let me acknowledge
that many of the officers we have on hand here are very interested in this, obviously, and just represent a
portion of our department and our command staff. And others are present, and others being even our
Denver-- a Denver facet of individuals who work for us on an off-duty basis. So they're very intimately
involved in the contract and interested in what goes on today.
Your question more specifically about total staffing-- RTD, the entirety of RTD police and emergency
management is 64 employees. Of those 64 employees, we have-- let's just go from 2020 to present. We
had 12 sworn police officers in 2020, 18 in 2021. In 2022, 22, and we're up to 35 sworn now. And within
the week we'll have-- I'm sorry, within-- by the first week of July, we'll have the 5 additional officers, then 5
slated for 7/24/2023, 10 additional by 8/28 of '23, bringing us up to 55 by the beginning of September, and
looking to add 15 more before 12/31.
So we're doing well as far as hiring is concerned. And drawing down, as you said on the unrealized
monies, that the contract has never historically, I guess you could say, drawn down upon. We've just felt
that that money needed to be used, again, for more off-duty police officers, more police officers to ride the
system.
And Allied has struggled, like many other police organizations, with hiring security people. So with that,
it'd be really-- it would really be dropping the ball on our end not to capitalize, or cannibalize, depending
upon how you want to put it, on part of those unused funds to ensure that we meet the public safety
needs of the community. I think I answered the total part of the staffing question. I know you have
something else.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Go ahead.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And so to the second part of my question in regards to
the diversity of the force, particularly including women and people of color.
DOUG MACLEOD: We are-- we have two women in our police department. One is actually-- did you
tender the-STEVEN MARTINGANO: [INAUDIBLE].
JOEL FITZGERALD: Yes. So we technically have two women in the police department at this time. You'll
see a representation of some of the diversity in the back, if you want to look at demographics and look at
it upon racial lines. I can give you just a better summary. I put together a graph for myself here.
We've done a tremendous job increasing the number of applicants that we have across the board, in
particular in different demographics. For example, we went from 35 total Hispanic applicants in 2021 to 50
year to date right now. I mean, I'm just giving you random areas. If we want to go to African-American
candidates, we went from 33 in 2021 up to 45. And we're currently at 37 without this being-- practically at
the half-year mark tomorrow.
So we're in line to have one of our best years as far as the number of people who are interested in
coming aboard and becoming a part of this organization. Now, the hard part is what we're doing now is

putting people in areas, being able to train those officers and transition them, many times from security
and other areas to now a traditional policing function.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Chief.
JOEL FITZGERALD: You're welcome.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Director Rosenthal brought up a point that I just wanted to make sure was made
tonight. So I appreciate that, the transition between sworn officers and Allied. We had quite a discussion
about that at the O&M meeting. And I neglected during my poorly crafted report to mention the
presentation by COO Ford and mostly Dr. Fitzgerald in that regard.
So it was very well crafted. And we went through pretty thoroughly to understand the flow of change at
Allied, which we're all very cognizant of and want to see, and then also the growth of our department, to
have more officers on buses and trains, as you had mentioned. So I appreciate all those points and
appreciated your presentation, I had to get that in there because it was very helpful.
JOEL FITZGERALD: Thank you very much.
TROY WHITMORE: That's all. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'd like to point out for the record that there-- always seems
to be some confusion. One of the places that our-- both Allied and RTD forces are scene is around
Denver Union Station. And so I want to make sure that I understand, and that anybody who's following
this understands, that some of the confusion comes about because some of the security people that you
see in the main terminal do not work for us in any form. They are, in fact, contracted by the Crawford
Hotel. Is that correct?
JOEL FITZGERALD: That is correct, Director.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, in the bus concourse, those predominantly are our people, or are they
predominantly Allied people?
JOEL FITZGERALD: They are predominantly Allied, with our people as well. So you'll notice there'll be
marked uniformed police officers down there. But in zones downstairs, we have Allied people stationed in
areas where we want them to be highly visible and most effective.
KATE WILLIAMS: And then we-- I'm sorry, I'm kind of leading a discussion here. And then we also have
a-LYNN GUISSINGER: Cross examination.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
[CHUCKLING]

LYNN GUISSINGER: Carry on, counselor.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Yeah, not. Absolutely not.
JOEL FITZGERALD: Shouldn't you say, isn't this true?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, that's right. That would be correct. We also have a substation of sorts within the
bus concourse, correct?
JOEL FITZGERALD: That is correct.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, that was just things that I would like to have on the record. Thank you, sir. And
thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And you are welcome. And that was helpful. Thanks. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: I'd like to request a roll-call vote whenever the question is called.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, that sounds good. Any other comments, questions? All right. I'm sorry,
Melanie? Oh, who do we see? Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Just out of curiosity, what is our starting pay for our police, for our transit police
compared to local agencies?
JOEL FITZGERALD: I-- again, we, within the last seven months, I'd say, have worked on a salary step
schedule that makes us competitive with the market. Competitive with the market changes over time
because these days, police departments across the country are changing their salaries, adding bonuses,
adding relocation. So I would say we're at the upper third portion of salaries for starting police officers in
the realm of $60 to $61,000.
STEVEN MARTINGANO: And signing bonuses.
JOEL FITZGERALD: When you consider your $4,000 signing bonus as well, as Deputy Chief Martingano
spoke of, and we're working with HR to potentially work on other things that make us more attractive. So
the Chief People Officer has been helpful, very helpful actually, in seeing this through and helping us get
candidates into our system as quickly and efficiently as possible because of the tremendous amount of
competition that we're seeing.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure. Thank you. Director Bouquet, anything else?
JULIEN BOUQUET: No, thank you for the answer.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I had a question about how many of our new employees are
lateral and how many are brand-new police officers that we have to send through the academy
somewhere?
JOEL FITZGERALD: That's a great question. I do not have exact numbers. I'm going to be giving you
really rough totals on that. So the police officers that we're hiring now, the officers that we'd hire, let's say

by-- that I mentioned, July the 10th, there's an additional five, of which at least two or three have
experience either in Colorado or outside of Colorado. So what happens is if you have police experience in
Colorado and you're Colorado certified, you have to go through nothing, other than our internal training.
If you're from outside of Colorado, like myself, you have to-- and like, actually, Deputy Martingano, you
would have to go through a certification training that's two weeks that's post-certified. We send each and
every one of our new officers to that. I would overwhelmingly tell you we are getting more interest from
people with no police experience, which is very unusual. And I think it's because of the way we're
marketing ourselves and, I think, some of the soft skills that we're asking for out of people to be able to
come into our organization and be effective at communicating with the folks that we need them to
communicate with every day, like in Denver Union Station.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
JOEL FITZGERALD: You're welcome.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Anything else? All right, we have a-JULIE: Director.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm sorry. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I was going to reserve this for my director reports. But since
we have gotten on the topic of our internal police force, I just wanted to say that I had the privilege of
attending the Respect the Ride event at the Chestnut Pavilion and was delighted to speak with many of
the officers, veteran and new to RTD. And they were overwhelmingly positive about the direction that the
agency was taking with respect to policing.
And I just wanted to compliment Chief and Deputy Chief and all who were involved with that particular
event. I think it was very well received. And the officer presence there was very impressive. So thank you
very much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Anything further from Chief or Deputy Chief? Oh.
IAN HARWICK: I've got one.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Chief Fitzgerald, we spoke about this a couple months ago, but I'm just curious. Of the
police officers that you're bringing on, are we supplementing this with social workers or similar to Denver
STAR Team? I just want to make sure as we're-- there's a lot of-JOEL FITZGERALD: Balance.
IAN HARWICK: --various needs at our stations, and I-SPEAKER: Holistic.

IAN HARWICK: Holistic needs, sure. I just want to make sure that we're-- that those staff hires are also
coming on board simultaneously. And I'd just be curious what that looks like.
JOEL FITZGERALD: I will tell you that-- and it's very difficult. The hiring of our social services and
counselors have been difficult for us. Those positions are open, and we're actively trying to hire more.
We haven't been prevented in any way by our Chief People Officer or our CEO and General Manager.
Everyone is pushing in the same direction. We understand that we have a responsibility to both protect
and to serve but that part of that service has to be dealing, and learning how to deal with folks that may
be going through problems. And again, it's very much a part of our strategy.
If you have people-- and I know people watch this. And they-- I would be remiss not to use this as an
opportunity to recruit. We need more social service providers. We need those folks to knock down our
doors because we will process you quickly and get you hired. That is an impetus for this administration
and for just RTD in general. We understand our place in the community.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just have a follow-up to Director Harwick's question. Or
it's a question/comment, maybe two questions.
So it was my understanding that we generally prefer to hire community workers, social workers, et cetera,
through third parties or with contracts because they tend to be-- I think we've called them like the-- they
tend to be more experienced. And is that-- and I don't know if this-- this question might be for Ms.
Johnson. I thought I had heard that in a previous meeting. So I just wanted to clarify how we might hire
more of those staff.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Director Ruscha. Yes, previously-- and I'm going to yield
the floor to Deputy Chief Martingano because as we embarked upon a grant application, whereby we do
have a outreach counselor focused on the unhoused, that was done through a partnership program with
Jefferson County. And as we look at opportunities going forward, while they may be dedicated to us,
recognizing that our forte is in transit service delivery and then protecting that, we have leveraged other
partnerships as well.
So I believe Chief was talking holistically about that approach. But I will yield the floor because I know
Deputy Chief Martingano has had a large role in that going forward. So thank you for your question.
STEVEN MARTINGANO: Yeah, thank you. Steve Martingano, Deputy Chief, RTD Transit Police. So our
Mental Health Clinician program is contracted through WellPower. As you know, everybody wants a
mental health clinician now, whether it be the fire department, the sheriff's department, the library and
such.
So RTD has a separate hiring process within WellPower. So what we do is if you look at their website, it
will say RTD Mental Health Clinician. So again, if people were to contact us, we'll put them in the right
places to have them apply directly to RTD because their sole function is going to be public transport
related, as opposed to some of the other governmental services entities.
What we are doing, though, as well is the WellPower program is just centralized more in Denver. We are
actually meeting with the Jefferson County Center of Mental Health to see if we could expand the
program to the other counties. They don't have as much restrictions in regards to boundary-wise.

So we want to look to see and outsource that a little bit more outside of Denver to hit some of the other
counties we work in. So we're having meetings with them and trying to-- so going back to the support of
the CEO. And obviously, no matter if you contract or hire, it all comes out of a budgetary process. So we
need to support either way.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sure. If I may?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Of course.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. And I think my follow-up to my follow-up would have been a question
about compensation. So I understand if we don't know how much WellPower is paying those clinicians.
So what I'll just say on the record, I'm 1 of 15. But I would certainly support an increase in any line item or
budget if we do need to make those wages more competitive so that we can get that high-quality staff in
here working with you guys and working on our team. Thank you.
STEVEN MARTINGANO: Yeah, just on that note, obviously, they do the hiring, and they do the salary
analysis. So we try to be as competitive. But we ask for a certain type of clinician. And then they give a
salary scale.
So as much as we would love to tell them what to pay, we just don't have that opportunity. But we can tell
them what we're looking for, what the needs are. And hopefully, they could assist us on that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is that all?
JOYANN RUSCHA: No, thanks. That concludes my questions. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So on the same topic of doing this work and the recruiting, you've given us some
updates about how you're going about recruiting for the police department. But in terms of doing this
work, which should be hand in hand with the police department, the support staff, and the work, are we
doing any kind of recruitment with the local universities, with the local communities and service providers
to achieve this end as well? Because I do believe that-- I would second Director Ruscha's opinion that
asking for more money is always hard. But this is one where I think you might garner some support. I just
am curious about how we're doing the recruitment piece of this.
JOEL FITZGERALD: Well, we've been fortunate enough to have-- to assign Deputy Chief Martingano to
construct the cadet program, to work in the colleges to try to steer people toward policing and policerelated careers. That's one move and one direction. And we're working also with the Chief People Officer
to have a designated recruiter.
Previously, we would use a lieutenant for our-- within the police department to go to recruiting functions.
We want to team that person with a designated recruiter, go to historically minority colleges, to go to
areas where people are coming back to work out of being unhoused, to really open ourselves up to those
people in the community that connect on so many different levels with everyone in the community and
have the skills that we're looking for to be an effective RTD employee, whether it's police, whether it's
being a dispatcher, or whether it's working in some other function within the department. We think-- and I
should say, we recognize and appreciate that all people bring something to the table that we can use to
better present ourselves and to better protect the community.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Go ahead.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I also just want to give a big shout-out to RTD police, those that are
here, those that I've seen on my transit trips with my niece. We have a game plan. Every Sunday
afternoon, we go on an adventure.
We pick a line. We pick a rail. We pick a bus. And we go, and we just figure out what we're doing when
we get there.
And so taking an 11-year-old on a line where I hear a lot of complaints that there's danger and there's-we have had so much fun and felt so safe doing that. And a lot of that is in due to the hard work that you
are doing with grace and with dignity, upholding our values as an agency and representing the people of
Colorado well. So I just want to say, thank you for that hard work.
And keep it up. You've got our support. We are behind you.
We're going to challenge you. We're going to ask lots of questions. But that's because we want to make
sure that we're doing this the right way. So I think at least from the people of District C, I extend that thank
you for 240,000 Denver constituents. So thank you.
JOEL FITZGERALD: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Hear, hear.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Hear, hear, yeah. Thank you, Director Guzman. And thank all of you for your work.
I see Director Buzek's hand up. Director Bouquet, did you take yours down? OK, Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, thanks, I guess I'd just add my voice in thanking the Chief and the Deputy Chief for
all they've done to really raise the level of professionalism with the RTD Police Force. Thank you.
[CHUCKLING]
JOEL FITZGERALD: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah.
[SCATTERED APPLAUSE]
I believe that was Director Buzek in an earlier life.
[CHUCKLING]
VINCE BUZEK: Last week.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Chicago, if I recall.
VINCE BUZEK: That was just last week, Madam Chair.

LYNN GUISSINGER: It was just last week? Yeah, [CHUCKLES] that's great. No, we appreciate-- I think
we all-- you're hearing us all appreciating the work you're doing in-- Chief Fitzgerald and Director-- and
Deputy Chief Martingano, and all of your team at the back.
I know there are a number of people here. And thank you for your statements, Director Guzman. I think
we all agree.
We have-- it's time for the vote. I don't see anybody else with a hand raised. And we will do that by roll
call.
So Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Sloan.

MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I am a "yes."
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I am a "yes" as well, Lynn Guissinger. So we have, let's see, 12 yeses, 3 nos.
The nos are Director Bouquet, Director Dishell, and Director Ruscha.
With those numbers, the motion passes. Thank you all. And thank you for your discussion.
All right, Report of Director Activities-- does anyone have anything they would like to report for the month
of May? Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Madam Chair. So it's been a busy month since I last saw you when I ran
out of here to go start my journey with the DRCOG Civic Leader Academy. But I have finished, completed
successfully. So I'm really happy with that.
And I learned a lot of things that you all talk about that I did not know when I got here. And now I know the
difference between an agency and-- us being an agency and like Denver Water being a different type of
business, and so what that means for tax purposes and all that fun stuff. So it's been quite the journey.
TROY WHITMORE: Were you valedictorian?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: No. [CHUCKLES] So on the rest of the month, this is what's been going on while
I've been doing my full-time job. I worked with staff, and we went before the Denver City Council
Committee on Land Use, Transportation, and Infrastructure. And we got some really great questions from
our Denver City Council. And I am grateful to the staff. Thank you, Mr. Summers and Mr. Davies and Mr.
Sirois for attending that meeting with me.
President Torres and Chairwoman Sandoval, who are on that committee, also happen to be council
people within my district. They didn't take it easy on us. They gave us some really tough questions to
think about. And they expected some answers, so that was great.
I also worked with Denver Public School President of the Board Xchitl Gaytn and the administration
and staff to have a conversation about the proposed fair for students and for youth, with a lot of feedback
that came from that for the pilot program that is being proposed. So hopefully, we will hear something
from them.
I did go out to five or six different public pop-ups, specifically the Spanish-speaking ones.
[SPEAKING SPANISH]

The Spanish-speaking community showed up, even in the rain. And the event was well staffed by RTD
personnel. And all of the information that I would expect to see there and more was provided, which was
really great to see. But as far as Arvada, all the way down to Aurora, different places that they had it at,
down here in Union Station, it was great to see the constant communication going on in multiple
languages at every opportunity that I went.
I also went to the City Summit of the Americas, working in the morning and then running downtown on the
bus or the train to get to the events, and having the opportunity to hear Debra, CEO Johnson, speak with
FTA Administrator Nuria Fernandez on matters of transportation that face all of the American cities. And I
say "American," not just United States, but from Tierra del Fuego in Chile, all the way north to the
Saskatchewan Province in Canada. I got the opportunity to meet the mayors of Bogota, Colombia,
Montevideo, Uruguay, Guatemala City, and their city councilors, as well as mayors from Brownsville,
Texas, Sausalito, California, other people who are looking at what we are doing here in Denver and
curious about what's happening here. And the opportunity to have that conversation not just in English,
without a translation device in my ear, to hear everything that was happening in multiple languages at that
convention was great. The summit was awesome.
I also did have the Community Advisory Committee one-on-one, which was really an awesome
opportunity to connect with that committee member that met with me. So I know that those are being
planned with each of us. But I would really highly encourage it. It was a great coffee conversation about
transportation concerns, questions, advice, and an opportunity to just meet the other side of the
community that's working on transit from the community perspective. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you so much. Let's see, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just very briefly, a reminder that the American
Public Transportation Association Transit Board Members and Transit Board Administrators Seminar will
be held in Birmingham, Alabama, from July 15 through July 18. I serve as the chair of the Transit Board
Members Committee and the chair of the conference.
Obviously, I'll be there. And Director Dishell has confirmed that he will be there. And you are all cordially
invited.
It's a terrific program that provides for a great opportunity not only to learn a lot of substance but to have
the opportunity to interact with transit board members from agencies around the country. It's an
unparalleled opportunity for us all to learn in that regard as well. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You're very welcome. And several of us attended last year. It was a great
conference. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, I'm sorry.
TROY WHITMORE: Go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore. It was hidden behind my little screen here. Director Whitmore-OK, Director Whitmore says you should go ahead. OK, [CHUCKLES] one of you go.

TROY WHITMORE: All right, thank you. Sorry about that. I tried, Director Rosenthal, to get you in there.
Just a couple of updates-- on April 28, I attended the Colorado Highway 7 Bus Tour. We went from
Brighton to Boulder, had lunch in Boulder. It's been a long time since I've been to Boulder. I enjoyed my
time in Boulder, Director Guissinger.
[CHUCKLING]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Come back soon.
TROY WHITMORE: It was an education, definitely was.
BOB BROOM: [INAUDIBLE] did you take your passport?
TROY WHITMORE: I did have my passport. And they let me back over the county line. Yes, that was very
kind of them.
But very interesting-- there's a lot of needs in that corridor. Certainly needs in my district, but perhaps
more as you cross over into Boulder. So a lot of potentials there. And we just look forward to funding and
the ability to utilize transit throughout that entire corridor here before I pass on, hopefully. So we shall see
how the funding goes for that.
Cinco de Mayo, the afternoon of Cinco de Mayo I spent with the Leadership Commerce City group, a
organization from the Chamber, talking about RTD. And just wanted to thank Stuart Summers for the
presentation. That was the first one that he has prepared for all of us to utilize in our communities. And it
served me well in talking to that group. And had some good questions, and it was great to have updates
that were really fresh that we will be able to utilize.
And we'll have something similar to that for several of us that will visit with Thornton City Council next
week. Director Buzek-- and I don't know if Director Davidson is going to be able to jockey between two
meetings that night. But if anybody can do it, Director Davidson can. So we look forward to meeting with
them with our updated presentation, Stuart.
And finally, Director Buzek, and I would certainly invite Directors Harwick and Davidson, if they can join
us, at North Area Transit Association. I know Director Guissinger's been there. We were-- we met last
week again.
I can't make it to all the meetings because of work issues. But it's a great idea-sharing organization and
certainly goes beyond the borders of just Adams County. And I want a shout-out for Michael Davies, who
attends all of those meetings, which is very helpful to keep us on track as Board members. And Lord
knows tonight is proof that I need that. So thank you, Michael, and thank you, Stuart. Enough said.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And thank you, Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Can I introduce Paul Rosenthal now?
LYNN GUISSINGER: You may.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Hi.

[CHUCKLING]
Thank you. He who needs no introduction, I hope.
[CHUCKLES]
In any event, thank you, Director Whitmore, Madam Chair. So certainly involved in so many different
meetings in the community, et cetera, but I'd just bring up three things real quick. So for one, as many of
the Board members do, we receive a lot of emails and phone calls from the community. And I really would
like to thank the Board Office for responding to those so diligently and forwarding those on to staff to
respond to.
And so thank you to the Board Office and staff. And even there are times when the General Manager
herself will respond personally to those emails. And that just goes to show the commitment that we have
to transparency and to responding to folks in the community about their input and their feedback. So
please do continue to keep those emails coming, just not all of them at once. But you're certainly
welcome to always give us feedback.
Also, I attended the Cities Summit, partly because I was working in my day job for the city, coordinating
volunteers to help out at the event. So I did certainly see our General Manager and others from RTD. I
attended one of the forums, one of the sessions. I was delighted to see the mayor of Mexico City, who is
very highly regarded in her efforts to create transit in her city. So I learned a lot from her presentation.
Also, there was a meeting that I met with Liz Rogers, who is Intergovernment Relations for the City of
Aurora. And she also brought along the Deputy City Manager Laura Perry. And we met with Stuart
Summers. He seems to be getting a lot of media coverage tonight.
[CHUCKLING]
Believe it or not, there are other people who work at RTD other than Stuart Summers. But he does a
great job in the community really coordinating and always seeking areas to interact more with our
partners throughout the entire district to keep them informed about what we're doing, about closures,
about repairs, about changes in scheduling and fares, et cetera. So really appreciate his efforts and his
team.
And we met up at Banh & Butter, which is really an excellent bakery in Aurora. So that is highly
recommended. And that is my report.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. Speaking of Aurora, I'd like to point out that there's-- the really
important mayor races are coming up in November. So you should take some time and meet your mayor
and talk about RTD and find out what's going on. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Good point. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm not going to give my usual lengthy report about all the
places I've been and done. But I have a couple things that I did want to say, the first one being that I'm
really appreciative of the information that's going out about RTD's contribution to the Denver Nuggets,

which if anybody who's paying attention has not found, it is on our website, all the information about how
you can get to the game and not have to drive or pay outrageous rates to a carrier, other carrier.
And after that, I'd like to note that a number of the directors have been abroad. And I myself came back
about 24 hours ago, which is why I'm a little doozy here. But what I did notice is that transit in Europe is
mobbed. They do not have any lack of ridership. Every bus, every train in every country I was on was just
packed full of people.
And it was relatively safe. I didn't notice the same kind of issues that I see in the United States, and
relatively clean. But I think that there are two reasons for that. And the first one is it's a matter of attitude.
In most countries-- I don't know how many of you have driven in Greece or Italy or wherever-- it's not safe
to drive. I can attest to that. But everybody rides transit, older people and younger people and kids.
And so what I would like to see is more of an attitude change in our district, that people use transit for
climate purposes, for the health of the community. And so I just wanted to note that that was very
different.
And the other funny thing is there's just no parking anyplace there in any of the major cities, which is
another reason that people ride transit. Oh, look, what do we have here? It says, "But where will I park?"
on the front of Director Harwick's shirt.
And that is the big issue, I think. So hopefully, we will move toward that attitude and that situation soon.
Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. We are now at Other Matters. Are there any other matters? Director-oh, I think Director Sloan got there first. [CHUCKLES]
PEGGY CATLIN: May-- Chair Guissinger, I had my hand raised for-LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm sorry. I missed it. You go ahead. Then-- for the previous-- for the Director
Report?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: I was going to say, in line with some of the comments that we received from our
attendees, I've received some unfortunate complaints from constituents regarding the unreliable service,
particularly with regard to leaving the Nuggets Playoff games last week. And this person said that a
number of passengers were at the-- waiting at the station in the rain for over an hour for an E line and that
several comments were made that they were riders by choice, and that if RTD could not be more reliable,
that they would choose not to take transit and would drive.
So with regard to Director Williams' comments about attitude, I think people want to and would choose to
ride RTD. But we just have to work on making sure our service is reliable. And I know that's a challenge
for the agency.

The second thing, I did note that I went to the Respect the Ride meeting at the Chestnut Pavilion. And it
was a fabulous event, and I enjoyed very much the interaction that staff had with a lot of the customers
that were getting off the Light Rail line going into the pavilion. And it was a really delightful day.
The third thing I wanted to mention, and Ms. Johnson mentioned this, that she met with Beau Memory
from E-470. And he mentioned to me at the last Board meeting that he had the privilege of meeting with
our Chair and CEO or GM and CEO. And he was very, very complimentary and said that he looked
forward to furthering that dialogue and looking at ways that we could partner as agencies.
Even though on the surface they seem vastly different, they're both about moving people. And he has
quite an extensive background not only in highway authorities or in toll authorities, but also, he has
experience with state DOTs and with transit experiences. So I just look forward to both of you continuing
that dialogue. And I wanted to thank Ms. Johnson for [AUDIO OUT] the time to do that and encouraging
that in the future. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you. And this-- there's a great segue between Director Rosenthal and
Director Catlin's comments that our staff is very responsive. And our CEO is truly a rock in responding to
issues from our community.
And the public comment tonight raised matters that affect the entire RTD community. I know we don't
have back and forth. But we've heard the issues about service during Light Rail maintenance and
inaccurate signage have been bubbling up in a lot of different places in the RTD community.
And tonight's speakers did a great job relating personal experiences. And some had data to back up what
they were telling us. And I would appreciate, and I imagine CEO Johnson has already resolved to do this,
but a status report on both these issues of recognition of our customers' issues, the progress that has
been made so far on either signage or service, and any changes that are in the works would be most
appreciated. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Sloan. Director Ruscha. Oh, yeah, Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I-- are we in Other Matters? Or are we in-- OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. I actually wanted to bring up the subject of Access on Demand and some
customer complaints I'd received. So if I should have done this in the previous agenda item, I apologize.
Are we OK?
LYNN GUISSINGER: You're fine.
JOYANN RUSCHA: All right, thank you. [CHUCKLES] Still a new director. Thank you.
So I have received complaints, plural, over the last couple of months from Paratransit customers who are
using our on-demand service. And the complaints that I've received indicate that individuals who need a
wheelchair-accessible vehicle, which I'll just refer to as a WAV, W-A-V, are being forced to wait hours for
service. I understand that new programs have bugs. But we are beyond the pilot point.

We have launched. The Board has appropriated a considerable amount of dollars for this program. And I
am incredibly concerned that these bugs have not been worked out.
One of these complaints include just last Thursday, four people had to wait more than four hours for a
wheelchair-accessible vehicle while requesting the on-demand service. Another individual on another
date eventually had to call 911 because they were stranded. And our on-demand service could not come
and get them because they used a wheelchair. They were also told, there are no wheelchair-accessible
vehicles after 3:00 PM.
So I don't know what jurisdiction that was in. But I am-- I feel horrible for that customer. I feel badly for
that jurisdiction, who had to pick up the tab on the 911 call. And we potentially diverted resources from
Emergency Management Services because we couldn't dispatch a wheelchair-accessible vehicle to a
customer who followed all of the rules and instructions in requesting a ride.
I did ask, and was told that if a vendor doesn't have a wheelchair-accessible vehicle, they are required to
provide one, perhaps through their own subcontractors. I don't believe all of our vendors have wheelchairaccessible vehicles. If any of them do, if any of our TNCs, Uber, Lyft, et cetera, have them, I'd love to
know.
Furthermore, when I asked for a review of these TNC contracts, as I think is my duty and obligation and
right as a director, I was told to file a CORA request. These are publicly available documents. So they're
public documents. The contracts have been executed. There's not a procurement concern.
I'm not going to file a CORA request. I would hope that the agency can just send over the contracts. If I
filed a CORA request seeing which directors get contracts and which ones don't, I guess that might be
another meeting conversation.
So with that, I want to flag that I do not want to shut down a program for many people who find it useful,
who give it a high rating, individuals who do not use wheelchairs and are finding that they can get an Uber
or a Lyft or a TNC ride quickly, and we're covering most of the tab. But I also am not personally, as a
director, going to stand for, advocate, or agree to two or three different classes of transit because we can't
be a world-class transit system if we have different classes of transit.
So I feel it's important to bring this up in public meeting. I'm happy to hear any responses. And I would
also just urge that we use whatever mechanisms we have internally to-- whatever we can do with our
contracts in putting the pressure on our vendors to ensure that they are providing the services that they're
contracted to provide. If a vendor is not required to provide a wheelchair-accessible vehicle, then we need
to have a mechanism by which we can back that up and provide comparable service.
Now, TNCs have argued that they are not subject to the ADA because they say they're just an app or
because they make a user sign a forced arbitration agreement. Well, we don't. And we do have a duty
and an obligation to serve all of our customers. So with that, I'll go ahead and yield. And thank you for
your time.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And is there a response? Are you looking for a response tonight?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I would be happy to take one if there is one. But we can also continue this
conversation at a future meeting or offline.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. Johnson.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much. Thank you very kindly, Director Ruscha, for your
comments. As you heard throughout the course of my comments tonight, as we talk about equity,
inclusivity, and accessibility, that's something that's very important to me. So I will, in turn, follow up with
you more specifically about those comments.
And then to the comments that Director Sloan has made, quite naturally, as we talk about the, air quotes,
"problems on the E line"-- and the reason why I use air quotes is I just want to say in this public setting, I
recognize that we have had some difficulty in reference to service delivery. But also, we have to be
cognizant of the fact that we as an agency haven't invested in the state of good repair with our assets. So
now we're at a point in time where we're doing critical maintenance.
And so it's a priority for all of us as we leverage our Transit Asset Management Plan to make informed
decisions about how that will be done. And there's work in progress. And I also know I've been-somebody reached out to me specifically saying that we have the Nuggets game coming up, and you're
doing maintenance.
Well, when we scheduled maintenance, there was no talk about a Nuggets game because they were yet
to be in the NBA Finals. So I'm not making light of it, per se. But these are issues that are very important
to me as well as to my team. And we're going to work diligently and will be providing updates to the
Board. And I will look into this matter.
And I do understand the frustration, recognizing that transportation network companies, to the points that
you have illustrated, say they don't have to provide a vehicle, this is on-demand service, and things to the
like. But, yes, we cannot have people being left stranded. So I have to do some recognizance as we go
forward.
So if you can grant me some time to do that with my team so we can delve into these issues, I would
appreciate it. And I think that General Counsel wanted to make a comment as well. So thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. General Counsel.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you for the question, Director Ruscha, about
the process with respect to CORA requests. So we do-- that has been the process that we ask directors
to submit them. That's actually the fastest way to get you the records that you need and to ensure that
you get a complete response, and one that ensures that anything that's going out the door gets a quick
legal review. So we do actually pretty routinely redact information in contracts that has to be maintained
confidential, so proprietary information.
But really, it's a very quick process. That's the fastest way to get it-- to get that to you. And we do ask
directors to do that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And just to be clear, you ask directors-- so that's specifically about producing
contracts. Is that right?
MELANIE SNYDER: Producing any records. That's our records request process. And that just also helps
us keep a record of what's being produced.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, Director Ruscha, anything else?

JOYANN RUSCHA: No. Thank you, Madam Snyder, that hasn't been my experience so far on the Board.
And maybe that's a conversation I'll have to have with my fellow directors. Maybe we need to think about
a director-initiated action.
But even if there were things that you would need to redact, we also have executive privilege. So again, I
personally find it unacceptable that I requested a copy of these contracts, and I was told to go through
another process. And so I was not even able to review the contracts and then maybe ask more detailed
follow-up or have more information before I came to this meeting. And that unnecessary delay makes it
more difficult for me to do my job.
So we can continue that conversation. But I just expect that they'll be in my inbox within a reasonable
amount of time. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you. We-- so the-- I live in Arvada. And the horns have been blowing pretty
consistently, due to some issues.
And I just want to Thank staff and how specifically Mr. Millage, who's the Manager of Commuter Rail
Operations, he has been extremely diligent and communicative with me and some of the constituents that
live along the G line. And they have been promptly telling me when the horns are blowing. And so I've
been able to tell him, and we've been able to really get to the heart of the matter. And I'm hoping we have
some resolution, at least moving forward.
Also, back to Director Williams's conversation about changing attitudes about riding rail and buses, I've
committed to going car-free in October, from October 3 to October 8. It was a little Twitter challenge that I
probably jumped on too soon. But now I'm going to be doing that. So I challenge any of my Board fellow
directors to also consider doing that. But I'm not going to back any of you into a corner.
And I will also be going to Europe next month, so I will not be here. And I'm looking forward to riding a
whole variety of European public transportation and riding bikes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: There's a Twitter challenge from October 3 through the 8th?
IAN HARWICK: Correct.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That seems easy. [CHUCKLES] That's great. And that reminds me-- I'll just stick it
in right now-- that June 28 is Bike to Work Day. So get your bike out, and get it ready to go. Director
Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you so much. Director Harwick, I've been on a car-free challenge from
November of '18 until earlier in May, which due to my job, I had to end up with the vehicle. But-IAN HARWICK: Nice.
BOBBY DISHELL: --I'll join you for the week in October. Just want to note a few things, a few other
matters. I think, one, with the changeover in the Board Office, there may be an opportunity to better
expedite director requests, if they do end up having to go through a process.

It sounds like maybe that's an opportunity for the Board Office to process the CORA request, probably
would go faster. Whether we need it or not is a separate discussion. But at least as a stopgap measure,
that might be a solution.
On changing attitudes, I agree. Yes, we need to change attitudes. But we can't ignore the fact that the
West was built on the premise of driving. If you go to Europe, you also don't see six-lane roads running
through the middle of the street.
You also see a community that invests in social services. You have universal health care. In some
portions of Europe, you have universal basic income. You have housing.
You have a number of other-- you have more progressive policies around substances. You have a
number of other things besides we need to change our attitude. You have a community that's decided
that public transit is what is important, that public transit is not just for a class of people, that it is for
professionals, that it is for everyone.
And so, sure, it's attitude. But it's holistic. And that leads to my next question or conversation, which is, it
would be great to get on the next, I think, Executive Committee agenda a proactive legislative agenda.
I think to date, we've had legislative priorities. I think we passed our first legislative prioritization. It's been
since I've been on the Board, so that was either fall of '21 or fall of '22.
But it'd be great to see that earlier. Session's over. Now is the time. There's not going to be a huge
changeover in the legislature. I think now is a real good time to capitalize on the fact that people aren't in
session and that we can actually identify sponsors, do that work ahead of time, like a number of other
advocacy groups, to be able to stop saying, we only get 2% of funding to saying, we have a proposal to
increase our funding.
We know that drug policies impact us. We have a proposal to change that, and to shift our narrative from
one of we're asking community to come out and advocate for us to advocating with community for those
things that we've proactively identified as a way to make change. And other than that, I'm all set. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I want to follow up on Director Ruscha and
Director Dishell, and particularly the comment relative to the Board of Office staff and its facilitation of
requests for information by the Board. The Board operating guidelines actually address this and have a
lot of information because we had about, I think five or six years ago a situation where the Board staff
was pretty much inundated with requests by at least one director that really impaired their ability to work.
I could be wrong, because it's been a while since I have had to read those, but I do not recall seeing in
the Board Operating Guidelines that when a Board director requested a contract, they would have to file a
CORA. And so for that reason, I want to say that the Board Operating Guidelines govern how this agency
runs and how this Board runs. And we voted on that.
And so to the extent that there is a need-- and there may be in some circumstances, I'm happy to say. But
routine requests for information should not be responded to by saying, you'll need to file a CORA for that.
That's not why the people elected us.

So I just suggest-- and I'm not saying we can resolve this tonight-- that perhaps a further review of the
Board Operating Guidelines to help refresh our recollection in that so that our new Board Manager can
have an opportunity to facilitate reasonable requests for information, I think we all need to take a pause
and make sure we're on the same page. Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Anything further, any response? No. All right, Director
Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Given the work that I've done the last month with DRCOG and attending different
transportation meetings throughout the city, I just have a question and a concern that RTD may not be at
the conversation table for some of the planned BRTs in the way that we should be. And so just want to
make sure that particularly for the federal BRT, Federal Boulevard, that we're participating in that
conversation because we're not running the project at RTD. CDOT's doing some of them. We're working
on other things.
But I want to make sure that we're not missing out on an opportunity to ensure that those BRTs are
planned properly with agency input. It was a question that came up to me through City Council,
specifically Councilwoman Sandoval, because she's working on the overlay for the northwest corner of
Denver. And that BRT question is there.
And so I don't know the answer. And I didn't know the answer. But just as this is open, I just want to make
sure that on the record, we're working with our partners in that capacity. And I'm sure that we are. But that
was one thing.
The second thing that I wanted to ask about, or at least just support, is that REI is really working on
multimodal forms of transportation, as is their purview. And I do think that there may be a program plan
that RTD is supporting to teach the public how to use our buses when they have a bicycle because I have
a bike, but I have no idea how to put it on the front of a bus. Be honest, I'll just ride to where I need to go
and not bother with it because it scares the heck out of me to try and stand in front of a bus that could run
me over.
And I know that that's not going to happen. But that we are supporting that education and that community
outreach is a really cool thing. And so I don't know who is working on that. But thank you for doing it. I
heard about it, and I'm really proud of us for doing that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Williams, did you have a response?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, I believe there is a video on the RTD website that will show you how to use it.
And I'm an old lady. But I do it regularly, and it's easy. And I'd be happy to help you at any time.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Awesome, thank you.
[CHUCKLING]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: (CHUCKLING) Thank you, Director Williams. She and I have had conversations
about how to ride, so that's why we were making eye contact. But in relationship to any planned bus rapid
transit programs, keeping in mind that we are in discussions collectively, there was a report that was done

several years back as corridors were identified. And we are engaged on a myriad of different fronts,
whether it be CDOT or the City and County of Denver. So I just wanted to state that for the record.
And while we know Colfax is actively on its way, just yesterday, we had our Executive Steering
Committee meeting, where we had the Region VIII Administrator. I was present. CDOT was not present.
But they're actually on the committee, the Executive Director as well.
So I just wanted to state that there is collaboration. And planning staff is intimately involved as we go
forward. So thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Anything else? I'll just say, I think this was a good conversation.
Some issues got raised. We had some issues raised in public comment. And I appreciate Director Sloan
bringing those back around.
So I'll talk with Ms.-- work with Ms. Johnson and see if there's some that need to-- what follow-up we may
need. And that's all I have tonight. Is there a motion to adjourn?
SPEAKER 2: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, I guess there's lots of motions to adjourn.
SPEAKER 3: Second.
SPEAKER 4: Third.
LYNN GUISSINGER: We are adjourned at 7:45.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

[AUDIO OUT]

