Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Erik Davidson, District I
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Secretary – Michael Guzman, District C
Treasurer – Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Vince Buzek, District J
Vacant, District D
Ian Harwick, District L
Jaime Lewis, District A

Paul Rosenthal, District E
JoyAnn Ruscha, District B
Marjorie Sloan, District M
Doug Tisdale, District H
Troy Whitmore, District K

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
Thursday, November 21, 2024
REMOTE MEETING
12:00 PM
Executive Committee will begin following
the adjournment of the Performance Committee

To join the meeting: Register Here
(connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or to listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 884 7010 2284#
Webinar Passcode: 1660#
For Public Participation in the meeting: raise your virtual hand
in Zoom or indicate you wish to speak via phone by pressing *9
If you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment(s),
please email the RTD Board office using the address below.
Public Comments can be emailed in advance to be
included in the record to
RTD.BoardOffice@rtd-denver.com

Executive Committee Agenda
Chaired by Erik Davidson
I.

Call to Order

II. Public Comment

III.

Recommended Action
A.

2025 Legislative and Government Relations Program

For the Board of Directors to adopt the 2025 Legislative and Government Relations
Program.
B.
Independent Audit Committee Membership Appointment, Reappointment,
and Authorization
For the Board of Directors to take the following actions related to membership on
the Independent Audit Committee:
• Appoint Director Buzek to a term commencing January 1, 2025 and expiring
December 31, 2026
• Reappoint External Member Jim Brendel to term commencing January 1,
2025 and expiring December 31, 2026
• Authorize former Director Dishell to remain on the committee through
November 17, 2025.
C.
Bylaw Amendments to Update Descriptions of the Executive and
Performance Committees
For the Board of Directors to adopt the proposed Bylaw Amendments, which will
clarify the roles of the Executive and Performance committees as well as adjust
several related administrative matters.
D.

Citizen Advisory Committee Appointments and Reappointment's

For the Board of Directors to appoint three new members to three-year terms,
appoint five new members to two-year terms, and reappoint two members to
another three-year term.
E.

Transit Passes for Former Board Directors

For the Board of Directors to build upon, ratify, and reaffirm the existing agency
practice to provide annual transit passes to all former Board Directors and a
designated immediate family member by adopting the enclosed resolution
establishing the right of all former Directors and a designated immediate family to
an annual pass in perpetuity.
IV.

December Board Meeting Agenda Review

V.

Discussion Items

•

Monthly Government Relations Report – November 2024

•

Meeting Accessibility Pilot Policy Review

VI.

Other Matters

VII.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assistive hearing devices
• Documents in alternative formats and language translations
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

