1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Bob Broom, District F
Claudia Folska, District E
Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M

Ken Mihalik, District G
Doug Tisdale, District H
Jeff Walker, District D
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, March 10, 2020
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• May 2020 Recommended Service Changes
• Remote Participation in Meetings During Emergencies
C. Updates

• Fourth Quarter 2019 Performance Measures
• Service Availability February 2020
• Rail Operations Update January 2020
• Operator Dashboard Presentation
• Access-a-Ride/Cab 2019 4th Quarter Reports
• Special Services 4th Quarter 2019 Report
• Contracted Fixed-Route Quarterly Report – 4th Quarter 2019
• Customer Comment Analysis - 4th Quarter 2019

• Drug & Alcohol Compliance Monitoring Report - 4th Quarter 2019
• Security Statistics & Fare Inspection Summary
D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - April 14, 2020
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Paul J. Ballard, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: March 4, 2020

From:

Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer

GM

Date:

March 4, 2020

Board Meeting Date: March 10, 2020

Subject:

May 2020 Recommended Service Changes

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the May 2020 Service Change package as revised and summarized in Attachment A resulting in
an annualized base system cost savings of $6,737,700 and a FasTracks cost savings of $1,534,700,
and a reduction of 43 operator shifts and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee to
execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these
changes.
The funds that are saved through the service reductions will be placed in the Board Appropriated
Reserves for future Board consideration.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services
DISCUSSION
To meet the diverse travel needs of the citizens of the District and maintain a high-performance,
sustainable transit system, RTD has developed a networked family of services for which the different
classes of service have different expectations of performance. We will continue adjusting services in
response to changes in ridership and operational performance of the transit system as a whole. It is also
our responsibility to identify services that are underperforming and recommend modifications,
curtailment or cancellation of service as warranted or recommend new service as changes in the
community warrant and resources allow.
The proposals herein include a mix of service adjustments and reductions aimed at addressing an
operator shortage which has resulted in increase in loss of service and service unreliability. As presented
in the December 19, 2019 Board of Director’s Study Session, this proposal seeks to reduce the number
of operators necessary to provide RTD’s transit services, thereby better matching our service offerings
to our operator headcount. The Board adopted Service Standards were used as a guiding policy in the
development of this plan, which include consideration toward ridership performance and service
duplication.
We will monitor customer response to the implementation of these service changes and propose
adjustments and service alternatives as appropriate in future service change recommendations.
The guiding principles for proposed service changes continue to be:
 Service performance evaluation based on the RTD Service Standards;
 The effects on the overall integrity of the transit network and on transit dependent markets;
 The availability of alternative services to affected riders;

Packet Pg. 3

1.B.1





Cost-effective distribution throughout the District and Family of Services and the ability to
enhance service when possible;
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act: benefits and services are provided without regard to race, color or
national origin; also disparate effects on low income and minority populations; and
Response to changes in the communities where services are provided

SUMMARY OF PUBLIC HEARINGS
There were 20 public meetings conducted between February 19th and March 5th in Arvada, Aurora,
Boulder, Centennial, Commerce City, Denver, Englewood, Golden, Ken Caryl, Highlands Ranch,
Lafayette, Lakewood, Littleton, Parker and at the Blake Administration Building Rooms T & D. Comments
and further details from these meetings are summarized in Attachment B of this report. A report listing
the customer contacts received in the Service.Change web address will be summarized and made
available March 12th.
CHANGES TO INITIAL RECOMMENDATION
Staff receives input during the public comment process and continues to conduct additional analysis
after the initial service recommendations are communicated to the Board of Directors. Depending on the
outcome of the public comment process and continued analysis, staff may or may not propose
modifications to these initial recommendations. The following proposals have been significantly modified:
Route 16L – West Colfax: proposal to discontinue service has been rescinded
Route 32 – 32nd Avenue/City Park: proposal has been modified to retain peak period, peak direction
service east of Downtown. The proposal to discontinue service west of Wadsworth Boulevard remains
Route 99L (formerly Route 100L) South Kipling: proposal modified to maintain service between Federal
Center Station and Civic Center Station.
Route 153 – Chambers Road: the proposal to reduce peak frequency from 15 to 30 minutes service has
been rescinded
Route 157 – CCA/Buckley: the proposal to discontinue service has been rescinded
Route 206 - Pearl/Manhattan/Fairview High School: proposal modified to retain service between Boulder
Junction at Depot Station and Arapahoe and 55th Street.
Route 403 – Lucent Boulevard: reduce service to hourly during peak period
Route 483 – Parker Road/Lincoln Avenue: proposal to reduce peak frequency service has been rescinded
Route Y - Lyons/Boulder: proposal modified to reduce service to 1 AM and 3 PM peak trips
RunRide: proposal belayed until May 2021
H Line - Florida Station - 18th & California: proposal to reduce weekend service has been rescinded

SUMMARY OF PROPOSED SERVICE CHANGES

Routes proposed for service reductions:
Route 0L – South Broadway: discontinue selected peak period trips
Route 1 – 1st Avenue: reroute to Alameda Station and discontinue service east of Bannock Street
Route 16L – West Colfax: discontinue service
Route 32 – 32nd Avenue/City Park: reduce service east of Downtown and discontinue service west of
Wadsworth Boulevard
Route 55 – Old Town/Arvada Ridge: discontinue service
Route 65 – Monaco Parkway: reduce Sunday service frequency from 30 to 60 minutes
Route 67 – Ridge Road: reduce service frequency weekday
Route 99 – South Kipling: discontinue Saturday service

Packet Pg. 4

1.B.1

Route 99L (formerly Route 100L) South Kipling: discontinue segment on Kipling between Ken Caryl pnR
and Federal Center Station
Route 125 – Youngfield/Ward: discontinue service north of Ward Road Station
Route 130 – Yale/Buckley: reduce peak frequency from 15 to 30 minutes
Route 139 – Quincy: discontinue weekday 5:13am, 5:41am eastbound, and 4:40am westbound; and
Saturday 5:56am eastbound
Route 153 – Chambers Road: reduce peak frequency from 15 to 30 minutes between Aurora Metro
Center and Peoria Stations
Route 157 – CCA/Buckley: discontinue service
Route 206 – Pearl/Manhattan/Fairview High School: discontinue weekday mid-day service and remove
route between Arapahoe/55th Fairview High School midday
Route 236 - Boulder Junction/US 36 & Table Mesa: discontinue service
Route 403 – Lucent Boulevard: reduce service to hourly during peak period
Route 483 – Parker Road/Lincoln Avenue: reduce peak frequency from 30 to 60 minutes from Parker
pnR to Lincoln Station
Route Jump - Boulder Lafayette via Arapahoe: reduce frequency to hourly weekday midday, east of
63rd/Arapahoe-Lafayette pnR
Route MALL – 16th Street mall Shuttle: reduce peak frequency from 90 to 180 second frequency
weekdays
Route Y - Lyons/Boulder: reduce service to 1 AM and 1 PM peak trips
Route 116X South Simms: discontinue one AM and one PM peak trip
Broncos Ride: discontinue service
BuffRide: discontinue service
Rockies Service: discontinue service
RunRide: discontinue service in 2021
C Line - Littleton Mineral-Denver Union Station: add base period service on weekends
D Line - Littleton Mineral- 18th&California: discontinue service on weekends
H Line - Florida Station - 18th & California: reduce Saturday service frequency
R Line - Ridgegate- Peoria & Smith Rd Station: Reduce service frequency to 30 minutes weekday and
weekends.

Routes proposed for mixed service improvements/ service efficiencies:
Route 16 – West Colfax: add service to offset loss of 16L to Golden and remove route segment to
Federal Center
Route 27 – East Yale Avenue: combine with Route 46 north of Yale Avenue and discontinue service
south of Hampden. New south terminal at Southmoor pnR
Route 46 – South Dahlia Street: combine with Route 27 south of Yale Avenue, replacing former routing
Route 66 – Arapahoe Road: cutback Route 66 from Arapahoe Crossing Shopping Center to Arapahoe at
Village Center Station
Route 153 – Chambers Road: extend Route 153 from Arapahoe Crossing Shopping Center to Arapahoe
at Village Center Station

Routes proposed for routine running time analysis/schedule adjustments:
Route 15L – East Colfax Limited: running time analysis, schedule adjustments
Changing to summer service levels for routes BOUND, DASH, JUMP, SKIP, and STAMPEDE Other route
related interline changes as result of a change to summer service levels: (204, 225, 206/206F,
208/208F and Y.

Packet Pg. 5

1.B.1

FINANCIAL IMPACT
The overall estimated financial impact contained in this proposal includes a base system cost savings of
approximately $6.74 million and a FasTracks cost savings of $1.53 million. The operator requirement
impacts are an estimated reduction of 34 Bus and 9 Rail work shifts.
EQUITY ANALYSIS
The Federal Transit Administration’s (FTA) Circular 4702.1B provides its recipients of FTA financial
assistance with instructions for achieving compliance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and
Executive Order 12898 regarding Environmental Justice. In this circular, the FTA requires RTD to
evaluate, prior to implementation, any and all service changes that exceed the established major service
change threshold, to determine whether those changes will have a disproportionately negative impact on
minority or low-income populations. This analysis is currently in process and will be completed by March
23, 2020.

ATTACHMENTS:


May 2020 Attachment A

(PDF)



May 2020 Attachment B

(PDF)



Map Service Area



May 2020 Proposed Change Presentation (PPTX)

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Jessie Carter, Manager, Service Planning and Scheduling
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 6

1.B.1.a

Service Change Proposal May 2020
Proposed
Change
Condition

Route/Service
Service Change Summary

Boardings Impacted (per day/event)
Weekday
Saturday Sunday/Holiday

Operators Impacted (per day)
Weekday
Saturday
Sunday/Holiday

Total

LOCAL

South Broadway

1
15L
16
16L

1st Avenue
East Colfax
West Colfax
West Colfax

27

East Yale Avenue

32

32nd Avenue/City Park

46
55

South Dahlia Street
Old Town/Arvada Ridge

65
66
67
99
99L
125
130
139

Monaco Parkway
Arapahoe Road
Ridge Road
South Kipling
Federal Center/South Kipling Limited
Youngfield/Ward
Yale/Buckley
Quincy

153

Chambers Road

157

CCA/Buckley

206
236
403

Pearl/Manhattan/Fairview High School
Boulder Junction/US 36 & Table Mesa
Lucent Blvd

483
JUMP
MALL

Parker Road/Lincoln Avenue
Boulder Lafayette via Arapahoe
16th Street Mall Shuttle

REGIONAL
Y
116X

65

-1.0

0.0

0.0

-$140,189

523
na
133
2,336

-1.3
0.0

0.0
0.0

0.0
0.0

-$175,236

76

-1.6

0.0

0.0

-$227,807

-1.8

-1.7

-1.7

-$347,380

-1.0
-1.7

0.0
0.0

0.0
0.0

-$140,189
-$231,312

0.0

0.0

-1.5

-$47,829

-1.0
0.0
-1.0
-1.3
-1.6
-0.3

0.0
-1.6
0.0
0.0
0.0
-0.2

0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

-$140,189
-$44,668
-$140,189
-$175,236
-$219,045
-$43,912

437

0.0

0.0

0.0

$0

148

0.0

0.0

0.0

$0

111
75
335

-1.8
-1.3
-1.9

0.0
0.0
0.0

0.0
0.0
0.0

-$229,908
-$164,220
-$262,854

45
230
14,099

0.0
-1.5
-7.6

0.0
0.0
0.0

0.0
0.0
0.0

$0
-$197,064
-$1,423,283

31
22

-0.2
-0.3

0.0
0.0

0.0
0.0

-$38,548
-$53,270

-27.8

-3.4

-3.2

-$4,442,326

131/85

$0
$0

258 (full rte) 195 (full rte)

283
130
254
na
217

507

133
569
94
287
16

3

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment A (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

0L

Discontinue southbound morning reverse peak trips from Civic Center Station to Race/Davies: 6:09am, 6:42am,
and 7:08am. Discontinue southbound morning reverse peak trips to I-25 & Broadway: 6:24am and 6:53am.
Discontinue northbound afternoon reverse peak trips from Race/Davies at 4:56pm and 5:26pm. Current
performance on this service is 7.2 passengers per trip
Permanent
Reroute service to Alameda Station and discontinue service east of Bannock Street. Currently carrying 7.7
passengers per trip.
Temporary
Run time analysis, schedule adjustments.
na
Add service to offset loss of 16L to Golden and remove route segment to Federal Center.
Temporary
Discontinue service, consistent with the original West Corridor Plan.
Temporary
Combine with Route 46 north of Yale Avenue and discontinue service south of Hampden. New south terminal at
Southmoor pnR.
Permanent
Discontinue service west of Wadsworth Boulevard. Service east of downtown would be reduced to 4 westbound
am peak trips from City Park and 4 eastbound pm peak trips to City Park Monday-Friday. Alternative service
available on Route 28.
Temporary
Combine with Route 27 south of Yale Avenue, replacing former routing. South of Yale, 283 passengers on 53 trips,
5.3 pasg/trip. Approximately 1/3 of total segment ridership is at Thomas Jefferson High School, who may use
Route 65 school trips or Route 40 at Hampden/Holly.
Permanent
Discontinue service. Currently performing at 9.6 Boardings per hour.
Permanent
Sunday from 30 to 60 frequency total Sunday ridership is 507 riders on 50 trips, or 10.1 pasg/trip and 17.5
boardings/hour. Approximately half the total ridership would be affected.
Temporary
Discontinue route east of Arapahoe at Village Center Station, replaced by extension of Route 153.
Reduce service frequency weekday to hourly from 30 minute frequency
Temporary
Discontinue weekend service.
Temporary
Discontinue segment on Kipling Parkway between Ken Caryl pnR and Federal Center Station
Temporary
Discontinue service north of Ward Road Station
Temporary
Reduce peak frequency from 15 to 30 minutes. 287 total passengers on 23 affected trips, or 12.5 pasg/trip
Temporary
Discontinue weekday 5:13am, 5:41am eastbound, and 4:40am westbound; and Saturday 5:56am eastbound
Permanent
Reduce peak frequency from 15 to 30 minutes between Aurora Metro Center and Peoria Station. 437 passengers
on 27 trips, or 16.2 pasg/trip (Rescinded) . Extend route from Arapahoe Crossing to Arapahoe at Village Center
Station, replacing Route 66.
Temporary
Discontinue service. 148 passengers on 28 trips, 5.3 pasg/trip, 18.1 boardings/hour. Approximately 100 of these
passengers have alternative service via Routes 10, 153, and 169.
Temporary
Discontinue weekday mid-day service (930am to 230pm); remove route between Arapahoe/55th and Fairview
High School
Temporary
Discontinue service, current performance at 3 passengers per trip.
Permanent
Reduce service frequency to hourly during peak periods.
Temporary
Reduce peak frequency from 30 to 60 minutes from Parker pnR to Lincoln Station. 45 passengers on 8 trips, 5.6
pasg/trip
Permanent
Reduce frequency to hourly weekday midday, east of 63rd/Arapahoe-Lafayette pnR
Permanent
Reduce peak frequency from 90 seconds to 3 minute frequency weekdays
Temporary

$
Lyons/Boulder
South Simms

reduce Route Y to 3 trips in each direction, northbound one (1) AM and two (2) PM trips and southbound two (2)
AM and one (1) PM trip.
Permanent
Discontinue one AM and one PM peak trip
Permanent

Special Service (resource and ridership impacts based on event occurrences)
discontinue service in 2021
RunRide
Memorial Day Service
discontinue special service
Rockies Service 32 games
discontinue special service
BuffRide
typically 6 games
discontinue special service
Broncos Ride (Bus) 2-4 games weeknight, 10 w/o playoffs on weekends

Temporary
Permanent
Permanent
Temporary

13,000
350
450
>12,000

114.0
6.0
450
12,000

12,000

6.0
60.0

177.0

$0
-$182,920
-$35,404
-$1,812,501

177.0

-$2,030,825
Rail
C
D
H

Littleton Mineral-Denver Union Station
Littleton Mineral- 18th&California
Florida Station - 18th & California

R

Ridge Gate- Peoria & Smith Rd Station

CBD Local – (10% - 15.2 pass. per hr. / 25% - 22.3 pass. per hr.
Urban Local – (10%-12.2 pass. per hr. / 25%-19.1 pass. per hr.)
Suburban Local - (10%-4.7 pass. per hr. / 25%-11.4 pass. per hr.)
Regional - (10% 11.3 pass. per hr./ 25% - 21.9 pass per hr.)

Add weekend base period service frequency to C Line on weekends , replacing D Line service formerly offered
Discontinue D Line service on weekends, replace with the C Line service
reduce Saturday service frequency to 30 from 15 minutes, based on ridership levels
Reduce service frequency to 30 minutes weekday and weekends. Requires additional service for SERE contract
compliance between Lincoln and Ridgegate Stations.

Permanent
Permanent
Temporary
Temporary

5,673

7,154
5,675

4,689
4,496

0.0
0.0
0.0

0.0
-1.6
0.0

0.0
-1.6
0.0

$0
-$264,550
-$264,550

2,918

2,350

-5.5

-1.6

-1.6

-$1,799,336

Bus
Rail

-$6,473,151
-$1,799,336
-$8,272,487

Packet Pg. 7

1.B.1.b

May 2020 Service Change

Wednesday, February 19, 2020
Boulder Chamber of Commerce
2440 Pearl Street, Boulder
6pm
Staff in attendance included Sage Thornbrugh, Brian Matthews, Pauline Haberman, and Nataly Handlos.
Alex Hyde‐Wright from Boulder County, Danny O’Connor from Boulder County, John Tayer from the
Boulder Chamber of Commerce, Andrea Meneghel from the Boulder Chamber of Commerce, Joan Lyons
from Boulder Transportation Connections, and Cliff Bosley from the Bolder Boulder were also
present. There were 4 members of the public in attendance, along with Lynn Guissinger, Director
District O, RTD Board.

John Tayer introduced himself as a former board member and a friend and partner of RTD.
He spoke about his opposition to the cancellation of the RunRide by stating that it is
impossible to safely and timely serve 50,000 people in such a small time window without
transit. He indicated that the Bolder Boulder is most people’s first experience with transit,
and that we should preserve those opportunities for newcomers. He stated that the Bolder
Boulder is an iconic local event, and that everyone needs to do what they can to make
sure it remains an enjoyable and well-run experience. He claimed that the deadline for the
decision to cut the RunRide service is too close to the race for organizers to develop an
alternative plan. He asked that the service not be cut in 2020.

Beth Hendorf asked whether RTD ridership would improve with more neighborhood/group
passes. She said that RTD should market their services better so as to not repeat the
issue. She asked if RTD fees for development within Boulder County could be instated.
She then stated that big buses are scary for her as a potential driver, and asked if she
could drive a smaller vehicle.

Lynn Segal asked if RTD could implement an AirBnB model where you can pick what you
want - she did not clarify what this meant. She later asked why the 236 was being
eliminated. She claimed that there should be an Uber-like service for ADA passengers. She
talked about transit as being important during peak events like the Bolder Boulder. She
indicated her desire for further municipalization of local transit. She asked if it would be
possible to have a “Super Uber Day” for the Bolder Boulder. She said that there needs to
be more think tanks involved to develop more ideas.

Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

Public Meeting Comments

Joan Lyons asked that RTD not suspend the RunRide service, citing the same points as
John Tayer. She said that BTC (Boulder Transportation Connections) agree with the 236
changes, and that they hope for better service to Boulder Junction at Depot Square
Station (BJDS) in the future. She asked for RTD to reinvest money into the BJDS area.
She stated that Route 206 was inefficient, and that South Boulder deserves more direct
service to BJDS. She asked why RTD would consider cutting the JUMP when BRT is being
planned for SH7. She stated that Route Y would perform better with more frequency and
reliable service, and that the Y deserves weekend service.

Cliff Bosley introduced himself as the Director of the Bolder Boulder. He stated that there
have been 250,000 public transit riders to the Bolder Boulder since the run’s inception. He
claimed that the RunRide service is great exposure for newcomers to transit. He stated
that 47% come to the Bolder Boulder in their car, and 7% carpool. He indicated that there
are lots of riders utilizing the RunRide service, but that he understands the driver shortage
issue. He then claimed that he had received lots of letters from Bolder Boulder participants
advocating for keeping the RunRide service. He stated that the decision to cut the RunRide
service was too close to the day of the race to organize alternative transportation options.

Andrea Meneghel said that the immediacy of the decision to cut RunRide service means
that it is too close to the deadline to cut the service. He indicated that the Bolder Boulder
is a big money maker for Boulder County. He asked that RTD explore alternative ways to
provide service if the RunRide service is cut. He said that he would be sending over a SH7
Coalition letter regarding the JUMP service changes, which would indicate their desire that
RTD not cut JUMP service as BRT is “imminent.”

Rebecca Loughner identified herself as a passenger with disability issues, and thanked RTD
for the changes made to the 225. She stated that 15 minute frequency is essential for
disabled passengers due to lack of transportation alternatives. She indicated that she
agreed with the fixed route changes that RTD was making. She asked the RTD and
Boulder County do everything they can to remove the difference in transportation options
for ambulatory and disabled passengers.

Alex Hyde-Wright thanked RTD for working with Boulder County in making service
changes, and claimed that he understands the mandating issues. He indicated a desire to
partner with RTD in alternative ways in the future.

Packet Pg. 9

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

1.B.1.b

Lynn Guissinger closed the meeting by thanking everyone for coming, and speaking about
the driver mandating issue.

Wednesday, February 19th, 2020
RTD Administrative Offices
Rooms T&D
12:00pm
Staff in attendance: Jessie Carter, Jeff Dunning, Cooper Langdon, Dan Merritt, Miguel
Aguilar, Maux Sullivan, Clara Bechtel, Sage Thornbrugh, Tegan Rice. Director Natalie
Menten from RTD’s Board of Directors was also present.
Jacob Britton – Mall service.
Asked for the proposal to be postponed after an outside analysis is completed.
Aaron Smith – Route 99L
Need a reliable service from Lakewood to CCS. Other options add significant time, takes
20 min right now and W line takes 50 min as an alternative. Felt like RTD poorly handled
the name change back in January this seemed to cause a lot of confusion. Contacted RTD
and was told that the latest performance report and 99L is the lowest performing and the
same fare is used over three classes including the urban, downtown, and suburban. The
regional fares seem to be all different. Seems odd to be using fare to eliminate service.
Talked to Nataly Mitten and she suggested using the EV and CS to the Federal Center.
Andre Iltis - MallRide
Spoke to a lot of businesses and this is a serious concern especially with the Mall Ride, in
past years there have been service cuts and they’ve noticed the decline in ridership. There
has been a loss in reliability to the service. It is a public service that people use in
downtown. 12,000 residents in downtown and a quarter of them don’t have a car. No
other service compares to the mall ride across the board. Ask to propose to do a bit more
of a study to see what the impacts would be and find a way to mitigate the impact.
Michael Bailey – Route 32
Been using for over 30 years, they are a one car house hold. The alternative is the 28. The
route is a ‘half mile’ away with poorly maintained sidewalks. Need to do a better job in
advertising on the buses since the operators don’t know the service changes. This seems

Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

Danny O’Connor stated that the JUMP reduced frequency is a concern for him. He claimed
that the 206 & 236 changes would mean no midday service to BJDS. He wants to make
sure that we can provide all day service to the Flatiron Business Park. He stated that he
agreed with John Tayer’s and Cliff Bosley’s comments regarding the RunRide service. He
asked that we restore RunRide service permanently when RTD has enough operators to do
so. He also asked about the possibility of using resources saved from the Route 236
changes to provide more service on the FF4.

1.B.1.b

to be a cancellation because there won’t be any service east of downtown. With the route
gone this will have a major impact. (Response given, rider assumed route was cancelled
entirely).

Robin Finegan
Good information to share about the efforts that RTD is putting in about the real problems
of bus operators shortage, the hiring, to retain, salary. As a consumer it is helpful to know
what RTD is doing to try to solve the problem of keeping operators. What about reaching
out to voc rehab, coalition for the homeless, etc. I’m a resident of downtown. The
relationship of sales tax is obvious to keep my own business downtown to help support
the mall ride. If there is no consistent mall ride, I have to wait in the cold, I will take my
business outside of downtown, go online, or not do business at all.
Jeff Mayer – Route 99L
Similar thoughts to Aaron Smith, there are some folks who do not have the flexibility of
taking the W-Line. “my commute will go up 75% taking the W Line.” Federal Center trips
should be reconsidered.
Alisha Humphrey
Temporary, how temporary? How long will this be? (Response given)
Michael Bailey
Temporary for reductions or cancellations? (Response given)
Leon walker – Route 32 (eastside)
Lived in Denver for 11 years with one car. Takes daughter to school on bus. Will be
impacted if there is no bus.
Robin Finegan
We really appreciate the operators and what they are doing. It would be great to know
how much effort they are putting in.
Cody Seal
Service cuts are because of mandating, few routes would lead to better retention? Is that
what this is supposed to come out of it? Any numbers to show what retention is like?
Does RTD predict that if there would be no mandating, in that world, would retention go
up and then routes would return? What are wages for operators and what would happen
if raises were given to operator’s? (Response given)
Jeff Bamer
RTD considering additional raises? It’s worth considering.
Alisha Humphrey
When people leave, what is the reason they leave? Any exit interviews? (Response given)

Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

Rachel Cusimono
Question of mandating. How did mandating come about and what’s the big picture of it
and other options of cutting routes? (Response given).

1.B.1.b

Michael Bailey –
Could there be a phone number online for comments? There used to be one and doesn’t
seem to be up there. (Response given, will be fixed)

Jacob Britton - MallRide
Gates’s official position is that we would prefer any cuts to the MallRide service be
postponed until a detailed analysis of the impacts can be performed and considered and a
plan to put in place based on that anslysis to minimize loss in mobility. Gates is a
participant in the ECO Pass program and a great many of our employees rely on RTD
service. Any reduction in MallRide service would likely have a measureable impact on the
daily commute of numerous Gates employees.
Alisha Humphrey - Route 139
Please do not cancel the 4:41am route. The riders on that route are commuting to work,
the airport, and the school. We all use that bus to transfer to the other buses and light rail.
No other buses are in the area. Also, please do not discontinue the special routes, ie.
Broncos Ride, Buff Ride, etc. many people solely rely on these to get to these events and
have no other way to get there.
Michael Bailey - Route 32
Please do not cancel our Route! This is a historical transit route. There were trolley lines
into 22nd ave. the neighborhood was designed around available transit. I’ve been riding
this route for over 20 years. My wife and I have been able to share a single car for this
entire time. The nearest alternative route is not practical in terms of time and dangerous
conditions in the winter. If this route closes, I’ll probably have to buy the second car and
stop using public transit for my commute.
I only found out about the change by accident. I’ve spoken to about a dozen people on my
route and no one knew about the proposed changes. Some obstacles on the RTD side:




No service change fliers on the affected buses.
Website lists no phone number for comments.
Website meeting times inconsistent with flier times.

Wednesday, February 19th, 2020
RTD Administrative Offices
Rooms T&D
6:00pm
Staff in attendance: Jessie Carter, Miguel Aguilar
Francis Crosswhite - Notifications
There’s no notice when driver’s aren’t going to show up. The screens don’t let us know
when driver’s aren’t showing up. Smartphones don’t really work either because the missed

Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

WRITTEN COMMENTS

1.B.1.b

Carl Crosswhite - LD1/LD3
We live in Broomfield, the LD 1 was gone, and the LD3 feeds into the FF and then to
downtown. The screens never showed that the bus was not going to show up. From
Union Station we tried to take the 0 and the bus never showed up. On the Free Mall
shuttle it was cancelled until 7/7:30 in the morning. It never showed up and the officer
didn’t know that either. The summary is communication, instant communication. If a bus
(FF) doesn’t leave Boulder, it should tell us right away instead of waiting 20 min. LD1 one
time didn’t show up. We can’t make our commute decisions with no knowledge of when a
bus isn’t coming.
Patty Lovelace - Route 1
Maybe have the bus connect with Route 0 to connect to the Broadway bus instead of
Alameda Station?
Avery Saenz – Route 20
I take the 20 to the Anschutz campus, I have a smartphone, during snow a couple months
ago I waited for the bus thinking I made it on time, it was supposed to be a minute away,
the app showed the bus had passed by when I was waiting there the whole time. How
does that work on your end when it’s inputted into the system so I can see it on my app?
How is it updated? (Response given)
Alyssa Parette - Notifications
There is another app that exists, called transit app, it uses real time data from other
peoples phones, and allows you to buy bus tickets. Is that being used? What is being done
to get more people hired? (Response Given)
Leon Wolken & Joane Wollken – Route 32
She doesn’t want to cancel the bus because she takes the bus to school and next year her
brother will take the bus and he won’t have the bus to take to school.
Casey Cadmallader - Operators
Questions about employment, why is this happening and what’s being done? Is it a tight
market? (Response given). I didn’t realize it was a union?! How long has it been that
way? Are all employees unioned?
Pat Casey - Operators and 16L
Three questions. Any future plans to get retention rates better than they are. Turnover
rates are high and what’s being done for the future? (Response given). Any way to keep
the 16L and the difference from the end of the line from the W to where the 16L drops off
in downtown Golden is about a 45 min walk. (Response given). May I give an email of the
slides just shown? (Response given).
M Scott Ramming - Various Routes

Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

trips don’t show up. It’s not working. One trip, the LD was dropped, and now ridership is
down. No one has a way to get to Longmont to Denver.

1.B.1.b

Route 1 - I asked for a map, to see the service of alameda station didn’t get one. 16/16L The 16L is faster which is nice to have. (Response given) the 16L has better connectionsIs
there a map for the 46 and 27 merger. Route 55, started in August, it’s only had one
runboard. (Response given) perhaps a FlexRide. C,D,H – 8 trains an hour, why that and to
union station? (Response Given)

Route 157 – How did the decision come about? There are two schools being affected.
CCA expressed their opposition. (Response given). Is there a way to find out about how
numbers are determined to cut routes? (Response given).
Wednesday, February 19, 2020
Malley Senior Recreation Center
3380 South Lincoln Street, Englewood
6:00pm
Staff in attendance included Fred Worthen, Pauletta Tonilas, Dan Merritt, Tegan Rice, and
Maux Sullivan. There were six members from the public in attendance, along with
Directors Jeff Walker and Natalie Menten with the RTD Board.
Janice Brown raised concerns about the 0 bus route and how the times frequently change.
She also expressed how the snow and icy conditions have made getting to bus stops and
the actual bus stops very slippery and dangerous, especially at the Elati & Englewood bus
stop that she normally uses. Also concerned about the D Line being cut on the weekends
since there is so much entertainment downtown. Also wanted to express her appreciation
for the bus drivers as they’re all so nice and so great, she said.
John Azuc had questions about the C and D Line changes as he now uses the D Line to
get to work on the weekends from Littleton. Wanted clarification on the specific changes.
Also very concerned about the route 32 changes as he uses that to get to his job at the
Zoo. He does not feel that the alternatives are adequate as they extend his commute time
significantly and could increase the number of transfers required. Also concerned how this
will impact people who want to visit the Zoo and the Museum of Nature and Science.
Wanted to know exactly when the C Line schedule will be posted and also concerned
about the proposed H Line changes in combination with the C/D Line changes as it will
impact his ability to transfer. Wanted to express his sympathy for the drivers and how
tough it must be to work 6 day weeks, claiming he would not be able to do it.
Erin Nobler echoed concerns about the route 32 proposed changed. She also wanted
clarification on the paratransit information. Was particularly concerned about any impact
on the disability community as they are some of the most transit-reliant.
Peter Leising wanted to let us know that he supports the C/D Line change as he and his
wife often travel downtown on the weekends and are excited that the will not have to
transfer trains to get to union station. He was wondering if there was more that RTD could
do to better support the crowd capacity after events, since the train platforms are always

Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

Paolo Solorzano - Route 157 and Service Cut Justification

1.B.1.b

Cathy Storey wanted to better understand the reasoning for cutting the BroncosRide
service as she has been using it since it was first introduced and it always seems well
utilized, since there is less bus service on Sundays (when the games usually are). She
thinks it’s the best way to get to and from the Broncos games and believes that
passengers would pay more for the service if that would help keep it. Staff explained the
toll Broncos Ride takes on resources and sometimes budget and explained that the service
must be comparable to fares to be in compliance with federal regulations.
Ann Wilseck really appreciates the rider alerts and that the advanced notice is a significant
improvement since sometimes the notifications weren’t coming in soon enough. She is
concerned about the C/D Line change since she sometimes uses the D Line to get to and
from the performing arts center on the weekends. She feels that the current transfer
opportunities are not well timed or well-coordinated and often just misses the train she
needs and then has to wait a while for the next one. She is willing to sacrifice service for
reliability, but feels that lately RTD is providing neither. Suggested the GPS tracking for
trains and buses would be helpful for passengers. Also mentioned that it would be useful if
the digital displays inside the train showed the next stop instead of the train line so it was
easier for customers to get off at the right stop.
Thursday, February 20, 2020
RTD Administrative Offices
Rooms T&D
12:00pm
Staff in attendance: Jeff Becker, Jessie Carter, Tina Jacquez, Brian Matthews, Dan
Menter, Maux Sullivan, Lisa Trujillo, Dan Merritt, Cooper Langdon, Jeff Dunning, Sage
Thornbrugh, Clara Bechtel, Miguel Aguilar

Random Participant: Differentiate between eliminate and discontinuation? (Response given)
Patty Dreiling– 99L
From Lakewood, having a tough time understanding discontinuing service. The 99L, could
be 25-30 depending on traffic, there are many people such as Denver county, the federal
people. The light rail is an hour and 15 min to get to downtown. Then you have to catch
the shuttle or the MetroRide. Why couldn’t we even get the EV or the CS to Federal
Center to pick up riders. I’m 68 and have a few more years to work. I don’t know where
to catch the 87L or the 116X, by then to catch those I’ve driven half my commute. I
always park at Federal Center Station.
Fred Kumlluilm–
From/representing Auraria Campus, and the students, I’m more concerned with the
MallRide and take that part of the way to campus, a lot of those Union Station riders take

Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

so crowded. He also thought that the meetings should be better publicized as he only
found out about the meeting that day from watching the news.

1.B.1.b

Brad Neiman
I live in Whittier, and take the 32 in to downtown, the modification is troubling as a
Whittier resident and those in City Park West. There isn’t other bus coverage, options
were the 28 or the 20. That’s about half a mile to those routes. If the bus stops operating
east of downtown there’s no way to get downtown.
Mr. D. Martinez
I’m a volunteer neighborhood advocate, we have dozens of people concerned. I called
service development to ask about a petition and was told that it wasn’t going to do any
good to keep service. On Route 1 you are cutting 5 miles east of Alameda, that’s a lot of
miles. Once the bus passes Broadway it’s not a lot of people but there some throughout
the day. The 1 is proposed to go down Cherokee, but the 52 already goes down
Cherokee, that doesn’t make sense for two routes to service that area. A lot of the elderly
people cannot walk far, and then we would have to transfer to the 3 to head east of
Alameda Station. Maybe carry the bus over to Clarkson/Emerson to Speer to Washington
and turn back west. (Response given about restrooms) Current operators can’t even use
restrooms over near Target now it’s so far to walk around.
Andrew Ilitis
Would like to emphasize a few points, 16th street mall, it’s the lifeline through the city and
a gateway. It’s how people get to other transit lines and introduces new people to transit.
They get on the mall ride and feel like it’s an opportunity for them to do. There’s the
disproportion of those people who can’t get around, it’s really tough to have those people
get around and make changes. On behalf of the businesses there’s over 370+ businesses
that use ECO pass, 43% of people who commute downtown use transit, and that number
would drop with the cuts.
Thursday, February 20, 2020
RTD Administrative Offices
Rooms T&D
6:00 p.m.
Staff in attendance included Jeff Becker, Tina Jacquez, Brian Matthews, Michael Meader,
Tegan Rice, Maux Sullivan, Lisa Trujillo, and Jonathan Wade. There were 5 members from
the public in attendance, along with Angie Rivera-Malpiede the RTD Board Chair.

Holly thanked staff for their attendance and for allowing her the opportunity to speak in
behalf of the Denver Zoo. Holly rides the route 32 east of downtown to get to work at
the zoo. Would like to ask that the route 32 run later in the evening when she gets done

Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

the MallRide, what degree of confidence does RTD have to cure this issue. (Response
given). When I take the G-Line in, I get the warnings about trains cancelled. With regard to
the Mall Shuttle that’s your flagship, doesn’t just affect the people who live downtown
but the tourists who come to the city. Please thing long and hard about the mall shuttle.

1.B.1.b

On behalf of the Zoo, Holly wanted to let RTD know that the Denver Zoo will be opening
two new exhibits this year. The city has restricted the zoo’s ability to add more parking,
when there are free days at the zoo families rely on RTD to get to the zoo. Patrons to the
zoo come with many children, strollers, and coolers. Walking to the zoo from the route 20
wouldn’t be convenient for the customers. Many tourists come to the Denver Zoo, there
is a concern that tourists may no longer want to come to the zoo if they don’t have access
by way of the route 32.

Allen wanted clarification with the route 16L elimination that the route16 would still go
into Golden. Curious the difference of times are for the route 16L compared to the route
16. Wondered if meets will occur with the W line, and when the services would be
reestablished.
Staff assured him that the route 16 would still continue into Golden, the route 16 is about
15 minutes slower than the 16L, and that there will be consideration to the route 16
meeting the W line.

Adina angrily stated that the services have already been paid in advance by the tax payers.
The CEO was the highest paid in the nation, allowed to retire early, and wants to know
who is accountable for that $43 million shortfall.
Concerned that the surplus of money is not going to the operator’s wages, operators at
other agencies are paid more, the disparity in wages is why there currently is an operator
shortage.
Complained that the route 21 has a different schedule on the weekends compared to
weekday, which causes confusion for the customers who are used to the weekday
schedule, and despite complaining about it repeatedly no one has addressed her concerns
mentioned at previous meetings.
Feels that RTD is not considerate to the communities when removing services.
Told staff there needs be an operator retraining, because operators laugh and wave at her
as they leave stops early.
Colorado Station is a horrible design with trains arriving and customers have to run up 50
stairs to connect to the trains, and the trains don’t wait for customers and leave people as
they are running for the train. Yelled, why are people having to run to make connections?
Nothing has changed in the last 10 years!

Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

with her shift at the zoo. Doesn’t feel that walking down to the route 20 is a good option
because of the poor walking conditions of the connecting sidewalks, and doesn’t feel safe
with that walk in the late evening. The stop right in front of the Denver Zoo is so much
safer and more convenient to access.

1.B.1.b

Asked how long the board members have been in place? Called the board members
newbies, which is why nothing ever gets done at RTD with all the changing over of staff.

The schedule changes are a sham, and the reason why there is a decline in ridership,
because the schedulers change schedules at a whim.
Demanded that RTD be accountable to the customers. Compensation for the customers
lost wages and cancelled doctor’s appointments that are resulted because of the dropped
services.
Wants to know where the 63 new operators that Mr. Schaffer said were hired ended up.
Wants to know what is going to happen when RTD brings back the service and the
ridership doesn’t come back?

Denise asked if the operator shortage is only RTD operators or system wide. Stated that
RTD has an operator shortage because HR takes too long in the recruitment process.
Thinks that cutting the route 66 after just changing this service is nonsensical, especially
with the cut to the R line. The route 66 is finally running just fine with the changes made
to allow the operators the ability to use the restroom on the east side of the route. Asked
why RTD is removing services from the Arapahoe Justice Center? Doesn’t understand
how the route 153 can cover the service being cut from the route 66.
Removing the route 16L is going to add too many passengers to the route 16, which the
route 16 can’t handle, bad idea. When RTD removed the route 16L with the opening of
the W line the route 16 couldn’t handle the added capacity.
RTD needs to have a refresher training of all operators, especially to be more considerate
to the passengers. Operators laugh at her when they make her run for the bus. Operators
drive off before she sits down, even after she has asked the driver to wait to proceed until
she sits down, and she has almost fallen a few times. The operators are rude and
inconsiderate.
The buses and trains don’t meet at Colorado Station.
Thinks that the paratransit service change is a violation of ADA.
Doesn’t understand how RTD can open a new line, in reference to the N line, when there
is an operator shortage going on.

Packet Pg. 18

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

Mentioned an emergency bus bridge that occurred a while ago, when people were
transported to University by a bus bridge, and was exasperated that she, along with many
others had to wait at the platform for 40 minutes in the cold for a train while the busses
just sat there at the station idling. Wondered why the buses just didn’t continue taking
the people downtown.

1.B.1.b

Erin wanted a clarification of the paratransit bullet point on the PowerPoint presentation.
Requested that the paratransit service change be communicated more clearly.

Thursday, February 20, 2020
Golden Town Hall
911 10th Street, Golden
RTD Board Director Natalie Menten
RTD Staff: Miguel Aguilar, Dan Merritt; Michelle Brier; 28 public attendees
Sammy Schultz
His brother takes bus to the mall and up to Golden, he counts on the bus. If not every half
hour, cut to an hour so everyone still has the bus to get to the mall. (Response given).
There are two 16s one to Oak Station and one to Federal Station, why are there two 16s
when they go to the same place. RTD can cut out the trips going to Oak Station.
(Response given)
Denise Burrows
From Golden, do both drive and ride the bus, a lot of us work between civic center and
13th street, state workers. The amount of time it would take to ride the W line will double
our commute and we can’t afford that. The mall shuttle, I have to work at 6:15 and
doesn’t even start by then, that’s unacceptable, the CV and ES used to stop at Federal
Center station to get to downtown. Why can’t that be put back in, if needed to decrease
the number of routes? The ridership being counted, ECO pass is being used for counting
but other people use other methods to pay, I think that the ridership numbers are off from
that. (Response given) How to get to Federal Center to Civic Center, there are several
people form my office to the state office, we may consider changing from riding RTD to
driving. (Response given) (Question to public, how many board at Fed Center and how
many board on Kipling? - All 10 board at Fed Center)
Rick Muriby
Concerns from staff and area residents, the time would increase from Golden to Civic
Center, right now 50 min for limited and 75 for local bus, that’s been a concern, the W
Line doesn’t take to account it goes to different destinations and more time to get there.
Would probably be over an hour on W Line for our residents. (Response given)
Crystal Dorsey
Resident of Golden, work downtown Denver for over 12 years, took the bus from Fed
Center from before it was a station, protesting the 99L and 16L changes. Working near
the capitol, this doesn’t work for me and getting off at union station and transferring to

Packet Pg. 19

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

Rides the route 32, and says there are no transit stops as an alternative with its removal
within ½ a mile as an alternative service.

another route. Now I have to think about time and money and what that’s worth. When I
take the current drive myself it’s worth it, up to 45-50 min. getting 99L taking the W line
it takes over an hour to get to downtown. I know the time difference, I’ve taken both
routes. The options I would offer to the board, cutting the number of routes in half for the
99L, if a bus misses a time then all of us get doubled up on the bus and in that case the
bus is completely full and standing room only. The ridership would be there if the routes
were even cut in half. The other option would be the CS and ES there’s one route on each
route that stops at the Fed Center, the CS stops then changes its sign to 99L and heads
to Civic Center and that’s a route that could be considered. The 16 to cover the 16L for
the evening trips, the concern is safety, this is a concern for those who work late.
(Response given)
Lori Maloney
The added time to and from work, dropped off at the 13th stop, with the cold weather and
the cold mall shuttles, the buses are frequent and you have to go all the way down to
union station, there’s no way to get out of the weather. At the PnR you can wait for the
bus in your car, the 16 doesn’t stop at Fed Center to take into downtown. The 16L I had
to take into downtown and the W line wasn’t running. Had to take the 16L to get home
because of snow. It doesn’t have to come every 15 min. It’s dark when we get off of
work and there’s the safety concern.
John Duran
Resident of Arvada. Since G line was operating a lot of people from Golden have avoided
the W line and using G line parking lots, especially at Downtown Arvada. The parking lots
are full, the Ward Station lot was full. My request for an adjustment to not terminate
where they terminate and extend them to the Ward Road Station so they have an
alternative to get to G line route. Couple questions. 1. What are the expectations of this
proposal that the adjustments will be in line with the labor resources. 2. What is the
projected revenue hours per capita with the proposed service adjustments? They are
around .87 right now of revenue hours of service. What would be the new revenue hours
of service per hour. (Responses given)
Janet Binz
99L rider, Golden resident been taking this route for 15 years from Fed Center, if you
eliminate the route and push us to the W then my commute will increase, I could drive a
lot faster. I’m fine with reducing the number of trips and frequency to half hour. If you
force people on to the W….Why does the W stop on every stop? It would be nice to have
it stop at some stations and not others.
Jeff Pickles
Lakewood resident, Peggy did not respond to my email. For the 99L, I take it everyday for
past 5 years, I cannot change to drive, I have anxiety so I depend on taking RTD and not
drive, took the W line today for an appointment and took 5 min longer than bus, took the
shuttle bus to get where I needed to go, and that took 20 min. This adds to my commute.
I’m insulted that the W is your replacement for the 99L. There are much better options to

Packet Pg. 20

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

1.B.1.b

Connor Bray
Grad student at Mines, one of 5 students who use the 16L at night to get home. I wake
up at 6:30 to get to a 9 am class. It takes that long to get to Denver to Golden, I’m
usually late to class. Taking W-Line adds 25 minutes, that means I have to get up earlier, I
would have to get up earlier. Would have to wake up at 5:30 to get to a 9am class. I can’t
afford a car right now, driving isn’t an option. We rely on this line to get to school,
cancelling this would really affect us and I don’t know how to get to school. Only half of
W lines make it out to golden and I can’t get to school from the end of the line. The
FlexRide is a joke, it doesn’t operate after I get out of class.
Lisa Scott
I work downtown Denver, there is not enough parking for the majority of the parking at
my work, I ask that please do not cut our route. Take a scalpel at this route, cut some
trips or trim the route. I have no choice but to drive, I can’t afford to drive. This is not an
option. There are state employees. Please don’t cancel the bus.
Assaf Wunsch
Some people cannot afford to take the W line. Some trains are packed, and sometimes
there’s only 2 cars and not 3. If ridership goes up the trains will be packed. If something’s
inefficient then we aren’t going to ride it. If you have something people want to use then
ridership will go up. Give a list of trains that are on schedule.
Karen Oxman
I have used the W-Line, I empathize with everyone, but with RTD issue, we are looking
from the bottom up, routes and drivers, it should be the reverse, it should be looked by the
budget, why isn’t there enough money for the drivers to keep the routes for the riders.
Look at the budget, where are the dollars, why aren’t we paying enough for the drivers.
We are behind compared to other major metro areas. Maybe we don’t need people at top
getting paid top dollar, and time is taken away from families, maybe that needs to change.
(Response given)
Katie McCure
The drivers are amazing and I feel for them. I live in Lakewood, I work at City and county
of Denver for a year. My choice to work there was because of the transportation option to
work. I get on the bus, right after work and make it to daycare right in time before they
close. I have a child that goes to daycare and without the bus I would have to change my
childcare. I can’t afford to drive and parking lot passes are expensive. There are people
who depend on this. This affects major life choice and circumstances. On the west side of
the metro, we are disproportioned because of the 99L and the 16L. It’s discouraging to
see these on the list of cutting. I hope there’s a way to get those on the west side of the
city to the city.
Bill Overman
I work for the City of Denver in the post building. I accepted that position recently and a

Packet Pg. 21

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

make these cuts. Please make a reduction and not a complete elimination. Please have
Peggy email me back.

1.B.1.b

Karen Shlay
Resident of Golden, Director Menten we exchanged emails, thank you. I work for Denver
Health, 99L is the only option. Taking other options to downtown, my friends only have to
go to the capitol, I have another 15 min ride to go to Denver health and that’s if
connections were on time. I would be looking at 80 minutes one way if everything was
timed correctly. We had a petition to keep the 99L, we have the ridership. We would even
pay more for the ECO pass for our way of life. Many of us get together for drinks after
work and we are a bus family, if it wasn’t for RTD we wouldn’t have that relationship, it’s
part of our life. We are close on our bus. Most of the time it’s standing room only, a can
of sardines. I have pictures to show how packed it is. I have to walk to 9th and Broadway
now. This route is very important to us. Thank you for listening to us, I know the board
has a tough decision. Maybe affect all routes in a small way rather than cutting a whole
route entirely. Traffic is already bad in Denver this would add so many cars on the road
and downtown doesn’t have the capacity. We need to know we have that reliability to get
downtown. (Response given).
Unnamed Participant
Going from the Fed Center to Civic Center would take less operators. Please don’t assume
we are going to complain when there is a compromise.
City Manager/Mayor
City gets a lot of contacts from residents about the cuts that are proposed, my voice if for
those who aren’t here. Questions: 1. Budget is important but so is business strategy, what
RTD is doing to adjust the recruitment and retention of operators. 2. What are you doing
to grow ridership? (Response given).
We do hear from the residents of Golden, but we are a destination for the metro area.
Many people come to Golden to work and go to school. It’s more than how do we get
people to Denver, we have people coming this direction. We have downtown Golden, the
Mines and other larger employers. JeffCo has the light rail. The 16L has been popular and
Lakewood has been investing in transit. We have a long ride on the W line. The 16L gives
us a quick way to travel on this side of town. Having to stop every single stop and not
having any other option really affects all our riders and all the transit oriented development
along the route. It’s hard to retain that ridership when it takes too long, people aren’t
going to ride it. If the shortage is done will they come back? What about the 16L only
certain trips or times of day would come to Golden. We have the ridership in Golden, we

Packet Pg. 22

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

choice of taking the job was the bus service downtown. I take the 99L into downtown.
The concept of 99L name seems incorrect, I’m not sure why the route was named that.
The other Limiteds have good ridership, this bus goes on US 6 to downtown. Four times in
the morning when they start that so early is not reasonable for a 9 to 5 job. If you
changed the classification to an express or a regional route and the subsidy of the bus
goes up, and RTD is willing to pay that higher subsidy. This route should be classified to
another class. I appreciate you listening to us tonight. (Response given)

1.B.1.b

Rob Reed - Councilman of Golden
Thank you for hearing all our thoughts. We completed a transportation master plan, a
study in that plan was the number of people who come during the day and those who go
to work. Numbers are through the roof. A large number of those folks relay on those
services. It’s better to have service that is less time on the bus and less frequency. Our
residents are ok with that. Make sure it’s reliable and that it goes where it needs to go in a
reasonable time. Thank you for your time and for coming out to Golden.

JJ – Councilwomen of Golden
Golden residents really value our transit options, Golden is committed to viable RTD, we
know the concerns of operators and budget, Golden has done a lot of items to increase
ridership. We are doing everything we can in Golden to increase ridership including dense
development. I have letters from people who couldn’t come tonight. It’s also about the
environment too. The change in fare zone would help ridership, we do believe that Golden
being the only stop on the W – Line, being higher, we would love to have a conversation
about the fares. These are our residents we want more transit. We would love to stay
engaged and how to do this better.
Friday, February 21, 2020
Koebell Library
6:00 p.m.
Staff in attendance included Brian Welch, Marta Sipeki, and Tegan Rice. There were 6
members from the public in attendance, Huiliang Lin with the City of Aurora, along with
Directors Tisdale, Mihalik, and Menten.
Sandi Polasek rides the route 139 Quincy to Nine Mile Station to catch the H line. Her
5:30 a.m trip can be quite full in the morning, usually 10-15 passengers. She hasn’t had a
car since December, so she relies on the route 139 and the H line to get her to work.
Only her trip on Friday arrives on time at Nine Mile Station, Monday – Thursday the H line
is leaving as the bus arrives at the station. Gets very frustrated with the dropped H line
trips, and the stations signs showing that the train is coming. Staff let her know that the
digital signs at the stations are static, and only display the scheduled time of arrival, not
the real time information.
Mary Evitts has a young woman that lives with her, and relies on the route 67 because
she doesn’t have a car, and depends on the 30 minute headways.

Packet Pg. 23

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

want to keep the people invested in transit and want them riding. We ask for more
creative solutions and that would preserve riders. We are asking the board for creativity.

1.B.1.b

Mary wanted to know about the RunRide, she really enjoys the convenience to pay the
$10 to go up and run in the BolderBoulder. Suggested that BolderBoulder sponsor RTD to
get more money

Andrea Suhaka if RTD is having an operator shortage, she doesn’t understand why you
would only reduce the MALLRide to 3 minutes, why not 5-6 minutes. People can certainly
wait longer, and then you have more operators available.
Beth Riofredo wants RTD to keep the RunRide, it’s only a one day event as opposed to the
other special services. Please consider keeping it, if more money is needed to for the
service, it’d be ok.
Huiliang Liu is a transportation planner from Aurora. In support of maintaining the R line,
there is more development coming, as well as, improvements to improve access to the
stations. Wants the route 157 to stay as is.
Monday, February 24, 2020
Clements Community Center
1580 Yarrow Street, Lakewood
6:00pm
36 members of the public
Ian Chase (written comment):

If the 16L must be cut, please add option to 16 that skips the Decatur Station stop. This stop
adds 5 to 10 minutes to the ride.
Douglas Sexton:

Why the 99L when it has people riding it? When we are waiting for the 99L at Federal Center
Station and a train pulls up, people will wait for the 99L and not take the train, even when it’s 0
degrees out. The train takes an extra 45 minutes. Passengers would rather get in their own car
than get on the train; that’s how inconvenient the train is. It stops everywhere. Why not switch
the tracks closer to 16th and California so it’s closer to that side of town? Why not reduce the
amount of stops?
April Davis:

I take the 99L to Civic Center. My friend got on the W while I waited for the late 99L bus. I got
to work barely on time, at 7:35. She didn’t get in until after 8; she left on the 6:20 W line and
got there after 8. If I take the W Line I have to leave my house before 6 a.m., take the train
which takes 40 minutes, and take the MallRide up. I have to walk to 12th and Sherman. My
work starts at 7:30; leaving before 6 a.m. and getting home makes a 12-hour day for me. I
have meals to make, and to make conferences and concerts and sports. I understand that you
might have to get rid of the 99L; maybe cut it back. I can’t take the Route 87. That’s 15
minutes out of my way, and the sensibility isn’t there for that. You already have buses going

Packet Pg. 24

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

Mary Lagon rides the route 157 to work. Wishes the route route 66 ran earlier, if there is
no route 157 then it is going to take over an hour for a 15 minute commute to work.
Likes the alerts and NextRide, but would like it to work better.

1.B.1.b

down Sixth. Why can’t they stop at the Federal Center? Why can’t they make that one stop to
just add one stop to those lines, which would solve this?
Matthew Norwood

I’m hearing that the 99L has the ridership, but that there are concerns about subsidies. Are
they a factor?
I’m here for the 99L, and I wrote something up. Hello, RTD, and thanks for the great bus
drivers! I am hoping you will (??) buses everyday; get rid of the buses it will be hard for those
who have glasses; the route plans will change; thank you for listening; we have a blind person
who needs that route.
Amanda Horvath

I’m in Director Lewis’ district downtown but I’ve been making the reverse commute since a year
ago. There were three different routes and they were reduced down to one. Here we are again
talking with you about the same route. I felt the first time that it made sense to consolidate.
Generally most people can make it work. For a lot of people riding the bus, it’s not convenient
to take the W Line. Some of these route options perplexed us. Did RTD look at leaving that one
route with buses that are deadheading? Add that one extra tour; already existing route that
picks up and goes; if there is a contingency. The other point: We have a nice regional bus.
Does it make sense to use a smaller bus, to reduce costs? I feel like I’m being punished for
being a person who lives downtown, walks to everything I like to do and is environmentally
conscious. I don’t have a car. RTD is my only way to get to work.
Sophy Chhun

The W line estimates seem generous; there are first-mile, last-mile obstacle going both ways.
That’s two hours; the 99L is convenient. On the occasions I took the W I was able to use B
Cycle. Now the city has eliminated that. The 16 and 16L are both up for elimination, and the
only option I have is the W because of the last options. We are hearing you that there’s an
operator shortage; we wanted to make our voice heard as well.
Crystal Brysky (sp)

For working hours, the 87L would be a great option, but there are timing issues. The 16 and
the W Line are not great alternatives.
Eric Perry

Keep the 16 along Simms. People where I live use it.
Joe Goil (sp)

There’s a petition to keep 99L. How much will it weigh on your decision? Other services are
seeing the same competition. My wife signed it (the petition) because she depends on me to
get home. Is there a monetary solution to driver shortage? I have a solution. Hire part-time
people. What about a job share?
Rebecca Long

Are the proposed cuts temporary? Have you guys considered running the 99L at different
points? Are they going to create five-day cuts? I’m a 16L rider at Simms and Colfax and take
the 16L downtown. The W sucks. One hour and 15 minutes is not a good option.

Packet Pg. 25

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

Virginia Dilley

1.B.1.b

This is all about quality of life. We’ve made a life here from Federal Center to Civic Center.
Without that, I’m questioning why I’m living here. None of these work for me. I took the
previous iteration of the 99L. What I see is a pamphlet full of alternatives, none of which work
for me. Open us the mountain buses to take us downtown. It’s all about quality of life. You’re
stripping that from us.
Not sure of name:

For me, this boils down to convenience, and not doing three or four transfers. I bought a house
near Federal Center; 24-28 minutes; not an apples to apples comparison; never made decision
to take W again; ridership is high on the 99L. Three hundred per bus is good ridership. It’s a
strategic approach if it’s a numbers game.
Not sure of name:

With the elimination of the 16L, what would the frequency of the 16 go to? The W is not a good
option for Federal to Civic. There are 11 trips between Federal Center and Civic. If you cut that
in half during peak, that should make a big impact. I work for the state. You’re hurting public
service workers.
Not sure of name:

A ton of us ride the 99L, and close to half, if not more, live further south and get on the 99L. I
will not ride the W.
Not sure of name:

Instead of getting rid of 16L, cut it from (???). It’s going to hurt all the people who ride it; from
Simms to Federal Center; don’t like have service gaps like that; work to amend as quickly as
possible.
Not sure of name:

When you make cuts, you project fewer riders systemwide. At a point where Denver is growing,
it is strange that RTD is making cuts with growth. How would it benefit me to get from Alameda
and Garrison to Civic Center?
Tuesday, February 25, 2020
Aurora Public Library/City Center
14949 East Alameda Pkwy, Aurora
6:00pm
Staff in attendance included: Tina Jaquez, Lindsey Alarcon, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter,
Brian Matthews Tegan Rice, and Maux Sullivan. There were 46 members from the public
in attendance, many of whom represented the City of Aurora, the Community College of
Aurora, the Aurora Chamber of Commerce, or other Aurora institutions and businesses.
Mike Coffman, the Mayor of Aurora as well as RTD Board Directors Claudia Folska and
Bob Broom were also in attendance.

Packet Pg. 26

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

Dean Simpson

1.B.1.b

Betsy Oudenhoven is the President of the Community College of Aurora. She was there to
represent the students and staff and expressed her concern with all of the service changes
impacting Aurora and reiterated many of the points outlined in the letters she sent to RTD.
Pointed out that many of the students are transit dependent and rely on RTD services to
get to campus. Unlike other schools, there are fewer transit routes and these service
changes impact some students’ only option to get to campus. Students face significant
first mile/last mile issues already. The school offers an affordable education for Aurora
residents and Aurora is growing, so cutting service seems contradictory to the growth for
the area. The school is also a feeder for DPS and Aurora Public Schools and are able to
tour the transit options as an asset to get to campus. Though the R Line is new, they see
it as a real opportunity to connect their students to campus and to the rest of the area.
See written statement/letter for further comments.
Amy Schouten was concerned about all the proposed changes that impact Aurora. As a
nurse at National Jewish, she’s concerned about patients’ abilities to get to a from their
appointments, sees the R Line as a major connector since it serves the Anschutz Medical
Campus, cutting it will make it harder for patients that need to get to the hospitals. She
also expressed safety concerns for her daughter that works downtown at night, not
enough lighting or security presence. She was also very disappointed to hear about the
proposed cut of the RunRide, concerned about the environmental impact and the added
congestion. Said she probably would not have signed up to run the Bolder Boulder if she
had known that service was going to be cut.
Watik Aleem identified himself as the Chair of the Veterans Affairs Committee in Aurora
and read the written statement/talking points provided by the City of Aurora/Mayor’s
Office.
George Adams who is the Director of the Department of Planning and Development for the
City of Aurora. He read from a written statement. Values the partnership between the City
of Aurora and RTD, which lead to the R Line being built, which was a huge investment
that has spurred a lot of development and new infrastructure. Stated there’s more coming,
including the new pedestrian bridge at Nine Mile Station, and thousands of residential and
commercial units. There has been a 6.2% increase in ridership on the R Line in 2019.
Aurora has done what RTD asked and has built transit-oriented development. Aurora also
has a high percentage of transit-dependent residents. Stated Aurora is seeing the highest
percentage of service cuts, which is not equal and inequitable.
Cheri Dosh was there representing the Community College of Aurora’s Student
Government and read a written statement submitted by the organization.

Packet Pg. 27

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

Lynn McLerran was there to express her concern about the 157 route being eliminated
because there are no alternatives for those trying to get to Buckley Air Force Base.
Emphasized the route’s importance for veterans and those with special needs that rely on
the service. She advocated for some sort of alternative, like a FlexRide or bringing the
route 10 back to a former routing that included the base.

1.B.1.b

Mike Coffman, Mayor of Aurora stated that the proposed cuts will have a chilling effect on
development on Aurora. Reducing the R Line to every 30 minutes will make it much less
convenient for passengers and will cause a further drop in ridership. The 157 route is the
only option for those looking to get to Buckley Air Force Base, is the only route that’s up
for total elimination. The 153 services a lot of the local schools, so will greatly impact
students in the area. Mentioned he was late because he was speaking at the RTD board
meeting earlier, where he also stated that these cuts are unfair to Aurora as they
disproportionately impact the area. The cuts are short-sided and a result of poor planning.
RTD will continue to suffer if these cuts are made as ridership will continue to decrease.
Has anyone evaluated what the projected decrease in ridership will be? See letter to the
editor and letter to RTD for more comments.
Art Mendoza lives at Heather Gardens and knows that he and other residents are
concerned about the proposed cuts and feels they will be greatly impacted. However, he
feels that many of RTD’s issues are a management problem and wanted to know how
those problems are being addressed. Does not see the inability to get enough drivers as a
ridership problem, yet the riders are the ones who suffer. Wants to hear how management
is changing first. Happy to help as he has degrees in management. RTD needs to set up
new personnel policies. Feels the service cuts are premature and that telling people now
when they’re supposed to go into effect in May is not enough notice.
Gaye Hoffman wanted to echo that she agrees that the operator shortage is a
management issue and wants answers about what is being done.
Shawna McCowan works for Aurora Public Schools and does mobility travel training for
students with disabilities. These cuts will have huge impacts on her students. The school
she works at is right off the route 157, where all the students have disabilities, what are
they supposed to do? She’s on the bus every day, she knows the system. She explained
all the daily issues that her students have utilizing RTD services each day including missed
connections, dropped trips, lack of communication about changes, etc. What about school
trips for the 157? There needs to be a compromise or more give and take.
Mike Roberts has worked with mobility organizations most of his life. Feels RTD lacks
accessibility and reliability which leads to falling ridership. There are too many loopholes
and exceptions in the way service is run now. His father was a bus instructor and has said
that lots of people want to come to work for RTD, but no one wants to stay.
Kevin Hougen is the President of the Aurora Chamber of Commerce. He fought for the R
Line when it started. Aurora is the fastest growing community. Buckley Air Force Base is
poised to be the first Space Force Base in the country, which could make it the hottest
growing business area. Emphasized Aurora as and economic powerhouse due to the
increase in jobs, development, institutions, etc. Aurora is the future. “[Aurora Chamber of
Commerce’s] credibility is on the line” in regard to the R Line. Pointed out how divers
Aurora is. Claimed Aurora doesn’t get the same quality of service as the rest of the
District, citing that the R line is the only line that doesn’t go downtown. Has RTD

Packet Pg. 28

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

Joyce Bradrig stated that the service cuts seemed really unfair to the City of Aurora.

1.B.1.b

Shelia Johnson was wondering how many zones the R Line is in and if the ridership issue
could be attributed to the cost to ride? She takes the H Line every day to get to work (and
then makes a couple of transfers once she gets downtown), but the R was a good back up
to have, especially with the increase in dropped trips.
Paolo Solorzano stated that the operator shortage has been the narrative for years and at
this point it’s just words. Concerned about leadership, has reached out to board members
and some have stopped them to ask contacting them or have not responded at all. Cited
facts and figures from the employee survey supporting his concern about RTD leadership.
Worried about all the lawsuits and how much those costs are impacting RTD service.
Stated that tax payers already paid for A Line and N Line though contractors, right? Feels
there should be more transparency and that there is currently no accountability. Mentioned
that the state legislature now wants to get involved as a result. Feels that the most
vulnerable populations will be impacted by the proposed changes. Wanted to know more
about the GPS issues on vehicles and why Next Ride hasn’t been working.
Jaia Lovett lives in Aurora, attends Metro and has two jobs, she relies on RTD to get to
work. Worried about the proposed R & H Line cuts as those are her life lines. Also has
safety concerns when riding the system at night, especially as a young woman.
John Parks is a real estate agent in Aurora. Told a story of a recent experience to
demonstrate how competitive the real estate market is in the area. Feels that the R Line
have been a huge boon to the local real estate business. Concerned about the impact R
Line cuts would have. He’s encouraging real estate brokers to apply to be bus drivers to
help solve this issue and because a lot of brokers don’t actually make that much money in
real estate.
Tom Worker-Braddock was a transit planner for a while. He suggested that RTD look into
different ridership standards for the R Line since it’s the only line that does not go into
downtown and therefore serves a different purpose.
Kenyon Moon stated that he only uses the H Line to go downtown, but “no man is an
island” and therefore something that impacts those in his community impacts him too.
Would be open to cutting the H Line to three trains an hour instead of four if it meant
saving the R Line frequency some. Also suggested that maybe other lines could be cut this
way to make it more equal. Feels the cuts will encourage more people to get into their
cars, which is concerning for environmental reasons. Had questions about why certain
routes are being truncated, as he feels it makes the system more confusing to use.
Huiliang Liu is the transportation planner for the City of Aurora. He cited a recent TRP
report that found that high frequency and reliable service are the major factors in

Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

considered disruptive technologies and their impact? Said RTD should reconsider equality.
Asked if there was an opportunity for RTD to hire temporary drivers or “prodrivers.” Is
there an opportunity to tap into the military or veteran population as there is a high
concentration of such a population in Aurora?

1.B.1.b

Stacey Craig has been an RTD light rail operator for two years. Wanted to know what
measures are being taken to retain her and fellow operators as only 3 of the 12 people
that she went through training with made it through probation (including her).Worried how
cuts will impact operator’s abilities to get to and from work and to make relief. Explained
how she works 60 hours a week, 6 days a week and that doesn’t include her commute
time. Says she doesn’t get to see her grandchildren. Explained how the working hours can
be tough, but also the way they are treated by passengers makes their jobs very difficult
and causes safety concerns.
Trevor Vaughn commutes from Arvada to Aurora. Feels that the cuts are not equal. Stated
his frustration with the connection time between the A Line and the R Line. This is not
what voters voted for when they voted for FasTracks.
(?) final speaker of the night did not introduce himself, but he was sitting with other folks
from the Community College of Aurora. Stated these cuts will have a huge impact, mostly
on Aurora. What is RTD doing to hire more operators? Can this decision be put off as we
wait to see if the increased hiring helps improve the problem? Why must riders suffer
when operations/management aren’t?

Tuesday, February 25th, 2020
Eisenhower Chapel
293 Roslyn St., Denver
6:00PM
Staff in attendance included Jeff Becker, Clara Bechtel, Cooper Langdon, Bill Van Meter,
and Pauline Haberman. There were 2 members from the public in attendance, along with
Kate Williams with the RTD Board.

Wayne Graham – Wayne had a number of concerns, suggestions, and questions regarding
RTD and the service change. His questions included:
1. How are the number of districts/directors chosen?
2. Why can’t we simply pay more to attract and retain bus operators?
3. He wanted to know if a driver refuses to work when mandated, will he or she be
fired?
4. Is our service reduction just a cover to reduce or costs?
After his questions were answered, he stated that he thinks it’s stupid to fire drivers for
refusing to work when mandated and he thinks we should keep our special services like
the “Run Ride” and the “Broncos Ride”.

Packet Pg. 30

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

attracting choice riders and so, making cuts to the R Line will further deter choice riders to
use the system and current choice riders will opt to drive instead.

1.B.1.b

Tuesday, February 25, 2020
Highland Ranch Rec Center at Eastridge
6pm
Staff in attendance: Director Tisdale, Michelle Briers, Dan Merritt, Miguel Aguilar,
Lynn Winter
Last fall, husband and her moved to a place near a light rail station, chose to be near a
403 stop. It’s 4/10 of a mile away and doesn’t have a car. Walks to the bus stop, bus to
light rail then to downtown. Same coming home. Next ride works for the most part for a
bus coming in the morning. As long as there is some kind of comprise for the Wildcat
portion, 1.7 miles is the next closest stop and I wouldn’t like walking that. 3.5 miles
would be what I would walking daily after the changes, and it’s not possible to walk that
with snow. For everyone who isn’t here, we need that service on wildcat. The brochures
on the light rail, list it as Lucent Blvd not Wildcat, they do not list the impacted routes.
The buses don’t have these brochures on them and the people on the bus may not have
social media or a computer and don’t have this information. It’s not accessible to them.
You are eliminating access to school, to jobs, to medical care, shopping and many other
things. I ask that you seriously consider finding some compromise for who will be deserted
in that part of HR.
Fionna Sigalla
HR pays 10 million a year in sales tax, you have been letting down the team and haven’t
given HR its money’s worth. Can’t park at Mineral station because there isn’t enough
parking. Now you’re cutting us off from the 403 and service. I pointed out there is a hill
from the 403 to the 402. You can come walk and choose which bus stop you would want
to walk to with this change. The R line is the fastest route to the A-line for us and not
going downtown. Going through Mineral you can’t get parking and it’s a longer route to
the airport. The light rail is so expensive that the subsidy on the R line is tremendous. The
safety and security you mention is tone deaf to this community, because cutting the 403
will leave us in the dark. (Response given)
William Mitchell
I agree with her, parking at Mineral is horrible, last two times I had to drive back home and
have my wife drive me to the light rail station. Not extending it to HR is crazy when you
extend it to Lone Tree, that was a slap in the face. In 2017, I was called to an incident

Packet Pg. 31

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

Victor Valks – Victor has participated in the Boulder Boulder for 18 years and has used our
Run Ride service for almost all of those races. He says the Run Ride brings a wide cross
section of society together for a great event. When considering whether to cancel to Run
Ride, RTD should consider how many cars would be put back on the road, as many race
participants will have to drive themselves to the event. He said he would be more than
willing to pay double the current fare just to keep the Run Ride and he thinks many more
would be willing to pay more as well. He wants RTD to consider other alternatives before
cutting the Run Ride.

1.B.1.b

with RTD about a train going off track, you had issues then and you still have issues now.
It’s unreal. The wage sounds decent to start. (Response given).

Random citizen
My son catches the bus and is visually impaired. He would have to walk a mile. This is his
lifeline. He will never drive, you guys are making it more difficult for him. You have to
think about that some people this is their life line. This is the first year my son will be
home and he plans on using the bus and he was trained to use the bus. (Response given)
Art Stevens
Thank you have for having this today, I ride the 403, I am happy with that, but I’m upset
about the changes. I ride up to Lincoln station, if you cut that you disconnect another
metro link. I do take them both but could you look at the 402 or the 403 and change the
schedule instead of just eliminating it. (Response given)
Unnamed Citizen
If you got rid of your directors you could hire 3 operators per director. It’s about money.
You need to hire operators.
Christina Laty
I don’t take the 403 right now, I live off wildcat, the 402L is close to me and a mile away.
I thought about the 401 down wildcat, would that be possible? I was trying to think of
different ways to shorten that but still cover wildcat. Was hoping the 403 could cover
wildcat, but you need the 403 there to cover that extension. But if the 401 continued
onto wildcat that would work. (Response given) Followup, from what I heard, the numbers
for the minimum, you need one more rider per hour, and is that the line you have? We are
talking about a thousand or two a month people, everything is a money problem. What’s
the RTD budget? (Response given)
Unnamed Participant – You’re not telling your operators that they have to work 6 days a
week? (Response given)
Unnamed Participant – Operators tell me that they are only trained certain times of year.
And that there’s an issue with the cannabis here to get people hired. (Response given)
Unnamed Participant - How did you get yourself in this situation?
Unnamed Participant – So the d-line and the 403 can come back or are they gone forever?
Unnamed Participant – It says right here you are eliminating them, that means they aren’t
coming back.
Unnamed Participant – Why did Douglas County decide to not want to pay you the $21
bucks. The problems seems to be management. Management at RTD has not done a darn
thing to fix the problem. We are paying taxes and RTD isn’t providing the service. This is
RTD’s problem. You haven’t changed the culture in years.

Packet Pg. 32

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

Unnamed Participant Mineral station, has a circulator, why doesn’t HR have a circulator?

1.B.1.b

Ron Winberg
My daughter is here, this means a lot to her. There are some older people who are going
to rely on the bus when the new senior citizen center comes in. There’s a lot of them
concerned. I have 10 pages of notes, but with light rail first, approx. 15 years ago we
joined the tax district, it was 10-12 years then to get this SW extension, now it’s another
20 years until, what? 2040? We are paying about 10 million from HR, to RTD. There is a
parking lot at Mineral, it’s muddy, lack of security, lighting, there’s no parking at 7:30 in
the morning, some keep driving up to other stations to park, those are all full, until they
are downtown. When I went to a show downtown everything ran just fine, the D-line ran
mostly empty that night, if we are doing this proposal every 3 times a year, why is that
happening and why wasn’t that evaluated. I suggest that when they find a permanent
CEO from outside, anyone from RTD shouldn’t have that job, I don’t blame director’s
because I’ve been on boards. I’m ticked that we don’t have light rail. Back to
management, things change, I go back 30 years, heard a lot of BS. I would like to see the
D line stay. There are times when we take the light rail at Broadways station, there aren’t
walls to protect from weather, there’s an issue with safety. Making a train switch is a big
deal for the elderly especially if they have canes or walkers. I don’t think C has to be 15
min it could be 20 or 30. We waited for the mall ride, waited for 40 min. then two
showed up back to back. Everything isn’t perfect, it would be really nice for some of you
to experience what I experience. If seniors don’t feel safe on the train, it’s an issue, it’s a
feeling. Even if it was once an hour.
403 – there’s been half a dozen proposals. Please come up with something that doesn’t
blow us in the wind without the 403. What if I cut out at the town center instead of
continuing east, a circulator with the 401 and the 403 or a mix of them. We are here to
save the 403.
About the Rockies ride, if you get off one end of the bus station, some elevators or
escalators don’t work, older couples have to carry their luggage and find a way to get to
the A-line. Maybe there’s a way to improve movement like a moving sidewalk. People
need to get to their line in a reasonable amount of time.
Max Allred
I am a student at STEM and ride the 403, I live on wildcat, some students have to walk.
And sometimes it’s not easy for them to take the light rail. If you discontinue it those
students won’t have a way to get home. I have been on buses that have been completely
full. For younger kids there should be a way for kids to sit down and not stand up on the
bus. It’s more an issue trying to get home from STEM. They can’t make it home without
the 403. I could make it if you extend the 401.
Unnamed Participant – Who is the genius that combined the grade crossings system with
the A-line? Why didn’t they separate them from the beginning like a real railroad?
(Response given)

Packet Pg. 33

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

Unnamed Participant - In corporate America, can offer their people a salary, then another
higher salary.

1.B.1.b

Jim Williams
If the 403 is gone, the access-a-ride will continue. What is the schedule for the access a
ride? Do they follow a time? The 403 goes until 7pm the 402 comes until 8.
Sue Frommelt
Comments about what I’ve been listening to, the impression is that you finally decide to
get out of this mess. It was ok, what’s the easiest to do, let’s look at these thresholds, we
will just eliminate the 403 and not look at the other routes that have better ridership. You
didn’t have any thought other than eliminating it until you heard here tonight that there are
other options. Would it have better use of time to have the meetings first before making a
decision? Perhaps change all three routes to make it convenient for the 96,000 people in
HR. Maybe do something with all 3 routes. I have lived here for 5 years, and if I drive
around I can follow the bus and see where they stop. The buses don’t hit a lot of the
places and people have to walk. I would hope that I don’t have to go that far to reach a
bus. Maybe increase where it’s going and not have to run every 15 minutes. If we knew
the bus would come close to the house every 30 min. Maybe then the ridership then
would go up and the subsidy would go down. Looks like we are getting over 3 million
dollar service when we are paying 10 million. Last week at the delegate meeting you
didn’t know the HR community was putting in 10 million to RTD.
Unnamed Participant – Taxes coming from the community, is that per capital because
Denver has more people and will pay more.
Unnamed Participant - The app doesn’t list all the stops, you have to go to google maps.
So it will not give you all the stops.
Unnamed Participant - Do you want to come walk with me because google said it’s over a
mile to go to the stop. This would give me a two hour commute. My point is that you say
these changes have alternatives that are close by, but they are not.
Unnamed Participant – Alternative routes, there are no alternative routes. There are none.
In our area, that is not an alternative route. Some people walk a mile or two to get to
wildcat. There are a couple of stops that show up some don’t. We should have some other
town session about these arterial routes, I live off Benefer. It’s a long walk. Why people
don’t see the stop? We are complex here in HR. We don’t have a spokesperson who
would represent us. We represent ourselves. We could use benches and shelters. When
metro district when they push the snow over, people have a hard time to get to the stop.
We will work with you and some marketing with the seniors. If we knew something like

Packet Pg. 34

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

Ed Kramer
Complaint about convenience around the D and F line. You are abandoning the theatre,
because of the ridership on weekends. I was on the train at 10:30 in the morning. There
were people on the train going to the show. I don’t think RTD looks at times of events.
The F-Line on a Friday the f line ends before the shows end. The C train shows up, there’s
no place to get on. I won’t use the RTD service because it takes to long. If I miss the train
from the theatre then I will have to wait for 30 min. On the website says that the
MallShuttle will be every 15 minutes. It says that on the website.

1.B.1.b

Travis Witkind
I use the town center PnR. Lot of parking there. I can catch all three buses there on
different days. I can take the C and D or the 0 into downtown. What’s affecting the 403
route is because the trains are infrequent. I don’t ride it any more.That’s an issue. You
can’t really use the 401 because it goes through the other neighborhood. That would be
my argument for keeping that. Riding the 0 bus the last run is 12:45 am maybe the last
run could be until 8pm? I catch the first bus at 4:54 in the morning. A lot of homeless
people are on the bus. They get stranded down here for a couple of hours. Maybe if you
cut the service on that, that would prevent them from coming down here because they
want to ride back to downtown for free. Just maybe cut the 0 back? (Response given)
There are lot of homeless coming down here.
Mira
Some of these discussions are similar to other meetings, I work at Anchutz, my husband
applied to RTD. He got no response from RTD. Now he’s been driving for RTD for a month
and a half. There is an issue with your hiring. The 403, the stop is right behind my house,
it would affect me. It’s drastic to cut it all together, maybe less on weekends, or just
every half hour. The 401 would it go to Lincoln with a new plan? I am confused.
(Response given) Nothing would go to Lincoln then? I learned about FlexRide just recent
and didn’t know what it was. They told me about the app, the FlexRide is convenient.
Lower your prices. Getting anywhere is expensive. No single trains? At 11pm at night you
have trains running then with no people on them. You would have less maintenance if
some trains weren’t out there when ridership is low. It could save maintenance. The single
train for the R line is a really bad idea. There is only so much space for bikes. The R line is
the step child here for the whole network. You need to make a deal with UC health.
Student and faculty. We get zero help. Anchutz doesn’t get a pass. No one gets a dime.
RTD says for an ECOpass it has to be everybody or nobody. Make it attractive for people
to ride it. I would volunteer to advertise it. I have turned over 6 people to ride the train.
The drivers, there is a shuttle from Anchutz to the train. We are getting out of the shuttle
and the driver takes off. One time there was a thunderstorm. When the shuttle shows up
the train takes off. This happens during a thunder storm. The train should wait for us. That
turns people off. It’s disgraceful and a lack of respect. Your respond is that they are on
schedule, we don’t want to be struck by lightning. They need to work on that. People are
literally running for the train and the train takes off. If we could just come to an
agreement with some help. Talk to the school and the hospital. There are going to be more
people with a new building on the campus. Keep that in mind. So if I have a cane, I don’t
buy that they are on a tight schedule when the operators have to put out a ramp and get
passengers on. The R line is important, for the people at Anchutz, we don’t get any help.
Unnamed Participant - My son is at the school of deaf and blind learning to be an
independent individual. That’s what he’s learning to do. We’ve gotten sounds signals at
the traffic lights to have sound to get him across the street, his stop is on Wildcat and

Packet Pg. 35

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

this was going to happen maybe we should have saw this coming. We will work on
increasing the ridership.

1.B.1.b

Jeff Stall
The 403, I’ve been here for 15 years and it’s the reason why I moved to HR. We planned
it around the light rail before Lincoln station. We since moved 2 miles down the road
because now there’s a stop to catch the 403. There are two hospitals that the other
routes don’t cover. There are 2 high schools and 2 middle schools, senior centers. Even if
you did expand the 401, it takes forever, it helps but it won’t be the best. So even if it’s
not heavily used for patients there are people on it, I use it 5 days a weeks to downtown. I
use it heavily, I would have to jump on my bike, to get to town center then to light rail to
get to downtown. It’s dark out right now to and from work there’s a safety concern. I
would hate to see it go away. There are people who use it. I use my pass to scan and I
get a red light, don’t know if I’m being counted or not which could be why ridreship says
it’s down. Other people take 403 to get to 402L.
Ginger Thayer
D line, on the weekends, eliminating it on the weekends, especially on summer, with all
the events happening downtown. Now I have to take a shuttle when I get downtown. I
have been stranded downtown before with no train. How do I know what train is going to
come through. Every time I have gotten on the D line, it fills up to standing room only. If I
have to make my way to union station then come back up on a shuttle, is there a
guarantee? Is that train going to be there for me to pick me up? What happens if it doesn’t
show up, how do I get back to Mineral Station? There is no shelter there. All this time,
nothing has been done about it that people are stuck at the elements. You have 3 pieces
of plexiglass, and your feet are wet and stuck out in the weather.
Unnamed Participant - Is the 403, there are not enough people, why not downsize that
number of buses? A smaller bus. (Response given)
Unnamed Participant - Any thought about ticket turn styles to make sure people are paying
and not getting a free ride? And thoughts on getting rent a cops?
Unnamed Participant - How long does that train supposed to sit there when waiting for
another train? Sometimes you miss the train. I don’t think some operators know that and
some people don’t know. Train connections, can we encourage passenger-driver
communication so we know why we are sitting and waiting?
Audry Elling
Thank you for taking 2 hours to listen to us and have us here. I love the light rail when I
am able to find a parking spot. I don’t mind changing a train. I know it’s a pain. I don’t
mind if that’s how it has to work. I have a question, help us figure a work around, for the
Bolder Boulder bus, what are we going to do, we are registered now, what can we do? I
have used that bus, it’s a wonderful invention. A whole pile of us will be there. Maybe
every 30 min instead of every 15 min? (Response) I will get there an hour early, if you cut

Packet Pg. 36

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

people have helped him to get to the bus and the light rail to get to the school. It’s a
safety concern for my son, he has a cane and he uses it. But people disregard it. The
closer the stop, the better. We moved to highlands ranch for the public transportation.

1.B.1.b

the number of busses, sometimes they aren’t full, maybe less buses going there and back,
I’m willing to compromise a whole lot. Please help.

Sarah Clark
I rely on the 403 for my son to get to Mountain Ridge. Traffic in and out of the middle
school/high school is awful. Perhaps you could partner with that school to advertise RTD
to students along Broadway. This could help people feel comfortable using RTD for other
uses. Access to public transportation is key for, thriving community, reducing carbon
emissions, equity for people to access work, school, etc. Thank you for hosting and
problem solving!

B. Wilson
Suggested circulator dedicated to HRC area. What are plans to accommodate Sterling
Ranch community needs? RTD Must push forward future plans to extend D and C south to
Town Center area.

Justin Schmitz
The discontinued service of bus route 403 removes a critical east-west bus service
connecting communities in the south metro area of Denver, including Littleton, Highlands
Ranch, and Lone Tree. The removal of this service will reduce access to services for
transit dependent citizens in our community and eliminate bus access to the light rail
connections, directly increasing the number of people who will need to drive and part to
access the light rail. This critical connection should be maintained as part of the transit
system within Littleton, HR, and the city of Lone Tree. All bus service from the southern
end of Lone Tree including Ridgegate communities and including employment, retail, and
entertainment centers.

Wednesday, February 26, 2020
Lafayette Public Library
775 Baseline Road, Lafayette
630pm
Staff in attendance included Sage Thornbrugh, Lisa Trujillo, Paul DesRocher, and Nataly
Handlos. Alex Hyde-Wright from Boulder County, Jeff Butts from Boulder County, Audrey
DeBarros from Commuting Solutions, and Deb Fahey from Louisville City Council also
attended. There were 12 members of the public in attendance, along with Judy Lubow,
Director District I, and Lynn Guissinger, Director District O, RTD Board.
Jeff Wohl can’t ride the LD anymore as his LD1 trip at 5pm was cancelled. He
acknowledged that the 6:15am LD1 went missing as well. He asked if there was any

Packet Pg. 37

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

WRITTEN COMMENTS

1.B.1.b

Amy Tisdale claimed that a special event service has a very different impact than daily
commute routes. She said she was stunned when she saw that RunRide might be
discontinued. She used to live close enough to walk to the Bolder Boulder, but not
anymore. She has no idea how to get there if the bus is discontinued. She picks up the
bus on the diagonal, and the huge mess of buses is indicative of how much they are being
used. She is very proud of the event and transit usage. She said she is happy that RTD
supports the event and the removal of cars from the road. Director Lubow indicated that
the board is working with schedulers to figure out some sort of solution. Amy then
explained the driver shortage issue. Amy later asked if there are is anything citizens can do
to help RTD get out of driver shortage.
Audrey DeBarros thanked the directors for their presence. She wanted to echo Amy’s
request to not cut RunRide service. She claimed it is too late to change the event
organization. She asked if RTD could increase the fare for the service. She requested that
the JUMP not have reduced frequency. She claimed this would diminish regional transit
options and would reduce overall ridership on the route.

Brett O’Sullivan was upset with the Saturday change to the LD, but understands the issue
of the operator shortage. He inquired about the cost difference between a 40 foot fixed
route vehicle and potential smaller vehicles. He indicated that he had a difficult time
verifying that the meeting was happening – website needs to be improved.
June Maginnes said that the LD paper schedule is wrong in so many ways. She inquired
about the 6:15am trip. She claims that the LD2 bus has not been stopping at US 287 and
Empire – could possibly be that stop issue that we’ve been experiencing so far. She stated
that the website does not indicate LD1/2/3 on the overall LD schedule. She said that the
LD1 being repurposed for the apartment complex near Exempla means that there are now
shelters along 287 that are not being served. She claims that we have eliminated the most
popular commuter times – 4:15 and 4:20 – from Union to Longmont. 5:35am trip should
either be an LD2, but should double check the boardings near the apartment complex.
Jeremiah Sjoberg asked what “midday service” means. He indicated that the more cuts
made to the JUMP means less and less ridership. He indicated that dDecreased frequency
makes it a much less appealing option. He would also like to take the 208, but claims that
connections are very hard to make.
Brian Graham thanked RTD staff for being here. He said that he in general opposes cuts,
but especially the midday cuts to the JUMP. More cuts to midday mean that fewer people
will ride due to an hour long wait if they miss a bus, he stated. He inquired about what
“temporary changes” actually means. He claims that temporary May cuts mean that
routes/trips have been reduced for May but not re-implemented for August.

Packet Pg. 38

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

chance of LD1 5pm trip being reinstated. After Nataly indicated that we’ve been running
the 6:15am trip on special order, and that the 5pm northbound LD1 trip would be
reinstated in May, he seemed very satisfied and said the public meeting very well.

1.B.1.b

Kevin Mooney stated that Lafayette PnR is a mess. Nataly informed him that the process
to remodel and improve the area is underway. He stated that the apartment complex being
built in the area makes it even more of a mess. He wanted to know who was responsible
for updating the timetables at shelters. He inquired as to who is responsible for clearing
snow at DBS. He asked if there are there any plans for improving DBS. He asked when
construction of Boulder Canyon would be complete. He complained that LD1 stops near
apartment complex are awful for ADA passengers.
Deb Fahey indicated that the issue of transportation is not only RTD-based, but state and
nationwide. She elaborated on local and regional partnerships working to improve
transportation options in the region.

Wednesday, February 26, 2020
Ken Caryl Ranch House
6pm
RTD Director Peggy Catlin, RTD Director Ken Mihalik, RTD Director Natalie Menten were in
attendance. RTD Staff in attendance Dan Merritt, Jyotsna Khattri, Miguel Aguilar, Fred
Worthen. There were 10 public members participating in the meeting.
Glenda Richey
Been riding for 42 years, moved to the area when it was just stop signs. It really affects
me greatly if we lose our buses. The 116X we are charged $200 a month. That’s more
than my house property tax a year. Eliminating the morning bus, I don’t ride it because I
have options but I ride it if weather is bad. There are about 30 people on the third bus, 15
people on the last bus. That’s quite a bit of money that you would be giving up. The
evening would impact me more, and would make me decide if I am going to ride anymore.
I catch the 5:25 back home. If the 6:15 is eliminated I won’t have a ride home any more.
Traffic on C470 and severe weather is bad. We will be stranded if we don’t have a bus to
bring us back home. If the bus were free that would be different. I’m paying more than
most people being a regional bus. If we don’t have any options after 5:25 pm or if they
are late or don’t show up. How do we get home? How am I trust a bus to get home from
work. That’s my concern. The 100L was eliminated, the only other bus down Kipling and
Belleview is the 99L if you eliminate that we have nothing. We pay taxes and $200 a
month. It’s not that we aren’t paying, it concerns me that this whole area’s option are
being eliminated. I have options right now, on the 99L and 116X. There was a blizzard and
didn’t want my daughter to pick me up, I walked 2.5miles home during that bad weather. I
can’t do that anymore. I hope we keep something. Light Rail isn’t an option, I have tried it

Packet Pg. 39

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

Katie Boyd does not like the reduction of the JUMP service. She claims that she is a big
climate change advocate and wants to increase transit options to help fight that issue. She
wants RTD to think of more ways to incentivize transit ridership. She wants to buy a
house in Lafayette, but indicated that it is difficult when they don’t know what’s going to
happen with transit in the area. She thanked us all at the end of the meeting.

1.B.1.b

Question to citizens about 99L boarding: Where do you board for the 99L?
One person boards at Ken Caryl PnR and one person catches it at Fed Center. If the 99L
was eliminated, I would go to Mineral or Englewood.
Glenda Richey
RTD proposed eliminating 116X years ago, it was gone and we got it back. If it’s gone it
will add so many cars on the road from west of Kipling. I can’t take an early bus. There
was times when there were no surplus buses because they were all out. Some people left
taking Uber. People out here really do ride the bus.
Hailey Tatum
I am new to the area, moved here for work. Work downtown close to civic center. We
were able to bike to work every day even in winter. Carbon footprint was low and that’s
important. In the last year, we’ve wanted to settle down and we are engineers we live out
in Lakewood and love where we live for our family and dogs. We have a good alternative
out here. Having a low carbon footprint, avoiding parking downtown because it’s
expensive. The solution was to ride the bus. The 99L is the only option for me to get to
civic center. I am driving to Fed Center when he can drive to Denver West for work. The
buses seem pretty well attended. We would have considered a better location if we knew
about these proposal and the cuts. We support alternative transportation. I hope to make
an impact with my voice. I have considered the W-Line but it does drop me off at union
station and I work at Civic center. My commute is one hour door to door and I don’t want
to extend that.
Ruth Bruski
My husband and I commute to downtown every day. We take the 116X. It’s disheartening
that the whole bus is being eliminated. My husband is one who rides that bus. If he was to
do an alternative, Mineral and Littleton have no parking. It would take another 25 min to
drive to Englewood. If there was another option to get anywhere we would. I work close
to civic center station, some buses go in every 5-7 minutes. I am for the life balance of
these drivers and know one under this stress. It’s only 8 runs a day, and it affects this
whole area. For my family it affects us.
Proposed question of combining the last two trips (most people agree that would help) of
the morning trips and the evening trips.
Unnamed Participant - This would help the bus, the first bus comes out here and then it
goes back downtown and there’s only one driver who can actually do that.

Packet Pg. 40

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

and between the fights, drunks, and they all get to ride free at the stations because they
get to hop off and on. The more money you pay the less you get it seems. There are a lot
of people on the 99L. I have a flex pass, when I get on the bus the bus operator doesn’t
count me. How are you to know I am getting counted? We also have someone who is in a
wheelchair riding the 5:25 bus. I’m concerned about him. (Responses given). It’s different
when you’re 20 miles from home and that’s different than taking a 0 when it comes every
15 min.

1.B.1.b

Unnamed Participant - The 3:30 out of Denver is that heavily used? (Response given)
Unnamed Participant - What would the cause of the problem, why do we have this shortage
of driver? Do we know? (Response given)

Unnamed Participant - At Civic Center you see a lot of stuff, this one homeless guy got a
day pass, and he rode the bus all night on the 15/15L. Can we take those operators away
from them? (Response given)
Unnamed Participant - If the drivers are mandated, at 69% where are you trying to bring it
down to? (Response given)
Unnamed Participant - For the 99L, that line in the evening, it snakes around Civic Center.
There are a lot of people who ride that bus every day. And probably some from 116X now
ride that because our price for that bus went up. (Response given)
Unnamed Participant - Alternatives, one for me is the 16L but that one is also proposed for
elimination. But if that goes away, what would I do? (Response given)
Unnamed Participant - It’s like you raised the prices and the cut service, now expect us to
ride the bus. What have you done to address the issue to keeping operator’s? (Response
given)
Unnamed Participant - What about the relationship about the 2020 census and that people
need to participate? Is there a correlation with that and the number of people who live
here? (Response given)
Unnamed Participant - 99L is my concern, getting to Civic Center by 6am. I take multiple
routes to get to work including the light rail as it’s an option. My experience is we have
our stories and the operators are doing their best. I want to take the bus as much as I can.
(Response given)
Unnamed Participant - 99L, if cancelled, then could the 116X stop at the Fed Center. So
that way there some service down here. There doesn’t seem to be any replacement for
this. I board the bus at the PnR down here. How long would this be temporarily cut? With
the cuts happening, how many buses would be coming down to Ken Caryl PnR?
(Response given)
Unnamed Participant - If we would have a slew of operator’s would this still be an issue and
would our bus be cut. (Response given)
Unnamed Participant - Are you looking to cut the 116X entirely? If that gets cut then there’s
no service down here. Don’t get rid of the 116X because I would have no service at all.
(Response given)
Unnamed Participant - For the N line. Are we still trying to find operators for that and would
that affect all this? (Response given)

Packet Pg. 41

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

Unnamed Participant - Is there a problem with hiring and the drugs? (Response given)

1.B.1.b

Unnamed Participant - Do you have the same shortage with Flex Ride? (Response given)
Unnamed Participant - Does the EcoPass get you on that Flex Ride? (Response given)
Unnamed Participant - Does Flex Ride buses have bike racks? (Response given)

Unnamed Participant - Is it the operator’s job to turn on their GPS locator? I can’t see the
bus on the app. (Response given)
Unnamed Participant - Does the Flex Ride run on Weekends? (Response given)
Unnamed Participant - There are homes going up in this neighborhood, do you look at
development for fixed routes? (Response given)
Unnamed Participant - I would like to say I came to be informed. Thank you for your time. Is
there anything else we can do about these changes? (Response given)

Unnamed Participant - There were a lot of changes over the years and wonder if some older
ones can be considered? (Response given)
Unnamed Participant - The only issue I’ve had was getting a bike on an empty bus when the
rack is full. What can be done? (Response given)
Unnamed Participant - Are there any bike racks planned for the W line? (Response given) If
there was a better bike rack like there was on the A-Line that would be great (Response
given)

Wednesday, February 26, 2020
Lafayette Public Library
630pm
Staff in attendance included Sage Thornbrugh, Lisa Trujillo, Paul DesRocher, and Nataly
Handlos. Alex Hyde-Wright from Boulder County, Jeff Butts from Boulder County, Audrey
DeBarros from Commuting Solutions, and Deb Fahey from Louisville City Council also
attended. There were 12 members of the public in attendance, along with Judy Lubow,
Director District I, and Lynn Guissinger, Director District O, RTD Board.
Jeff Wohl can’t ride the LD anymore as his LD1 trip at 5pm was cancelled. He
acknowledged that the 6:15am LD1 went missing as well. He asked if there was any
chance of LD1 5pm trip being reinstated. After Nataly indicated that we’ve been running
the 6:15am trip on special order, and that the 5pm northbound LD1 trip would be
reinstated in May, he seemed very satisfied and said the public meeting very well.

Packet Pg. 42

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

Unnamed Participant - If we wanted to when it’s a blizzard, could we use that? Would it be
an issue if the call is within one hour because of weather? (Response given)

Amy Tisdale claimed that a special event service has a very different impact than daily
commute routes. She said she was stunned when she saw that RunRide might be
discontinued. She used to live close enough to walk to the Bolder Boulder, but not
anymore. She has no idea how to get there if the bus is discontinued. She picks up the
bus on the diagonal, and the huge mess of buses is indicative of how much they are being
used. She is very proud of the event and transit usage. She said she is happy that RTD
supports the event and the removal of cars from the road. Director Lubow indicated that
the board is working with schedulers to figure out some sort of solution. Amy then
explained the driver shortage issue. Amy later asked if there are is anything citizens can do
to help RTD get out of driver shortage.
Audrey DeBarros thanked the directors for their presence. She wanted to echo Amy’s
request to not cut RunRide service. She claimed it is too late to change the event
organization. She asked if RTD could increase the fare for the service. She requested that
the JUMP not have reduced frequency. She claimed this would diminish regional transit
options and would reduce overall ridership on the route.
Brett O’Sullivan was upset with the Saturday change to the LD, but understands the issue
of the operator shortage. He inquired about the cost difference between a 40 foot fixed
route vehicle and potential smaller vehicles. He indicated that he had a difficult time
verifying that the meeting was happening – website needs to be improved.
June Maginnes said that the LD paper schedule is wrong in so many ways. She inquired
about the 6:15am trip. She claims that the LD2 bus has not been stopping at US 287 and
Empire – could possibly be that stop issue that we’ve been experiencing so far. She stated
that the website does not indicate LD1/2/3 on the overall LD schedule. She said that the
LD1 being repurposed for the apartment complex near Exempla means that there are now
shelters along 287 that are not being served. She claims that we have eliminated the most
popular commuter times – 4:15 and 4:20 – from Union to Longmont. 5:35am trip should
either be an LD2, but should double check the boardings near the apartment complex.
Jeremiah Sjoberg asked what “midday service” means. He indicated that the more cuts
made to the JUMP means less and less ridership. He indicated that dDecreased frequency
makes it a much less appealing option. He would also like to take the 208, but claims that
connections are very hard to make.
Brian Graham thanked RTD staff for being here. He said that he in general opposes cuts,
but especially the midday cuts to the JUMP. More cuts to midday mean that fewer people
will ride due to an hour long wait if they miss a bus, he stated. He inquired about what
“temporary changes” actually means. He claims that temporary May cuts mean that
routes/trips have been reduced for May but not re-implemented for August.
Katie Boyd does not like the reduction of the JUMP service. She claims that she is a big
climate change advocate and wants to increase transit options to help fight that issue. She
wants RTD to think of more ways to incentivize transit ridership. She wants to buy a
house in Lafayette, but indicated that it is difficult when they don’t know what’s going to

Packet Pg. 43

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

1.B.1.b

Kevin Mooney stated that Lafayette PnR is a mess. Nataly informed him that the process
to remodel and improve the area is underway. He stated that the apartment complex being
built in the area makes it even more of a mess. He wanted to know who was responsible
for updating the timetables at shelters. He inquired as to who is responsible for clearing
snow at DBS. He asked if there are there any plans for improving DBS. He asked when
construction of Boulder Canyon would be complete. He complained that LD1 stops near
apartment complex are awful for ADA passengers.
Deb Fahey indicated that the issue of transportation is not only RTD-based, but state and
nationwide. She elaborated on local and regional partnerships working to improve
transportation options in the region.

Friday, February 28, 2020
Arvada City Council
6:00pm
Carl McEncroe shared that he rides the 99L. Over the past two years riders in the area
have seen reductions in service previously provided by the EX and CS. He noted that
with the proposed elimination of the 99L RTD was proposing routes 87L, 116X and W
Line for substitute service. Route 116X goes down Quincy Avenue and is far from the
west side of town, route 87L picks up at Hampden and Wadsworth and is substantially
southeast from the mountain communities and the W Line to Union Station to then catch
the Free Mall or Metro Ride takes one hour fifteen minutes versus the current thirty three
minutes. He stated that people that ride the 99L are commuters and alternate routes more
than double the commute time. He is fortunate that he could pay for parking but many
riders cannot and a three hour commute seems extreme.
Faye Russell agreed that the 99L was more feasible in terms of time compared to the
suggested options. She was really concerned with discontinuation of the route 99 on
Saturday as she really relies on that route in bad weather or if her car is not working. She
noted Sunday service was eliminated several years ago. She does not take the Saturday
99 regularly but relies on it being an option.
Zachary Burchfield said he is concerned about people with disabilities and low incomes
having access to transportation. He shared that he has an eye condition and cannot drive
nor has the luxury of paying for Lyft or Uber. He wondered why there are not H Line
trains running to Peoria Station during rush hour. He also expressed concerns about
access to Buckley Air Force base for pharmacy and grocery services if route 157 is
cancelled.

Packet Pg. 44

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

happen with transit in the area. She thanked us all at the end of the meeting.

Cliff Andersen noted that while there are some ridership issues the main issues seem to be
workforce. He wondered why there was such a difficulty and if it was related to hiring or
retaining. If it is related to retaining operators he wondered why RTD was not just hiring
more operators to help with mandating. He also wondered if the legalization of marijuana
had an impact on hiring. He noted that RTD said this was not a budget problem, there
was plenty of money to pay operators, but last year millions had to be cut from the budget
and the Board hired a new temporary director at significantly more than the last GM. He
expressed concern that the Director of CDOT makes significantly less and hiring a
temporary director at such a high salary will lead the next permanent GM to expect
similar. He thinks RTD is getting taken and the public is getting it in the shorts.
Wendy Matthews expressed an overall concern with the way the budget is handled as 2/3
of it is spent on non-transportation related expenses. She feels that is a lot of resources
that could be dedicated to transportation. She said she does not see anyone looking at
efficiencies. Buses downtown stop at every stop and there are routes that go through
downtown that no one board. She suggested that RTD look at the frequency of the
FreeMetro Ride and that perhaps it should coincide with the frequencies of the trains, such
as operating every 15 minutes. She stated that with cutting buses north of the Wheat
Ridge Ward Road Park-n-Ride the only way for people living that direction was for them to
drive. She thinks the only thing that was evaluated was ridership and not if this was the
best places for buses to go.
Lisa Cook stated the possibility that the RunRide may not be here this Memorial Day
strikes fear in her heart. She would happily pay twice as much if it gives the operators a
bonus. She said she would be grateful if there was a way to keep the service. She also
expressed concern that a lot of kids took the route 32 to Wheat Ridge High School and
suggested that RTD look to keep a morning and afternoon stop.
Irene Rael shared that she moved a couple years ago to Arvada and chose the area
because there was a bus half-a-block away and the train would be coming soon. Now
that the train was open the 72L was gone and she has to walk ¾ of a mile now to catch a
bus. She said that is fine if the weather is good but the last few weeks she had to ride
with her son, meaning she gets to the train at six and does not work until nine. She
expressed concern that now the route 125 was going to be cut in her area and she does
not know what she will do as she does not have a vehicle. She stated there were a lot of
people grumbling when the 72L was cancelled and with eliminating the route 125 she
worries about parking, especially with the housing being constructed around the Park-nRide.
Debbie Poland noted that she works at 16th and Welton and when she leaves work the 90
second intervals for the Mall Shuttle do not happen. She said she can walk to Union
Station and not see a single Mall Shuttle going her direction but will see 6 to 8 heading to
Civic Center. She stated that when buses do come you cannot get on as people are
packed like sardines. She noted that when the route 0 used to go down Welton she
would take it a lot but now it was rerouted. She asked if a request to please move away

Packet Pg. 45

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

1.B.1.b

from the door could be added to the Mall Shuttle announcements, similar to what is on the
G Line.

Cliff Andersen inquired if security for drivers was also a factor that was impacting operator
retention as he was hearing that on a Facebook page.
Faye Russell noted that there have been several shootings around light rail stations and
there should be more security late at night.
Debbie Shipley expressed concern about people at Union Station sleeping in stairwells and
making it difficult for passengers to get inside from the trains. She suggested a spotlight
or playing classical music. She said there are no security guards in sight when she is
there. She also wondered why only one set of doors opened when the G Line train comes
into the station and then the other open about 45 seconds later.

Zachary Burchfield shared his concerns for accessibility when it snows for people in
wheelchairs or blind people. He said it piles up at stops and is very unsafe. He also
wondered why the light rail stations were not designed with winter in mind.
John Girand noted that 69% of bus operators are mandated and asked what the
anticipated percentage would be if the service changes are adopted. He believes this
metric is important to have when the changes are presented to the board.
Irene Rael wondered if there was a way to balance operators working long days so they
could still get two days off.
Debbie Poland hoped that RTD was utilizing part time operators.
Saturday, February 29, 2020
Rodolfo Corkey Gonzalez Public Library
1498 Irving Street, Denver
RTD Board members: Director Angie Malpiede and Director Natalie Menten were in
attendance. RTD staff included: Dan Merritt, Miguel Aguilar, Jeff Becker, Christina
Zazuetta. There were 20 members of the public in attendance.
Douglas Steinshouer
99L in reverse commute, Cap Hill to Green Mountain in the morning. The W-Line, the
design of Union Station as a terminus doesn’t work for us at all. Under the best scenario it
will be 45 min each way. That’s 1.5 hours a day. That’s 7.5 hours a week. I’ve done this
commute for 25 years. This service I rely upon, this is the second time this is happening.

Packet Pg. 46

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

Faye Russell shared that she was considering a job near the Applejack Shopping Center
but when she inquired how feasible it would be to get there on the weekend she was told
it would take two hours. She knows that RTD cannot cover everything but this should be
more doable from where she lives.

1.B.1.b

Marjory Devries
32 bus, it wasn’t going to be eliminated, and that it’s going to be modified. (Response
given) Start with eliminating the non-rush hour, it comes every hour, a year ago they
added service on the weekdays, for half hour in the morning and the afternoon, the people
that live on 22nd, and around park Ave, use it to get to school, the doctors, the hospitals,
you have eliminated the 28 to go downtown on the weekends, if the 32 goes, then there’s
nothing on 22nd ave. There are lots of people there that don’t have cars. It’s not just me
going to the zoo all the time, the staff there uses it too. Our CEO also takes it west. I see
him a lot on that bus. It’s not a good idea to get rid of this. It’s a mile walk to get to
Colorado Blvd or Josephine. I would end up taking 3 buses to get home instead of one.
The mayor didn’t have as much bond money as we requested. His emphasis was mobility
and accessibility, that’s what he wanted to focus on. I ride with people who get off 17th,
they come from all over who ride the bus. You can’t tell them to take the Route 20 then
walk a mile. The parking at the zoo and museum is very tight. Once they open the golf
course they might have more parking but it’s all overflow.
Joy Ravenel
I am visually impaired, I rely on RTD to get around I ride the 99L, live in cap hill, and work
in the Fed Center. I sometimes ride the 16 and the W is a two hour commute. I don’t want
to do access a ride I want this to be as normal as possible for me. I don’t want you to take
this bus away. I do the Bolder Boulder every year. I know there are 50,000 people who
use it and I see those buses packed and people are standing even on the 60 foot accordion
buses. If you take away the buses then my normal commute will get harder to live my life.
(Response given for RunRide) But the RunRide would get me to the starting line those
other buses don’t get me there. I know a lot of other people won’t like that route, and
roads are closed off up there. I am bringing this to your attention that there are a lot of us
who are racers who like to get the starting line.
Sean Lusten
I catch the transit to school every day, my main concern is with changing the bus times.
When I go to the bus stop, I catch the bus to take me to campus, earlier than I need to I
am not confident that the other ones will come. One of my friends has to catch the 15L,
rerouting the 5:20 to make it to work. There are shortages, but I get that. The changes
that you guys are making, how much can you guarantee that the rides are going to
happen, ARE going to happen? (Response given)
Michael Bell
I ride the 99L, the reverse commute from Cap Hill to Fed Center. I just moved here in

Packet Pg. 47

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

We are still dependent on a bus. The Conifer bus in the morning goes to the Fed Center
then the garage then does it in reverse for the evening. (Response given) This one run in
the morning and one run in the evening, how does this affect cutting out a neighborhood.
Our drivers prefer this it’s best for them, you still have the bus going up to Conifer. The
7am, you don’t have another load of people coming down from Conifer. For me, it’s a
total disruption for my lifestyle. We may need a ballot initiative to remove FastTracks, this
FastTracks was supposed to not affect bus service.

1.B.1.b

Jared Miller
I am supporting the 16L or not supporting the removal, I live on the west side taking it 5
days a week. I have a question, are there any number for what that bus serves and what
the ridership is? I would echo the other peoples’ concerns. The 16 takes twice as long if
not longer. The 16L it’s the most efficient for going downtown to Golden. This change
would add an hour to my day so, another 7 hours a week. I work on the other side of
downtown the W would take too long. You call it a duplicate route, but it doesn’t stop at
the rec center or the Decatur Station. I would like to share that there was another person
at the other meeting and I’ve been sharing pictures about how busy the buses are. I don’t
know if you factor in the stress that will add to the 16. I don’t know if this is a well
thought out move there is a lot of time that the 16 or the 16L cover at the same times.
Maybe stager the 16 and the 16L, it will offer different options for this corridor. I don’t
know if that map has been done but you should be able to tweak it to where you have
less drivers. This seems like a premature move.
Sarah Miller
I am married, we ride the bus together in the morning working downtown. I have 6
coworkers at work on my floor that take the 16L. There are so many people that will be
affected cutting this route. The 16 will be packed. Everyone gets on the 16L. No one
wants to take the slower bus. You are cutting an efficient route. You are going to drive
people away from the bus. It’s not always a pleasant ride, but we deal with it. You are
taking away from peoples’ time from their family or what they enjoy. There are buses that
run to Boulder from 10 min every day. I feel like the west side is being targeted. Are those
cuts affecting the FF. I don’t see those on the list. Boulder seems to be getting some sort
of treatment.
Daniel Anderson
My wife and I depend on the 16L, we live across the street. We go downtown for doctors
appts or going out and having fun. We don’t like the 16 because it sits at Decatur Fed for
5 minutes waiting just sitting there, no one getting on. If you do take out the 16L, my
wife is in a wheel chair, it’s going to be more compact. There are times where we had to
wait for other busses because there are too many wheelchairs on the bus. It’s not fair to
us. It’s going to make it harder for us. Maybe reducing the hours, maybe that will help the
operator problem. It affects us trying to get downtown for appts. That’s hard on us.
(Response given)

Packet Pg. 48

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

August, did research online before moving here from the country. Reason for moving to
Cap Hill was for the express bus to get to work and I don’t have to take a transfer. It’s
only 20-25 minutes to take the 99L. It’s the most Ideal for me to go to work. It’s only one
route. I have to make sure I don’t miss it. I would have to ride the W which is a long way
for me or the 16 which is 2 hours or more for me a day. (Response given) How long would
it take with that suggestion you gave me, over an hour? You guys are taking away the
Federal Center station stops. That’s eliminating one of my options, so I would have to take
the W. I have taken the 16, it’s either not shown up or it’s late.

Jennifer Hale
Representing as a SW resident, D, C, and 32. For the zoo as well. The impacts of those
routes, and the accessibility of the other route being a mile away. The population, or
tourists, and residents in the area. The 1.1 mile walk to other routes is really tough for our
residents. If the 32 is down, it’s quite a walk, I have done it myself. This will be
detrimental to us, there were 32,000 people at the zoo during the free day. Our staff, 60
staff ride that route frequently, I do have an hour commute good for reading. It’s
detrimental for us for it to stop downtown. It affects the lead building and emissions that
the city is trying to achieve. Thank you for having this meeting. (Response given) I
understand that it’s tough to hire people out there.
Tim Clarkin
I ride the 99L, reverse commute. When I moved here there was the option of taking
transit, I moved from Galveston TX and there’s not much transit there. I’m impressed
about the app you guys have. It told me about the 99L. Other systems tell me to take the
10 or the W and takes me over an hour to get to my work. I can leave right now at 7 and
make it to my desk get there at 7:30. There are tons of people who ride that bus. It’s a
really good route. It’s once each way. You have a dedicated ridership. Last year you
brought this up but you kept it. There’s opportunity to grow, there’s a lot of people at the
Fed Center. The alternate routes come from Littleton to Civic Center. The W is very slow,
too many stops and curves, it takes too long.
Jaime Torres
What reductions to the 16 are you proposing on top of the 16L. (Response given) I would
through my support to hyperdizing the 16 and 16L where you catch early morning
commuters, and evening commuters, provide 16 service as much as possible. (Response
given)
Daniel Anderson
Concern of the discount pass. I got it because I’m low income. I do need that reduction.
When January came for me to pay cash on the bus I wasn’t able to. I don’t have another
way to get my riding pass, I don’t have the ability to do that. I don’t have a credit card to
buy tickets online with that. Other people who are low income they can’t do that. I would
like some change to where we can pay cash.
Alita Anderson
He tied to put in cash one day and the reader didn’t work. He was told to get it online.
Lacey Groselle
I don’t have concerns of the routes themselves but I’m confused to the staffing issue, you
don’t have an issue bringing people in but a retention issue. Why aren’t you working on
this on the forefront? (Response given) It sounds like RTD needs to rethink their structure
and everything because this affecting the entire Metro area. Why don’t you hire more
people? (Response given)
Unnamed Participant
I want to add on to her comment, it feels like cutting routes should be a last resort. This

Packet Pg. 49

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

1.B.1.b

affects the whole area. There should be other positions that should be considered, like part
time jobs. Have you tried renegotiations to change these rules?

Unnamed Participant
16L any consideration with the density, the increase in density. There might be a spike in
ridership with all the development happening around here.
Unnamed Participant
The bus stops right around here, you have Meade, Irving, and why don’t you combine all
those stops, Maybe you can move it a block or a block and a half this way to service this
area still.

David York
32 and the 16L. They are thinking of eliminating them on Sundays. I’ve been riding 20
years, especially the last 9 years. I’ve rode it less and less only when I have to. They
eliminate it on Sundays and it’s bad enough on Sundays when it runs once an hour I won’t
walk to the 28 and might to the 38. The biggest problem is that they cut, cut, cut and
they spend billions on transit. The dumbest thing is that it passes the Decatur Station and
can’t make a connection. I don’t take the 16 because it’s too slow. I don’t go west. They
lose on revenue for that but I don’t take the 31 either. The 15 and 15L at Larmier, I see
countless 15L go by and they are empty. During rush hour it might be different. That’s a
lot of operators and gas being used. The 32 drivers are very, very nice they know me. One
time I had an operator that didn’t speak English for me to communicate to him to know
what other bus I need to take to transfer. But the 32 is closest to my house, they took
away some stops which is good.

Monday, March 02, 2020
Columbine Library
7706 W. Bowles Avenue, Littleton
RTD Board members: Directors Catlin, Director Menten, and Director Tisdale were in attendance.
RTD staff included: Christina Saswetta (PI), Tegan Rice, Dan Merritt, Miguel Aguilar, Mike Meader
and Bill Van Meter. There were 16 members of the public in attendance.
Turner
99L, I live off Kilping and Dartmouth, I put in an email and they suggested the 87L. It’s a mile walk to the
Wadsworth PnR, about a quarter of that there are no sidewalks. My travel time would increase 2.5
hours. (Response given). No other options get me downtown by 6. We do have a handicap person who

Packet Pg. 50

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

Alita Anderson
Who do I call to talk about bus stops that aren’t ADA compliant. There’s a stop right here
with a wall that I can’t move around. I don’t use that bus stop. It’s a mess especially
when there’s snow

1.B.1.b

rides the bus. Nothing goes farther south than Southwest Plaza. (Response given) I don’t know what I’m
going to do.

Glenda
116X, if the last one 6:10, would appreciate not moving the 5:25 further out, there are parents who try
to get back to the area to attend school functions. Some parents took Uber to get to these events. I
don’t want to stay downtown until 6. Traffic is worse coming this way. The 99L, the options, not all the
buses go to the Civic Center and back. Out here that’s our other alternative. We have a lot of workers
that go downtown and need those options. I didn’t know the 99L existed. It just goes up and down
Kipling to the Fed Center, I have never seen anyone on the 99 on Saturdays. People who use the 99 on
the weekdays aren’t using it on the weekends, why not eliminate the weekends to keep the 99L for
those who get downtown. (2 people state they ride the 99L both hop on off Kipling) I have taken the W‐
line, it had 2 cars, during something at the Pepsi Center, Mile High Station, and the colleges, we were
arm to arm touching, when people go up to the Fed Center, the door opens, and this one man picked up
his bike and threw it on the sidewalk out of the car. It’s so dangerous. That’s why I quite riding the W‐
line with all those events. The colleges on the route, there’s a lot of people on the route. (Response
given)
Michael
The D line, if you want to go downtown, transfer to the H line, but they aren’t coordinated, or go to
union station to catch the mall ride. It’s saying, ok, you live out here, don’t go downtown because we
are going to make it hard on you. You should interval C and D, it doesn’t have to be 15 min. One
shouldn’t go away. (Response given) I would disagree with those numbers. If you want to go downtown,
you change trains at I‐25, that’s your answer. I don’t know about those numbers with the Avs, and the
Nuggets not playing during the summer. So your answer is to change trains to go downtown.

Jennifer MoreIand
I recognize the time away from family, I appreciate the time you are taking to do this. I appreciate the
operators and the work they are doing. I think they aren’t paid enough so I think them. I ride the 116X,
this is a service with the latest trip being cut, it erodes into the rider who isn’t just going to and from
work. It’s not about providing service to what is typical for those for work but those who also have to do
family care, care for the elderly. The 116X should actually be expanded. I can barely get my daughter to
school. It’s impossible to get family members to where they need to be or to get to work. This falls on
different types of workers. It’s about equity and not just commuters. I want to stress the broncos ride, It
is convenient, and so much more user friendly. To take my daughter downtown there and all the people
it’s frightening, for anyone else it’s scary and not family friendly. Think of the people who is young who
should have a good experience. And those who have family, traveling with family, please think of them.
These other events should be helping you out Bolder Boulder, the stadium, and this all helps the
environment. I have chosen to live without a car as much as possible, to cut service it’s really
challenging. Please keep everything possible with the 116X and the broncos ride. Please keep it all in

Packet Pg. 51

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

Max
Discussing, Bolder Boulder, for Memorial Day, 13,000 people take the bus service. This would not help
public relations image. Do not discontinue service for that this year. It’s possible higher fares would be
necessary and most riders would be ok with that. (Response given)

1.B.1.b

Kay Kelly
116X, I live in the weber hall neighborhood, I have school aged children and doesn’t start until 7:30. It’s
hard to find a bus before 7. Eliminating the last trip, you preventing anyone, to get kids out the door, or
high school students to get to school, I can’t get the kids out the door on time sometimes. And the D
line, you can’t get a parking spot, Englewood is the next available place. I don’t know how early you’re
suppose to get to the Mineral station to get a spot, I don’t have a parking pass for work. If I don’t have
th 116X at a time I can take my kids to school, if the Englewood development happens, you might not
have enough people to ride the D line in the future. I would encourage that for the D line, there were
multiple shows and the conventions center area, there was a mess, lots of people down there. There are
a lot of people traveling with children who have reservations about taking the train. There’s also the
need to address the VMT in the area and the emissions from cars. It’s more efficient to put people on
buses but it doesn’t work if the bus doesn’t service your needs. Getting people out of cars reduces our
emissions and reliance on cars. You are eliminating people in my demographic to ride this service.

John –
About the D line on the weekend you can transfer to the H line but you’ll be waiting for that transfer,
the need for going to union station will end when the events end, and the summer time is when people
want to go downtown for the weekend. The needs will be greater in the center of downtown than the
Nuggets game or the Aves game (Response given) on the 32, it will be discontinued east of downtown so
going to the zoo will be gone, the 28 is suggested to take but that will be a mile to get to the museum or
the zoo. If you’re an elderly person or in a wheelchair this will be difficult.

Unnamed Participant
D –line, cutting it of the weekend, how do us black folks get to downtown to get to church in the Welton
area. The W line when you get to Union Station, there are drug addicts down there and it’s very scary
there on the weekends, the bathrooms are full with drug addicts on the weekend, You need to check
this out before you all do this. Why does Union Station close? It’s closed on the weekend. The security
there tells us they have nothing to do with the bus. In the mornings you have hundreds of people there
in the morning sleeping. It’s embarrassing especially when you have tourists coming to town. (Response
given) OK, how do we get to church on Sunday, the L line doesn’t do anything, The L line is a waste of
time, we don’t know why you all did that. It only goes three blocks. The 15/15L that is a waste of drivers,
I ride that too. I have 4 15s and 3 15Ls and you say you have no drivers, I don’t know if the schedule
changed but they are never on time. People still wait for the bus. Why do you all have that 15l going
through that construction, can’t it go another block. It’s time consuming from Anschutz, to Colorado it’s
an hour and a half, they are all ended up in construction. Why can’t they go around? (Response given) Is
it true that the board of directors don’t ride the public transportation like we all do? (Response given)

Packet Pg. 52

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

place there are a lot of people not being serviced and there are other people who needs this. (Response
given) I want the best for the workers, and it’s hard to get both service and the workers. When living in
this area, it’s a challenge to get anywhere. (Response given) The equity is not here, I understand
everything you’re trying to do.

1.B.1.b

Unnamed Participant
Have you all done a study on 87L, and I ride it every morning, you barely have 10 people and that is
really wrong. They might be state employees. I ride the 87L, why do we have 15 buses on Federal and 1
on Wadsworth. You have been saying these issues for 5 year, you have more than 5 buses on Federal.
We only have 1 76, you are leaving us on the curb. I ride the light rail, when it snows we don’t have any
salt, at 6am in the morning this happened at 13th and Wadsworth, you need to do better with us
disability folk. Even at Union Station there was still nothing, there was snow and ice. That $3 is a lot of
money too. But there are other people out there, that are paying $3. The idea of the people who have to
pay cash, that’s expensive.
Kim
I ride the D line for 15 years, I know the 116 very well. I take the 77 across town and the flex ride. I use
the next ride a lot to see where the bus is. I highly recommend you put a notification when you cancel a
route especially the train. Sometimes, I have waited so long because the H was cut, the D was cut. You
guys do know ahead of time, for the trains, it would be helpful to know this ahead of time. (Response
given) The notifications at the station shows the trains are coming but they don’t come. (Response
given) So I ride the flex ride that replaced the 85 going this way, I can’t track the flex ride. I don’t know
where they are, how can I see them? The thing for new riders, they don’t know about this feature.
Pamela
99L, the 99 comes by, very seldom, can they eliminate the 99, combine it for the 99L, they both go to
the Federal Center. They don’t follow the same street.
Unnamed Participant
I would suggest, going to the army reserve to get more drivers or mechanics?
Unnamed Participant
Cancelling the 99L that means the W will be packed, it had 13 cancellations on Wednesday. The other
thing too, have you looked at summer times, school is out of time, those drivers aren’t driving, they are
looking for summer jobs, they could help alleviate during the summer times, or even during the winter
breaks I’m sure they would love the opportunity. (Response given)
Unnamed Participant
I work at Fitzsimmons, I have to catch the bus at 5:30, it takes me 2 hours to get to work and 3 to get
home. It does me no good. I have to catch the 15 to come back downtown. A lot of veterans, the 15
goes down to Children’s hospital, there’s nowhere for us to transfer, from Broadway to Anschutz there’s
no transfer.
Unnamed Participant
Light rail, she hurt her hip, she can’t walk up the steps, she was waiting at the wheelchair ramp, at some
point apparently there needs to be a physical disability, the operator said that. Do I need a doctor’s
note? (Response given) Do you have to have a cane? She can’t make it up the steps. I thought we might
need a note, I don’t want to throw her into the train up the stairs.

Packet Pg. 53

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

Unnamed Participant
Who is the flex ride open to?

1.B.1.b

Wednesday, March 4, 2020
Montebello Public Library
12955 Albrook Drive, Denver

Staff in attendance included Mike Meader, Jeff Dunning, and Dan Merritt. There were 10
members from the public in attendance, along with Director Lewis.
Barb O’Donnell was concerned about the running times on route 153. She inquired about
the FlexRide. She stated the 16L should stay. Does the board know about operators being
assaulted?
Pam Jiner has concerns about the lack of public restrooms and shelters at bus stops
throughout the district. She is concerned about 3 to 4 stops that were consolidated. She
would like a bus shelter at Montbello Manor, 4355 Carson St. She wants tax refunds that
correlate to RTD’s proposed cutbacks. She is also concerned with Peoria and Albrook.
People are climbing fences because they don’t want to walk the bridge at Peoria Station.
RTD needs to install an elevator and the bridge needs to be covered to address this
problem. She will invite the to audit the area. She would like to know why the Chambers
bus doesn’t go straight up from Colfax. Pam stated that directors who don’t care about
transit dependent people shouldn’t be on the board. The interim CEO should be here.
Rachael Lehman is concerned that downtown Denver is Disneyland for rich people.
Gentrification is pushing transit dependent people to the suburbs, where there is less
coverage. People have to walk further and wait longer to access RTD’s network. She
wants to see RTD’s budget because the interim CEO was paid too much.
Michael Bailey is concerned for the hundreds of daily riders on the 32 east side who will
no longer have service with the proposed cutback.
Mayra Gonzales asked how temporary these proposed cuts will be.

Packet Pg. 54

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

May 2020 Service Change
Public Meeting Comments

1.B.1.b

Thursday, March 5, 2020
Parker Town Hall
20120 Mainstreet, Parker

Claudia Iglesias rides F Line every day, and noted that it has never arrived at the scheduled
time. She lives two blocks from the RTD boundary line, so she has to pay for parking
despite being a Parker resident. Please explain how this can happen.
Ron Springsteen said he has the same question as Claudia: who makes these RTD
boundary decisions?
David Casiano is concerned about the welfare of RTD operators after hearing about
mandating. RTD’s job is supposed to be to move people around, what is the plan if RTD
doesn’t get enough drivers? What is RTD doing to address the budget? Please walk us
through your process.
Mike Roberts noted that it seems like adding more operators would solve a lot of the
current RTD issues. Does this mean that a lot of these proposed route cuts would be
temporary? Once RTD gets the operators, will the routes all be brought back? And has
RTD thought about advertising the R Line to the public? We need to get the volume of
people of I-25; it takes his wife two hours to go only six miles by car on I-25. Get the
work out to the public that it will benefit them to take transit. People have to get to work
on Sundays, too, so consider that when cutting Sunday service. Mike has concerns about
the bus stops on Parker Rd between Dartmouth Ave and Peoria St: people cut cross Parker
Rd during rush hour instead of walking all the way down to the crosswalks since it’s a
pretty far walk. Can RTD move the bus stops closer to the crosswalks so people aren’t
tempted to cross traffic? He asks that RTD look into this as it is a safety concern. He’s
heard that other places have provided a breakdown of what each route costs per rider –
can we do something like that here? That seems like it would be a useful tool and maybe
get more people on FlexRide instead of fixed route service. There’s a whole society of
people who depend on FlexRide, and if they can’t get their ride even one day, it really
impacts their life. RTD should hire more part-time workers.
Tom Graves came to this meeting to voice support for the RunRide for the Bolder Boulder
event. Please think carefully about this decision, it’s the only way may people can get to
this event.
Kimetha King rides the 99L and has been riding it for years. She also rides the 483. The
proposed discontinuation of the 99L will add considerable time to her commute. Can this
route be merged with another route from Federal Center? Kimetha has tried using Parker
FlexRide, but wasn’t a good option for her.

Packet Pg. 55

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

Staff in attendance included Dave Jensen, Fred Worthen, Cooper Langdon, Jyotsna
Khattri, Dan Menter, and Clara Bechtel. There were 20 members from the public in
attendance, along with Directors Mihalik, Catlin and Menten.

1.B.1.b

Kit Summers would like to know if ridership information is available to the public. Is there
a breakdown of ridership for every stop and every station? Kit noted that he doesn’t see
the Flatiron Flyer up for any reductions of service, does RTD really have the funds to run
the FF as frequently as it currently does?

Tom Blach Rides the P Route, and uses RTD services regularly. He thinks RTD is great,
and would like some ridership data to get the word out there.
Inger Pippen has participated in the Bolder Boulder for 24 years and has taken the RunRide
every single year. The timing of this cut is bad, maybe this cancellation could be made
next year so that participants can plan for alternative transportation.
Erin Madigan is concerned about proposed discontinuation of the BroncosRide. This service
keeps intoxicated people off the road, and it’s only a few times a year – why would RTD
eliminate this?
Omar Castillo is the Vice Chair of the Parker Area Chamber of Commerce. Parker pays $11
million to RTD, where is that money going? What is RTD doing to bring more work force to
Parker?
Cheryl Poage came after the meeting while members of the public were mingling with RTD
employees, she thought this was an open house event from 6-8:00 pm. Can RTD expect
an increase in service any time soon? We need get workers in and out of Parker to get
more ridership. RTD needs to reach out to out of state tech schools and trade schools for
mechanics and drivers. What is our opinion of the proposed state bill?

Packet Pg. 56

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

Dennis Huspeni serves on the Board of Downtown Parker Business Alliance. They are
looking to start a trolley service for downtown, does RTD have a grant or something to get
them started?

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 57

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 58

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 59

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 60

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 61

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 62

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 63

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 64

1.B.1.b

To: RTD Board
From: Boulder Transportation Connections
Re: Service Cuts
Date: February 11, 2020
Dear Members of the RTD Board:

In regards to proposed Temporary Service Reductions, Boulder Transportation Connections wishes to share our comments.
●

●

●

●
●

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

Thank you for your service and the efforts to expand transportation options through our district. With a large and diverse
region, this job is not easy.

We are asking you to reconsider the suspension of the RunRide Service. The Bolder Boulder is held on Memorial
Day when existing service is already reduced. With a difference in location for the race start and the race finish,
the RunRide provides a valuable asset, simplifying the trip for users. Park and Rides throughout the area, such as
the Niwot Park and Ride, are overflowing on the morning of Memorial Day. A positive experience with the
RunRide can encourage a person to consider RTD for other trips, including their work commute.
As to the reduction on the 236, we agree that this route has been underutilized and hope that the future brings
more direct service between Boulder Junction and Denver. We encourage RTD to apply some of the savings from
service cuts to allow other operators to provide service from Boulder Junction.
Route 206 is an example of a route that serves a great need. We hope that RTD continues to study and explore
options for how best to serve these neighborhoods. BTC believes that South Boulder residents need and deserve
more direct access to their desired destinations. The number of transfers required from South Boulder typically
makes transit far less time efficient. When routes are returned after the temporary reductions, we hope to see
more options for people in South Boulder, around 55th Street, and from Boulder Junction.
Jump service has been identified via the NAMS study as an area needing heightened service. This corridor is
slated for BRT service. Cutting the service, which is intended to grow in the future, is a backward step.
Lastly, we are very concerned about reduction made to the Y service, the only bus option for the residents of
Lyons. This area would likely see higher transit usage if transit options were more frequent and thus more
reliable. Lyons could also be receiving weekend service to assist service workers, get people to and from outdoor
opportunities, and support transit dependent users. If service to Lyons is cut, the funds should be returned to
the community to support other options including transportation vouchers.

RTD Board, thank you for your consideration and thank you again for providing a safe, reliable and cost‐effective service
throughout our district.

The Boulder Transportation Connections Staff

Elaine Erb

Tracy Foster

Joan Lyons

Isabelle Petersen

Boulder Transportation Connections . info@bouldertc.org . 1905 15th Street, #464 . Boulder, CO 80306
Packet Pg. 65

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Boulder Transportation Connections . info@bouldertc.org . 1905 15th Street, #464 . Boulder, CO 80306
Packet Pg. 66

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 67

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 68

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 69

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 70

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 71

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 72

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 73

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 74

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 75

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 76

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 77

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 78

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 79

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 80

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 81

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 82

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 83

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 84

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 85

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 86

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 87

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 88

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 89

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 90

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 91

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 92

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 93

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 94

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 95

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 96

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 97

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 98

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 99

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 100

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 101

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 102

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 103

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 104

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 105

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 106

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 107

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 108

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 109

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 110

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 111

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 112

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 113

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 114

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 115

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 116

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 117

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 118

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 119

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 120

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 121

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 122

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 123

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 124

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 125

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 126

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 127

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 128

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 129

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 130

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 131

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 132

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 133

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 134

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 135

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 136

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 137

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 138

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 139

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 140

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 141

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 142

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 143

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 144

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 145

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 146

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 147

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 148

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 149

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 150

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 151

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 152

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 153

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 154

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 155

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 156

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 157

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 158

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 159

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 160

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 161

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 162

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 163

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 164

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 165

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 166

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 167

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 168

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 169

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 170

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 171

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 172

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 173

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 174

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 175

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 176

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 177

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 178

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 179

Attachment: May 2020 Attachment B (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 180

1.B.1.c

Y

Jump

Jump

236

125

Attachment: Map Service Area (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

206

55
32

Mall

32

125
99Ltd

1

99Ltd

1

99Ltd

1

157
130

46

46

D Line

99

65

153

R Line

27

C Line

116X

32

27

153

139

R Line

0Ltd

67

66
R Line

403

Preliminary Plan
Service Reduction 2020

New Routes / Routings

Routes with Service Level Increases
Routes with Modified Routings

°

Service Level Reductions

Discontinued Routes / Routings
Service Development Division
March 5, 2020

Unaltered Service

Miles
0

5

10
Packet Pg. 181

PROPOSED SERVICE CHANGES
TO ADDRESS OPERATOR SHORTAGE

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
March 10, 2020

Attachment: May 2020 Proposed Change Presentation (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.d

Packet Pg. 182

CURRENT SITUATION
Operator shortage continues to impact our ability
to deliver current level service
• Current Weekday Service Levels
o Bus Trips Daily: 10,000
o Light Rail Trips Daily: 1,000
• Trips are being dropped daily - mostly light rail

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case

• We’re providing 99% of bus service and 96% of rail
service, but at the expense of our employees
• Weekly mandating:
o 69% of Bus operators
o 42% of Rail operators

Attachment: May 2020 Proposed Change Presentation (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.d

Packet Pg. 183

OPERATOR SHORTAGE IMPACTS
• Affects our employees’ quality of life
• Affects our customers’ confidence level
• Affects ability to uphold our core values
of safety and reliability
• Affects our overall credibility

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case

Attachment: May 2020 Proposed Change Presentation (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.d

Packet Pg. 184

BACKGROUND
• RTD started experiencing an operator shortage in 2015
• Safety and reliability are core values at RTD, and the operator shortage is
impacting those values
• Operator shortage is now impacting ability to deliver current level of service

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case

• Since 2013, 600,000 hours of service have been added
• Low unemployment impacting labor force nationwide

Attachment: May 2020 Proposed Change Presentation (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.d

Packet Pg. 185

RECRUITMENT & RETENTION
Extensive measures over past three years:
•

Marketing campaign within and outside RTD
district including colleges and tech schools

•

On-vehicle advertising

•

More efficient hiring process

•

Job fairs, veteran/military expos

•

Referral bonuses ($2,000 and $1,000)

•

Pay increases

•

Increased shift differential pay

•

Incentive pay for mandated work and split
shifts

•

Increased professional funds for education

•

Work environment adjustments

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case

Attachment: May 2020 Proposed Change Presentation (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.d

Packet Pg. 186

BACKGROUND – YOUR VOICE MATTERS
• Staff proposed reducing service to match
service level with available workforce was
presented to Board in response to ongoing
labor shortage
• Service reductions allow us to reduce
mandating while we build our workforce

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case

• Staff conducted public outreach to determine
the sentiment around a service reduction
• Your Voice Matters was launched to get
feedback from Nov. 4 - 17, 2019

Attachment: May 2020 Proposed Change Presentation (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.d

Packet Pg. 187

YOUR VOICE MATTERS – EMPLOYEE FEEDBACK
MAJOR THEMES FROM LISTENING SESSIONS - 170 OPERATORS
•

RTD should implement a reduction and adjust headways/drop low ridership runs/routes

•

Implementing a reduction would allow for more days off, improving operator well-being

•

Current mandating negatively affects operators’ family/personal life

•

Customers are unhappy

•

Current mandating negatively affects health

•

Operators feel they are treated inhumanely

•

Service reduction will negatively impact customers

•

Operators want/need the overtime to pay bills, etc.

•

Operators believe increased pay and benefits will attract and retain operators

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case

Attachment: May 2020 Proposed Change Presentation (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.d

Packet Pg. 188

YOUR VOICE MATTERS – PUBLIC FEEDBACK
ONLINE SURVEY RESULTS

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case

Attachment: May 2020 Proposed Change Presentation (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.d

Packet Pg. 189

YOUR VOICE MATTERS – PUBLIC FEEDBACK
TELEPHONE TOWN HALL

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case

Attachment: May 2020 Proposed Change Presentation (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.d

Packet Pg. 190

YOUR VOICE MATTERS – KEY STAKEHOLDER FEEDBACK
KEY STAKEHOLDERS

Attachment: May 2020 Proposed Change Presentation (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.d

Packet Pg. 191

RETENTION EFFORTS
Most recent retention measures over last year:
•

Information Gateway Tool – enhances digital and two-way communication with employees

•

Fact Finding – cross-functional teams collaborating to help employees understand
processes

•

Street Supervision training for better interaction with Bus Operators

•
•
•
•
•

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
Buddy System – to improve onboarding of new employees

Visits to the Divisions – COO/AGMs to listen to employees’ concerns and provide follow-up
Enhanced communication plan for employee communication
Better engagement between supervisors and direct reports

Collaboration with the union to soften parameters of the Collective Bargaining Agreement

Attachment: May 2020 Proposed Change Presentation (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.d

Packet Pg. 192

CURRENT STAFFING – FEBRUARY 2020
Bus Operations
Recruitment/Retention
Category

Hired

Separated

Hired

2020
February

Separated
2019

21

26

27

15

57

43

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
Year to Date *

56

47

Headcount - Bus Operators - February 2020

Category
PT
FT

Budgeted
139
945

Current
118
851

Vacancies
21
94

Vacancy Ratio
15.11%
9.95%

Total

1,084

969

115

10.61%

Attachment: May 2020 Proposed Change Presentation (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.d

Packet Pg. 193

Current Staffing Situation – February 2020
Light Rail Operations
Recruitment/Retention
Category
February
Year to Date *

Hired
2020
30
60

Separated

Hired

8
17

3
9

Separated
2019
6
12

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
Headcount – Rail Operators - February 2020

Category
FT
Total

Budgeted
216
216

Current
156
156

Vacancies
60
60

Vacancy Ratio
27.78%
27.78%

Attachment: May 2020 Proposed Change Presentation (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.d

Packet Pg. 194

PROPOSED SERVICE REDUCTION
• Service-reduction goals include:
o Stabilizing our service
o Reducing mandating
o Ensuring more confident levels of safety
o Improving reliability for our customers

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case

• The service reduction would align service with our
available workforce
• Allows the opportunity to build up workforce while
providing some relief to our operators
• Will not completely eliminate our need to mandate

Attachment: May 2020 Proposed Change Presentation (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.d

Packet Pg. 195

ORIGINAL PROPOSED BUS SERVICE CHANGES
• Six routes proposed for elimination:
• 16L, 55, 99L, 157, 236, 403

• 21 routes proposed for reduced service:
• 0L, 1, 15L, 16, 27, 32, 46, 65, 66, 67, 99, 116X, 125, 130,
139, 153, 206, 483, Free MallRide, JUMP, Y

• All special services are proposed for discontinuation:

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case

• BroncosRide, BuffRide, RockiesRide, RunRide

• MallRide frequency will reduce during rush hour from every 90
seconds to three minutes
• Paratransit service:

o We are committed to not affecting current paratransit services
o Those now being served will be grandfathered in, provided they
continue to reside at their current address
o New residents in areas with service eliminations would be unable to
receive paratransit service in that area

Attachment: May 2020 Proposed Change Presentation (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.d

Packet Pg. 196

ORIGINAL PROPOSED RAIL SERVICE
• R Line:
CHANGES
o Reduce service frequency to every 30 minutes all day on
weekdays and weekends

• D Line
o No longer run service on weekends

• C Line:

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
o Weekend service will be expanded due to a greater transit
market in the Central Platte Valley
o Provides an option for eliminated D Line weekend service

• H Line:

o Reduce weekend service frequency from every 15 minutes
to every 30 minutes

• Dropped trips are still likely, but not to the current degree

Attachment: May 2020 Proposed Change Presentation (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.d

Packet Pg. 197

OUTREACH EFFORTS FOR PROPOSED CHANGES
• 15 service change outreach events
throughout the District between Feb 12 - 27
• 20 Service Change meetings between
Feb. 19 - March 5

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case

• Proposed changes were modified to reflect
input received and further evaluation

Attachment: May 2020 Proposed Change Presentation (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.d

Packet Pg. 198

REVISED PROPOSED CHANGES
Bus
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Route 16L will continue operation
Route 32 will run during peak period service east of downtown; removing service west of
Wadsworth Boulevard remains
Route 99L will run from Federal Center to Civic Center Station
Route 153 frequency will remain at 15 minutes
Route 157 will continue operation
Route 206 proposal modified to retain service between BJDS & Arapahoe & 55th
Route 403 proposal modified to retain hourly service
Route 483 will continue operation
Route Y three trips in each direction will remain
RunRide will stay in place but considered for elimination in 2021

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case

Light Rail
• H Line weekend service frequency will remain at 15 minutes
Note: Reduction of some service would have happened due to regular adjustments based on service standards

Attachment: May 2020 Proposed Change Presentation (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.d

Packet Pg. 199

MOVING FORWARD
• These reductions are paramount to addressing operator shortage and
minimizing mandating
• These reductions get us closer to workforce stabilization
• This plan will allow us to continue addressing operator shortage through
ongoing hiring and training, while providing relief to current employees

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case

• Without approval of this plan future reductions will be more significant and
impactful to our customers

Attachment: May 2020 Proposed Change Presentation (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.d

Packet Pg. 200

Enter
Presentation
Title
Thank
you. Questions?
Title Case
Attachment: May 2020 Proposed Change Presentation (4136 : May 2020 Recommended Service Changes)

1.B.1.d

Packet Pg. 201

1.B.2

BOARD INITIATED ACTION ITEM
To:

Board of Directors

Date: March 5, 2020

From:

Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Board Chair & Director,
District C

GM

Date:

March 5, 2020

Board Meeting Date: March 10, 2020

Subject:

Remote Participation
Emergencies

in

Meetings

During

RECOMMENDED ACTION
This recommended action supports the following Agency Goals:
Core Goal #2 – Strong & Ethical Leadership
Task Goal #4 – Strengthen Safety & Security

ATTACHMENTS:


Resolution on Remote Participation During Emergencies

(DOCX)

Prepared by:
John McKay, Administrator
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 202

1.B.2.a

RESOLUTION NO. _______, SERIES OF 2020
Remote Participation in Meetings During Emergencies
WHEREAS, A disease outbreak related to the spread of a novel coronavirus reached the
United States in February 2020; and
WHEREAS, State and federal agencies are mobilizing efforts to respond to the disease, and
those efforts are continually evolving; and
WHEREAS, Members of RTD staff have begun to prepare for the agency’s own swift and
agile response to the threat of the disease, should it appear in the state of Colorado, in order
to continue to meet our constituents’ public transit needs to the greatest extent possible;
and
WHEREAS, As safety is RTD’s core value, and since a policy of social distancing is among
the chief strategies to combat the spread of the coronavirus disease, it is in the interest of
the agency and the wellbeing of the public, the staff, and the Directors themselves to
conduct Board Meetings and Special Board Meetings telephonically or via other electronic
means; and
WHEREAS, Other emergency situations may arise in the future that could impair the Board’s
ability to congregate in a single location in order to conduct critical business; and
WHEREAS, Currently the Board Bylaws expressly permit electronic participation in
committee meetings “by speakerphone or other similar electronic means by which all
participants can hear and speak with each other”1; and
WHEREAS, The Bylaws are currently silent on Directors’ ability to participate electronically
during Board Meetings or Special Board Meetings.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT the Board of Directors hereby authorizes the
Chair of the Board to determine, in the Chair’s sole discretion, that the conduct of a Board
Meeting or Special Board Meeting telephonically or via other electronic means is in the
interests of safety, public health, and continuity of operations, so long as either:

1

Board Bylaws (rev. 3/26/2019), Art. VI, §1(b).

Attachment: Resolution on Remote Participation During Emergencies (4140 : Remote Participation in Meetings During Emergencies)

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

Packet Pg. 203




RTD has activated its Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP) in response to a
perceived threat; or
The Governor has declared that a disaster emergency exists in the state of Colorado,
which emergency could threaten the health, safety, or welfare of persons physically
attending meetings of the Board.

For a Board Meeting or Special Board Meeting to be conducted telephonically or by other
electronic means, the following protocols will be observed:
1) The Board Office will continue to publish any Board Meeting or Special Board Meeting
agenda as closely as possible to the currently established time frame for the
distribution of meeting materials. In no event shall the Board Office publish an agenda
less than 24 hours prior to the meeting.
2) The public agenda will cite the location of the meeting. If the meeting is to be
conducted telephonically, the telephone number and conference ID must be provided.
If the meeting is to be conducted via electronic means, a URL for the meeting will be
provided.
3) Directors attending the meeting remotely may participate and vote telephonically, so
long as a quorum has been established.
4) The Board Office will audio record the meeting to the extent possible, recognizing
that video recording of meetings conducted either outside of the RTD Administrative
Offices located at 1660 Blake Street or via web-based means may not be possible
due to the circumstances.
5) To the greatest extent possible, Directors participating remotely should contact staff
and other Directors in advance of the meeting with any questions or comments.
6) All votes will be conducted via roll call rather than by electronic means.
Upon the deactivation of the COOP or the declaration by the Governor that the emergency
situation has abated, as applicable, Board Meetings and Special Board Meetings will once
again be held at the Board’s primary business office or such other physical location in the
District as the Board may designate, and Directors must once again be physically present at
such meetings in order to vote.
It is the intent of the Board that any meetings of the Board conducted telephonically or via
other electronic means must comply with all applicable provisions of Colorado law, including
the Open Meetings Law, §§24-6-401 and 24-6-402, Colorado Revised Statutes, as those
provisions pertain to the District, as well as with the Board Bylaws and Board Operating
Guidelines.
Nothing in this resolution is intended to permit Directors to participate remotely in an
executive session held during a Board Meeting or Special Board Meeting conducted

Attachment: Resolution on Remote Participation During Emergencies (4140 : Remote Participation in Meetings During Emergencies)

1.B.2.a

Packet Pg. 204

telephonically or by other electronic means unless the Board votes separately to allow such
participation.
Passed and adopted by the Board of Directors of the Regional Transportation District on the
________ day of March, ____________.

_____________________________
Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Chair, RTD Board of Directors

_____________________________
Vince Buzek
Secretary of the Board

Attachment: Resolution on Remote Participation During Emergencies (4140 : Remote Participation in Meetings During Emergencies)

1.B.2.a

Packet Pg. 205

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Paul J. Ballard, Interim General Manager and
CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date:
Subject:

Date: March 4, 2020
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: March 10, 2020

Fourth Quarter 2019 Performance Measures

Information

INFORMATION
Fiscal Policy Statements – Budget Policy 10
BACKGROUND
The Performance Report is presented for Board review each quarter according to Fiscal Policy
Statement, Budget Policy 10. These year-to-date measures provide a framework in which RTD
determines how well it provides service to its passengers and the citizens of the District within its
mission statement objectives.
DISCUSSION
Attached is the Performance Report for the Fourth Quarter (full year) of 2019. Of the 41 performance
measures tracked for the GM, RTD met 30 of the goals (73.2%) in the fourth quarter. The following is
a review of the exceptions.
Goal 3.1 – Maintain system-wide on time performance
Regional on-time service of 87.9% was below goal of 88.0%. The decline was greatly impacted by
the US36 collapse, construction on 18th Street downtown, mountain route delays, accidents, and the
operator shortage. Light Rail on-time service of 86.4% was below goal of 90.0%. A number of
factors accounted for this such as traffic signal sequencing, large events, incidents, etc., as well as the
inability to maintain adequate operator levels.
Goal 3.2 – Maintain system-wide service availability
Light Rail service availability of 95.8% was below goal of 99.0%.
related to the train operator shortage.

Service availability is directly

Goal 5.1 – Improve ADA On-Time Performance
ADA OTP of 84.0% was below goal of 86.0%. For 2019, the goal of 86.0% reflects passenger OTP,
which is consistent with fixed route. The deficiency was caused by a combination of operator
shortage, a high rate of operators on FMLA, and the increasing number of trips requested during peak
travel hours along with software limitations of current software to smooth the demand.
Goal 5.3 – Improve ADA Courtesy
Average ADA complaints per boarding of 0.002 was higher than goal of 0.001. Staffing challenges
have led to a higher number of complaints.
Goal 6.2 – Increase in Ridership
Year-to-date ridership for 2019 was up 0.7% from 2018. Although the actual measure did not meet
goal, it improved from Q3. The decline is centered in bus service and mirrors the national trend.
Goal 6.3 – Increase in Fare Revenue and Total Operating Revenue

Packet Pg. 206

1.C.1

Year-to-date fare revenue and total operating revenue were up 7.8% and 6.7%, respectively, over last
year but are short of the budgeted annual goals of 14.2% and 13.6%. These goals for 2019 are
annual measures based on the 2019 budget.
Goal 6.4 – Monitor Selected Internal Functions for Efficiency
The number of internal audits performed during 2019 were 20% short of goal, due to less than full
staffing in the department during most of 2019 which contributed to partial completion of scheduled
audits at year-end.
Goal 6.5 – Bus Operator/Mechanic Headcount within Authorization
Both bus operator vacancies and mechanic vacancies exceeded their goals at year-end due to attrition,
retirements, system growth, and full employment in the strong local economy. Bus operator vacancies
are stable to Q3. Bus mechanic vacancies have grown mostly in the body shop which offset
improvements in general repair.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no financial impact from this informational item.
ALTERNATIVES
1. n/a
2. n/a

ATTACHMENTS:


2019 performance measures-fourth quarter (PDF)

Prepared by:
Doug MacLeod, Controller
Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager, Budget and Financial Analysis
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 207

1.C.1.a

2019 PERFORMANCE REPORT-FOURTH QUARTER

RTD Mission Statement

To meet our constituents’ present and future public transit needs by offering safe, clean, reliable,
courteous, accessible, and cost-effective service throughout the District.

GOAL 1: To meet the present transportation needs of the district by providing safe
transportation service.
Objectives:
♦ Reduce vehicle accident ratio
♦ Increase preventive maintenance
♦ Reduce passenger accident ratio
♦ Improve light rail safety
♦ Improve employee safety

Performance Measures:
1.1 Reduce the number of safety incidents.
(Department: Bus Operations)

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 3rd
Quarter

YTD 4th
Quarter

Vehicle Accident Involvements per 100,000 miles – Preventable1
RTD
First Transit - Commerce City
Transdev (fka Veolia)
First Transit – Denver
First Transit – Longmont
Passenger Accident Ratio per 100,000 miles – System-wide
RTD

0.99
0.99
1.01
0.99
1.08
1.19
0.11
0.14

1.38
1.3
1.2
1.5
1.7
1.2
0.14
0.12

≤2.0
≤2.0
≤2.0
≤2.0
≤2.0
≤2.0
≤0.18
≤0.18

1.2
1.5
1.1
0.8
1.9
0.7
0.13
0.10

1.3
1.5
1.2
0.8
2.0
0.8
0.10
0.10

0.08
0.07
0.19
0.00

0.02
0.23
0.06
0.11

≤0.18
≤0.18
≤0.18
≤0.18

0.03
0.18
0.08
0.10

0.08
0.15
0.08
0.07

First Transit - Commerce City
Transdev (fka Veolia)
First Transit – Denver
First Transit – Longmont

Operator-Passenger Assault Ratio per 100,000 boardings1
0.04
0.04
≤0.06
0.02
1 An accident is considered preventable any time the operator was not driving in full compliance with all applicable
laws and regulations and in such a manner as to avoid involvement despite adverse conditions of road, weather or
traffic or the errors of pedestrians or other drivers.

0.02

Attachment: 2019 performance measures-fourth quarter (4126 : Fourth Quarter 2019 Performance Measures)

RTD Vision

To deliver regional multi-modal transportation services and infrastructure improvements that significantly
and continually increase transit market share.

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
2019 Performance Measures
1
Packet Pg. 208
February 21, 2020

1.C.1.a

GOAL 1: To meet the present transportation needs of the district by providing safe
transportation service.

1.2 Percentage of Preventive Maintenance inspections incurred
2017
2018
as scheduled every 6,000 miles.1
Actual
Actual
(Department: Bus Operations)
Percentage of Preventive Maintenance inspections incurred as
99.6%
99.2%
scheduled every 6,000 miles – system wide
RTD
99.0%
99.0%
First Transit - Commerce City
100.0%
99.6%
Transdev (fka Veolia)
99.3%
97.3%
First Transit – Denver
99.9%
100.0%
First Transit – Longmont
100.0%
100.0%
1 Inspections are scheduled 600 miles prior to 6,000 miles or 600 miles after 6,000 miles.

2019
Goal

YTD 3rd
Quarter

YTD 4th
Quarter

98%

99.3%

99.0%

98%
98%
98%
98%
98%

98.0%
99.7%
99.8%
100.0%
99.1%

96.3%
99.6%
99.9%
100.0%
99.3%

1.3 Improve response time to emergency dispatch calls.
(Department: Bus Operations)

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 3rd
Quarter

YTD 4th
Quarter

Average Response Time

18 sec.

18 sec.

≤20 sec.

18 sec

18 sec

1.4 Reduce the number of light rail accidents.
(Department: Rail Operations)

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 3rd
Quarter

YTD 4th
Quarter

Reportable Light Rail Accidents per 100,000 train miles – Preventable2
0.0
0.0
≤2.0
0
2 An accident is considered preventable any time the operator was not driving in full compliance with all applicable
laws and regulations and in such a manner as to avoid involvement despite adverse conditions of road, weather
or traffic or the errors of pedestrians or other drivers. Please note: there was a single preventable accident in
January 2019. Due to criteria listed it was not reportable.

1.5 Reduce the number of commuter rail accidents.
(Department: Rail Operations)

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 3rd
Quarter

Reportable Commuter Rail Accidents per 100,000 train miles –
0.0
0.0
≤2.0
0
Preventable3
3 An accident is considered preventable any time the operator was not driving in full compliance with all
applicable laws and regulations and in such a manner as to avoid involvement despite adverse conditions of
road, weather or traffic or the errors of pedestrians or other drivers.

0

YTD 4th
Quarter
0

Attachment: 2019 performance measures-fourth quarter (4126 : Fourth Quarter 2019 Performance Measures)

Performance Measures (continued):

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
2019 Performance Measures
2
Packet Pg. 209
February 21, 2020

1.C.1.a

Objectives:
♦ Prompt graffiti removal
♦ Prompt bus interior and exterior cleaning
♦ Prompt shelter cleaning

Performance Measures:
2.1 Prompt response to facility complaints.
(Department: Capital Programs)

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 3rd
Quarter

YTD 4th
Quarter

Average Response Time Public Complaints
Average Graffiti Complaints per Month
Average Facilities Maintenance Complaints per Month1

<4 hours
0.6
9.2

<4 hours
1.6
13.5

≤4 hours
≤3.0
≤20.0

<4 hours
1.2
12.2

<4 hours
1.0
17.1

Elevator

3.3

2.0

0.3

6.0

Snow/ice

0.0

1.7

0

15.04

Shelter

0.3

4.0

2.0

4.7

5.7

5.02

13.03

6.0

Other2

1Our vulnerability to graffiti has increased due to 1) total increase in linear feet from new corridors and 2) the nature of

the areas through which the new corridors travel.

2The majority of Other is lighting and paving issues.

3 Wasps, landscaping, and lighting issues predominated this category.

4 Most of these complaints were regarding our snow removal contractors.

2.2 Prompt response to vehicle complaints.
(Department: Bus Operations)

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 3rd
Quarter

YTD 4th
Quarter

Average Overdue Bus Interior Cleaning per Month
RTD
First Transit - Commerce City
Transdev (fka Veolia)
First Transit – Denver
First Transit – Longmont

0.1
0.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

0.1
0.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

≤1.0
≤1.0
≤1.0
≤1.0
≤1.0
≤1.0

0.1
0.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

0.1
0.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

Attachment: 2019 performance measures-fourth quarter (4126 : Fourth Quarter 2019 Performance Measures)

GOAL 2: To meet the present transportation needs of the District by providing clean
Transportation service.

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
2019 Performance Measures
3
Packet Pg. 210
February 21, 2020

1.C.1.a

Objectives:
♦ Improve on-time performance
♦ Improve miles between lost service road calls
♦ Decrease number of missed trips

Performance Measures:
3.1 Maintain system-wide on time performance.
(Departments: Bus Operations, Rail Operations)

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 3rd
Quarter

YTD 4th
Quarter

Local On-Time Service – System-wide1
RTD Local
First Transit - Commerce City
Transdev (fka Veolia)
First Transit – Denver
First Transit – Longmont
Regional On-Time Service1
Light Rail On-Time Service1

86.1%
84.8%
83.3%
88.2%
87.5%
88.2%
86.3%
94.5%

86.8%
86.2%
83.4%
87.5%
87.5%
89.5%
87.0%
92.6%

86.0%
86.0%
86.0%
86.0%
86.0%
86.0%
88.0%
90.0%

86.8%
86.3%
83.7%
87.9%
87.1%
89.1%
87.3%3
89.5%3

86.3%
86.3%
83.0%
87.5%
86.4%
88.7%
87.9%3
86.4%3

Commuter Rail On-Time Service2
95.1%
97.4%
90.0%
92.3%
93.06%
1 Bus and Light Rail are considered on-time if a departure from a location is no more than 1 minute early or 5 minutes
after the scheduled departure time.
2 Commuter Rail is considered on-time if a departure from a location is no more than 0 minutes early or 5 minutes
after the scheduled departure time.
3 A number of factors account for slippage in Q3 and Q4. For Regional, these include US36 collapse, 18th Street
construction, mountain route delays, accidents, and operator shortage. For Light Rail, these include traffic signal
sequencing, large events, incidents, and operator shortage.

3.2 Maintain system-wide service availability.
(Department: Bus Operations, Rail Operations)

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 3rd
Quarter

YTD 4th
Quarter

Light Rail – Service Available4
99.9%
99.9%
99.0%
5
Bus – Service Available
99.5%
99.2%
97.0%
Commuter Rail – Service Available
98.5%
98.9%
97.0%
4 Calculated as total operating hours minus service delay hours, divided by total scheduled hours.
5 Calculated as actual car miles operated divided by total scheduled car miles.
6 Related to train operator shortage.

98.2%6
99.5%
97.9%

95.8%6
99.5%
98.4%

3.3 Adherence to scheduled Revenue Service trip start time.
(Department: Bus Operations)

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 3rd
Quarter

YTD 4th
Quarter

Adherence to scheduled Revenue Service trip start time – system wide
RTD
First Transit - Commerce City
Transdev (fka Veolia)
First Transit – Denver
First Transit – Longmont

100%
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

99.5%
99.5%
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

99.0%
99.0%
99.0%
99.0%
99.0%
99.0%

99.6%
99.6%
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

99.6%
99.6%
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

Attachment: 2019 performance measures-fourth quarter (4126 : Fourth Quarter 2019 Performance Measures)

GOAL 3: To meet the present transportation needs of the District by providing reliable
transportation service.

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
2019 Performance Measures
4
Packet Pg. 211
February 21, 2020

1.C.1.a

GOAL 3: To meet the present transportation needs of the District by providing reliable
transportation service.

3.4 Improve miles between road calls.
(Departments: Bus Operations)

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 3rd
Quarter

YTD 4th
Quarter

Mileage Between Lost Service Maintenance Road Calls (District)1

46,356

37,013

30,000

34,776

34,220

RTD
Transit Bus
Articulated Bus
Intercity Bus

55,093
47,965
45,325
81,596

37,964
33,346
33,117
52,450

30,000

33,785
35,443
21,225
39,755

31,072
32,739
19,884
35,761

First Transit - Commerce City
Transit Bus

45,993
45,992

40,668
40,668

30,000

35,770
35,770

37,754
37,754

Cutaway Bus

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Transdev (fka Veolia)
Transit Bus
Medium Bus

32,775
32,913
32,478

22,737
27,487
16,514

30,000

40,419
44,899
24,417

39,452
45,840
21,929

First Transit – Denver
Transit Bus
Medium Bus

35,735
39,170
21,334

68,282
70,417
40,101

30,000

38,013
38,490
29,525

37,300
37,496
33,313

First Transit – Longmont
Transit Bus
Medium Bus
Cutaway Bus

39,767
65,866
24,108
N/A

37,110
50,195
22,156
N/A

30,000

25,891
32,866
14,497
N/A

25,522
31,413
14,378
N/A

2,351

N/A3

Hours Between Lost Service Maintenance Road Calls (Mall)2
2,896
2,641
≥600
1 District-wide mileage between lost service maintenance road calls excludes the Mall Shuttles.
2 Maintenance effectiveness for the Sixteenth Street Mall Shuttle is measured in terms of service hours.
3 Data collection errors arose when calculating road calls with Mall service - 2019 Q4
4 Average age of the fleet follows:

2018 Quantity

2018 Average
Age

2019 Quantity

2019 Average
Age

1027

7.2

1026

6.53

RTD - Boulder
RTD – Platte (including Mall Shuttle)
RTD – East Metro
First Transit - Commerce City

119
274
197

3.18
4.00
4.19

116

8.79

122
272
197
115

4.27
4.94
4.16
7.75

First Transit - Denver

132

9.22

128

10.07

First Transit – Longmont

78

11.96

81

13.02

9.22

111

7.51

2

36

3

Fleet Average Number of Buses and Average Age5

Transdev (fka Veolia)

111

Mall Shuttles
36
5 The Board of Directors does not adopt goals for these; informational only.

Attachment: 2019 performance measures-fourth quarter (4126 : Fourth Quarter 2019 Performance Measures)

Performance Measures (continued):

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
2019 Performance Measures
5
Packet Pg. 212
February 21, 2020

1.C.1.a

Objectives:
♦ Reduce customer response time
♦ Limit customer complaints
♦ Decrease average wait time for telephone information
♦ Complete installation of shelter boards by date of service change

Performance Measures:
4.1 Reduce average customer response time.
(Department: Communications)
Average TIC Speed of Answer (in seconds)

4.2 Reduce level of customer complaints.
(Departments: Bus Operations, Communications)

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 3rd
Quarter

YTD 4th
Quarter

45

24

≤65

26

27

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 3rd
Quarter

YTD 4th
Quarter

10.7 days
7.4
18.3
8.7
7.5
8.1
8.1
.0004

8.8 days
7.53
11.81
8.02
6.76
6.47
9.24
.0004

Avg. Response Time to Customer Complaints1
Average Cycle Time
RTD Transportation (Bus and Rail)
RTD All Other Departments
First Transit – Commerce City
First Transit - Denver
First Transit - Longmont
Transdev (fka Veolia)
Complaints per Boardings (District)2

≤ 10 days 10.78 days 11.13 days
9.56
9.87
17.01
17.80
5.59
5.41
7.34
7.10
7.11
6.89
5.00
5.11
.0004
N/A
N/A

RTD
Local
Regional

.0003
.0003
.0003

.0004

First Transit - Commerce City
Local
Regional

.0004

.0004

Transdev (fka Veolia)
Local
Regional

.0004

.0004

First Transit – Denver
Local
Regional

.0004

.0004

First Transit – Longmont
.0002
.0004
Local
1 The measure reports on resolution of customer complaints across all subject matter throughout the District and the
number includes all departments utilizing TrapezeCOM system for commendation and complaint research.
2 Q4 results are unavailable at this time because ridership is being reported in total and there is no breakdown
between local and regional. Complaints are being reported by carrier but only on local service. We are working on
obtaining this data in a manner that meets the reporting requirement.

Attachment: 2019 performance measures-fourth quarter (4126 : Fourth Quarter 2019 Performance Measures)

GOAL 4: To meet the present transportation needs of the District by providing courteous
transportation service.

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
2019 Performance Measures
6
Packet Pg. 213
February 21, 2020

1.C.1.a

GOAL 4: To meet the present transportation needs of the District by providing courteous
transportation service.

Implementation completed for August 2019.

GOAL 5: To meet the present transportation needs of the District by providing accessible
transportation support service.
Objectives:
♦ Improve on-time performance standards
♦ Improve ADA trip availability
♦ Improve ADA courtesy

Performance Measures:
5.1 Improve ADA on-time performance.
(Department: Bus Operations)

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 3rd
Quarter

YTD 4th
Quarter

Access-a-Ride Passenger On-time Service
N/A
86.6%
86.0%
84.3%1
84.0%1
1Affected by lack of adequate staffing levels to cover runs, high rate of operators on FMLA, and the increasing number of
trips requested during peak travel hours along with the limitations of our current software to smooth that demand.

5.2 Improve ADA trip availability.
(Department: Bus Operations)

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 3rd
Quarter

YTD 4th
Quarter

Adherence to ADA mandate to have zero denials to service request

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

5.3 Improve ADA courtesy.
(Department: Bus Operations)

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 3rd
Quarter

YTD 4th
Quarter

Average ADA complaints per boarding
2 Staffing challenges led to a higher number of complaints.

0.001

0.001

0.001

0.0022

0.0022

Attachment: 2019 performance measures-fourth quarter (4126 : Fourth Quarter 2019 Performance Measures)

4.3 Complete installation of shelterboards by date of service change.
(Department: Customer Service)

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
2019 Performance Measures
7
Packet Pg. 214
February 21, 2020

1.C.1.a

Objectives:
♦ Maintain cost recovery ratios
♦ Increase ridership
♦ Increase farebox and EcoPass revenue
♦ Improve route efficiency
♦ Monitor selected internal functions for efficiency
♦ Maintain cost effective and efficient transportation services
♦ Hire and train competent personnel

Performance Measures:
6.1 Maintain all required recovery ratios.1
(Department: Finance)

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 3rd
Quarter

YTD 4th
Quarter

Operating Cost Recovery Ratio
26.9%
24.0%
20%
23.2%
22.8%
SB154 Cost Recovery Ratio
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
1 Operating cost recovery ratio is defined as farebox revenues (excluding ADA), advertising revenues, and other
operating revenues divided by operating and administrative costs, depreciation on bus operations assets, excluding
ADA costs, rapid transit planning costs, and interest payments on rapid transit assets.
SB 154 Cost Recovery ratio is defined as farebox revenues (excluding ADA), advertising revenues, federal operating
grants, federal formula bus grants, other operating revenues, and investment income divided by operating and
administrative costs, depreciation on bus operations assets, excluding ADA costs, rapid transit planning costs, and
interest payments on rapid transit assets. The required ratio is 30% and the calculation will be provided with the
Financial Status Reports at the end of each calendar quarter only. Goal is whether ratio is met by yes/no indication.

6.2 Increase in ridership.
(Department: Finance)

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 3rd
Quarter

YTD 4th
Quarter

Overall Ridership Increase
(1.9%)
(1.4%)
4.1%2
(0.7%)
0.4%
2Established with the 2019 Budget and fare revenue model which reflects full-year ridership for the G Line and partial year
for SERE.
2017
2018
2019
YTD 3rd
YTD 4th
6.3 Increase in fare revenue and total revenue.
Actual
Actual
Goal
Quarter
Quarter
(Departments: Finance, Communications)
Fare Revenue
4.2%
2.7%
14.2%3
7.3%
7.8%
Total Operating Revenue
4.9%
2.9%
13.6%
5.9%
6.7%
3 Established with the 2019 Budget compared to 2018 projected fare revenue and fare rate increase that took effect in
2019. This goal is higher than the percentage fare rate increase for 2019 because of projected full-year effects of the
G Line and partial year for SERE, and half-year effect of the low-income program.

2017
2018
2019
YTD 3rd
6.4 Monitor selected internal functions for efficiency.
Actual
Actual
Goal
Quarter
(Department: Communications)
Audits
100%
90%
100%
75%
4 Less than full staffing through most of 2019 contributed to partial completion of scheduled audits at year-end.

Attachment: 2019 performance measures-fourth quarter (4126 : Fourth Quarter 2019 Performance Measures)

GOAL 6: To meet the present transportation needs of the District by providing cost-effective
and efficient transportation service.

YTD 4th
Quarter
80%4

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
2019 Performance Measures
8
Packet Pg. 215
February 21, 2020

1.C.1.a

GOAL 6: To meet the present transportation needs of the District by providing cost-effective
and efficient transportation service.

6.5 Maintain bus operator/mechanic headcount within
2017
2018
2019
YTD 3rd
YTD 4th
Actual
Actual
Goal
Quarter
Quarter
authorization.1
(Department: Bus Operations)
Bus Operator – Vacancies2
11.3%
10.2%
≤5.0%
8.7%
8.7%
Bus Operator – Over Headcount
0.0%
0.0%
≤4.0%
0.0%
0.0%
Bus Mechanic – Vacancies
11.5%
13.5%
≤7.5%
15.8%
17.9%
Bus Mechanic – Over Headcount
0.0%
0.0%
≤0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
1 Authorized headcount represents the level of personnel required to meet service demands in the current runboard.
2 Human Resources has been authorized to exceed authorized headcount to compensate for operator attrition.

6.6 Maintain stock-out level.
(Department: Administration)

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

Stock-Out Level3
0.9%
1.0%
3 Calculated as number of stock-out occurrences divided by number of requests.

2019
Goal

YTD 3rd
Quarter

YTD 4th
Quarter

1.5%

1.1%

1.1%

Attachment: 2019 performance measures-fourth quarter (4126 : Fourth Quarter 2019 Performance Measures)

Performance Measures (continued):

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
2019 Performance Measures
9
Packet Pg. 216
February 21, 2020

1.C.1.a

GOAL 7: To meet the future transportation needs of the District.

7.1 Deliver civic and neighborhood presentations to communicate with
2017
2018
2019
YTD 3rd
the public regarding service issues.
Actual
Actual
Goal
Quarter
(Departments: Communications, Executive Office, Bus Operations,
Planning)
Communications
659
200
§
140
General Manager
78
236
§
229
Service Change
19
18
§
6
Route and Service Planning
125
72
§
57
Local Government Planning Workshops*
3
3
3
2**
Community Advisory Committee Meetings
10
10
4
9
Info Rides
49
29
§
24
§ The Board of Directors does not adopt goals for these performance measures; for reporting purposes only.
*First meeting held May 15, 2019
**Second meeting held August, 14, 2019
***Third and fourth meetings held on November 15 and December 11, respectively.

7.2 Accurate Financial Analysis
(Department: Finance)

Distinguished Budget Presentation Award

Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting

2019
Goal
Receive Distinguished Budget
Presentation Award from the
Government Finance Officers
Association by year-end.
Receive Certificate of
Achievement for Excellence In
Financial Reporting from the
Government Finance Officers
Association by year-end.

YTD 4th
Quarter
176
287
26
97
4***
11
26

YTD 4th
Quarter
Received Distinguished Budget
Presentation Award from the
Government Finance Officers
Association in the fourth quarter.
Received Certificate of
Achievement for Excellence In
Financial Reporting from the
Government Finance Officers
Association in the fourth quarter.

Attachment: 2019 performance measures-fourth quarter (4126 : Fourth Quarter 2019 Performance Measures)

Performance Measures:

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
2019 Performance Measures
10
Packet Pg. 217
February 21, 2020

1.C.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Paul J. Ballard, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: March 4, 2020

From:

Fred Worthen, Assistant General Manager of
Bus Operations

GM

Date:

March 3, 2020

Board Meeting Date: March 10, 2020

Subject:

Service Availability February 2020

Information

ATTACHMENTS:


Service Availability Memo - February 2020 (PDF)



Update Lost Hours February 2020

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Daniel Lamorie, Assistant General Superintendent, Street Operation
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 218

1.C.2.a

Regional
Transportation
District

Paul J. Ballard, Interim General Manager and CEO

FROM:

Daniel Lamorie, Assistant General Superintendent, Street Operations

DATE:

March 3, 2020

RE:

Service Availability – February 2020

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO
80202
303.299.6000

Attachment: Service Availability Memo - February 2020 (4131 : Service Availability February 2020)

TO:

RTD fixed-route bus operations provided slightly over 99.53% of all scheduled hours of bus
service in February 2020. Lost service hours for personnel related reasons, reflects an
improvement as compared to the same month (February) last year. Lost service for personnel
related reasons follows:





February 2020 – 139.99 hours
February 2019 – 441.27 hours
Year to date hours for 2020 – 187.87 hours
Year to date hours 2019 – 565.46 hours

Contributing to our service/staffing challenges in February were unplanned bus bridges,
special events, and multiple snowstorms.
While RTD did provide in excess of 99.53% of all scheduled hours of service in the month,
it was necessary to cover 2,345 shifts with RTD operators working a 6th day (one of their
scheduled days off). This represents approximately 18,760 hours of service being provided
by a “6th day” RTD operator. Additionally, our contractor partners, First Transit and TransDev,
covered 2,325 shifts, or approximately 18,540 hours of service, with operators working a
“6th day”.
Additional information regarding bus operator headcount follows:
Recruitment/Retention
Category

Hired

Separated

Hired

2020

Separated
2019

February

21

26

27

15

Year to Date *

56

47

57

43

Headcount - Bus Operators - February 2020
Category

Budgeted

Current

Vacancies

Vacancy Ratio

PT

139

118

21

15.11%

FT

945

851

94

9.95%

Total

1,084

969

115

10.61%

Staff continues to collaborate with our partners to address and implement measures to
attract, retain and sustain skilled employees.
rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 219

1.C.2.b

Lost service hours review
weekday hours
Contractor
missed runs
pullout delay

4504.00 wkday
subtotal %

RTD
missed runs

pullout delay

5714.00 wkday
subtotal %

RTD & Contractor
missed runs
pullout delay

10218.00 wkday
total
%

2014
Jan-14
Feb-14
Mar-14
Apr-14
May-14
Jun-14
Jul-14
Aug-14
Sep-14
Oct-14
Nov-14
Dec-14
total
2015
Jan-15
Feb-15
Mar-15
Apr-15
May-15
Jun-15
Jul-15
Aug-15
Sep-15
Oct-15
Nov-15
Dec-15
total
2016
Jan-16
Feb-16
Mar-16
Apr-16
May-16
Jun-16
Jul-16
Aug-16
Sep-16
Oct-16
Nov-16
Dec-16
total

0.00

6.13

6.13

5.54

61.36

66.90

5.54

67.49

73.03

0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00

0.27
0.39
1.06
0.17
0.14
0.59
0.36
2.20
0.08
0.10
1.13
1.23
7.72

0.27
0.39
1.06
0.17
0.14
0.59
0.36
2.20
0.08
0.10
1.13
1.23
7.72

2.10
12.27
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
2.47
0.00
0.00
0.00
16.84

12.16
12.05
4.03
8.05
3.59
4.49
3.42
7.19
6.59
7.27
8.11
7.40
84.35

14.26
24.32
4.03
8.05
3.59
4.49
3.42
7.19
9.06
7.27
8.11
7.40
101.19

2.10
12.27
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
2.47
0.00
0.00
0.00
16.84

12.43
12.44
5.09
8.22
3.73
5.08
3.78
9.39
6.67
7.37
9.24
8.63
92.07

14.53
24.71
5.09
8.22
3.73
5.08
3.78
9.39
9.14
7.37
9.24
8.63
108.91

0.00
0.44
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
9.11
23.48
54.09
93.55
385.21
264.07
829.95

0.37
1.22
0.27
2.19
1.31
0.51
9.11
16.56
19.51
38.49
91.16
100.33
281.03

0.37
1.66
0.27
2.19
1.31
0.51
18.22
40.04
73.60
132.04
476.37
364.40
1110.98

1.49
0.00
0.00
1.37
5.22
2.20
7.43
0.00
15.14
1.24
30.23
77.25
141.57

8.15
9.38
7.16
7.28
8.41
5.16
16.58
9.55
5.50
16.47
11.08
35.32
140.04

9.64
9.38
7.16
8.65
13.63
7.36
24.01
9.55
20.64
17.71
41.31
112.57
281.61

1.49
0.44
0.00
1.37
5.22
2.20
16.54
23.48
69.23
94.79
415.44
341.32
971.52

8.52
10.60
7.43
9.47
9.72
5.67
25.69
26.11
25.01
54.96
102.24
135.65
421.07

10.01
11.04
7.43
10.84
14.94
7.87
42.23
49.59
94.24
149.75
517.68
476.97
1392.59

210.12
522.58
794.17
27.30
27.08
7.13
1.50
18.26
273.44
508.47
288.29
402.13
3080.47

61.15
56.12
22.57
15.59
12.02
9.14
6.17
9.22
79.36
134.03
64.51
86.29
556.17

271.27
578.70
816.74
42.89
39.10
16.27
7.67
27.48
352.80
642.50
352.80
488.42
3636.64

90.12
353.01
297.34
126.16
38.56
84.22
89.34
45.37
36.04
99.36
20.58
83.30
1363.40

41.03
41.22
13.41
9.11
11.21
17.01
6.28
7.35
10.34
4.54
8.14
14.49
184.13

131.15
394.23
310.75
135.27
49.77
101.23
95.62
52.72
46.38
103.90
28.72
97.79
1547.53

300.24
875.59
1091.51
153.46
65.64
91.35
90.84
63.63
309.48
607.83
308.87
485.43
4443.87

102.18
97.34
35.98
24.70
23.23
26.15
12.45
16.57
89.70
138.57
72.65
100.78
740.30

402.42
972.93
1127.49
178.16
88.87
117.50
103.29
80.20
399.18
746.40
381.52
586.21
5184.17

Contractor
missed runs
pullout delay
2017
Jan-17
Feb-17
Mar-17
Apr-17
May-17
Jun-17
Jul-17
Aug-17
Sep-17
Oct-17
Nov-17
Dec-17
total

2018
Jan-18
Feb-18
Mar-18
Apr-18
May-18
Jun-18
Jul-18
Aug-18
Sep-18
Oct-18
Nov-18
Dec-18
total
2019
Jan-19
Feb-19
Mar-19
Apr-19
May-19
Jun-19
Jul-19
Aug-19
Sep-19
Oct-19
Nov-19
Dec-19
total
2020
Jan-20
Feb-20
Mar-20
Apr-20
May-20
Jun-20
Jul-20
Aug-20
Sep-20
Oct-20
Nov-20
Dec-20
total

0.003011434
0.00642429
0.009066829
0.000476132
0.000434059
0.000180617
0.00009
0.000305062
0.003916519
0.007132549
0.003916519
0.005422069

4504.00 wkday
subtotal %

RTD
missed runs

pullout delay

0.00115
0.00345
0.00272
0.00118
0.00044
0.00089
0.00084
0.00046
0.00041
0.00091
0.00025
0.00086

5714.00 wkday
subtotal %

RTD & Contractor
missed runs
pullout delay

0.00197
0.00476
0.00552
0.00087
0.00043
0.00057
0.00051
0.00039
0.00195
0.00365
0.00187
0.00287

10218.00 wkday
total
%

125.23
173.27
66.35
97.38
100.40
58.58
174.28
468.39
811.88
555.66
141.10
61.97
2834.49

46.37
44.53
31.26
9.15
26.04
22.09
93.51
237.01
362.40
311.50
96.36
76.82
1357.04

171.60
217.80
97.61
106.53
126.44
80.67
267.79
705.40
1174.28
867.16
237.46
138.79
4191.53

0.001904973
0.002417851
0.001083592
0.001182615
0.001403641
0.000895537
0.002972802
0.007830817
0.013035968
0.009626554
0.002636101
0.001540742

78.00
28.58
174.42
52.53
32.51
97.07
34.08
49.06
335.58
195.00
172.17
375.75
1624.75

21.16
51.27
11.41
22.55
26.21
25.39
13.41
20.35
58.35
43.15
40.11
111.83
445.19

99.16
79.85
185.83
75.08
58.72
122.46
47.49
69.41
393.93
238.15
212.28
487.58
2069.94

0.00087
0.0007
0.00163
0.00066
0.00051
0.00107
0.00042
0.00061
0.00345
0.00208
0.00186
0.00427

203.23
201.85
240.77
149.91
132.91
155.65
208.36
517.45
1147.46
750.66
313.27
437.72
4459.24

67.53
95.80
42.67
31.70
52.25
47.48
106.92
257.36
420.75
354.65
136.47
188.65
1802.23

270.76
297.65
283.44
181.61
185.16
203.13
315.28
774.81
1568.21
1105.31
449.74
626.37
6261.47

0.00132
0.00146
0.00139
0.00089
0.00091
0.00099
0.00154
0.00379
0.00767
0.00541
0.0022
0.00307

119.63
96.35
467.75
426.48
248.18
254.98
26.20
18.50
12.03
20.55
12.39
3.40
1706.44

52.43
29.28
33.42
31.72
12.13
18.09
2.75
5.27
6.03
7.40
3.28
3.28
205.08

172.06
125.63
501.17
458.20
260.31
273.07
28.95
23.77
18.06
27.95
15.67
6.68
1911.52

0.00191008
0.001394649
0.00556361
0.00508659
0.002889765
0.003031417
0.000321381
0.000263877
0.000200488
0.00031028
0.000173956
0.00007

425.95
732.78
889.87
1230.98
1763.33
1021.99
138.13
91.61
93.44
316.40
174.35
78.32
6957.15

66.03
137.68
165.12
193.83
172.60
149.93
84.40
47.62
61.74
75.26
37.88
39.27
1231.36

491.98
870.46
1054.99
1421.60
1935.93
1171.92
222.53
139.23
155.18
391.66
212.23
117.59
8185.30

0.00431
0.00762
0.00923
0.01244
0.01694
0.01025
0.00195
0.00122
0.00136
0.00343
0.00186
0.00103

545.58
829.13
1357.62
1657.46
2011.51
1276.97
164.33
110.11
105.47
336.95
186.74
81.72
8663.59

118.46
166.96
198.54
225.55
184.73
168.02
87.15
52.89
67.77
82.66
41.16
42.55
1436.44

664.04
996.09
1556.16
1883.01
2196.24
1444.19
251.48
163.00
173.24
420.01
228.30
124.27
10100.03

0.00325
0.00487
0.00761
0.00921
0.01075
0.00707
0.00123
0.0008
0.00085
0.00206
0.00112
0.00061

3.40
2.22
214.94
6.48
16.40
12.83
85.44
63.14
0.00
199.49
252.34
2.08
858.76

3.17
4.75
8.35
3.61
3.65
6.23
4.50
10.17
0.44
13.09
9.15
0.32
67.43

6.57
6.97
223.29
10.09
20.05
19.06
89.94
73.31
0.44
212.58
261.49
2.40
926.19

0.00007
0.00006
0.002478797
0.000112012
0.00022258
0.00021159
0.000998446
0.000813832
0.00002
0.002359902
0.002902864
0.000026643

78.03
360.30
933.95
71.00
82.54
93.29
32.05
35.40
0.00
233.24
162.24
49.15
2131.19

39.19
74.00
68.47
32.49
57.58
77.77
26.38
54.45
11.28
39.15
27.59
31.04
539.39

117.22
434.30
1002.42
103.49
140.12
171.06
58.43
89.85
11.28
272.39
189.83
80.19
2670.58

0.00103
0.0038
0.00877
0.00091
0.00123
0.0015
0.00051
0.00079
0.00004
0.00238
0.00166
0.0007

81.43
362.52
1148.89
77.48
98.94
106.12
117.49
98.54
0.00
432.73
414.58
51.23
2989.95

42.36
78.75
76.82
36.10
61.23
84.00
31.28
64.62
12.12
52.24
36.74
31.36
607.62

124.19
441.27
1226.11
113.18
160.17
190.12
149.17
163.56
12.12
485.37
451.32
82.59
3599.17

0.00061
0.00216
0.006
0.00055
0.00078
0.00093
0.00073
0.0008
0.00004
0.00238
0.00221
0.0004

7.47
5.05

5.56
3.42

0.00014
0.00009
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0

15.27
90.46

19.58
41.06

105.73

60.64

22.74
95.51
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
118.25

25.14
44.48
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
69.62

47.88
139.99
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
187.87

0.00023
0.00069
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0

8.98

34.85
131.52
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
166.37

0.0003
0.00115
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0

12.52

13.03
8.47
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
21.50

Attachment: Update Lost Hours February 2020 (4131 : Service Availability February 2020)

2013
total

Packet Pg. 220

1.C.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Heather McKillop, Acting Interim General
Manager and CEO

Date: March 3, 2020

From:

Dave Jensen, Assistant General Manager, Rail
Operations

GM

Date:

February 28, 2020

Board Meeting Date: March 10, 2020

Subject:

Rail Operations Update January 2020

ATTACHMENTS:


Rail Operations Update January 2020

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Caitlin Magee, Administrative Specialist, Rail Operations
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 221

1.C.3.a

RAIL OPERATIONS UPDATE
Dave Jensen, AGM
Headcount
Light Rail Train Operators

Week of

Full Time

Part Time

In Training

2/17

156

5

60

On Time
Performance

YTD
On-Time
Performance

On-Time Performance

Month

Service
Availability

Light Rail Operations

January

92.3%

90.3%

90.3%

Commuter Rail Operations

January

97.6%

96.0%

96.0%

Mean Distance Between Failures

Month

Actual

Goal

Light Rail Vehicles

January

65,332.53 miles

> 25,000 miles

Maintenance of Way

January

3,565.94 hours

> 2,500 hours

Light Rail Transportation Mandates – 2019 versus 2020
2019

2020

Mandated

Volunteered

Total

Change from
previous year

Mandated

Volunteered

24

78

102

-210

116

285

Preventable
Accidents
Light Rail Operations

January

Month
Jan

Change from
previous year

Total
401

299

Year to Date
0

0

Retention:
Operator losses January 2020
Reason

Comments

Terminated

Termination for safety violation

1

Resigned

Personal Reasons

1

rtd-denver.com

Attachment: Rail Operations Update January 2020 (4120 : Rail Operations January 2020 Update)

Regional
Transportation
District

Packet Pg. 222

1.C.4

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Paul J. Ballard, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: March 4, 2020

From:

Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer

GM

Date:
Subject:

Board Meeting Date: March 10, 2020
Operator Dashboard Presentation

ATTACHMENTS:


Operator Dashboard Presentation for Board Meeting 2-28-2020

(PPTX)

Prepared by:
Jeff Tranguch,
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 223

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
Preview of Bus and Rail Ops Dashboard

Presented By:

RTD Market Research Team

Attachment: Operator Dashboard Presentation for Board Meeting 2-28-2020 (4137 : Operator Dashboard

1.C.4.a

Packet Pg. 224

Genesis of Dashboard
• Operator shortage.
• Conversations with colleagues led us to believe there may be
a need for a dashboard.

Enter Presentation Title
• Saw opportunity
to help Bus and Rail ops better understand
Title
Case
their workforce.

Attachment: Operator Dashboard Presentation for Board Meeting 2-28-2020 (4137 : Operator Dashboard

1.C.4.a

Packet Pg. 225

Bus Operators Overview

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
Caveat: This dashboard is a prototype.

Attachment: Operator Dashboard Presentation for Board Meeting 2-28-2020 (4137 : Operator Dashboard

1.C.4.a

Packet Pg. 226

Bus Operators Overview

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
Caveat: This dashboard is a prototype.

Attachment: Operator Dashboard Presentation for Board Meeting 2-28-2020 (4137 : Operator Dashboard

1.C.4.a

Packet Pg. 227

Light Rail Operators Overview

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
Caveat: This dashboard is a prototype.

Attachment: Operator Dashboard Presentation for Board Meeting 2-28-2020 (4137 : Operator Dashboard

1.C.4.a

Packet Pg. 228

Light Rail Operators Overview

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
Caveat: This dashboard is a prototype.

Attachment: Operator Dashboard Presentation for Board Meeting 2-28-2020 (4137 : Operator Dashboard

1.C.4.a

Packet Pg. 229

Value of Dashboard
• Bus and Rail Ops can easily visualize their workforce.
• Data will inform other ongoing Market Research projects
related to the operator shortage.

• Applicant
surveys
Enter
Presentation
Title
• New hire surveys
Title
Case
• Agency can use data to make better business decisions.

Attachment: Operator Dashboard Presentation for Board Meeting 2-28-2020 (4137 : Operator Dashboard

1.C.4.a

Packet Pg. 230

Next Steps
• Move data to more advanced dashboard software.
• Meet with Bus and Rail Ops to further customize dashboard.

Enter
Presentation
Title
• Add data regarding
employees who leave
the agency.
Title Case
• Compare current employee data to applicants and new hires.

Attachment: Operator Dashboard Presentation for Board Meeting 2-28-2020 (4137 : Operator Dashboard

1.C.4.a

Packet Pg. 231

1.C.5

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Paul J. Ballard, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: March 4, 2020

From:

Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer

GM

Date:

March 4, 2020

Board Meeting Date: March 10, 2020

Subject:

Access-a-Ride/Cab 2019 4th Quarter Reports
Access-a-Ride 4th Quarter 2019 Talking Point

Ridership
Access-a-Ride ridership decreased by 3.2% through the 4th Quarter of 2019 compared to the same
period of 2018. Productivity increased from 1.19 to 1.23 passengers per hour. During the same period,
Access-a-Cab ridership decreased by 6.3%. Combined Access-a-Ride and Access-a-Cab ridership
decreased by 3.7% compared to 2018.
Revenue Hours
Revenue hours of service provided on Access-a-Ride decreased by 6.9% during the 4th Quarter of 2019
as compared to the same period of 2018.
On-Time Performance
On-time performance through the 4th Quarter of 2019 was 83.79%; a decrease when compared to the
same period of 2018 (86.62%). However, manpower has rebounded for all paratransit service providers;
we have reduced the manpower shortage from over 8% in August of 2019 to 1.6% in January of 2020
which has also allowed us to restore on-time performance at the beginning of the year to 86.1%.
Customer Complaints
Complaints increased through the 4th Quarter of 2019 as compared to the same period in 2018. Staff
continues to work with our carriers and passengers to improve overall customer satisfaction. The latest
review of complaints for January and February 2020, show a positive impact in reduced complaints as
operators have been able to expand hiring and reduce their manpower shortage.
On the Horizon
1. We are working with Uber to establish a pilot in a limited service area to test proof-of-concept for
expanding our on-demand service, (currently provided only by Metro Taxi through the Access-aCab program). The pilot would allow Access-a-Ride customers to book on demand trips for two
small service areas at the same rate as currently allowed for Access-a-Cab trips, but would
increase the trip subsidy for trips booked during peak hour travel when the Access-a-Ride service
is most stressed.
2. The current paratransit software is being reviewed for replacement this year which is currently
set for ITSC review this month. Thereafter, we will be moving this forward to the MTFP and
begin an RFP which will be developed as an at-risk proposal to be paid for through savings
accrued through operational efficiencies which would improve our productivity, reduce revenue
hours, and increase on-time performance.

Packet Pg. 232

1.C.5
ATTACHMENTS:


4th Qrt Board Stats

(PDF)



AAC 2019 4th QTR

(PDF)



AAR 2019 4th QTR

(PDF)



AAR Monitoring Summary Q4



APAC Summary

(PDF)



Q4 2019 OTP Chart

(PDF)

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Paul Hamilton, Senior Manager, Paratransit Services
Larry Buter, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 233

1st Qrt
2019

1st Qrt
2018

Variance

2nd Qrt
2019

2nd Qrt
2018

Variance

3rd Qrt
2019

3rd Qrt
2018

Variance

4th Qrt
2019

4th Qrt
2018

Variance

148135
177496
2465987
1.20

156765
186163
2584679
1.19

-5.5%
-4.7%
-4.6%
0.8%

297678
364571
4658467
1.22

317664
376322
5230829
1.18

-6.3%
-3.1%
-10.9%
3.4%

445555
550949
7251201
1.24

476177
563503
8013050
1.18

-6.4%
-2.2%
-9.5%
5.1%

589332
725963
9724672
1.23

632810
749938
10651703
1.19

-6.9%
-3.2%
-8.7%
3.4%

1st Qrt
2019

1st Qrt
2018

Variance

2nd Qrt
2019

2nd Qrt
2018

Variance

3rd Qrt
2019

3rd Qrt
2018

Variance

4th Qrt
2019

4th Qrt
2018

Variance

Access-a-Cab:
Trips

32329

32720

-1%

64853

68831

-6%

96447

133704

-28%

127330

135874

-6.3%

AAR + AAC Ridership
Total Trips

1st Qrt
2019
209825

1st Qrt
2018
220515

Variance
-4.8%

2nd Qrt
2019
429424

2nd Qrt
2018
445153

Variance
-3.5%

3rd Qrt
2019
647396

3rd Qrt
2018
665839

Variance
-2.8%

4th Qrt
2019
853293

4th Qrt
2018
885812

Variance
-3.7%

1st Qrt
2019

1st Qrt
2018

Variance

2nd Qrt
2019

2nd Qrt
2018

3rd Qrt
2019

3rd Qrt
2018

Variance

4th Qrt
2019

4th Qrt
2018

Variance

62880
2:36
3:49

68934
0:55
3:35

-8.8%
183.6%
6.5%

125687
3:01
3:53

130706
0:48
3:36

-3.8%
277.1%
7.9%

186246
3:14
3:57

197148
0:56
3:38

-5.5%
246.4%
8.7%

248274
3:09
4:00

251147
1:13
3:40

-1.1%
158.9%
9.1%

1st Qrt
2019

1st Qrt
2018

Variance

2nd Qrt
2019

2nd Qrt
2018

Variance

3rd Qrt
2019

3rd Qrt
2018

Variance

4th Qrt
2019

4th Qrt
2018

Variance

629
79
34
9

587
257
13
5

7.2%
-69.3%
161.5%
80.0%

1297
142
57
13

1213
377
54
13

6.9%
-62.3%
5.6%
0.0%

1977
221
70
14

1646
475
79
18

20.1%
-53.5%
-11.4%
-22.2%

2576
235
81
15

2536
650
117
35

1.6%
-63.8%
-30.8%
-57.1%

1st Qrt
Actual

1st Qrt
Budgeted

Variance

2nd Qrt
Actual

2nd Qrt
Budgeted

Variance

3rd Qrt
Actual

3rd Qrt
Budgeted

Variance

4th Qrt
Actual

4th Qrt
Budgeted

Variance

148135

165381

-10%

297678

330762

-10%

445555

496143

-10%

589332

632810

-6.9%

1st Qrt
2019

1st Qrt
2018

Variance

2nd Qrt
2019

2nd Qrt
2018

Variance

3rd Qrt
2019

3rd Qrt
2018

Variance

4th Qrt
2019

4th Qrt
2018

Variance

85.55%
258
0.0015
63
0.0019
0%

88.12%
257
0.0014
82
0.0025
0%

-2.9%
0.4%
7.1%
-23.2%
-24.0%
0.0%

84.50%
580
0.0016
128
0.0020
0%

88.04%
507
0.0013
151
0.0022
0%

-4.0%
14.4%
23.1%
-15.2%
-9.1%
0.0%

84.25%
998
0.0018
205
0.0021
0%

87.45%
724
0.0013
220
0.0021
0%

-3.7%
37.8%
38.5%
-6.8%
0.0%
0.0%

83.79%
1307
0.0018
275
0.0022
0%

86.62%
973
0.0013
294
0
0%

-3.3%
34.3%
38.5%
-6.5%
0.0%
0.0%

A-A-R Ridership:
Revenue Hours
Passengers
Revenue Miles
Productivity

Phone Stats:
Calls Taken
Average Speed
Average Call

Certifications:
Qualified
Denials
Appeals
Overturned

Budget Variance:
Revenue Hours

Performance Stats:
On Time Performance
Complaints - AAR
Complaints Per Pax - AAR
Complaints - AAC
Complaints Per Pax- AAC
Capacity Denials

Attachment: 4th Qrt Board Stats (4132 : Access-a-Ride/Cab 2019 4th Quarter Reports)

1.C.5.a

Access-a-Ride/Cab - Operations and Customer Service Committee Quarterly Report 2019

Packet Pg. 234

1.C.5.b

Access-a-Cab
Complaint Breakdown

Total Complaints for the Quarter

No Show
Trip Error
Improper Behavior
Fare Dispute
Failure to Secure-Wheelchair accessible
vans
Misc. - Lost & Found-Driver
Commendation.
Call Center Error
Improper Procedure
Policy Concern
Total Complaints for the 3rd Qtr

Metro

Yellow

Union

Green

3rd QtrYTD
Totals

20

24

66

8

118

15

1

6

0

22

26

13

10

0

49

26

22

1

1

50

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

1

0

1

5

3

0

0

8

8

10

2

0

20

4

2

1

0

7

104

75

87

9

275

Attachment: AAC 2019 4th QTR (4132 : Access-a-Ride/Cab 2019 4th Quarter Reports)

4th Qtr Access-a-Cab Complaints 2019

Packet Pg. 235

1.C.5.c

4th Qtr Totals 2019

Total Complaints for the Quarter

MV

TDV

VIA

TND

FTCC

TOTALS

On-Time Performance

268

100

56

57

0

481

Improper Procedure/Behavior

96

67

42

33

2

240

Call Center Error

0

0

1

0

98

99

Miscellaneous

17

1

3

6

4

31

Careless Driving

31

19

21

0

0

71

Failed to Provide Door to
Door/Assist

8

10

8

9

0

35

P/U or D/O-wrong location

10

1

5

1

0

17

Driver Failed to Secure

4

1

3

0

0

8

Excessive Ride Time

53

10

11

1

7

82

Maintenance

4

0

1

0

0

5

No Show / CXL Dispute

20

9

4

6

1

40

Didn't Follow DA/Comments

4

0

1

2

0

7

Missed Trip

104

32

17

24

3

180

Software

3

0

2

0

0

5

Policy Concern

3

2

1

0

0

6

Assault

0

0

0

0

0

0

Total Complaints for the Quarter

625

252

176

139

115

1307

Attachment: AAR 2019 4th QTR (4132 : Access-a-Ride/Cab 2019 4th Quarter Reports)

Access-a-Ride
Complaint Breakdown

Packet Pg. 236

1.C.5.d

4th Quarter 2019

Monitoring Activity

Quantity Reviewed

Compliance

Employee File Review

326

82%

Operator Training File Review

768

97%

Field/Video Observations

82

83%

Maintenance File Review

295

97%

Conditional Eligibility Review

300

94%

Excessive Ride Time Analysis

480

96%

Certification Notice Letters

2450

99%

D.O.T. Hours Review

7380

99%

Attachment: AAR Monitoring Summary Q4 (4132 : Access-a-Ride/Cab 2019 4th Quarter Reports)

ACCESS-A-RIDE MONITORING SUMMARY REPORT

Packet Pg. 237

1.C.5.e

ADA Paratransit Advisory Committee (APAC)
4th Quarter Summary 2019

Update on last ACPD meeting from APAC Liaison (William Gross)

William Gross, APAC liaison to ACPD (Advisory Committee for People with Disabilities) provided an update
on the ACPD’s November 2019 meeting:
 Five people were awarded ADA Hero awards – one Access-a-Ride reservationist and one driver.
 Abuse of Access-a-Ride’s free bus pass - Leadership Academy is still working to keep track of
possible bus pass abuse (those who become eligible for Access-a-Ride only for the free bus pass).
We know it is a problem, but do not have a way to get an accurate count or the scope of the abuse.
There is no system to count specific pass/card types, drivers visually see the card but are not
counting or checking expiration dates, etc.
 High-Block use abuse – The ramp accessible, raised platforms (high-blocks) are often full, not with
paratransit riders but with bicycles, wheeled luggage, or baby strollers. There is a directive from
the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) to address the problem. ACPD suggested additional, clear
and concise signage.
 16th Mall project – The Denver City/County project, run by Brian Pinkerton, has not yet hired a
project engineer. The most contentious issue is removal of curbs – curbs are a safety mechanism
for the visually impaired, but there are other issues/interests that influence their removal/or not.
To get information or provide input, go to Denver’s 16th Mall project website at denvergov.org.
 How to learn about canceled bus trips sooner – Sign-up to be on the Rider Alert email list; go to
RTD’s website; use of some transit apps; and several TV news stations am report (4 and 9).
 Next ACPD meeting: 3rd Thursday in February, 2:00-3:30pm, 1660 Blake
II.

Discussion: What event starts the 6-minute wait clock countdown?

Larry Buter, RTD Manager of Paratransit Services, provided information on the policy and starting event:

Starting event is when the driver puts the vehicle in park and presses “arrival” on their tablet, within
the pick-up time range (if they arrive before the pick-up time window, they wait).

Steps: Driver arrives, put vehicle in park, presses “arrival” on their tablet; walks to the front door
and knocks/rings door-bell without losing sight of the vehicle; returns to the vehicle and waits 6minutes to make contact with the rider. If no contact in 6-minutes, the driver contacts dispatch
before leaving, dispatch verifies the vehicle is in the right place. Dispatch tries to call the rider.

6-minute wait time is unique to Denver, in the rest of the country it is 5 minutes.

It is a community effort to have a good on-time record – including drivers, and riders being ready
and available to leave during the pick-up time range. If one person takes longer, the following trips
can begin to be late.

Attachment: APAC Summary (4132 : Access-a-Ride/Cab 2019 4th Quarter Reports)

I.

Questions/Discussion/Input
 The problem is when a driver cannot find the apartment, and once the first trip is a “no show” all
other trips are canceled.
 Need to allow for another vehicle to be sent.
 Visually impaired will not “see” the vehicle pull up; a driver knocking on the door is the first
indication.

Packet Pg. 238

1.C.5.e






III.

SUGGESTION: Improve training for drivers and dispatch around the visually impaired
experience (e.g., they will not “see” the vehicle has arrived).
SUGGESTION: Honk when arrive.
o This would be nice until neighbors complain about RTD honking.
If a particular building or apartment is challenging to locate, let RTD know and they can add notes
to Driver Alerts or Location Advisories (on the manifest).
o Concern: Some drivers never look at Driver Alters/notes.
o SUGGESTION: Add to monthly/quarterly trainings that drives should read the notes.
“Not lose sight of the vehicle” – there are too many places where this is not possible, including at
1660 Blake/RTD offices downtown.
SUGGESTION: Start the clock when the driver has knocked - understand this may not be possible.
Update: Driver Shortage

Larry Buter provide update and reminder on how RTD is developing a way to address the shortage:

Driver shortage is an industry, nationwide issue.

RTD Board is conducting an assessment, including a public engagement process, to identify routes
that can be minimized.
o Next community meetings will be January/February.

RTD Board will decide on routes in March, and implement changes in May.

RTD Board’s desire is that temporary route reductions will have no impact on the Access-a-Ride
program. Details on “no impact” have not yet been identified, may include “grandfathering” in
those impacted by temporary route reduction, but nothing has been decided yet.
Questions/Discussion/Input

Drivers are challenged by the Department of Transportation’s (DOT) physical – the DOT conducts
the physical to ensure all drivers are healthy and able to drive. Sleep is one of the most dangerous
factors for driver safety and sleep apnea is prevalent in men therefore, DOT’s physical requires a
sleep study on any driver with a neck over a certain size.

There are other physicals out there similar to DOT’s but less stringent; some providers are using
them, other have stuck to the DOT physical.

If a driver is awaiting the DOT physical/sleep study, some providers use then as mentors in the field
(not driving, but still working).
IV.

Update: Reimage RTD process

Reimagine RTD is a two-year process (just begun) to evaluate and forecast the changing transportation
needs of the region and consider forward-thinking strategies to align RTD with how the region is moving
and will be moving in the future. The process will look at all elements of RTD.

Attachment: APAC Summary (4132 : Access-a-Ride/Cab 2019 4th Quarter Reports)

o

Reimagine RTD will include an extensive customer and stakeholder involvement process. Bruce Able has
been charged with keeping track of all public engagement efforts. APAC members can provide input and
keep up to date on the project at the Reimage project webpage: https://www.rtd-denver.com/reimagine.
If any urgent Access-a-Ride related elements arise during the Reimagine process, Larry will reach out to
APAC members directly.

Packet Pg. 239

1.C.5.e

Questions/Discussion/Input

Heard the process will look at balancing urban routes with greater revenue generation potential
and ensuring more rural routes are maintained.

Heard the process is looking at how RTD services can align with growing trends (numbers and
locations).
Other Updates or Concerns











New Recertification Alert System Testing – RTD will be testing a new method for alerting people to
recertified, and need APAC volunteers (will change their certification date to trigger the alert
system, then reset the certification date): Brenda, Krystin, John.
Certification Application accessibility – RTD is working to make the application more accessible,
downloadable, and/or able to fill out online and print. Applications must be submitted physically;
an application cannot be submitted electronically (neither online nor emailed) for HIPPA and
security reasons.
o Question: Will the application be available in braille?
Answer: Instructions and questions could be put in braille, but not the form.
Submitting concerns complaints online is now available.
Easter Seals now has an electronic payment method – call them directly and they will process a
credit card or debit card.
SUGGESTION: Enable payment via phone - debit or credit card.
o For now, payment is only paper - cash or paper ticket.
o RTD is getting ready to review the software system (contract ends in a couple years), to
evaluate what would be the best system for RTD - a new version of the existing or contract
a new software system and which one. Analysis of the appropriate software will include
ability for other payment options.
o An expensive upgrade (to allow payment options) to the existing system when the contract
is running out doesn’t make sense.
SUGGESTION: Put customer service phone number on all vehicles (they are not in new vehicles).
Concern: When the Board passes on hearing an Access-a-Ride report at Board meetings, they give
the impression that Access-a-Ride is not important.
o Access-a-Ride report is on the Board agenda four times a year; they are provided a written
report for review whether the report is given orally or not.

Attachment: APAC Summary (4132 : Access-a-Ride/Cab 2019 4th Quarter Reports)

V.

Packet Pg. 240

1.C.5.f

4,320

26,716

Passenger - Count

74,125
On time

2019 YTD - Q4
Passenger Count & Percentage
On time
0 to 15 min late
16 to 30 min late
31 to 60 min late
61+ min late

608,256
74,125
26,716
12,546
4,320
725,963

83.79%
10.21%
3.68%
1.73%
0.60%

0 - 15 min late
16 - 30 min late

608,256

31 - 60 min late

94.00%

61+ min late

2019 YTD - Q4
1.73%
3.68%

Passenger - Percentage
0.60%

10.21%
On time
0 - 15 min late
16 - 30 min late

83.79%

31 - 60 min late
61+ min late

Attachment: Q4 2019 OTP Chart (4132 : Access-a-Ride/Cab 2019 4th Quarter Reports)

2019 YTD - Q4

12,546

Packet Pg. 241

1.C.6

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Paul J. Ballard, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: March 4, 2020

From:

Fred Worthen, Assistant General Manager of
Bus Operations

GM

Date:

March 3, 2020

Board Meeting Date: March 10, 2020

Subject:

Special Services 4th Quarter 2019 Report

RTD’s FlexRide services are currently operated by Via Mobility, MV Transit and the Senior’s Resource
Center. With FlexRide bus divisions located in Boulder, Denver and Evergreen, our contract partners
provide FlexRide services to 23 distinct service areas throughout the RTD District. The performance for
Via Mobility, MV Transit and Senior’s Resource Center is measured on Ridership, Customer Contacts,
Preventable Vehicle Accidents and Productivity (boardings per service hour).
Customer contacts received were down compared with the same period in 2018 and overall for 2019.
Preventable Vehicle Accidents increased during the quarter and RTD saw an increase for the year in
comparison to 2018. Our contract partners continued to experience a decrease in ridership during this
period and the year. FlexRide staff continues to monitor low performing FlexRide services to help
increase ridership and productivity. A new FlexRide “Wagon Road/144th” began operating on November
11, 2019. The following is a more detailed discussion of the FlexRide contractor performance through
the 4th quarter of 2019.
Ridership
Total FlexRide ridership for 2019 was less than the prior year. Boardings in 2018 were 476,303 and
2019 were 453,506. Contributing to the decrease in ridership included the impact of low fuel prices,
which gives customers a low-cost alternative to using the FlexRide service.
Customer Contacts
FlexRide experienced a decrease in overall customer contacts through the 4th quarter 2019 compared to
2018.
Customer contacts are reviewed on a daily basis. Those contacts that are considered operator related
(within the operator’s control-driver behavior related) are monitored for trends and improvement.
Starting in the 2nd Quarter of 2018, customer contacts were further monitored for an “at fault” and “not
at fault” classification, based on the investigation and review of the contact.

At Fault
Not At Fault
Commendations
Contacts/100,000 Boardings (at fault)

2019
15
32
33
0.033

2018
35
71
47
0.073

At Fault contacts decreased by over 50% between 2019 and 2018 with a primary factor being a lower
operator turnover rate. The number of all other customer contacts received regarding FlexRide service
(requests for new service or a change in service which can include boundary changes, service day and
hours, web site issues, no return calls, etc.) are as follows:
2019: 436

Packet Pg. 242

1.C.6

2018: 419
Preventable Accidents
The preventable accident rate through the 4th quarter 2019 increased to 23 preventable accidents
compared to 15 preventable accidents during the same period in 2018. Contractors have continued to
retrain operators identified as being involved in accidents and have increased the number of “ride-alongs”
performed by operations specialists and training staff. RTD Safety and Training Compliance Officer has
been working with contractors and researching additional defensive driving refresher courses.
2019: 23
Preventable Vehicle Accidents: 1.66 per 100,000 miles
2018: 15
Preventable Vehicle Accidents: 1.10 per 100,000 miles
Productivity
A number of FlexRide areas continued to remain productive. Many of the FlexRides that serve business
parks and mixed residential areas that connect with the light rail (Arapahoe, Dry Creek, Meridian, North
Inverness, South Inverness and South Jeffco) or communities where residents regularly utilize the
service (Golden and Longmont). Staff continue to monitor FlexRides with low productivity and work
with the local municipalities and RTD Marketing to identify strategies for improving ridership. The
attached 2019 Special Services 4th Quarter Report provides the productivity numbers for each of the
FlexRides and some other special services for which RTD provides cost-share funding. The acceptable
level of productivity for FlexRide service continues to be 3.0 boardings per hour.

ATTACHMENTS:


Special Services Monthly Report 4th Qtr 2019

(XLSX)

Prepared by:
Brian Matthews, Manager, Special Services
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 243

1.C.6.a

Arapahoe FX - November 2006
Boardings/Weekday
Bdngs/Hour - Weekday
Belleview FX - January 2012
Boardings/Weekday
Bdngs/Hour - Weekday
Brighton FX - March 2000
Boardings/Weekday
Bdngs/Hour - Weekday
Boardings/WK Via* (School trips)
Bdngs/Hour - Wkdy Via*
Boardings combined/Weekday
Bdgs/Hour combined - Weekday
Broomfield FX - April 2001
Boardings/Weekday
Bdngs/Hour - Weekday
Dry Creek FX - November 2006
Boardings/Weekday
Bdngs/Hour - Weekday
Englewood Trolley- Sept 2004
Boardings/Weekday
Bdngs/Hour
Evergreen FX - March 2002
Boardings/Weekday
Bdngs/Hour - Weekday
Boardings/Saturday
Bdngs/Hour - Saturday
Federal Heights FX - January 2012
Boardings/Weekday
Bdngs/Hour - Weekday
Focus Points
Operates scheduled service
Bdngs/Hour
Golden FX - April 2013
Boardings/Weekday
Bdngs/Hour - Weekday
Boardings/Saturday
Bdngs/Hour - Saturday
Green Mountain FX - April 2013
Boardings - Weekday
Bdngs/Hour - Weekday

Average
2018

Average
2019

Jan

Feb.

Mar.

Apr.

May

Jun.

Jul.

Aug.

Sept.

Oct.

Nov.

Dec.

43.2
3.2

47.7
3.5

48.9
3.6

54.4
4.0

52.0
3.9

49.0
3.6

43.6
3.2

45.2
3.3

41.0
3.0

46.0
3.4

49.0
3.6

48.7
3.6

45.5
3.4

49.1
3.6

56.4
2.9

47.8
2.5

54.3
2.8

53.7
2.8

45.1
2.3

54.6
2.8

52.0
2.7

45.4
2.3

46.5
2.4

42.1
2.2

47.4
2.4

47.7
2.4

42.8
2.2

42.5
2.2

48.0
3.6
12.0
7.0
56.9
3.6

47.6
3.4
9.2
5.4
44.5
3.5

45.5
3.4
13.7
8.1
59.2
3.7

54.1
4.0
11.0
6.4
65.1
4.3

42.0
3.1
8.9
5.3
50.9
3.2

52.2
3.9
14.7
8.6
66.8
4.1

46.8
3.5
10.7
6.3
57.5
3.6

26.4
2.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
2.0

25.5
1.9
0.0
0.0
0.0
1.9

41.8
3.1
14.5
8.5
56.3
3.4

66.7
4.4
na
na
na
4.4

61.9
4.1
na
na
na
4.1

58.1
3.9
na
na
na
3.9

51.0
3.4
na
na
na
3.4

78.3
2.9

75.3
2.8

74.0
2.7

77.9
2.9

69.8
2.6

74.5
2.8

72.6
2.7

70.2
2.6

68.9
2.6

82.5
3.1

80.8
3.0

79.1
2.9

74.5
2.8

78.6
2.9

45.6
3.4

53.0
3.9

51.2
3.8

51.5
3.8

47.2
3.5

51.0
3.8

50.0
3.7

48.8
3.6

49.5
3.7

59.9
4.4

60.2
4.5

56.7
4.2

57.6
4.3

52.5
3.9

626.1
26.1

530.4
22.5

574.9
24.0

632.4
26.4

554.1
23.1

593.2
24.7

468.0
23.7

558.0
23.3

574.9
24.0

547.0
22.8

534.4
22.7

452.3
18.9

438.6
18.3

437.0
18.7

85.0
3.1
44.2
4.4

79.9
3.0
26.2
2.6

86.0
3.2
31.3
3.1

97.5
3.6
32.8
3.3

79.9
3.0
23.6
2.4

95.3
3.5
25.5
2.6

75.5
2.8
29.0
2.9

52.2
1.9
30.0
3.0

54.4
2.0
26.3
2.6

73.4
2.7
29.0
2.9

99.3
3.7
25.3
2.5

74.3
2.8
21.5
2.2

94.2
3.5
20.2
2.0

76.5
2.8
19.8
2.0

45.9
3.4

46.5
3.4

52.2
3.9

52.2
3.9

46.0
3.4

48.4
3.6

43.9
3.2

39.2
2.9

39.0
2.9

40.7
3.0

51.9
3.8

47.1
3.5

47.9
3.5

49.9
3.7

3.3

4.0

3.3

3.3

2.1

7.0

5.6

3.9

3.1

2.2

1.8

4.4

4.1

7.3

318.0
6.2
34.7
3.2

309.8
6.0
30.7
2.8

315.7
6.1
28.8
2.6

341.7
6.6
31.0
2.8

304.7
5.9
30.6
2.8

334.4
6.5
28.5
2.6

284.6
5.5
21.8
2.0

268.0
5.2
29.2
2.7

272.6
5.3
29.0
2.6

326.3
6.3
38.6
3.5

387.6
7.5
35.3
3.2

342.5
6.7
32.5
3.0

294.2
5.7
32.0
2.9

245.2
4.8
30.8
2.8

100.5
3.0

86.4
2.5

82.5
2.4

91.0
2.7

86.5
2.5

96.7
2.8

91.5
2.7

78.5
2.3

76.5
2.2

88.3
2.6

91.6
2.7

88.9
2.6

87.5
2.6

78.0
2.3

Page 1 of 3

Attachment: Special Services Monthly Report 4th Qtr 2019 (4127 : Special Services 4th Quarter 2019

2019 Special Services 4th Qtr Report

Packet Pg. 244

Average
HOP - October 1994
Boardings/Weekday
Bdngs/Hour - Weekday
Boardings/Saturday
Bdngs/Hour - Saturday
Boardings/Sunday
Bdngs/Hour - Sunday
Interlocken/Westmoor FX - April 2001
Boardings/Weekday
Bdngs/Hour - Weekday
Littleton S.Cart - 1988
Boardings/Weekday
Bdngs/Hour - Weekday
Boardings/Saturday
Bdngs/Hour - Saturday
Lone Tree FX - January 2004
Boardings/Weekday
Bdngs/Hour - Weekday
Longmont FX - February 2001
Boardings/Weekday
Bdngs/Hour - Weekday
Boardings/Saturday
Bdngs/Hour - Saturday
Boardings/Sunday
Bdngs/Hour - Sunday
Louisville FX - August 2000
Boardings/Weekday
Bdngs/Hour - Weekday
Meridian FX - November 2006
Boardings/Weekday
Bdngs/Hour - Weekday
N Inverness FX - November 2006
Boardings/Weekday
Bdngs/Hour - Weekday
Orchard FX - March 2006
Boardings/Weekday
Bdngs/Hour - Weekday
Parker FX - November 2006
Boardings/Weekday
Bdngs/Hour - Weekday
Platte Valley FX - August 2019
Boardings/Weekday
Bdngs/Hour - Weekday
S Inverness FX - November 2006
Boardings/Weekday
Bdngs/Hour - Weekday
S Jeffco FX - January 2012
Boardings/Weekday
Bdngs/Hour - Weekday
Boardings/Saturday
Bdngs/Hour - Saturday

Average

2572.0
22.6
945.0
18.0
616.6
17.1

Jan

Feb.

Mar.

Apr.

May

Jun.

Jul.

Aug.

Sept.

Oct.

Nov.

Dec.

see notes

45.7
2.8

34.3
2.1

33.0
2.0

32.3
2.0

30.1
1.8

34.5
2.1

28.7
1.7

32.3
2.0

35.6
2.2

30.4
1.8

36.8
2.2

35.8
2.2

40.2
2.4

41.9
2.5

26.0
4.3
22.9
7.6

21.7
3.6
17.0
5.7

22.0
3.7
20.3
6.8

19.6
3.3
14.5
4.8

22.6
3.8
13.8
4.6

22.1
3.7
21.0
7.0

21.6
3.6
18.5
6.2

24.4
4.1
18.8
6.3

23.5
3.9
14.8
4.9

22.5
3.8
18.0
6.0

21.0
3.5
15.5
5.2

19.1
3.2
14.0
4.7

18.9
3.2
21.6
7.2

23.1
3.9
13.8
4.6

37.3
2.8

33.6
2.5

37.7
2.8

34.5
2.6

32.2
2.4

35.4
2.6

37.3
2.8

33.7
2.5

36.5
2.7

32.1
2.4

30.8
2.3

29.1
2.2

30.0
2.2

34.0
2.5

136.5
3.2
25.2
2.8
24.2
2.7

135.3
3.7
24.3
2.7
22.8
2.5

162.0
3.6
23.0
2.6
20.0
2.2

171.5
3.8
27.5
3.1
23.3
2.6

141.9
3.2
22.8
2.5
22.8
2.5

162.6
3.6
20.8
2.3
27.0
3.0

155.3
3.5
24.8
2.8
20.2
2.2

94.5
2.3
23.6
2.6
31.6
3.5

78.2
2.6
25.5
2.8
23.4
2.6

113.3
3.7
24.0
2.7
24.8
2.8

157.6
5.2
25.5
2.8
19.8
2.2

142.7
4.7
24.5
2.7
20.8
2.3

127.5
4.2
24.6
2.7
19.2
2.1

116.2
3.8
25.3
2.8
21.2
2.4

35.0
2.1

36.0
2.2

29.5
1.8

29.2
1.8

28.3
1.7

34.4
2.1

36.3
2.2

32.1
1.9

36.8
2.2

37.8
2.3

42.7
2.6

45.5
2.8

39.9
2.4

39.8
2.4

134.4
6.4

119.6
5.7

131.4
6.3

132.6
6.3

119.7
5.7

114.5
5.5

112.4
5.4

104.9
5.0

105.7
5.0

110.5
5.3

100.9
4.8

139.0
6.6

133.0
6.3

130.3
6.2

192.2
7.5

160.3
6.3

169.5
6.6

163.9
6.4

143.9
5.6

147.8
5.8

151.8
6.0

170.7
6.7

171.4
6.7

171.5
6.7

167.9
6.6

160.2
6.3

151.7
5.9

153.3
6.0

67.0
3.4

59.7
3.1

60.7
3.1

61.1
3.1

60.7
3.1

57.7
3.0

61.8
3.2

54.5
2.8

58.3
3.0

59.0
3.0

58.6
3.0

68.6
3.5

58.0
3.0

57.5
2.9

33.8
2.7

33.4
2.7

31.5
2.5

32.4
2.6

32.0
2.6

34.0
2.7

38.8
3.1

33.6
2.7

35.7
2.9

36.3
2.9

33.5
2.7

32.4
2.6

31.8
2.5

28.8
2.3

N/A
N/A

27.5
2.3

28.0
2.3

30.4
2.5

31.0
2.6

21.1
1.8

26.9
2.2

76.8
3.9

71.2
3.6

83.3
4.3

80.5
4.1

77.3
4.0

77.0
3.9

71.9
3.7

64.7
3.3

62.6
3.2

66.0
3.4

70.2
3.6

73.3
3.8

64.4
3.3

63.0
3.2

137.3
3.0
31.7
2.3

144.0
3.2
34.0
2.4

146.5
3.2
38.8
2.8

148.0
3.3
37.8
2.7

133.3
2.9
29.6
2.1

142.5
3.1
30.8
2.2

136.4
3.0
34.8
2.5

137.1
3.0
32.2
2.3

129.2
2.9
31.8
2.3

154.9
3.4
34.2
2.4

158.4
3.5
42.0
3.0

160.5
3.5
35.5
2.5

146.0
3.2
28.6
2.0

135.6
3.0
31.8
2.3

Page 2 of 3

Attachment: Special Services Monthly Report 4th Qtr 2019 (4127 : Special Services 4th Quarter 2019

1.C.6.a

Packet Pg. 245

Average
Average
Jan
Feb.
Mar.
Apr.
May
Jun.
Jul.
Aug.
Senior Ride - 1977
Senior Ride Events
Psg/per hour
7.0
6.6
6.4
6.5
7.5
3.5
6.9
6.9
4.7
5.7
Senior Shopper
Psg/per hour
8.3
8.8
9.0
9.3
8.2
8.6
8.5
8.5
8.4
8.8
Superior FX - August 2016
Boardings/Weekday
50.6
39.6
41.1
45.7
38.3
30.5
34.5
41.2
48.8
38.5
Bdngs/Hour - Weekday
3.7
2.9
3.0
3.4
2.8
2.3
2.6
3.0
3.6
2.9
Thornton FX - Jan 2014
Boardings/Weekday
67.2
72.7
66.5
67.9
66.6
71.5
71.1
64.9
70.0
87.4
Bdngs/Hour - Weekday
2.5
2.7
2.5
2.5
2.5
2.6
2.6
2.4
2.6
3.2
Wagon Road/144th FX - Nov 2019
Boardings/Weekday
N/A
35.3
Bdngs/Hour - Weekday
N/A
1.4
Boardings/Saturday
N/A
24.3
Bdngs/Hour - Saturday
N/A
1.0
Boulder/Adams Counties 5311
Bdngs/Hour - Weekday
2.2
2.4
3.7
3.4
2.9
2.0
2.0
1.9
1.9
1.9
Jefferson County 5311
Bdngs/Hour - Weekday
1.9
1.9
1.9
2.2
1.9
1.9
1.9
1.8
1.8
1.8
* These numbers reflect passengers carried with the assistance of the Brighton Via Van. Effective Aug 2019 this additional service for school trips is payed by RTD.
** This number manually calculated due to computer issues.
5311 services are the rural services that RTD provides local match for FTA section 5311.Adams and Boulder Counties (Via) Jefferson County (Seniors' Resource Center).
Hop - Via Mobility has a new program for ridership and at this time they are making adjustments to get accurate numbers.
Platte Valley FX - Began service August 26, 2019. 5 days in August

Page 3 of 3

Sept.

Oct.

Nov.

Dec.

6.4

6.4

6.8

11.3

8.7

8.7

8.8

9.8

40.6
3.0

42.0
3.1

37.8
2.8

36.7
2.7

84.8
3.1

73.4
2.7

74.3
2.8

74.7
2.8

14 days

35.6
1.5
24.7
1.0

34.9
1.4
24.0
1.0

1.9

2.0

2.0

3.4

1.7

1.8

1.9

1.9

Attachment: Special Services Monthly Report 4th Qtr 2019 (4127 : Special Services 4th Quarter 2019

1.C.6.a

Packet Pg. 246

1.C.7

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Paul J. Ballard, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: March 4, 2020

From:

Fred Worthen, Assistant General Manager of
Bus Operations

GM

Date:

March 3, 2020

Board Meeting Date: March 10, 2020

Subject:

Contracted Fixed-Route Quarterly Report – 4th
Quarter 2019

Information

RTD currently provides 45% of its fixed route bus service via four contracted bus divisions operated by
First Transit and Transdev. With bus divisions located in Longmont, Denver, Commerce City and
Englewood, our contract partners provide fixed route bus service throughout the RTD District. The
performance for First Transit and Transdev is measured on the following performance indicators:
Preventable Vehicle Accidents per 100,000 miles, Passenger Accident Ratio per 100,000 miles, OnTime Preventive Maintenance Inspections, On-Time Performance, Miles Between Lost Service Road Calls
and Operator Complaints per Boarding.
Because of their commitment to excellence, dedicated corporate support and detailed problem solving,
First Transit and Transdev as a group, met all of the Board of Director adopted 2019 key performance
measures through the 4th quarter 2019. In the areas where our contract partners fell slightly short of
their individual goals, they implemented both procedural and staff changes which should result in
continuous improvement going into 2020. The following is a more detailed discussion of fixed route
contractor performance through the 4th quarter of 2019.


PREVENTABLE VEHICLE ACCIDENTS PER 100,000 MILES
The contractors, individually and as a group, met the target of ≤ 2.0 Preventable Vehicle
Accidents per 100,000 miles through the 4th quarter. First Transit and Transdev continue to
utilize bus operator monitoring technology and post-accident investigations for retraining of
operators. The contractors continue to emphasize safety with all employees at monthly safety
meetings, through periodic campaigns, and with daily reminders at their facilities and on the
street.



PASSENGER ACCIDENT RATIO PER 100,000 MILES
The contractors, individually and as a group, met the target of ≤ 0.18 Passenger Accidents per
100,000 miles through the 4th quarter. Of the 18 passenger accidents that occurred in 2019,
only one was classified as non-preventable. All of the bus operators involved in passenger
accidents were provided retraining on the proper procedures for addressing passenger safety.
First Transit and Transdev continue to raise awareness of passenger safety through campaigns
and safety meetings to reduce the number of passenger accidents per 100,000 miles.



ON-TIME PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE INSPECTIONS
The contractors, individually and as a group, met the target of 98% of Preventive Maintenance
Inspections completed as scheduled through the 4th quarter. Competitive Services staff will
continue to monitor the contractor operations to ensure PMIs are completed on-time.

Packet Pg. 247

1.C.7



ON-TIME PERFORMANCE
The contractors, as a group, met the target of 86% Local On-Time Service through the 4th
quarter. First Transit Commerce City (83.0%) did not meet the goal due in part to unexpected
detours and traffic. RTD and the private contractors continue to campaign routes and operators
with low on-time performance with a strong focus on first time point departures. On a monthly
basis contractors review the OTP report and meet with operators of low performing routes to
discuss factors that are impacting their ability to reach 86% on-time performance. Running time
issues are forwarded to RTD Service Planning and Scheduling for review.
The contractors will continue to address on-time performance issues with operators, but always
tie safety to the discussion. It’s better to be a few minutes late than to have an accident.



MILES BETWEEN LOST SERVICE ROAD CALLS
The contractors, as a group, exceeded the target of 30,000 Miles Between Lost Service
Maintenance Road Calls through the 4th quarter. First Transit Longmont did not meet the goal
during the 4th quarter. Deficiencies were identified in First Transit Longmont’s Preventive
Maintenance Inspection (PMI) and Quality Control (QC) practices. Revised procedures have been
implemented and First Transit Longmont continues to work to address these issues. While First
Transit Longmont did not meet the goal for 4th Quarter, Miles Between Lost Service Maintenance
Road Calls were at 45,527 for the month of December. Competitive Services staff will continue
to monitor the contractor operations to ensure this goal is being addressed by completing
preventive maintenance inspections on-time, working off defects in a timely manner, monitoring
repeat issues, providing additional training for mechanics, and taking a pro-active approach to
maintaining the buses in their fleet.



OPERATOR COMPLAINTS PER BOARDING
The contractors, individually and as a group, met the target of .0004 Complaints per Boarding in
the 4th quarter. The contractors continue to investigate and address customer complaints with
operators. The contractors utilize onboard video surveillance as a coaching tool to assist
operators in improving customer interactions. In addition, the steps noted above regarding ontime performance should help address some customer complaints. The contractors also continue
to address complaint trends with all operators at monthly safety meetings.
The contractors continue to take a variety of actions over and above contract requirements to
address their operator hiring/retention challenges which include hiring bonuses, wage increases,
incentives to take on additional work, employing a full-time recruiter, and mentoring programs.

ATTACHMENTS:


Quarterly Performance Stats 2019



CS Monitoring Summary Report Q4 2019 (PDF)

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Erin Vallejos, Manager of Competitive Services
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 248

1.C.7

Packet Pg. 249

1.C.7.a

2019

PREVENTABLE VEHICLE ACCIDENTS PER 100,000 MILES
First Transit Commerce City
Transdev
First Transit Denver
First Transit Longmont
Total all Contractors
Total RTD

2019 GOAL
≤2.0
≤2.0
≤2.0
≤2.0
≤2.0
≤2.0

1ST
QUARTER
1.32
0.86
2.12
1.02
1.36
1.50

2ND
QUARTER
1.22
0.78
2.11
0.73
1.25
1.50

3RD
QUARTER
1.08
0.82
1.85
0.73
1.16
1.50

4TH
QUARTER
1.15
0.81
1.99
0.77
1.22
1.50

PASSENGER ACCIDENT RATIO PER 100,000 MILES
First Transit Commerce City
Transdev
First Transit Denver
First Transit Longmont
Total all Contractors
Total RTD

2019 GOAL
≤0.18
≤0.18
≤0.18
≤0.18
≤0.18
≤0.18

1ST
QUARTER
0.08
0.31
0.00
0.15
0.14
0.12

2ND
QUARTER
0.04
0.19
0.08
0.07
0.10
0.11

3RD
QUARTER
0.03
0.18
0.08
0.10
0.10
0.10

4TH
QUARTER
0.08
0.15
0.08
0.07
0.10
0.10

ON‐TIME PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE INSPECTIONS
First Transit Commerce City
Transdev
First Transit Denver
First Transit Longmont
Total all Contractors
Total RTD

2019 GOAL
98%
98%
98%
98%
98%
98%

1ST
QUARTER
99.5%
100.0%
100.0%
99.1%
99.7%
96.7%

2ND
QUARTER
99.8%
100.0%
100.0%
98.7%
99.7%
96.0%

3RD
QUARTER
99.7%
99.8%
100.0%
99.1%
99.7%
98.0%

4TH
QUARTER
99.6%
99.9%
100.0%
99.3%
99.8%
96.3%

ON‐TIME PERFORMANCE
First Transit Commerce City
Transdev
First Transit Denver
First Transit Longmont
Total all Contractors
Total RTD

2019 GOAL
86.0%
86.0%
86.0%
86.0%
86.0%
86.0%

1ST
QUARTER
86.1%
89.2%
88.3%
90.5%
88.6%
87.2%

2ND
QUARTER
85.4%
88.2%
88.4%
90.1%
87.3%
88.4%

3RD
QUARTER
83.7%
87.9%
87.1%
89.1%
87.0%
86.3%

4TH
QUARTER
83.0%
87.5%
86.4%
88.7%
86.4%
86.3%

MILES BETWEEN LOST SERVICE ROAD CALLS
First Transit Commerce City
Transdev
First Transit Denver
First Transit Longmont
Total all Contractors
Total RTD

2019 GOAL
30,000
30,000
30,000
30,000
30,000
30,000

1ST
QUARTER
31,899
43,923
38,066
34,279
36,877
36,899

2ND
QUARTER
32,463
46,010
35,332
27,459
35,277
36,358

3RD
QUARTER
35,770
40,419
38,013
25,891
35,439
35,318

4TH
QUARTER
37,754
39,452
37,300
25,522
35,451
32,034

OPERATOR COMPLAINTS PER BOARDING
First Transit Commerce City
Transdev
First Transit Denver
First Transit Longmont
Total all Contractors
Total RTD

2019 GOAL
0.0004
0.0004
0.0004
0.0004
0.0004
0.0004

1ST
QUARTER
0.0004
0.0003
0.0003
0.0002
0.0003

2ND
QUARTER
0.0004
0.0003
0.0003
0.0002
0.0003

3RD
QUARTER
0.0004
0.0003
0.0003
0.0003
0.0004

4TH
QUARTER
0.0004
0.0003
0.0003
0.0003
0.0004

Attachment: Quarterly Performance Stats 2019 (4128 : Contracted Fixed-Route Quarterly Report – 4th Quarter 2019)

PRIVATE CONTRACTOR PERFORMANCE MEASURES

Packet Pg. 250

1.C.7.b

4th Quarter Year to Date 2019

Monitoring Activity

Quantity Reviewed

Compliance

Accident/Incident Report within 72 hours

1016

98%

Bus Interior Inspections

730

100%

Classroom Training

N/A

N/A

Customer Complaint Video Review

200

88%

Customer Complaint Response

7652

95%

DOT Hours Review

2425

96%

New Hire File Review

232

92%

Instructor Evaluations

2

100%

Training File Review

230

96%

Annual File Review

117

62%1

Pullout Inspections

4

100%

Safety Meetings

36

100%

Site Check

97

100%

Undercover Ridechecks

110

100%

1 Annual File review compliance improved from 39% in 2018.

Changes in personnel responsibilities were made at under-performing location.
Competitive Services staff continue to work with Contractor Management to resolve all remaining discrepancies. Out of compliance
observations included: MVRs not pulled within required timeframe for medical card renewals (within 15 days of renewal) and not showing
updated medical card information; annual list of violations review process not properly followed (MVR pull must occur after violations review);
missing outside employment, annual skill evaluation and annual list of violation forms; MVRs not pulled every six months; incorrect medical
card examiner verifications.

Attachment: CS Monitoring Summary Report Q4 2019 (4128 : Contracted Fixed-Route Quarterly Report – 4th Quarter 2019)

COMPETITIVE SERVICES MONITORING SUMMARY REPORT

Packet Pg. 251

1.C.8

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Paul J. Ballard, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: March 4, 2020

From:

Fred Worthen, Assistant General Manager of
Bus Operations

GM

Date:

March 3, 2020

Board Meeting Date: March 10, 2020

Subject:

Customer Comment Analysis - 4th Quarter
2019

Information

Customer comments through the 4th Quarter of 2019 for both RTD and the private contractors showed
improvement over the same period in 2018. The total number of operator-related comments for the
District as a whole for the 4th Quarter of 2019 was 16,534. The total number for the same period in
2018 was 18,768. Specific customer comment categories showing improvement in 2019 include “Bus
Did Not Show,” “Bus Early,” “Bus Late,” “Discrimination,” “Fare Dispute,” “Improper
Procedure/Operator,” and “Passed Up Passenger At Stop.” The customer comment categories of
“Careless Driving/Operator,” and “Discourtesy/Operator” showed increases over 2018. RTD and the
private contractors review customer comments on a daily basis and implement corrective action as
needed to address deficiencies and improve performance.
Recapped below is an analysis of the customer comment trends through the 4th Quarter of 2019. Also
included is a comparison of customer comment data for the same period in 2018.
RTD staff, as well as the private contractors, monitor and address customer comments on a daily basis.
RTD and the private contractors investigate all customer comments using a variety of tools, including
CAD/AVL “flashbacks” and video review and address/discipline operators as needed. Many times the
results of the investigation reveal that the comment is not supported by factual data. Some of the
reasons for the “Not Valid” classification include the following:









Bus was on time (between 1 min early to 5 min late) per “flashback”
Operator followed proper procedure
Passenger presented insufficient fare
Passenger had no proof of eligibility for a discounted fare
Passenger presented an expired transfer
Passenger presented a counterfeit pass
Buses were running late District-wide due to weather
There was no video evidence to support the comment

RTD and the private contractors continue to work collectively in a variety of different areas to address
customer comments.



Bus routes with poor on-time performance are monitored by both RTD and private contractor
personnel to determine if the problem is related to the operator, running time of the route, or
other circumstances such as construction and detours.
Meetings are held on a monthly basis with contractor and RTD personnel to discuss challenges,
solutions and best practices in the areas of bus maintenance, operations, safety and training.

Packet Pg. 252

1.C.8









RTD conducts refresher training for all operators on an annual basis, and a component of the
training is customer service. The private contractors conduct mandatory monthly safety meetings
wherein they discuss customer service issues and provide suggestions for improving passenger
interactions.
RTD and private contractor trainers spend time at Civic Center Station and Denver Union Station
the first week of each runboard to provide assistance to operators who may need some
refreshers on station procedures or have questions on their routes.
RTD has also reached out to the disability community (Colorado Cross Disability Coalition,
Colorado School of the Blind, Atlantis, DRMAC Transit Accessibility Task Force, RTD Advisory
Committee for People with Disabilities-ACPD) to get feedback on ways to improve RTD service
for passengers with disabilities.
Operators are recognized for the good customer service they provide. Operating Divisions post
commendations on a bulletin board in the drivers’ room and some provide additional means of
recognition.
Trends in customer service challenges are also addressed through bulletins, campaigns, and other
communications to ensure that RTD and Contractor employees are aware of our customers’
concerns.

Historically, and in 2019, the following comment categories generated the highest number of customer
comments:








Bus Did Not Show
Bus Early
Bus Late
Careless Driving/Operator
Discourtesy/Operator
Improper Procedure by Operator
Passed Up Passenger at Stop

All of these comment categories are what RTD considers “operator related” and are included in the
comment numbers that are tracked and reported to the Board of Directors on the Quarterly Performance
Report.
The high comment categories are routinely reviewed to determine the factors, both internal and external,
that are impacting the number of comments. The input received from both RTD and private contractor
operations is noted below:
Bus Did Not Show – 4th Quarter 2019: Comments in this category significantly decreased by 47.2%
compared to the same period in 2018. “Flashbacks” for “bus did not show” comments often show
buses running late. The YTD average in this category for 2019 is 3.90 comments per day. The
comparable number for 2018 was 7.39 comments per day.
Bus Early – 4th Quarter 2019: Comments in this category decreased 19.8% compared to the same
period in 2018. “Flashbacks” for “bus early” comments often show buses running late. It is possible
passengers see the prior bus running late and will assume it is their bus running early. Operators are
addressed whenever the CAD/AVL playback confirms that the bus was running ahead of schedule. The
YTD average in this category for 2019 is 3.65 comments per day. The comparable number for 2018
was 4.55 comments per day.

Packet Pg. 253

1.C.8

Bus Late – 4th Quarter 2019: Comments in this category decreased 13.2% compared to the same
period in 2018. Improving on-time performance continues to be a challenge for a variety of reasons
including construction, traffic and heavy ridership delays. Running time issues are continually reviewed
by RTD Service Planning and Scheduling. The YTD average in this category for 2019 is 7.08 comments
per day. The comparable number for 2018 was 8.15 comments per day.
Careless Driving/Operator – 4th Quarter 2019: Comments in this category increased 11.8% compared
to the same period in 2018. On a regular basis, video recordings are reviewed and undercover ride
checks are performed to determine if operators are driving in an unsafe or inappropriate manner. In
addition, RTD and the private contractors have “G-Force Activated” event-recording systems (Drive
Cam, Smart Drive) installed on the buses. These incidents are also reviewed on a daily basis. Operators
continue to be counseled and retrained, as needed, to improve driving performance. Also, periodic
safety campaigns are conducted to reinforce safe driving habits. The YTD average in this category for
2019 is 3.96 comments per day. The comparable number for 2018 was 3.55 comments per day.
Discourtesy/Operator – 4th Quarter 2019: Comments in this category increased 12.8% compared to
the same period in 2018. In the majority of cases, video evidence confirms that the operator followed
proper procedures and treated the customer with respect. In many cases, operators are shown
enforcing or explaining policies (requesting proper fare payment, requesting space in the priority seating
area, addressing inappropriate behavior) in a polite and respectful manner and the passengers react in a
negative manner. Operators are counseled and disciplined appropriately if video evidence confirms that
they treated passengers in a discourteous or inappropriate manner. Operators are also given suggestions
for handling similar situations in the future. The YTD average in this category for 2019 is 8.75
comments per day. The comparable number for 2018 was 7.75 comments per day.
Discrimination – 4th Quarter 2019: Comments in this category decreased 31.4% compared to the same
period in 2018. Investigation into discrimination-related comments usually shows the operator not at
fault. The YTD average in this category for 2019 is 0.20 comments per day. The comparable number
for 2018 was 0.29 comments per day.
Fare Dispute – 4th Quarter 2019: Comments in this category decreased 4.7% compared to the same
period in 2018. Investigations into “fare dispute” comments often show that passengers presented an
improper/incomplete fare and are not happy with the operators’ enforcement of the fare policies. The
YTD average in this category for 2019 is 1.00 comments per day. The comparable number for 2018
was 1.05 comments per day.
Improper Procedure/Operator – 4th Quarter 2019: Comments in this category decreased 12.5%
compared to the same period in 2018. RTD and private contractor training and operations personnel
meet on a regular basis to ensure all operators are receiving consistent and up-to-date information. In
addition, the on-going refresher training provided to RTD operators and the monthly safety meetings held
at the private contractor divisions provide operators with information about accommodating the needs of
RTD passengers to the best of their abilities. In cases where video evidence shows operators are not
following proper procedures, appropriate coaching activities are taken. The YTD average in this category
for 2019 is 5.76 comments per day. The comparable number for 2018 was 6.58 comments per day.
Incorrect Info/Operator – 4th Quarter 2019: Comments in this category decreased by 2.4% compared
to the same period in 2018. The combined efforts of the General Superintendent of Transportation,
Operations Managers, the Bus Operator Training teams, Street Supervisors and Dispatchers continue to
provide operators with up-to-date information to answer customer questions and address customer
concerns. Although RTD and the private contractors have seen an influx of new operators, their impact

Packet Pg. 254

1.C.8

on this category is minimal, thanks to annual refresher training, assistance from Street Supervisors and
trainers, and improved communication. The YTD average in this category for 2019 is 0.33 comments
per day. The comparable number for 2018 was 0.34 comments per day.
Passed Up Passenger At Stop – 4th Quarter 2019: Comments in this category decreased 9.4%
compared to the same period in 2018. In many cases, “flashbacks” for these comments will confirm
buses are on route and either on time or running late. It is possible the passenger was not directly at the
stop when the bus arrived. Many comments indicate the passenger was running to the stop as the bus
passed. Operators are reminded to stay vigilant and watch for passengers that may not be waiting
directly at the bus stop. In addition, operators are directed to contact RTD Dispatch whenever a
passenger is passed up due to the bus being full. The number of “Pass Up” comments from passengers
with disabilities and/or those using mobility aids represents a small number of the total “Pass Up”
comments (209 of the total 3,893 = 5.37%). Information regarding overcrowded routes is forwarded
to the Service Planning & Scheduling Department for review and adjusted, as needed, as resources will
allow. The YTD average in this category for 2019 is 10.67 comments per day. The comparable number
for 2018 was 11.77 comments per day.

Packet Pg. 255

1.C.8

Top Comment Categories

Bus Did Not Show
Avg per day
2019 % change

QTR 4
2019
1,424
3.90

Bus Early

1,332
3.65

Avg per day
2019 % change
Bus Late
Avg per day
2019 % change
Careless Driving/Operator
Avg per day
2019 % change
Discourtesy/Operator
Avg per day
2019 % change
Discrimination
Avg per day
2019 % change
Fare Dispute
Avg per day
2019 % change
Improper Procedure/Operator
Avg per day
2019 % change
Incorrect Info/Operator
Avg per day
2019 % change
Passed Up Passenger At Stop
Avg per day
2019 % change
TOTAL
Avg per day
2019 % change
RIDERSHIP*

2,584
7.08
1,447
3.96
3,193
8.75
72
0.20
365
1.00
2,103
5.76
121
0.33
3,893
10.67
16,534
45.30
55,705,420

QTR 4
2018
2,696
7.39
-47.18%
1,661
4.55
-19.81%
2,976
8.15
-13.17%
1,294
3.55
11.82%
2,830
7.75
12.83%
105
0.29
-31.43%
383
1.05
-4.70%
2,403
6.58
-12.48%
124
0.34
-2.42%
4,296
11.77
-9.38%
18,768
51.42
-11.90%
52,247,506

QTR 4
2017
2,735
7.49
-47.93%
1,705
4.67
-21.88%
3,008
8.24
-14.10%
1,365
3.74
6.01%
2,801
7.67
14.00%
99
0.27
-27.27%
430
1.18
-15.12%
2,354
6.45
-10.66%
127
0.35
-4.72%
4,050
11.10
-3.88%
18,674
51.16
-11.46%
51,215,869

QTR 4
2016
2,584
7.06
-44.9%
1,867
5.10
-28.7%
3,859
10.54
-33.0%
1,489
4.07
-2.8%
3,774
10.31
-15.4%
91
0.25
-20.9%
462
1.26
-21.0%
2,987
8.16
-29.6%
192
0.52
-37.0%
4,349
11.88
-10.5%
21,654
59.16
-23.6%
58,334,536

QTR 4
2015
2,200
6.03
-35.3%
2,016
5.52
-33.9%
4,609
12.63
-43.9%
1,871
5.13
-22.7%
4,234
11.60
-24.6%
118
0.32
-39.0%
396
1.08
-7.8%
2,968
8.13
-29.1%
159
0.44
-23.9%
4,248
11.64
-8.4%
22,819
62.52
-27.5%
5,525,990

*prior to 2019 ridership only included local routes

Packet Pg. 256

1.C.8

Prepared by:
Erin Vallejos, Manager of Competitive Services
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 257

1.C.9

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Paul J. Ballard, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: March 4, 2020

From:

Fred Worthen, Assistant General Manager of
Bus Operations

GM

Date:

March 3, 2020

Board Meeting Date: March 10, 2020

Subject:

Drug & Alcohol Compliance Monitoring Report 4th Quarter 2019

Information

In compliance with the Recommendation included in the Performance Audit of the RTD conducted in
2015 on behalf of the State of Colorado, the following is a summary of the monitoring activities
completed by RTD Drug & Alcohol compliance personnel through the 4th Quarter of 2019. These
statistics represent the verification of records reviewed for the private contractor operations.
Number of files reviewed:

3057

Percentage of records in compliance with requirements:

99.8%

All documents pertaining to testing are reviewed every quarter. Once exceptions are noted, RTD staff
returns to the contractor location to ensure that missing documentation has been obtained. Any
exceptions not addressed are noted and reviewed during the next visit to ensure exceptions have been
corrected.
Scheduled visits for the contractors are no less than quarterly and on-going on an as-needed basis. This
audit schedule was implemented in March of 2016.

Prepared by:
Edin Memic, Manager, Substance Abuse/Office Services
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 258

1.C.10

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Paul J. Ballard, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: March 4, 2020

From:

Bob Grado, Chief of Police & Emergency
Management

GM

Date:

March 4, 2020

Board Meeting Date: March 10, 2020

Subject:

Security Statistics & Fare Inspection Summary

Information

ATTACHMENTS:


Board of Director 4th Quarter Report 2019 (PDF)

Prepared by:
Steve Martingano, Transit Police Commander, Fare Enforcement Ops.
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 259

Quarterly Board of Directors Report

1.C.10.a

Security Statistics & Fare Inspection Summary
Fourth Quarter ~ October 1, 2019 through December 31, 2019

Fare inspectors, security officers, street supervisors, and police officers, conduct fare inspection on-board buses
and light rail vehicles. RTD’s policy is to provide a warning to first time offenders and then to issue a citation if
that person is contacted a second time without fare. The chart below shows the actual number of patrons
without fare that resulted in warnings or citations. The variation in numbers from month to month may be due
to several factors, including special events or other security security-related incidents.

On-Board Enforcement
Transit security officers are assigned to Light Rail and Commuter Rail to check for proper fare and to provide
security. The table below shows how many patrons were contacted for the quarter and the percentage of
patrons that did not present valid fare.

Light Rail
4th Quarter
Yearly Total
Patrons Checked
430,664
1,938,483
Patrons Without Fare
6,685
35,865
Percentage of Evasion
1.55%
1.85%
Commuter Rail
4th Quarter
Yearly Total
Patrons Checked
1,829,537
6,289,977
Patrons Without Fare
1,281
4,523
Percentage of Evasion
0.07%
0.07%
Totals
4th Quarter
Yearly Total
Patrons Checked
2,260,181
8,228,440
Patrons Without Fare
7,966
40,388
Percentage of Evasion
0.35%
0.49%

Attachment: Board of Director 4th Quarter Report 2019 (4133 : Security Statistics & Fare Inspection Summary)

Fare Enforcement Statistics

Packet Pg. 260

1.C.10.a

Prepared by Steve Martingano
Deputy Chief RTD Transit Police

Plain Clothes Police Officer Fare Inspection

Light Rail Operations
The below chart shows the plain clothes police fare enforcement observations for light rail. There is a slightly
higher fare evasion rate observed by the plain-clothes program than for the rail station sweeps and bus
enforcement because of the following factors:
Plain-clothes police officers do not have a deterrence factor as uniformed officers, thus they inherently
find more violations of fare evasion.
Month
October
November
December

Boardings Observed
No Fare/ Partial Fare
Warnings
Citations
3,953
125
121
3,622
96
96
3,287
81
81

4
0
0

% of Evasion Arrests*
3.20%
6
2.70%
1
2.50%
9

Attachment: Board of Director 4th Quarter Report 2019 (4133 : Security Statistics & Fare Inspection Summary)

Police Officers are placed on bus and rail vehicles that have been identified by operators, supervisors, dispatch
logs and patrons as having a high perception of fare evasion, fare disputes or other problems.

Packet Pg. 261

