March 10, 2020
Operations & Customer Service Committee
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
[GAVEL POUNDS]
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. Thank you for joining us this evening. This is the Bus
Operations and Customer Service Committee meeting. We're going to come to order. The official
meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are digitally recorded and will be captioned and made
available to the public via the board's websites.
At RTD, safety is one of our core values. I'd like to begin this meeting with a customary safety
moment. And then we're going to have an addendum based on where we are today. If we have a
medical emergency and 911 needs to be called, I will ask our RTD General Counsel to make that
telephone call.
Any medically trained individuals in the room are respectfully requested to assist. If needed, an
automatic emergency defibrillator, also known more simply as an AED, is in a glass case located
just outside this room on the wall to the right.
In the event that we must all evacuate the building for fire or any other emergency, please calmly
exit out the door you came in at the back of the room, go up the stairs to the first floor, around the
security desk, and exit through the front doors. Police and security officers will be there to direct
you to a safe meet-up area.
Anyone needing special assistance in the event of an evacuation will be assisted by RTD staff as
necessary. While RTD takes every precaution to ensure the safety of its passengers, vehicles, and
facilities, the agency also relies on staff and the general public to be aware of and alert to any
suspicious or dangerous activity on buses, trains, and around station stops and platforms.
As such, I would encourage all RTD employees and patrons to download the RTD Transit Watch
app, which allows users to report suspicious or dangerous activity and communicate directly with
RTD transit security personnel on a real-time basis in the event of an emergency situation. The
Transit Watch app is available via Google Play and the Apple App Store.
I would also like to add a brief addendum to our customary safety moment. As we all learn to deal
with the new realities of the presence of the COVID-19 virus in Colorado, it's important to
recognize that there are effective measures that you can take to keep yourself safe and to stop the
spread of viruses, not just the COVID-19 virus, while you are in a public setting.
Number one, avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands. Cover your cough
or sneeze with a tissue. Then throw the tissue in the trash. If you don't have a tissue, please cough
or sneeze into your upper sleeve or elbow, not into your hands.

Avoid close contact with people who are sick. Stay home when you're sick. This applies to
directors. We should all go home now. I'm feeling-[LAUGHTER]
This applies to directors as well as staff and members of the public. If you'd like to call in to listen
to a meeting, we do have that set up. The number is 303-299-2663. And the ID number that will
be requested from you is 15120.
If you're worried you're missing something, don't panic. The minutes from tonight's meeting and
all official meetings of the Board are available on the Board's website often as soon as the day
after the meeting. Thank you to our competent staff.
You should also clean and disinfect frequently used surfaces, both at home and at work. If soap
and water aren't available, use hand sanitizer, the concentration of at least 60% ethyl alcohol. It
will tell you that on the bottle. Hand sanitizer is located just outside of this room to the left of the
boardroom doors as you entered this evening.
And that all said, washing your hands is one of the most effective ways to prevent the spread of
germs. Be sure to lather each and every part of your hands, and scrub for at least 20 seconds. 30
seconds is even better. As they say in my church, wash your hands and say your prayers because
Jesus and germs are everywhere.
[LAUGHTER]
On that note, as soon as I get through all of these papers that are on my desk, I will find the agenda
for this meeting, and we will begin our formal meeting sometime today. The first items-- oh, I
think that we may have other things. If there are other people who have to speak-- because once
we get rolling on bus ops and customer service, we have a bunch of stuff to look at. So if there's
anybody who needs to say something beforehand, please-- Chair, we would love to have you speak.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. As you know, the Board and the staff
had a retreat this weekend that was really, really good. And I think it was great conversation, and
we learned a lot about each other and about our vision and our mission as we're moving forward.
But one of the things that came through was how we conduct meetings. And I just wanted to state
for the record that as we are voting from this point on, to vote yes or no. But if you do abstain, you
need to for the record state what your abstention is. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you, Madam Chair. OK. So we're going
to move on. We have-SHONTEL LEWIS: I have a comment.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm sorry, Director Lewis.

SHONTEL LEWIS: I may have missed that at the retreat. I don't recall us agreeing to that protocol.
Can you remind me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, it is part of the Robert's Rule of Order. And in fact, when I
went back and looked at it and we started talking about communications, that was one of the things
that came up as I was reading. So as Chair, I was asking if I could state that for the record from
this point on. And it has always been actually the policy or just the procedure of RTD for as long
as I can remember. If you vote yes or no, that's one thing. But if you abstain, you do have to state
the reason for the abstention.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Can you clarify, Jenifer?
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: I'll have to look at that and get back to you at a break on that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Anybody else? OK, and I'm going to make a little slight deviation from the
agenda as it stands. Under recommended actions, we have the May 2020 recommended service
changes, which I think we have a bunch of presentations on.
And we also have a remote participation in meetings during emergencies. And I'd like to do that
one first so that we can then move into the actual meat of the meeting. Is that OK? Can I
procedurally make that swap? Yes. OK, cool.
DOUG TISDALE: No objection.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. No objections, going once, going twice. OK, cool. This is a
recommended action that supports the following agency goals-- core goal number one, strong and
ethical leadership; task goal number four, strengthen safety and security. And I'm going to read
this resolution into the record.
Remote participation in meetings during emergencies. Whereas a disease outbreak related to the
spread of a novel coronavirus reached the United States in February 2020, and whereas state and
federal agencies are mobilizing efforts to respond to the disease and those efforts are continually
evolving, and whereas members of the RTD staff have begun to prepare for the agency's own swift
and agile response to the threat of the disease, should it appear in the state of Colorado, in order to
continue to meet our constituents' public transit needs to the greatest extent possible, and whereas
safety is RTD's core value, and since a policy of social distancing is among the chief strategies to
combat the spread of the coronavirus disease, it is in the interest of the agency and the well-being
of the public, the staff, and the directors themselves to conduct Board meetings and special Board
meetings telephonically or via other electronic means.
And whereas other emergency situations may arise in the future that could impair the Board's
ability to congregate in a single location in order to conduct critical business, and whereas currently
the Board bylaws expressly permit electronic participation in committee meetings by speaker
phone or other similar electronic means by which all participants can hear and speak with each

other, and whereas the bylaws are currently silent on the directors' ability to participate
electronically during Board meetings or special Board meetings, now be it resolved that the Board
of Directors hereby authorizes the Chair of the Board to determine in the Chair's sole discretion
that the contact of a Board meeting or special Board meeting telephonically or via other electronic
means is in the interests of safety, public health, and the continuity of operations, so long as either
RTD has activated its continuity of operations plan in response to a perceived threat or the governor
has declared that a disaster emergency exists in the state of Colorado where emergency could
threaten the health, safety, or welfare of persons physically attending meetings of the Board.
There's more.
For a Board meeting or Special Board meeting to be conducted telephonically or by other
electronic means the following protocols will be observed. The Board office will continue to
publish any Board meeting or special Board meeting agenda as closely as possible to the currently
established time frame for the distribution of meeting materials. In no event shall the Board office
publish an agenda less than 24 hours prior to the meeting.
The public agency will cite the location of the meeting. If the meeting is to be conducted
telephonically, the telephone number and conference ID must be provided. If the meeting is to be
conducted via electronic means, a URL for the meeting will be provided.
Directors attending the meeting remotely may participate and vote telephonically, so long as a
quorum has been established. The board office will audio record the meeting to the extent possible,
recognizing that video recording of meetings conducted either outside of the RTD administrative
offices located at 1660 Blake Street or via web-based means may not be possible due to
circumstances.
To the greatest extent possible, directors participating remotely should contact staff and other
directors in advance of the meeting with any questions or comments. And finally, all votes will be
conducted via roll call, rather than by electronic means.
Upon the deactivation of the continuity of operations plan or the declaration by the governor that
the emergency situation has abated, as applicable, Board meetings and special Board meetings will
once again be held at the Board's primary business office or such other physical location in the
district as the Board may designate. And directors must once again be physically present at such
meetings in order to vote.
It is the intent of the Board that any meetings of the Board conducted telephonically or via other
electronic means must comply with all applicable provisions of Colorado law, including the Open
Meetings Law, 24-6-401 and 24-6-402 Colorado Revised Statutes, as those provisions pertain to
the district, as well as with the Board bylaws and the Board Operating Guidelines.
Nothing in this resolution is intended to permit directors to participate remotely in an executive
session held during a Board meeting or a special Board meeting conducted telephonically or by
other electronic means unless the Board votes separately to allow such participation. I'd like to see
that we can have a motion to pass and approve this.

DOUG TISDALE: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: I got-TROY WHITMORE: Second
KATE WILLIAMS: I got-- I'm taking Director Tisdale because he's loud and Director Whitmore
because he's close. So we have a second and a movement. And does anybody want to propose any
changes, speak to the issue? Seeing none, can we vote?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, I'm sorry. Dr. Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I don't have any proposed changes. But there are parts of this resolution
that conflict with Senate Bill 151. I don't know if we need to address that this time or if we can
come back at a later date and amend this if that bill were to pass unamended or at least for those
conflicting sections in there.
Specifically, it requires us to have a meeting every month. And it also requires us to make
allowance for members to be able to attend a meeting and vote if they are sick or if they are ill
during that meeting. And this doesn't seem to make that provision.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK
JEFF WALKER: That's all. It's just an observation. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. I believe Dr. Tisdale's next.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just another observation, I want it clearly
understood for the sake of the record that this is not an amendment to the bylaws. It is simply a
statement of policy and authority given to the Chair for purposes of doing this.
Were it an amendment to the bylaws, it would have to reflect where it goes, and it would have to
have 10 votes and so forth. But I think it is clearly understood it is not an amendment to the bylaws.
And I think that helps address the concern that Director Walker has brought up concerning this
matter. Thank you, ma'am.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I think I saw on TV today the governor declared an emergency.
So does that mean that this is now in effect?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]

KATE WILLIAMS: My understanding from having read this before-- I had to read it here-- was
that it allows the Chair to make that declaration in this situation. Yes, it does not automatically put
this into effect. It's a resolution that allows the Chair of the Board of Directors to call to this.
Jenifer, am I correct there?
BOB BROOM: OK, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Anybody else? And in as much as it's a resolution that asks all of us to
participate, I believe that we need to vote on that now. So-- oh, Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Madam Chair, thank you. You asked a question to our counsel, and she
responded to you nonverbally. So could you for the record please state what she responded?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Yes, I did ask if it was a resolution and if it allowed the Chair to
make that distinction not to automatically happen. And she did indicate nonverbally-- thank you
so much-- that her answer was yes. Do you want to put that on the record, Counselor?
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: Yeah. This is Jenifer Ross-Amato. I apologize, Director Folska. I was
trying to not interfere as much as possible. But yes, this resolution allows the Chair the discretion
to take these measures as necessary.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that clarification. All right, I believe we are going to move to
a vote. The movement mover was Director Tisdale, and the second was Director Whitmore. And
if everybody else would please vote.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, the motion is carried. It looks like we are unanimous. We have a
unanimous vote?
TROY WHITMORE: Unanimous.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, boy. OK. Thank you very much, everybody, for that. Appreciate it. Now
we will move forward with the agenda. The second recommended action item is the May 2020
recommended service changes. I'm going to read that.
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the May 2020 service change package as revised and summarized in attachment A,
resulting in an annualized Base System costs savings of $6,737,700 and a FasTracks cost savings
of $1,534,700, and a reduction of 43 operator shifts and, further, to authorize the General Manager
or his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service
is impacted by these changes. This recommended action supports the following General Manager
goals-- core goal number one, successful delivery of transit services.
We're going to open it up here to some discussion and I think some presentations related to this.
I'm waiting to see if-- do I have a motion?

DOUG TISDALE: So moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second.
KATE WILLIAMS: That is Director Tisdale and Chair Rivera-Malpiede. OK, now we're going to
look at some information related to this proposal. Gentlemen? Thank you, Mr. Ford.
MICHAEL FORD: This is Michael Ford, CEO. I want to give you a brief presentation on the
current situation going on with our driver shortage, some opportunities that we have, some
communications that we've been involved in, and what we've gathered from going out and listening
to people.
We have an original proposal that was in there and then a final proposal. So part of this presentation
will cover all those issues. And I wanted to go through that at this time. So our current situation
at-- not working?
JESSIE CARTER: Having some technical difficulties with-TROY WHITMORE: Technical difficulties.
KATE WILLIAMS: Technical difficulties. Jessie, you got to talk into a microphone.
MICHAEL FORD: And Jessie has to remember to turn the microphone on. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: And identify yourself, please.
JESSIE CARTER: This is Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning and Scheduling. It looks
like we have it working now.
MICHAEL FORD: All right. So let me just begin by talking about our current situation. We
currently deliver about 10,000 bus trips a day, about 1,000 on the rail side as well. Most of the
trips that we're seeing are being dropped on the light rail.
But we're doing a lot better job with communication to our public on both the bus and rail side.
We provide over 99% of the service on our bus side and about 96% on rail. But we are still
mandating people on a weekly basis, around 69% on the bus side and about 42% on the rail side.
The impacts have been very, very real. The effect of the quality of life of our operators, customers
losing confidence in our level of service, the ability uphold to our core values around reliability
and safety, and just our overall credibility has been a factor through this process.
A little bit of background. RTD really been experiencing this problem since 2015. Safety and
reliability are our core values. But with this shortage, it doesn't allow us to hold to those values.
Operator shortages are impacting our ability to deliver current levels of service. And in 2013,
we've-- since 2013, we've added over 600,000 hours of service. And the unemployment market
has also really impacted us as well as the nation in terms of resources.

I'll talk a little bit about recruitment. There's been a lot of effort around recruitment and retention
over the last year, a lot of marketing campaigns, posters, information on our buses. We've been
working really hard on those issues. Advertising has been a huge part of that.
But efficiency in our hiring process is something that we've really worked on to get people in the
door quicker and making sure that they're not waiting as much. A lot of effort and time and energy
has been focused on that. So we have a more efficient hiring process.
We've been working going to job fairs, military areas to get recruitments there. Referral bonuses
have been a big issue. Pay increases, shift differential pay, paying you a premium for working a
different shift or paying you additional pay for being mandated-- these are some of the things that
we've been able to do over the last year in terms of recruitment and retention.
We also recently don't require a CDL for light rail, opening up a whole new market of folks that
may be able to apply. Driver age went from 21 to 19, which is yet another focus that we had. We've
been working with the union in a collaborative way to create a part-time rail operator MoU that
will help us secure additional resources and just working with them overall about contractual
language that better fits with the drivers' needs and our customer needs and how we can work
through those issues to make the service work better than it has been before.
So there's been a lot of discussion about going out and being able to bring a service reduction that
will meet what the service we can deliver matching the realities of what we have in terms of
resources and what we can offer the public. But as a part of that process, we wanted to go out and
hear what people had to say.
So the Board directed us to do that. And through Your Voice Matters, that was launched in
November of last year between November 4 and 17. And we heard what people had to say. We
took time to hear our operators. We interviewed over 170 operators. Their concerns was the
reduction and adjustments of our routes needed to be done. Implementation of reductions to
improve our overall well-being was also important.
Currently mandating really affects the quality of life of people in their personal life. Something
needs to be done about that. The inhumane treatment of operators as well was yet another concern.
So we really took time to listen to these issues and consider the concerns and the ramifications.
But more importantly, what are we going to do about it was really a focus for us.
We also through Your Voice Matters did an online survey. About 13,000 folks completed the
survey. And of those 13,000, 59% were in favor of some type of reduction in service. And the
threshold for waiting for a train was at 18 minutes.
When we surveyed folks through telephone town halls, about 5,000 participants, again 58% were
in favor of some type of reduction and were willing to wait up to 30 minutes for an on-time train.
And then with our key stakeholders, 97 were involved in that process, and 63% were in favor of
some type of reduction and would wait up to 30 minutes for an on-time train.

Retention efforts have continued over the last year. Internally, we wanted to do more around
communication and outreach to help sustain folks here. So we have an information gateway team
that was formed to bring about more two-way communication, ensuring that we were addressing
employees' vital needs here.
We've been involved in focus groups, hearing what people had to say, and actually trying to deliver
on those communication issues through various techniques, through automation, through being
able to help people get information they need so they can feel valued and not waste time and get
the things they need to operate.
We also have a communication team that was also involved in these pads, these screens that would
deliver information for them to help them understand what was going on with the organization.
We also created another committee called Fact Finding. It's a collaborative effort to make sure that
we were addressing our employees consistently. We're still working on that. But there are issues
about treatment, fairness, and how one employee gets treated versus another, so working through
that.
More recently, we've incorporated supervisor training. This is about the interaction between our
operators and our supervisors, whether they be controllers, dispatchers, street supervisors. We're
embarking on a way in which we will better treat our employees, listening to them, not barking
out orders, but providing context, asking them questions, making sure that we're listening to what
they have to say and making sure that we're understanding their concerns. So it's this change in
culture that we're really working on.
We've also been involved in a buddy system where our supervisors are meeting with our operators
on a 30-, 60-, and 90-day basis. Doesn't mean that they don't meet in between that. But they do a
check-in to see how they're doing.
We've been out with the visits to the garages, myself and other AGMs and other personnel, to take
down information, to hear what they have to say, but, more importantly, come back and address
their concerns. So there's been a lot of focus on enhanced communication. But we do need more
resources in that area. But I just want to emphasize that that was a big, big focus for us-- and just
better engagement and collaboration with our ATU partners as well and working together on
common solutions.
We talked a little bit about our staffing challenges earlier today. We have budgeted about 1,084
operators. We're at 969 right now. Total, we are deficit about 115. We need to do more in this area.
It's not just about the service reductions, but it's about the recruitment, retention, the resources that
we need to move the agency forward.
Conversely, on the light rail side, we're down about 60 operators. We've got about 58 in class right
now. We do have challenges in this area, make no mistake about that. But we're working towards
that. And we've got a lot of classes going right now that should help us get through some of the
deficiencies in our resources.

I talked a little bit about the proposed service reduction. This is really a focus on stabilization of
our service, reducing mandating, and having a higher level of confidence in safety and providing
more reliability to our customers and the services that we provide. The service reduction is not the
cure-all. It's just a way to help us start managing our resources, what we can provide to our
customers. So I just want to make that point again.
So again, we're working on that. This will not completely eliminate mandating. But it gives us a
head start and some opportunities to get things right-sided in a way that will be able to deliver the
service that we say we can and give our drivers the relief that they need.
The original proposals that were brought forward a couple months ago talked about elimination of
six routes-- proposed for elimination, talked about 21 routes proposed for reduction of service. All
special services were proposed for discontinuation. We talked about the mall ride.
And I want to make a real specific reference to paratransit. We're commitment to not affecting
current paratransit services. Those now being served will be grandfathered in and provide the
continued service that they get right now. However, those moving into the area would not-- after
this would be approved would not get the same level of service or would not get the paratransit
service.
But I want to point out if there is some wish by the Board to do something over and above this
policy as it stands right now, that's something that we can address in a separate communication.
But I just wanted to point that out.
So the original proposal and rail service, as you can see, for the R Line was every 30 minutes on
all day weekdays and weekends. D Line no longer would run on the weekends. C Line, weekend
service would be expanded due to a greater transit market.
And the Central Platte Valley provides options for the D on the weekends. The H Line reduced
weekend service frequency from 15 minutes to every 30 minutes. Again, we would see probably
not as many dropped runs. But we would still be better off than we are right now with this original
proposal.
So again, we came back to do more outreach based on the Board's direction. We had 15 service
change outreach events through February 12 through the 27th, 20 service change meetings between
February 19 and the 5th of March. And as a result of taking information through social media,
direct meetings with customers, stakeholders, constituents, and even meeting with the Board to get
their idea, we moved into some other revised proposed changes.
As you can see in the picture here, Route 16L will continue to operate. Route 32 will run during
peak periods east of downtown, removing service west of Wadsworth Boulevard. The Route 99L,
Federal Center to Civic Center Station. The 153 frequency would be at 15 minutes. The 157 will
continue operations.
The 206 proposed modifications to retain service at BJDS, Arapahoe, and 55. And then the Route
43 will continue operations. Route Y, three trips in each direction will remain. And the RunRide

would stay for this year with the focus on elimination in 2021. And the H, weekend service
frequency would be at 15 minutes.
So these reductions are paramount to address our operator shortage. And I want to emphasize these
reductions alone won't do it. We need to bring other resources to bear in our operations and to help
us with recruitment and other areas in the rail and maintenance area. So it's not just one thing, but
it's more resources that we're going to need to turn the tide or we're going to continue to do the
same thing that we've always been doing.
These reductions don't-- these reductions help us with some stabilization. The plan will allow us
to continue to address the operator shortage. The ongoing hiring and training will provide some
relief to our employees. And we've been at this for at least five years. So we do need to change the
way or the trajectory of how we are approaching this.
So this is a real obviously important decision tonight. I'm happy to take questions. But again, I
want to emphasize that this is an important decision to make.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Ford. We appreciate that. I'd like to note for the record that
included in the board packet were many pages of comments that were recorded at all of the public
meeting. I believe all the directors got that information, as well as a spreadsheet that reflected a
variety of information on that route changes. And so having had that information in advance, I
think we will now go to questions. And I see Director Broom would like to speak first.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I don't actually have a question. I was just going to
publicly state that I'm going to vote yes on this tonight to move it forward for a final voting on the
24th. But I still have some concerns about the cuts to the R Line. Specifically the R Line, its
ridership continues to grow.
The development, particularly of residential properties and the TODs along the line, has really
been picking up. And so it's kind of a bad message to say then that you're reducing service when
you're trying to entice more people to change their habits and get out of their car and ride transit.
Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Broom. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. If it's all right, I have a few questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Have at it.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. Mr. Ford, thank you very much for a thorough review of all the
efforts you've been making since last November. I spent the 25th evening with Director Broom,
Jessie Carter, Lisa, and several of your staff at the Aurora Municipal Center. We had an excellent
turnout. Maybe you probably know the numbers. It was a full huge room. And so I feel grateful
that we had so much participation.

I wanted to address a couple of the issues, and Director Broom has even brought one up. TOD is
incredibly important when it comes to the train, and I think we also know that you have the first
mile, last mile issue to concern yourself with.
I would like you, if you could, please, to explain for the record the issue of the R Line clearly. And
I think, Mr. Carter, this is specifically directed to you-- about the 6.2% increase in ridership and
the development that will be coming. I have no doubt about it, that development at the TODs will
come.
But I don't see any reason to have an empty train running by a construction site. When the people
are there, it makes perfect sense, right? But I know that there's people in other areas that don't have
service, like perhaps Director Catlin's area, who might be offended by the fact that we've got trains
that aren't anywhere near the kind of capacity that we'd like to see.
So I'd like to ask you that question. I have another one about recruitment, retention, and about the
times that people are willing to wait. So we'll start there.
JESSIE CARTER: OK. Director Folska, thank you. This is Jessie Carter, Manager of Service
Planning and Scheduling. The reason why the R Line was placed on the proposal for reduction-and it's not new to being proposed for reductions of service-- is because it currently does not meet
the standard for a light rail service.
Right now, it carries about 48 boardings per hour, which is far below the other services, to include
even the smaller L Line route, which still carries over 100 boardings per hour. So we placed it on
this list. And it's something that we have placed on the list before back in 2018 soon after the R
Line was introduced because it did not meet the level of service that we expected in terms of overall
ridership being projected at having 12,000 boardings per day and only achieving, at that point in
time, 5,000 and, today, under 7,000.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And then if the demand is there, you will increase service.
JESSIE CARTER: That's correct.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. On the matter of recruitment and retention, I understand that you have
58 new students, 59 new students to train for the train. You have more coming in for the bus, and
you've made a lot of different changes to recruiting. What are you doing about retention?
At our meeting, we had a light rail operator talk to us about the challenges. And they're kind of, if
I shall say, annoying things that we do to our operators that make it difficult for them to continue.
So what is it that you're doing on the retention side for our operators and drivers?
MICHAEL FORD: We're trying to do a lot of different things. One is communicating with them.
One is spending more time. We're bringing people in on the rail side, working them in the yard,
making them feel more comfortable.

There's a lot to learn in this job. So the more time and energy that we can take to listen, to hear
their concerns, to address their issues is a critical part of that. So I can say that's a big focus. And
we need to do more of that.
The interactions with operators between our supervisors and dispatchers, we've been embarking
on training that's helping with the communication, breaking down barriers, breaking down walls,
understanding their concerns, but also giving them a picture of the bigger world that the dispatcher
and controller have to address. So everybody seeing each side of the equation is helpful.
I think this training is really going to be helpful, and it's going to be impactful. And it's really
changing how we interact with each other as employees. And again, that's just started. But I've
heard a lot of good reviews from the training so far. So training, working with people, being
flexible, trying to address their concerns.
Again, we still need more resources to do that. But those are some of the things I can speak to, first
hand knowledge. And then just getting out in the garages and talking to people, being present,
hearing what they have to say.
We've got a huge communication opportunity right now with all the information we've collected
over the last couple months, and we'll be communicating-- and that's just one way, but various
ways of communication. Because people receive information differently. So we're working on that
right now. And you'll start seeing more of that through updates and presentations.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Right. So I guess one of the things that comes to my mind is this particular
operator was talking about a lot of punitive behavior on the part of the supervisors towards the
operators. And maybe that has more to do with better communication that you're referring to.
Jessie, when it comes to the 18 minute, 20 minute, or 30 minute willingness to wait-- like, I'm not
going to wait for 30 minutes for my train because I know it's coming either at 6:00 or 6:30. So I'm
going to wait five minutes probably. But I'm thinking the real issue is transfers, when you're doing
more than one transfer or two transfers. Can you talk about that? And have you been able to work
that out in this new-JESSIE CARTER: Thank you again. This is Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning and
Scheduling. In consideration of the light rail-- the service going below what was considered our
policy frequency-- and our policy frequency throughout the district is service at least at every 15
minutes. A lot of our services have been tailored to serve that 15-minute frequency. So that is, of
course, a concern.
What typically happens when a service is reduced by half like that, passengers have a tendency to
identify the trips that they would actually use to get to their final destination and then shift their
utilization of a trip prior to that. So to give you an example, the Route 130, which feeds the R Line
at Nine Mile.
So if I was a customer using the Route 130 on a 15-minute headway frequency, I would be
choosing to take a trip that's 15 minutes later or earlier to then board the 15. Now where that would

cause us some concern in the service development department would be, is there enough room on
those transferring services to provide an increase of interest in one trip or another?
Right now, when we look at the ridership on those routes, we see that there is enough room for
people to move over to either the trip before or after to transfer onto the R Line in a 30-minute
headway.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. My final question is, are these service adjustments going to
eliminate dropped rides? I'm not going to see anymore RTD's F Lines canceled?
MICHAEL FORD: They're not going to completely eliminate-- I think the focus is stability,
equilibrium, providing relief, more reliability for the customer, more relief for the operator. But
we need to do this in concert with other resources that we're looking to get to make that happen.
So I want to be very clear that this is not the cure-all. Retention and recruitment are key cornerstone
to this to make it work. But it will help and get us the ability to get caught up and move the
objective forward.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. Actually, Madam Chair, I have one final thing to mention about
the paratransit if it's OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: It's fine.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. So I really appreciate you keeping your promise about not
eliminating the paratransit services when bus routes or-- well, it's just routes. You don't eliminate
a train, do you? It's there forever or for 100 years or so. And that's really great. And I do appreciate
the fact that it is a 3/4-mile shadow, unlike what was mentioned in the Senate Bill 151-- 1/4 mile.
And I want to state that for the record. It was incorrect. I did testify to that. But I think it's important
that we recognize this is not an obligation. We are going above and beyond what is our duty as
any federal transit agency or FTA would say, that the rules do not require us to do this. And so I'm
really grateful that you are doing that. So thank you very much. That's all.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Folska. We appreciate your comments. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. When I looked at the outreach that was done, it was
interesting that all stakeholder groups, when asked about-- when asked, said they would favor a
service reduction on the order of 58% to 63%. That said, judging by all of the letters that we've
gotten from various constituents, it was, we favor service reduction elsewhere but not in our
neighborhood.
And as a director who's very limited service is being cut, I have three routes that are in my
neighborhood. One is being eliminated entirely. The other one is being reduced by 25%. That's a
little bit more than the district average of 3% reduction. When it's weighted, it's pretty significant.

That said, I really do recognize the need for these service cuts in order to stabilize our operation.
So I know I'm probably going to get some pushbacks from some of my constituents. I've been
trying to work with Mr. Carter to try and do some workarounds, and he's going to looking some
options for some of our riders who are going to be left out in the cold. And I do appreciate that.
I am going to support this resolution because I think that it's a baby step. But I really do think we
need to do more. And I would suggest to the other directors that you look long and hard at those
areas in your district where you might be able to offer up some additional shift relief for this
agency. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that support, Director Catlin. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. I am wondering if any of the routes that were removed from the
proposed list to be reduced or eliminated were removed for operational issues, so like connections.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you, Director Walker. This is Jessie Carter again, Manager of Service
Planning and Scheduling. There were a number of reasons for some of the changes, ones that are
coming to mind right away. The Route 153, after further evaluation, we looked at the ridership
going in all directions.
And the most recent ride check on the Route 153 showed that if we did reduce the service
frequency down to 15 minutes, we would have an overload problem during the midday in the peak
direction. So that was removed. Future review of the Route-- or further review of the Route 157
also saw actually ridership meeting above 10 percentile on the service change chart. So we updated
that proposal to rescind that proposal altogether.
The Route 483 also showed an increase with a subsequent ride check on it, and it met above the
10 percentile as well. It met the suburban standard. So that's why that was eliminated as well. Other
than that, there were routes that were taken off a list based on looking at their ridership roll overall.
So if you look at the Route 16L in particular, the 16L was actually proposed because there was a
likely alternative found in the 16 and the W Line. However, once we started looking at other
services and making changes to it, the 16L was taken off the list because, actually, it does meet
the productivity standard. And if we continue to consider it for elimination while making changes
to other services, that could be seen as not being exactly equitable. So that was removed from the
list.
Aside from that, we did, as Director Catlin mentioned-- the 99L, we proposed an alternative based
on receiving a petition with 600 signatures and also a very robust turnout at several meetings. And
I should say that we had over 288 public participants at our meetings this go-around, and we are
over 2,000 entries into the service.change website at this point in time.
So we heard a lot from the 99L, and so we made that change to the 99L. So as far as the other
issues, I can certainly provide more data and backup for why we made some of the adjustments if
necessary.

JEFF WALKER: No, that's fine. I was hoping you would say something like that. I didn't have a
chance to talk with you before. But I've seen this. I've heard this story before where staff presents
something, and it's pushed back, don't cut mine. Some of them are operational reasons. I've seen
that several times. I wanted clarification here. But this is why we're in this situation, because we've
added service out of, I guess I'll say, political reasons and not operational reasons.
So I will vote apprehensively and with some reservation. I'm sure I'll support this as presented
because my feeling is that staff feels comfortable with a good number of the changes that are
proposed, if not all. But I don't know if we're doing our customers and our operators and mechanics
any favors by not taking the full breadth of cuts that were originally proposed, even if not on
specific routes.
I'll give a quick example. The E last Wednesday did not show up around 6 o'clock. I was late
picking up my daughter-- not a problem for me. It wasn't daycare. But some people who have to
pick up their kids from daycare-- and they get charged $2, $3, $4 a minute after their minute. So I
wasn't picking her from daycare, so it wasn't a financial impact to me.
But when our customers get surprised by that, that's not going to be a good thing for anybody. All
the operators I talked to, they all say the dollars are fine. It's the work schedule. That's what's
wearing them down. So at any rate, thank you all again, staff, for your service and willingness to
listen, willingness to review and make sure that the operations were sufficient to meet the demand.
Last thing we want is to have a full bus load of people not being able to use that service when the
ridership demands it. So thanks for that. And I guess I'll be supporting it but with some
apprehension, understanding that you guys have done your best. And that's it. Thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Walker. I'd like to point out that all of the directors are
here in the room. So if there's somebody on the phone, we'd appreciate if you would mute yourself
since we're not going to invite you to speak, and your background noise is distracting. Thank you.
I think Director Guissinger, you would be next.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And thank you both for answering my questions along the way
and especially to Natalie Handlos, who's answered a number of questions. I apologize I missed
this. But I wanted to clarify that in the recommended action under changes to initial
recommendation, it's maybe just a typo.
But on Route Y, Lyons to Boulder, it says proposal modified to reduce service to 1:00 AM and
3:00 PM peak trips. It's correct on the spreadsheet, and I've been talking with Natalie. But it should
be 3:00 AM and 3:00 PM peak trips. So I just wanted to make sure that's clear. Thanks.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you. That's noted. I will update that information.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Guissinger and Mr. Carter. Director Whitmore.

TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Gentlemen, thank you for your work on this
matter. And I don't know how many tens or hundreds of employees that have worked on this
situation. It's not a good situation. I will support the motion tonight. I don't want to. I'm
apprehensive like my colleague to my right. But in discussions with fellow Board members and
numerous phone calls from the Bob Broom fan club from Aurora-[LAUGHTER]
--we all had the opportunity to talk to the fine mayor of Aurora and several others. I just find it
interesting that this is really-- it's difficult, but this is an opportunity, an opportunity to partner.
And In these financial times and with our constraints, we've got to work with our municipalities
and our other entities. And I see an opportunity to do so with the fine folks in Aurora and other
portions of the service territory.
My district is not affected in a grand way, and I recognize that. But it's not a district thing. It's a
system thing. I mean, we all travel in and out of many districts. So I guess this is something we
have to do. Tough times call for difficult decisions. And respect to our employees, our operators
and mechanics.
And one of our number one goals is certainly retention. This helps to alleviate at least some of the
stress and strain and move us to maybe a better system of retention. And also in respecting our
customers, reliability is so important to our customers. And I hearken back to one of our first
comments that one of our constituents made, and that was "please end RTD roulette."
It's one thing to have to change your schedule. It's another thing to have a mystery schedule. And
we just can't have that much in line with what Director Walker had said. So we all have to work
diligently to keep these reductions as temporary as possible. We've talked about that. So let's see
what we can do to eliminate these that are at least worthy of being reappointed to our routes as
soon as possible.
Again, thanks to the staff. Half the room has worked on this issue, if not 2/3 of the room. And I
thoroughly appreciate it. It's not easy. And we're not real popular right now, but we're not here to
be popular. We're here to move people. So thank you.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Interesting comments. Thank you. Director
Buzek, do you want to make some comments, too?
VINCE BUZEK: I do, Madam Chair. Thanks very much. And again, I'll echo the sentiment of
thanking staff for the hard work on all of this. It's taken a long time. And it should come as no
surprise that I'm opposed to this recommended action because I have opposed it from its inception.
Since last summer when we had the first whispers and inklings of these service cuts, I've been
opposed to them conceptually.

It appears that we're treating symptoms and not the root cause of the problem. We go back and talk
about how we've had this problem for five years. But the perception is we've only started to act
when the problem became untenable. Staff has done great work. But it seems that that work has
really begun in earnest November, December of last year.
And it's really been hard to address these underlying causes. And at this point, it seems too late to
avoid this drastic action. It makes me wonder that, had we taken some of this action four years
ago, would we have had to make service cuts? So again, I've expressed my concerns numerous
times. They are what they are. I won't support the recommended action for those reasons.
If this moves forward, and it appears that it will, I think there needs to be as part of the final
resolution a specific date that the Board can have this come back to them to reconsider or consider
reinstating the services. We need to have-- we're telling everybody it's temporary. We need to put
a specific date in there when we're going to have this back on our agenda to reconsider the action.
That's all I have. Thanks, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Cook, I think you're next.
SHELLEY COOK: I actually had questions still, if that's OK. First, I wanted to note that we got
to talk before this session, got to get a lot of our questions out and answered. And one thing I
wanted to note is that the staff had provided for us with a lot of caveats, because there are several
assumptions that feed into these projections, but some idea of when we'd reach budgeted FTE
headcount for both bus and service or bus and light rail, depending upon these cuts and attrition
rate and our usual experience with training attrition and so forth.
So I just wanted to note that, that we've gotten some additional information that was really helpful.
So thank you for doing that. And likewise, Dave Jensen's spreadsheet as well laying that stuff out.
Really appreciated that added info, and I'm sure we can make that available to folks who are here.
On the 16th Street Mall, I kind of feel like that's an issue of regional concern because this is such
a major destination in our system, given that it's hub and spoke and all the jobs down here and so
forth. Many of the comments that came through on that are that you'll be walking and they seem
to clump up.
And so you may walk the entire distance of the 16th Street Mall without seeing a shuttle, even if
they are being scheduled for every three minutes. Is there a way to address that, especially since
we're cutting capacity to such a great extent on that one?
JESSIE CARTER: This is Jessie Carter again, Manager of Service Planning and Scheduling. In
looking at the mall shuttle, we had a similar change that we made last year with midday And we
heard about the same type of complaint midday where you have what we call bunching with them
being back to back. It seems to have gone away midday when going to a three minute. So the
difference between a 90-second and the three-minute headway is one less bus per traffic signal
cycle.

So it does make it easier because it gives an additional block space between the buses. So it should
actually improve the reliability of the buses-- the bus spacing. But it does have an issue as far as
crowding goes because you have less service. So I don't want to gloss over the idea that this is
going to actually improve everything because actually, there will be more crowding.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, and can you monitor that more closely, then, perhaps otherwise might be
the case? Just because it is such a-- it's a linchpin of our system. And people using other transit
means to get down here rely on that. And if they can't, then maybe it hurts the whole other routes
and so forth. So I just would appreciate that.
JESSIE CARTER: Understood. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: And then I wanted to echo Troy Whitmore's remarks about this being an
opportunity. We've had an approach by Aurora. I think they make some legitimate-- very
legitimate concerns known. And I'm hoping that we can, in fact, turn this into an opportunity to
partner in a more positive way with him. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Dr. Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. I'm going to be supporting this measure, not because it gives
me great pleasure to reduce service. I don't like that at all. But I think it is my great hope that this
will help us stabilize our surface and stabilize employment in a more productive manner. And I do
thank you all for your huge amount of work on this.
There's a couple of comments. I've heard from several constituents about the great distress and
turmoil that this reduction will have on some of them. And it's just part of reducing services that
people get very distressed. And I want to honor that, and I believe it's real. But sometimes you just
have to make these hard decisions.
One of the things that's helping me make this hard decision is that it's my understanding from
talking with staff that these service reductions are just part of a bigger comprehensive project or
package to address these problems and that more will be revealed about the work that's going to
be done. So that's hopeful to me.
And we also heard about that there's hopefully going to be some work with the city of Aurora so
that we can work together to improve ridership and maybe address some of the issues with the R
Line. So that's it. Thank you very much, and I will be supporting this.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I have a few questions. But I'll start with my question
regarding the N Line. As we are looking at service reductions on many of our lines and opening a
new line, I'm curious of what the impact will be, if any, to the N Line and how you plan to open
the N Line as we are having this discussion.
MICHAEL FORD: There are no noted changes for the N Line at this time.

JESSIE CARTER: Right. At this point in time, we haven't brought forth the-- and, again, I'm sorry.
This is Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning and Scheduling. We haven't brought to the
Board the bus and rail plan for adoption. We have gone out to the public and had comment on the
proposal for the N Line.
But it still needs to be brought back to the Board of Directors for adoption. So at this point, the
effort did not impact that particular area. If you look at the map, you'll see that the area that
surrounds the N Line had no actual proposals for reduction of service because, again, we still have
yet to bring forth that plan to the Board to be adopted.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. So I know that you'll tell me that it's-- folks who operate our rail service
and folks who operate our commuter rail and folks who operate our bus service are different skill
sets and different trainings. And so my question is, as we're looking to add additional service hours,
what does that mean for the rest of the system as we are still grappling with an operator shortage?
MICHAEL FORD: Absolutely, and that's a great question. When we bring forward the bus and
rail operations plan, that will be explained. Because there are some assumptions about the number
of hours that are required by the N Line that were taken out of the changes that we made for the G
Line.
And there is a whole proposal that needs to be looked at so you can have a very clear understanding
of that. We tried to stay as neutral as we could on the bus hour end. But of course we have to
increase the number of rail operators because of the newly introduced commuter rail line.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, I would just hate to see us taking away from one area to serve another
area. It's probably not surprising that I'm saying that.
MICHAEL FORD: Understood. Understood.
SHONTEL LEWIS: One of the things we talked about earlier on is the money that would be saved
on both sides for FasTracks, and the Base System would be put into an account and saved. And
it's not mentioned in here. And so I'm curious as to that level of specificity because I think it's
important to Director-- I think Buzek's point about when we would restore service, we would need
the money to do so. And so I think that level of specificity is important.
MICHAEL FORD: I'm going to turn that over-- this is Michael Ford-- to turn it over to Heather.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather McKillop. So yes, we've committed to taking money
from those areas that are going to be impacted from having the service reductions and putting that
money aside to be able to use that for future purposes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So my ask-- and I have a few. So my ask is, can you add this in the final vote
that we would have? Couldn't you add that information within this document for the final vote that
we would have? Because for me as a director, it's important that we can show the general public
that we are not spending that money in other areas and are committed to restoring the services that
we are talking about.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: So as far as language as it results for setting the money aside?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I think we can amend the language to include that, if the Board wants to
do that. I think that would be a Board decision, and it'd probably have to be an amendment to the
actual recommended action. But I'll let Jenifer speak to that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, thank you.
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: Yes, if you actually want to change the language of the recommended
action, you'd have to make a motion to amend that recommended action.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. I'm happy to make a motion. Let me think about what that language
might look like, and I'll tap back in. Thank you. So to your pointing out that you all were doing a
lot in terms of recruiting and retention, an additional ask I have of you is, oftentimes you all bring
us the numbers. 25 people were hired, and 21 people departed from the agency.
And I would be interested to Director Buzek's point about a root cause analysis, if you all could
tell us what specific tactics you all are engaging in to address that retention piece. And so you
mentioned that operators felt like there was inhumane treatment. And so I'd be curious, what is it
that we're doing as our duty to mitigate that inhumane treatment?
And so I think a broader level of specificity is also-- would be helpful for me as an individual
director so that we know that the retention is being addressed alongside with addressing the
mandating, which we know is an issue as well. And that same-- oh, so I talked about the specifics
of where the money is going. Ummm, OK.
So I want to say-- and I know many directors have had a number of conversations. I think when I
ran for the seat, I talked often about our operators being the lifeblood of our transit system, and I
still feel that way strongly. And this has been very difficult for me because I don't want to cut
service ever.
And I recognize that when we are not cutting service, that means that there are communities who
are dependent on our services that are being burdened because people want to run empty buses
and empty trains in their districts. And that's not cool with me. And I will also say that I think
there's an opportunity for us to dig a little deeper. Again, not interested in cutting services.
But I know because you all come to us in our Board packet with that box that said here are the
services that are meeting productivity standards, and here are the services that are not. And there
are many of those that did not make this list. And one has to ask why.
And I come from a community that does not have a lot of resources. And so when we talk about
advocacy, when people are able to bring 600 signatures to you all to convey a message, there are
many communities who are transit-dependent and poor who depend on our services who do not

have the resources, who do not know how to navigate systems to be able to make people make the
changes that benefit them.
And that's to the burden, and other folks in other districts have to carry that. And that's more for
my directors and less for you as staff because I know you all know this. And so as we continue to
have these conversations, I would hope that we are very honest and real about running empty buses
and running empty trains and advocating for things for the sake of advocating for them when we
know do not need them because there are people who depend on our services to get to their jobs,
to get to school, to get to appointments who don't have that because you would like to just keep
something in your district. That is all.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I'll definitely be supporting the service package. I had hoped
when we started with the original package that it would be three steps forward in solving a problem
that, yes, we should have addressed a year ago, perhaps before.
But we did our job. We went out. We listened. I think we had more than 20 service hearings. I'd
have to talk to communications, but I think we were actually along 24 or 26. And then the public
outreach at the stations, and I attended many of them. So definitely got a good view.
But we listened to the public. There was definitely political pressure as part of what happens when
you have government. But we came back. We revised it. So instead of taking the three steps
forward-- and I know you've already heard this from me. I'm kind of just sharing it with the
audience who hasn't lived in what we've been living with here.
Then instead of taking three steps forward, we took one step forward. And I'm worried that it's not
enough because I think about the days when I was getting a long list of bus dropped runs. And
then they just started to go away. Well, they didn't go away. It meant that a bus driver-- and I'm
talking specifically bus ops, just the biggest chunk of our service-- were working six days a week.
And instead of being able to take a vacation, they were working that sixth day. And instead of
being able to go to their kid's soccer game, they were working their sixth day. And that's where
those emails just went away. So I still want to take three steps forward. Again, I'm getting this on
the record, what I would like to see.
So 99L runs right through the middle of District M, which is what I represent. But it also covers
other parts of the region. The original proposal for 99L, which goes from Ken Caryl down to Civic
Center and then trip back, is-- the original said to eliminate it completely.
We went out to the public. We got the change.org petition, which has more petition signatures than
there's actually riders. But OK, I know the families are affected. Some of them live out of state,
signed it. That's fine.
[LAUGHTER]

But what it comes down to is, in the revised proposal, it is now reduced, what we would call the
weaker end. But those are still people affected in the south end from Federal Center and south
down to Ken Caryl, which is Director Catlin's area. But still now from Federal Center to Civic
Center, it's 10 trips a day. And we know out of our stats-- which, by the way, for the audience,
doesn't really depend on that tap.
So when you say, I don't think the bus driver tapped my card or punched it, we actually have
infrared at the door. And right now, the stats say that we've got about 570 boardings a day. What's
a boarding? Boarding means one person stepped on. Almost all majority of the riders on the 99L
take a round trip. That means each day, they are two boardings.
Take 570, divide it by two. Let's round to 600 just to be generous. That means basically 300 people
a day. We've got 10 trips in the morning going Fed Center-- under this proposal to Fed Center to
Civic Center. In the PM, 10 trips Civic Center to Fed Center.
I got a lot of emails. And I know Director Catlin got a lot of emails and other directors who get
touched by 99L. Director Williams got a lot of emails about the 99L. Here's what I heard from a
lot of riders. Please don't cut that service. There are a lot of trips from Fed Center to Civic Center.
There's a lot of trips. I want to note that, underline it, make it bold.
Why don't you cut the amount of trips? Because we feel bad for the drivers. And so that's my
request. I don't think that motion is going to go through today. But I am leaving that door open.
And what I'm hoping is that Mr. Carter with service planning is going to come back and give a
little more concrete answer on what would be the benefits for the good of the whole district, the
benefits for the employees who've been working that sixth day and not getting to a soccer game,
and share that with me so that by I hope our final vote on the 24th-- I don't what the calendar day
is-- but we will know whether that proposal is worthwhile.
Because again, we didn't make three steps forward with this, where we're at right now. We're only
making one. So now everybody is aware of what I personally would like to just get some more
answers on with that route. And maybe it will be one driver. But we're not going to take care of
our entire problem by just one route. It has to be a piece here, a piece there. And so that's what I'm
asking.
In addition to that, one of the other ones that did really disappoint me was the 16L being rescinded
because that would have made a big impact on the amount of drivers and with the 16 and the 16L
literally running over one another on buses on Colfax. I have asked, and you already know, to
come back with a hybrid, just like as somewhat in the works with the East Colfax 15, 15L.
And I don't think it'll happen by August, which is in perfect world for me. That's what I would
like. But I'm willing to let you work on that schedule to make that happen. So I'll remind the riders
on the 99L that just because you read in the newspaper that this is what the revised draft said, for
me, it still sits open that I'd like to do just a little more in taking at least another half step forward,
maybe one more step.

I don't think we'll get to three steps forward, but a little farther than where we are today for all the
outreach that we did. And so thank you for bearing with me as I went through that. I really just
want to see us do the best that we can for reliability and relieving some of the stress on the guys
who are sitting behind the wheel and gals. Thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you, Director Menten. Sorry, this is Jessie Carter again. I did have a
chance to run a new report, and I'm able to give that to you tonight. And also, we'll touch base
tomorrow to kind of give you an idea of what the impact would be as we had discussed and looking
at how many operators could be saved if some trips were eliminated.
But I do have to say that in looking at the ridership per trip, the number of people on board versus
the number of seats that we actually have on the buses, it looks like our trips are doing-- we're
doing pretty well with the exception of the first and then the reverse peak trips. So we'll go over
that in detail tomorrow.
NATALIE MENTEN: Respond- Is that okay?
KATE WILLIAMS: Go ahead.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, so that means you're going to give me a Ridecheck Plus report?
JESSIE CARTER: That's correct.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And you based that upon reducing the 10 trips to five trips?
JESSIE CARTER: In looking at the number of trips out of the 10, looking at the AM, there are
only-- there is one that's below what we consider 75% of a seat at load. So we're looking at the
first trip having 28, the second 30, 29, 29, 42, 28, going down until you reach the reverse peak,
which has only nine. So there are-- the ridership is pretty robust enough to where if you collapse
two, you don't have enough room on a coach to actually carry. So you end up overloading.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I'll wait to get the information from you. But I'll leave the door open
and especially in light of the fact that we're going to add the Mammoth Park and Ride onto the EV,
which will be actually more convenient for golden riders, but they just don't know about that
option. I will be voting in favor and just leave a window open on that discussion. Thank you very
much.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to point out that we can bring
amendments to this discussion between tonight and the time it comes to the Board meeting. We
are not-- we're going to move it, we hope, out of committee and move forward, as Dr. Menten
says. But it is not carved in stone. So I would like to make that point to everybody, and you all can
have that discussion later. Director Tisdale, you've been very patient. Thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. This is a very important discussion for
all of us tonight. I personally have spoken to over 450 people in the last four weeks at station popup events, at Homeowner Association meetings, at metro district meetings, at rec association
meetings.
We have explained to everyone that the reductions are not something we want to do. They are
being proposed because of an operator shortage. And this operator shortage is experienced not just
by us. It is a nationwide-- in fact, it is a global operator shortage. You've heard that.
We appreciate that. And we need all of our stakeholders to appreciate that, that this isn't something
we're doing because we feel like it or we want to. Almost without exception, no one is
enthusiastically supporting this service reduction.
But something has to be done. And I submit respectfully that opposing the service reduction
without offering an alternative to the RTD roulette that we're experiencing currently is not
productive of a solution.
We all want the most robust transportation system possible. Staff has worked very, very hard to
come up with a solution based upon data. They brought numbers to support these decisions. I think
that's significant. And they came up with the best out of a series of very ugly alternatives. And
that's all this really is. This is the best out of a series of ugly alternatives.
So I will support it. And I will cautiously and scrupulously monitor the results with a view to
restoring the service as soon as practicable. We talk about a number of lines where we say, well,
this is being taken away, and these people are going to suffer.
I think we determined earlier that virtually everyone on this board has been importuned by Mayor
Coffman relative to the R Line. He's done a great job for his residents. And of course, we're going
to look at that and restore that service as soon as it is possible to do.
But this is a partnership. It's a partnership with our riders, with our constituents, with our fellow
electeds, to move people and not just to move train cars or buses. That's what it's all about. And so
reluctantly but firmly, I will support the resolution. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director-- good, we switched the order around. Director
Mihalik, you haven't had a chance yet. Have at it.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, gentlemen. And yes, I'm also reluctant,
but will be a yes. And I do hope that the reductions are significant enough to achieve the desired
goals. And I didn't go to as many meetings as Director Tisdale and certainly not as many as
Director Menten. I think she probably took the most, just educated guess.
But I went to a handful, and it was nice to see a pretty good turnout. And I guess I'll characterize
it differently than the three steps forward, one step back or two steps back. I'd rather see it as that
we responded, and we reflect the sentiments of the people that came out.

Because otherwise, the public outreach is just-- we're just telling people what we're going to do.
And it's kind of meaningless, I guess. So it's good to see that RTD is responsive, and we listen,
and that we're also doing these changes to better the lives of operators. So that's it. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Lewis, you have something to add?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm back with my amendment. But if Director Catlin would like to go first,
I'm happy to switch.
KATE WILLIAMS: I think that's a valid idea. So then we can go through all of the ramifications
of amendments and who's voting on the original and the amendment, whatever. So Director Catlin,
please.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'd like to echo that I'm a reluctant yes. But I did want to make mention of the
RunRide for the BoulderBoulder. It seems that anyone who's ever run in the BoulderBoulder got
the email from the race organizer, my daughter in South Dakota included.
But I have some concerns about that, although I acknowledge that due to the timing that there's
not time for them to plan for alternatives. But we do have a request from Director Menten about
those special bus-NATALIE MENTEN: Special services.
PEGGY CATLIN: --charter services that I would like to make a stronger statement for the record
that although I acknowledge that we probably should maintain it for this year, given we only have
a two month window of time to plan, I am a firm believer that it should be eliminated after this
year.
Because that particular service serves what I'm going to call the elite in our community. And to
provide that amount of service on that day when it could impact some of the riders in some of the
less advantaged areas of our community that don't have the time or the money to participate in the
BoulderBoulder, I just don't want them to suffer as a result of something that caters to a fairly elite
group of riders who probably only ride RTD on that particular day.
So I just wanted to state for the record that although I understand that we are going to have to keep
it this year, I am not at all in favor of keeping it going forward. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. OK, here we go. Who's on first? Chair Rivera-Malpiede,
would you like to speak, please?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I would also like to say that, boy, this
has been a really difficult process that we've gone through as an agency and as a community. But
once again, I want to thank the community for their outreach and their comments to us.

I think that this is a true collaboration with the community we are experiencing tonight. I mean,
20 different meetings, and my meetings were full. We received well over 2,000 emails. We all
talked to Mayor Coffman. I mean, we all got emails about the BoulderBoulder.
But in the end, what it says is that the community is listening to us, and we are listening to them.
And I think that that is something to celebrate. This really is an essential piece of our job is to look
at what needs to be done and to do it and to make sure that we're on task, that if it doesn't pan out,
we come back to the table again and do the hard work.
And I'm really proud of every Board member and all of the staff who've really done their due
diligence. They have dug in deep, and they've really listened, and they've really vetted all of this
information.
I do have one amendment. And that is I'd like to make a motion to request that the staff to get with
the city of Aurora to develop a plan that, on terms that you work out, will provide for a review of
the R Line service reductions in October of this year.
And I'm saying that because I think we need to show our collaboration with communities that it's
not that we want to cut service, and then we're done. It is we need to cut service, and we need to
work together. And I think something like this would be a good way to start that process. Thank
you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: So I have a motion there, an amendment. I have about 14 seconds. Director
Broom is going to second that. We'll give him that in Mike Coffman's honor. And then do we have
another amendment? Or we need to go on this one first. So we want to vote on this first.
TROY WHITMORE: Discuss.
KATE WILLIAMS: A discussion on it. Oh, Robert's rules. OK, so we have a motion to request
that we meet and talk to the city of Aurora. I don't have the exact verbiage. Do you have the exact
verbiage on it? If you want to-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It's so that the staff work with the city of Aurora to discuss through
the staff terms on how to work out providing a review of the R Line service reductions in October
of this year.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, we have a motion and a second. We have discussion. So there's three
speakers waiting here to speak to this amendment. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Mr. Ford, Mr. Carter, can you tell me how many
times a week you speak to Aurora city planners and transportation?
MICHAEL FORD: Michael Ford, CEO. I did talk to somebody Friday. I can't recall how many
times a week. But I have talked to them quite a bit.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Would you say that you have an open line of communication on a regular
basis with the folks at Aurora?
MICHAEL FORD: Absolutely.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And would you say that, in general, you would be looking to restore that
service if the demand warranted at a time when you would do the service change process that we're
in right now?
MICHAEL FORD: We would follow our Board-adopted service standards to make that happen.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And we do that change in October.
JESSIE CARTER: No, actually, the changes three times a year, typically in August/September,
January, and May. However, in saying that we'll review the service in October, that's something
we certainly can do. And we also-- as a note, our planning staffs meet once a month.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: With Aurora.
JESSIE CARTER: With Aurora.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So I'm curious about this October date. And maybe Madam Chair could
respond to that. Because that's not part of our regular service change timeline. It would be August
and September.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Folska, I think what-- and I'm sorry to speak before for the Chair. But I
think it's related to our headcount where we think that's a reasonable time frame to review our
headcount to see where we're at. And October 2020 was listed as a time frame which we may be
at a certain level of headcount.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So you would be doing that anyway. And my question is, is this motion
necessary? I mean, we're going to be doing it anyway. It's kind of redundant, isn't it?
KEN MIHALIK: In order to add it to the board report?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: The motion that Madam Chair Rivera-Malpiede is putting forward. And I'm
not putting it down. But it seems to me redundant in the work that we're already doing in saying
we're preferring Aurora and giving them precedence over anybody else in Thornton or Broomfield
or Commerce City or something like that. I mean, it's a region. And I'm not sure that that really
gets to the spirit and what I think you're trying to do.
KATE WILLIAMS: I think that that was a matter of opinion.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: It is my opinion. But I don't know that it's a correct opinion. That's why I'm
asking. Is it redundant or not? Aren't you already doing this? I'm asking Mr. Carter.

JESSIE CARTER: OK, if you're asking, are we already reviewing the performance of the service,
yes. We are doing that on a regular basis. If the Board is asking us to make sure that we are in
communication about a very specific item and wants to make sure that that happens and is reported
back to the Board, that is taking an additional step. That is having us come back to report what
we've done.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Do we require a motion? Can we not just say, Mr. Carter, we'd like to hear
back from you October 1? Or do we need a motion for that?
JESSIE CARTER: That's out of my area of expertise for sure. So I will turn to someone who it is.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: That's what I'm saying. I mean, I just don't see the value of the motion.
That's all. So I won't be supporting it. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Folska. OK, Director Menten, you want to speak to the
amendment?
NATALIE MENTEN: I do.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. May I offer a suggestion or a friendly piece thing?
KATE WILLIAMS: Have at it.
NATALIE MENTEN: I believe every two months, we have a local government meeting. Am I
right on the timeline, whoever can kind of look in a-- Bill, every two months?
BILL VAN METER: Three or four.
NATALIE MENTEN: Every three or four. All right. And since we would really like a regional
view versus just a very narrow scope R, could I suggest that we make that the focus? And I know
Chris's first name-- can't think of his last name right at this point.
KATE WILLIAMS: Quinn. Chris Quinn.
NATALIE MENTEN: If we could make that a focus of a local government meeting within this
room around the October time frame that would look at the entire region and the effects of the
service changes from May through that period, would that be something that could perhaps cover
your amendment and go a little bit even further?
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair, would you like to speak to that?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I would like to refer this question to Director Cook.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook, you have the floor.

SHELLEY COOK: Director Walker, can I jump in front of you here? OK, so there was quite a bit
of discussion for Claudia Folska-- Director Folska as well upstairs. I think we have a special
circumstance here. First of all, the rail-- if we're looking at the light rail, the sudden surge was
really in main part a function of the greater demand of the extension we opened in May.
And because of the terms of the agreement we have with the FTA, we can't modify that agreement.
Where we can modify is where we didn't get federal funding. And unfortunately, that's the R Line.
So I think it reflects an understanding that that line alone is bearing the brunt of our attempts to
reduce this simply because our hands are tied otherwise.
And there is a value judgment in there of trying to work with the community because they are
seeing increases. They're one of the few light rail lines that is. They seem open to working on
issues with us to help address other impediments to increased ridership. And it's at least a chance
for them.
This is what Mayor Coffman seemed to be seeking with some certainty about this not just going
off and being a permanent change. And this gives him in the midst of evidently some key
development proposals the chance to say, no, these don't appear to be permanent. So it was kind
of a reflection of all those things.
And I'm hoping that by leaving it up to staff to develop the terms or not, that we aren't
inappropriately weighing in on this. But at the same time, we are allowing for the possibility of a
partnership and allowing some assurance to be extended to our neighbor to the east.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that input. Director Walker, you want to speak to the motion?
JEFF WALKER: Yes, but I see Mr. Ballard-KATE WILLIAMS: Has been waiting patiently. We would be honored to have our Interim General
Manager address this issue, if you're speaking to the motion.
PAUL BALLARD: Yes, ma'am. As we have discussed in the past, in particular at the retreat,
where we talked about the goal setting process and how we need to consider the budget as part of
the goal setting process, I would like to suggest to the Board that as part of our budget that we're
working on for next year that we consider these-- because I can tell you from a staff perspective,
we will want to do that-- and give you the option to review all of the services and then make your
decisions as you look at the entire array of services that we provide.
And I admire the attempt to carve out and provide some special circumstances. But I really think
that the Board-- I know that the Board will have the option to make the decisions. But my
recommendation is, is that we would look at these restorations as part of the overall budget for
2021 and consider it as a total package. So that's my input. Thank you for your consideration.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for your input. I have a question, some Chair prerogative. I'm
asking Chair Rivera-Malpiede and Director Cook if you are adamant about including this one piece

of what we have all been discussing is a big picture that everybody has pain points that we're all
trying to work together on this as the Regional Transportation District.
And can you, now that we have in the record that we do have concerns about this and we have all
spoken to Mayor Coffman and that we will probably speak with him again and that the staff is
going to look at this and we can go to Chris Quinn's meeting-- could you withdraw the motion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Madam Chair, I will withdraw the motion.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. Director Walker.
DOUG TISDALE: A second needs to consent also.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, the second needs to consent.
TROY WHITMORE: Director Broom does.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Broom. OK, wow. OK, who's up? Director Lewis,
you've got an amendment.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I do.
KATE WILLIAMS: I don't know I'm calling on you, but go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. So I'd like to move to amend the recommended action, and we can just
go where it says "impacted by these changes." And I'd like to insert "the funds that are saved
through the service reductions will be placed in the Board-appropriated reserve for future Board
consideration."
KATE WILLIAMS: Do I have a second?
NATALIE MENTEN: Second.
KATE WILLIAMS: That would be the motion is read by Director Lewis and seconded by Director
Menten, and we will now have discussion on that amendment. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I guess I'm not sure if that's directly-- you had mentioned earlier talking
about the temporary reinstallation of some of the services. And I just wanted to raise a concern,
and this may not be directly-- since you've made it a little separately from-- but as I'm going
through here, we started off talking about these being temporary cuts.
And then there was some concern expressed by a number of people, including some of the
legislators, that if they weren't-- if there wasn't a sunset, are they really temporary? And so it came
back with some being listed as permanent and some being temporary. And honestly, I'm having
trouble.

I look at the ones in my district. The 206 is listed as temporary, but I think it's not performing well.
I think that's why it's being cut. At the same time, the JUMP is listed as permanent, and there's a
huge coalition from Thornton and Adams County up to Boulder and Longmont that meets
quarterly. It's the Highway 7 Coalition that is working towards BRT, and it's starting to cobble
together the money.
So I hate to see that listed as permanent. And I think that staff did a nice job in the meetings that I
was in, RTD staff, Natalie and others, in saying to the service team, everything is temporary.
Everything can be reconsidered. So I guess I would ask that you go back and take a look at these
before the 24th. I don't like seeing-- again, I'm mostly looking at my own.
But I look at the special services. The RunRide's listed as temporary. The BroncosRides' listed as
temporary. The Rockies Ride is listed as permanent. If we're really saying we don't want to do
special services, if that's what some people are saying, then we should look at that. But I do have
concerns, especially around the JUMP.
But generally, what does it mean to be permanent? What does it mean to be temporary? And are
we setting aside money to bring some of these back. Because then I'm going to have to get much
more granular about how they're listed. And I don't want to get into this too much. I don't totally
disagree.
But I will just say that the BoulderBoulder-- the RunRide does pull in. It's big marketing. And I
think it's a big opportunity for people to see RTD people really appreciate it. It's a good partnership
with Boulder and Boulder County. I'm not talking about anything in the future, except just to put
it out there and that I appreciate and we appreciate having it reinstated this year when it's only
eight days after the cut.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm not really sure how that addresses the amendment that we're talking about.
I did want to mention that. But we appreciate-- we appreciate the director from that part of town
and her commitment.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, let me turn that into a question real quick. Can we revisit the
permanent, temporary and also what that means, especially if we're talking about money that might
be used to reinstate some of these? I'd like to look at these specifically with you before the 24th
and see if there's an amendment that's necessary.
KATE WILLIAMS: Does that indicate that you are opposed to the amendment?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm not quite sure what-SHONTEL LEWIS: Can I read it again?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. The funds that are saved through the service reductions will be placed in
the Board-appropriated reserve for future Board consideration.

KATE WILLIAMS: Regardless of what they are.
SHONTEL LEWIS: --anything about temporary or permanent. And it's Board-appropriated, so we
would be-LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, I apologize if I was out of order there. But I'm not sure. I'll decide in
a minute on the-KATE WILLIAMS: That's OK. We love you, too. OK, Director Buzek, would you like to speak
to the amendment?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Counselor.
VINCE BUZEK: Well, I guess I'm not certain what a Board-appropriated reserve is. Ms.
McKillop, is there something called a Board-appropriated reserve?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, we have multiple reserves out there. One's an unrestricted reserve.
One's an operating reserve. And then we have the Board reserve. And so this was very specific of
putting that in the Board reserve because the Board would have to vote to get it out of the Board
reserve again.
VINCE BUZEK: So the cost savings, there's Base System cost savings and FasTracks cost savings.
Without this amendment, would the FasTracks cost savings go in the FISA?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That's a good question. I need to look at that. The way your-- says is
any savings on any projects would go in the FISA. So that money would typically return to your
unrestricted reserve versus going into the Board-appropriated. So this would be more restrictive
by putting it in the Board-appropriated. And from there, you could choose what to do from it, if
you wanted it to go in the FISA versus service or something else.
VINCE BUZEK: But without the amendment, it would not go in the FISA?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Well, I don't have anything about the amendment to say.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Walker, you want to speak to the amendment?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Yes, I'll support this. And I think it puts a fine point on probably what
we already intend to do anyway. It just makes-- it lets our customers know and our constituents

and stakeholders know exactly what we intend to do. I'm not concerned about bringing service
back and having the funds for it. But like I said, this puts a fine point on that intention. So thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Walker. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I concur with Director Walker.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. OK, seeing nobody else in the speaker queue, I believe
the mover was Director Lewis, and the second was Director Menten, and we are voting on the
amendment to add language about putting the money away, the savings. So can we vote?
The amendment passes. There are 14 yeses, one no. Director Cook voted against it. This
amendment then becomes part of the original motion, which I think we are now going to return to
the original motion.
BOB BROOM: Can we call the question?
KATE WILLIAMS: Can we call the question? Can we call for pizza?
[LAUGHTER]
OK, we're back to the original motion, which is on the 2020 service cuts. Do we have more
discussion on that recommended action?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: So I don't want to vote against this motion. But I can't support the part about
the rail. So I'd ask that for the 24th, if you would, allow me to divide those. And I don't want to
take the time now. This isn't final vote. But I just have to say that what precipitated on the rail side,
the sudden surge of dropped runs that's impacted so many people, led us to this spot we're in right
now was the extension, that 2.3 mile extension at the end of E line.
The problem was that the service plan we committed to on that is so intense. It provides for 10
runs per hour most of the day. That's every six minutes. And we have to maintain that. And in
order to try to catch up-- which it looks like from the spreadsheets we have, we probably would
catch up later anyway by the first part of next year. So we kind of have it. We're improving on
that, anyway, just because of some changes they've made in how they recruit, the number of people
we've put in the class, the classes that we maintain.
Given that, it seems patently unfair to have one line, the R Line, shoulder the burden for speeding
up that process when that line is showing great improvement. They're doing things like building
TOD that we want to see our quarters do.

And not being willing to specifically deal with them as they turn to offer us some sort of partnership
or approach I think is forgoing an opportunity, as Troy Whitmore had suggested. So I'm going to
vote against this motion. I'm hoping that by the 24th, we'll have-- I'll be able to vote just against
the rail motion because I would like to support the best motion in order to shorten that gap. Thank
you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Cook. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I have one question and one comment. So to Director Cook's point, also when
you bring that back, can you let us know what other areas of the system that those operators would
be taken from in order to provide empty services on the R Line, please?
And then my comment is within our package, the Montbello comments are not included. And so I
just wanted to let my folks up in Montbello know they're coming. We haven't forgotten about you.
You're not invisible, and those will be a part of the final packet.
KEN MIHALIK: Yeah, the Montbello meeting occurred after the deadline for revision of the
paper. So they have been collected and written up, as have the Parker comments as well.
SHONTEL LEWIS: All right, cool. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I want to apologize for my rather strong language about the
RunRide. Chair Rivera-Malpiede reminded me that there were some of her constituents at her
meeting who access that via wheelchairs and everything. And I was just thinking of the people in
my area. And so that was not looking at the district-wide approach. And I do apologize because I
think that it needs to be reconsidered. But-- so the temporary, I'm in favor of.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that gracious comment. We are attempting here tonight as a
group to look at the Regional Transportation District. And I appreciate everybody's sentiments.
But in the bottom, we are looking at it regionally. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. I just want to remind the Board that the R Line is not the only rail
line that's taking any hits. The D line, which runs a scant 10-minute walk from my house and the
one I often take to get downtown, to the heart of downtown, is looking at no weekend service,
which means that anybody who uses that line, wants to get to the heart of downtown is going to
have to transfer.
That's how it goes. And I understand that, and I'll be in the same boat when I want to take that line
downtown. I'll have to transfer to one of the other routes, just like in New York City. But I just
want to remind the Board that the R Line is not the only line that's taking a service cut. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Walker. Director Tisdale.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Once again, I concur with Director
Walker because the D line runs through my district. And just in the last three days, I've done over
30 emails to people, explaining how they hopefully can find-- [CLEARS THROAT] excuse me-a two-seat solution to the cancellation, the elimination of the D line on the weekend.
So it's not just the R Line that's getting hit here. And it's a very important thing for a lot of folks
who used the D line for the cultural center, the convention center, and even to work on Saturdays
downtown. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. And sorry for taking up more time. But I just want to say that although
I support the concept of these cuts to stabilize our system, I am concerned that we're not willing to
indicate that we're going to be talking with the city of Aurora to work on some mutually agreeable
path forward. And so I will be voting against that for that reason. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Madam Chair, I call the question.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. The question is called. Discussion is closed. We go back to
vote on the original motion. I believe that the mover was Director Tisdale, and the second was
Chair Rivera-Malpiede. If those would vote, the rest of us can vote.
This recommended action passes out of committee with 12 yeses and 3 nos. The no votes are
Director Buzek, Director Lubow, and Director Cook.
We have now a variety of updates that we're going to go through I personally would like to take a
five-minute break before we go on to the updates because we're going to be here for another two
hours. So we will be adjourned for five minutes.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
Hi, Jannett. OK, the Bus Ops and Customer Service Committee meeting is resuming. We have
passed through our recommended actions, and we are now into updates, which we have a number
of. I'm going to make my standard statement.
We can go through the updates. I believe that all of the directors had the information for some
days. I believe that most of Denver had all of this information for some days. And as we go through
the updates, if you have a question, please feel free to say so. And if there are no questions, we're
going to try and move this along.
So our first update is the fourth quarter 2019 performance measures. And we can take a look at
what's on there now if we want to. On the screen, do we want to see-- do we have any printout
there that we want to look at?

DOUG TISDALE: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: No? OK, do we have questions on this topic? Seeing no speakers in the queue,
thank you. We read it. We appreciate the work that was put into the information. We just don't feel
like you left us any unanswered questions.
The second update is the service availability for February 2020. This is great. People are just rolling
through there, changing without having to be told. Do any of the directors have questions or
comments on the service availability report? Director Lewis, I see you in the queue.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I have a-- so this goes back to my original request around the-- this is the
form that I was referencing, where it says, "hired, separated." If we can just get some more
specificity around like what it is that you all are doing in terms of retention, I think that would be
helpful for me as an individual director, but also the general public to know that in addition to the
service reductions that we are trying to get to the root of these and mitigate what is impacting
those. That's all.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're referring, I assume, to number 2A, which is the service availability
memo.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I printed it out. I never look at the screen.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, that's all right. We're good. I'm assuming the staff understood the request.
DAVE JENSEN: Yes, ma'am.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I just want to applaud staff for providing
us with information that is also available to the public that bus service is being provided at 99.53%.
People talk about, well, my bus didn't show up. They don't run any of the buses. They don't know
what they're doing. They mess up all the buses. 99.53% of the scheduled services is being provided.
But as we have pointed out, it is provided at the cost of quality of life for our operators because
they are mandated to work that sixth day. And that's what we're working on trying to rid ourselves
of, i.e. to create an equilibrium between staffing and service. So I thank you, sir, for giving us this
information and letting the public know it as well.
DAVE JENSEN: Thank you, sir.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Tisdale. That was well said. No other-- seeing no one
else with questions, we will now move to the rail operations update for January 2020. Do I see any
questions or comments on rail operations update? Do you have anything you feel like you need to
tell us, Mr. Jensen, in addition?

DAVE JENSEN: This is Dave Jensen, AGM of Rail Operations. And there is something I feel like
I need to tell you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, darn. OK.
[LAUGHTER]
DAVE JENSEN: On the form, the lower right-hand corner on the mandates, the change from
previous years, the number says-- it was cut off on my sheet. I'm believing it may be on yours as
well. It says 29. It should be 299.
DOUG TISDALE: Gotcha.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. Yeah, I think the math would have spoken for itself. But
we appreciate you pointing that out for us.
DAVE JENSEN: I needed to.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Seeing nothing further, we are going to move to-- and it's something that
I have asked to have a full presentation on, and this is our new operator dashboard. Gentlemen, if
you will come up and introduce yourselves. And let's see if we can have some-- oh, look we have
a pretty screen. We have a visual to go with it.
JEFF TRANGUCH: Thank you, Madam Chair. And good evening to everyone. Thanks to all
Board members for giving us your attention tonight. We are very excited. My name is Jeff
Tranguch, and I'm the Market Research Manager here at RTD, and this is my teammate, Palmo
O'Neil.
Market research is very excited to share with you a project that we've been working on that is a
data dashboard that will help the agency better visualize its workforce, specifically with regard to
bus and rail operations.
So over the next few minutes, we plan to share with you a high level overview of how this came
about. We'll give you a glimpse of what the dashboard looks like. We'll discuss what value this
brings to the agency. And then we'll talk about next steps for finalizing and implementing this
across the agency.
This dashboard came about, as many of our projects do, from the result of us sitting in
conversations, whether it be meetings or interactions at water fountains where we hear people
talking about the specific challenges that they face. We hear a lot of incongruence with what people
are saying, when people make assumptions like we're attracting millennials or we're not attracting
millennials. We're keeping millennials. We're not keeping millennials.
So we see that as a sign that we need data from which we can base our decisions. So humans, we
often find that perception is not reality. And science and metrics are used to make up for our senses,
which are often lacking. So we saw this as a huge opportunity. Obviously, we have an operator

shortage. We have some other projects going on right now to help fill those gaps with recruitment
and retention.
But we really saw this as an opportunity to help Bus and Rail Ops better visualize their workforce
so that we can make, again, evidence-based decisions. And what I'll do now is I'll toss it over to
Palmo O'Neil, who is largely responsible for taking the vision of what this could have been and
bringing it to life.
So I'd like to commend him in front of the Board for the excellent job he did, because he really
just took direction and ran with it. And I think he did a great job. And we'll preface at the beginning
that this is a prototype. It is a work in progress. So with that, I'll pass it over to Palmo.
PALMO O'NEIL: Thank you. So this is currently a snap screenshot of the prototype we've created
in Excel. This is specific for bus employees. We have a second sheet in Excel for rail operators.
This dashboard includes information on all bus represented employees. For the purposes of this
presentation, we've filtered it to bus operators only.
The data we show basically would be the job title, employment status, tenure, pay rate, as well as
some basic demographics like age, gender, and ethnicity. Each of these charts is filterable by any
of these variables. So for example, if somebody were to want to see these charts broken by only
female bus operators, there's a button in Excel they can click.
And that's what they will see pop up on Excel, same for male or any of these other variables. We
also have a filter for hire date. So we can see how our employees over time have been changing.
So we can filter it to the past year or two years, for example, and see if our age has-- or average
age of employee hire has changed over time.
The second part of the dashboard is an interactive map. And the map shows-- it's a heat map of
where our operators live. This is specific to bus. Again, we have one for light rail, which we'll
show momentarily. But basically, what it's showing is as the zip codes-- this is broken by zip
codes-- as they get darker, that means there are more employees living in that zip code.
So at the bottom left, we have the legend. So the darkest region has 57 employees, and that's in zip
code 80013 in Aurora. This map is also filterable by the same variables from the other screenshot.
So if you wanted to look at only male bus operators, you'd be able to filter to that as well.
And one thing Jeff and I are planning on doing is we have operator applicant surveys out, which
ask for zip code. And so we're going to create a similar map once we start collecting some of that
data this year. They've already started coming in. And we'll be able to compare where our
applicants are coming from, as well as where the people we're hiring are coming from to help us
with our remarketing campaign for new hires.
This next slide is just for the light rail operators. Again, this d included in the dashboard is all light
rail represented employees. It has the same data, as well as the same filters available. And similarly,
here is a map of where light rail operators currently live. It's similar to the bus operators. It has the
same filters. And that's it in terms of the dashboard.

DAVE JENSEN: Oh, did I do that? I think we still had a couple of slides there. Sorry.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah. I thought we still had stuff to go. So hang in there.
DAVE JENSEN: Sure. I promise not to be too long. So what does all this mean? What value does
this bring to the agency? So obviously, it will help us in rail ops better understand what their
workforce looks like. So we don't have to rely on hearsay. I saw on this website that we're not
doing this or I heard from Joe and Jane Smith that we're not attracting this group or we are
attracting this group. This will help us make decisions based on data that we already have readily
available.
It complements well with what Palmo mentioned previously. Market research has been working
with bus and rail ops over the past couple of years to collect data from our applicants and new
hires to find out why they wanted to become an operator, how they found out we were hiring. And
as our needs have changed, we have revised these surveys over the years.
So previously, a few years ago, we were just asking, how did you hear about us? Why did you
apply? And a few other questions. Now we've asked, do you have any CDL or do you have a CDL?
Was it expired? Do you currently have one? Or did you never have one? What we find is most
people don't have a CDL at the time they apply.
We've now added questions to find out whether or not they've applied to another job in the past 12
months. And what we find is I think over half do, and the names or-- excuse me-- the types of jobs
that they're applying to, it just runs the gamut, anything from bartenders to security officers to
police officers to teachers. I mean, you name it. So we're using this information to better speak
with our applicants, prospective applicants.
So this is an ongoing process. And this will fit nicely with that. We will not only have information
relative that we can map out this is where our current operators lie but also where our applicants
are coming from. So we'll be better able to target our marketing efforts in the future. And all this
basically means is as an agency, we can move toward making decisions based on data, again, not
hearsay and claims that are absent without evidence.
Terms of next steps, again, this is a prototype. Palmo did a great job of putting this into Excel. It
was readily available, cost effective. It was already installed on our machine, so we saw the
opportunity to put it in that.
There are a number of pivot tables that are at work in the currently existing dashboard. So this will
have to live somewhere else. Excel can handle it, but the more and more you filter, it gets confused,
and it can jam, and you'll have to reset. So this ideally is not the place where it should live in the
future.
This was simply meant to show this is the data that we have available and the power of what that
looks like when it's easily synthesized into a dashboard that is readily digestible. So this will have
to live in a [? BI, ?] and we have those at our exposure, and we're working with folks to hopefully

get this into something where it could be updated on a daily, monthly, weekly basis, whatever fits
our needs. So that is being worked out right now.
We're also-- before we finalize things, we're meeting with the bus and rail ops team to make sure
that this data is as useful to them as possible. So we've taken a stab at saying, this is what we think
might be helpful for you guys. What else would you consider to be helpful? Are there certain ways
you want to categorize the data that would be most useful to you? So we're meeting with those
teams in the near future.
We're also, at the recommendation of SLT, which we think is a great recommendation, adding data
regarding folks that are leaving. So you just saw what our current workforce looks like. We're also
going to be adding information on folks that are leaving. So we have their hire date. We'll be able
to answer questions like, are millennials leaving at a faster rate than the boomers and Gen Xers?
That is data we can easily answer if we have those data in that dashboard as well. And again, this
all fits well with what work that we're doing right now to help out with the operator shortage. So
we just see this as another data point that help us make better decisions, to help us make evidencebased decisions so that we can be more efficient in the future. And that about does it for our
presentation. We're happy to answer any questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, gentlemen. Well, everybody went away. That's right. They're still
here on my screen. And so I'll get you. I'm going to exercise Chair prerogative and say that I think
it's great. And this will be, I'm assuming, when it is viable, which is now just a prototype, available
to the public as part of our open records information. Question?
SPEAKER 4: Probably not.
DAVE JENSEN: Yeah, so we have every intention on sharing in the information. It's publicly
available. We just have to hash out where it's going to live, how often it's going to be updated. So
there's a lot of unknowns right now. But I guess you could consider this as an exercise of us
throwing out some line and seeing if anybody would be receptive to it. And it seems like that. So
there are a lot of kinks we need to work out. But we'll work towards that.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd like to suggest that this might be something that the union could put up on
their front page once it becomes a viable entity. Thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. And this looks to be like mostly an internal type of a tool. Bus
drivers, I don't know that they would really be interested. Am I misreading that, do you think?
DAVE JENSEN: I mean, as it stands right now, it's really a tool that we could work with the bus
ops and rail ops team so that we can answer questions. Are we attracting this group or another?
You'll notice on, like, for bus, for example, we were leaning towards the baby boomers and Gen
Xers.

But if you isolate data according to the past five years, we are actually attracting millennials. So
it's just really a tool for internal use that we could use to make-- to help them understand what their
workforce looks like.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And will mechanics, engineers, those type of positions-DAVE JENSEN: Essentially, we-- I'm sorry.
NATALIE MENTEN: Would those types of positions be added?
DAVE JENSEN: So right now, it is mechanics and body shop technicians, facilities maintenance,
maintenance away. Essentially, we could make this to have everybody and then isolate it based on
what needs a specific department has. So it's really because of the operator shortage. We've been
recognizing that in the conversation that we had that we decided to isolate just those employees.
Because of all the background work we had to do in Excel, it would take a lot longer time if we
had everybody in there. But that's something, when it does move to a dashboard that's capable of
handling all that information, we could include all employees.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And then with the raw data that's producing this map, it's a little bit
difficult to read. And I understand it's a prototype, so it's not finished. This is in stage one, two,
whatever you want to call it. But I am interested in seeing the raw data. And it doesn't necessarily
have to have the employee's home address or anything like that. But a zip code would be really
helpful.
And the reason I ask that is because some of the employees have brought forward a concern. It's
quite minor, really, in our world. But they're paying parking because they live outside of the
district. So I would be interested in that regards, and that raw data would provide me with that
information that I could just pump into Google data myself.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather McKillop. I'd like to know who those people are.
Because any employee that's an employee of RTD does not have to pay for parking if they live
outside the district.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That's a benefit that we offer to all employees' represented salary as long
as they're employees of the district, not a contractor, but employees of the district.
NATALIE MENTEN: So does that work that when they're in a parking garage in I don't even
know what-- what we're using-- what is it-- Central Parking has changed names. I don't remember
now. I know I've gotten email communications about that myself.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is correct. As long as you are an employee, you can ask for your
name to be added to the list if you're an out-of-district employee.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So it sounds like we need to get that word out a little bit better. We do
that every time during open enrollment benefits. We make sure that everybody's aware of that. But
I just want to clarify that if that's the issue, we have a solution for that issue already.
NATALIE MENTEN: Wonderful. I love those answers. So yes. Instead of me digging through
emails, because over the last couple years, I've probably got maybe three or four emails, not huge.
But it was in the back of my head. So if you can just take care of it with a simple within the weekly
newsletter or something, it's all resolved. I don't need the data. We're all good. Thank you.
DAVE JENSEN: Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: That's all.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Menten. We're going to now have the person who has
the most bus and rail operators living in their district, Director Folska, speak to us.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Hello. [LAUGHS] Thank you. I think this is some groovy information. And
I know-- they know it's our favorite word. So but really, this is really great. And I hope that you
continue to develop it, and it becomes very robust and rich for all the divisions to use.
I was wondering when I was listening to your description, it seems to me that you might think
about adding another element to it, which might bog down your system a little bit. But have you
considered using GIS mapping to understand how far these people travel to get to their job at the
beginning of the day or at the beginning of their shift?
I know that some operators have to travel on RTD for an hour and a half to get to the Elati Station,
for example, to start. And they get off at 3:00 in the morning, and it's another hour and a half back
or more. And maybe there's a way to help them reduce that travel time.
On another note, though, it also dawned on me that I think testimonials were a wonderful way to
do effective marketing. And it's really kind of like earned marketing, which is priceless. We know
that it's gold. I mean, Bloomberg spent over $500 million and got three votes in Samoa or whatever.
It didn't do very well. He bought it, right?
But if he had earned it, maybe he would have done better. And so that's just an extreme example,
though. But it's true, right? Earned. If you have testimonials of employees from any division on
our website of different categories of people that you're talking about-- millennials, Gen Xers, or
what have you-- saying why they like their job, why they love RTD-- I love my RTD, right?
Remember that?

DAVE JENSEN: Yes. And you bring up a great point. In the surveys that we do where we ask
applicants how they found out about we were hiring, the number one reason year over year, or at
least in the top three, is that they hear about it from a current employee. So our word of mouth
marketing is working strong for us, at least relative to the other items that we test for. So that is
something that we do observe year over year.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, that adds another question for me now. Are you still giving everybody
$1,000 when they recruit a friend?
MICHAEL FORD: Is it $1,000 or $2,000?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No. You get $2,000 to start as a bonus. But if an employee brings someone,
they get $1,000.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is correct.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So you can tell them, man, $100,000 is waiting for you.
[LAUGHTER]
Bring us 100 people. You get 100k, right?
KATE WILLIAMS: Nice. And then you could-- unfortunately, then it would probably lead to
attrition of that operator once they had $100,000. So there we go.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, someone else will get-- it's one, though. OK Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you very much. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. This is great. I love dashboards. I'm a millennial, so I think
maybe millennials just love dashboards. So I'm really excited about it. I have a few questions. In
terms of being able to break this data down more specifically, are you able to break this data down
by division?
DAVE JENSEN: As it currently stands, no. We' have to collect that information. Currently, it's in
Oracle, and it's a little clunky. I know we're moving to Workday, that we could potentially use that
as a data point. And it would just depend on a sample size. Obviously, there are some garages that
have more people than others. So it would just depend on how many people we'd have from that.
But yes, that potentially could be something we could add in the future.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. I'm really curious as we look at how long individual employees are
staying at-- was staying with RTD, if we were able to look at that by division, we might be able to
address the retention issues. And maybe we could isolate maybe if there are individual or many
individuals who are coming in and then leaving at faster rates than other folks to help us maybe be
able to solve why folks aren't staying. Just an idea. You can speak to it. Go ahead.

DAVE JENSEN: Yeah. This is one of the things where this can be of great benefit to us. We had
mentioned earlier that there's a notion that-- are millennials staying longer or are about the same
as others? And that's something that we could definitely-- to your point, that's what this is meant
for, to help us understand, rather than throw darts at a dartboard.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. And I know you all come often with these really cool things. And I
really appreciate it. And to Director Folska's point about connecting it to marketing strategies, it'd
be great to see if-- if you're seeing that word of mouth is how we're getting most of our employees,
you might reprioritize where we're spending money in terms of marketing if it's not as effective as
another method based on the information that you all might present us as well.
And also, we might be able to isolate if we're looking at, for example-- as a woman, I think it's
important for me to speak this. But if we're looking at pay rate, we may see that maybe men in the
industry are making more money than women. We'd be able to see that data in real time. We'd be
able to break that data down by ethnicity. We'd be able to break that data down by age. So I'm
really excited about it. So I'll stop.
DAVE JENSEN: Absolutely. And you raise some great questions. There are instances where we
might have to dig a little deeper and add another layer of, let's say, experience to really understand
what's going on. But yeah, those are great points.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Valid. I hear you. You're right. [LAUGHS]
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you Director Lewis. Thank you, gentlemen. We appreciate this, and
we look forward to hearing more about it in the future.
DAVE JENSEN: Thank you very much for your time.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, moving right along, the next part of our updates is the Access-a-Ride,
Access-a-Cab 2019 fourth quarter reports. And there are actually-- A, B, C, D-- six of those. So
I'm going to ask if there are questions related to certain ones of these.
And then I am going to ask that we take a few moments to look at the summary from our ADA
Paratransit Advisory Council with an eye toward the fact that we have had some discussion with
our state legislators, legislators-- legislature-- that we need to look at this stuff. So if I don't see
any questions-- oh, I did see one from Director Menten. Let's have that first.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, so no question. But I did attend this fourth-- oh, it was a meeting like
three weeks ago, APAC.
SPEAKER 5: ACPD?
NATALIE MENTEN: ACPD. See, we've got it reading two different ways. I thought ACPD was
down at Civic Center. So this is reading APAC came on top. OK, it's running backwards. But I did
attend the meeting, so I continue to switch the names.

So even though I was there, this is just so great that the summary is in there. And as far as I know,
it's not been in there before. This is the first. So that is absolutely wonderful. Because for the most
of us, either we're tugged to meetings or we're working 8:00 to 5:00.
And it's just very, very difficult to come down for 2 o'clock meetings, 3 o'clock meetings, 11:00
AM. And I just can't say how much I really do appreciate that being included. That's a great step
forward. And I look forward to getting these moving forward. Thank you.
LARRY BUTER: If I could just say that those-KATE WILLIAMS: Larry, speak to the microphone, please. Talk to the hand.
LARRY BUTER: This is Larry Buter with paratransit. I just wanted to point out that those updates
from ACPD are provided to the APAC members by Dr. William Gross, who joins us at our
meetings. So thank you, Dr. Gross.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. Director Menten, are you finished?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yep.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I'd like to follow suit in the spirit of showing you all that
we do listen as a Board as to show my appreciation in this meeting publicly for providing these
minutes as well. It's really helpful. And to Director Menten's point, I work quite a bit, and so it's
nice to have this when I'm not able to attend. So thank you so much for putting this together.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yep, thanks from me, too. On page 232, it says we're working with Uber
to establish a pilot in a limited surface area. Is that a wheelchair accessible pilot program?
LARRY BUTER: I show it as being on 230, but I may have an older version. But yes. One of the
items that we have as being on the horizon-- and it is a pilot-- will roll out in about seven or eight
zip codes for no more than six months as a proof of concept when we start it because Uber does-neither Uber nor Lyft actually has a WAV solution in Denver, WAV meaning Wheelchair
Accessible Vehicle.
But that is our goal is to move towards a solution that we don't even really realistically have in our
Access-a-Cab program. In fact, it's one of the things that you'll hear from our APAC members and
the advocacy groups that-- the wheelchair solution we currently have or, rather, the solution we
have that's an on-demand solution, which is Access-a-Cab, doesn't really work well for people in
fixed wheelchairs.

We would seek to find a solution. Part of that is that second piece of it, which is the software. We
need a software that's not legacy software that was built to operate on a server that was built 11
years ago. That's what we have right now.
It doesn't allow us to do anything very creative. It doesn't allow us to interact through an API or a
device that communicates with other software. Those are things that we seek to do in the very near
future. And we'll be coming back with you, especially on the software element, to let you know
more about that as it develops.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd like to speak to that and point out that of those users of our paratransit
services, only 10% require a wheelchair accessible vehicle. 90% of the users of our paratransit
system can use Uber or Lyft or Metro Taxi.
So although we do need to move forward toward addressing that, let's be clear that that is 10% of
our users and that there would be a great relief on our Access-a-Ride service if we could take 90%
of those users and put them someplace else. I think that people who do require a wheelchair
accessible vehicle would find that their service might improve based on that situation. So I did
want to point that out. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I would be remiss to not take this opportunity to say if the state funded our
paratransit, we might have the opportunity to do some of those things.
KATE WILLIAMS: Agree.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That is all.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you very much. Gentlemen, we appreciate this. We hope to see it
continue. If there are-- oh, Director Menten, if there are-NATALIE MENTEN: Oh, I'm sorry.
KATE WILLIAMS: I take it back. Please, ma'am.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm sorry. This is an ideal time to mention that I am not sure why, but I get
emails from Mass Transit, which is a magazine. And I don't know if all of the Board Directors
happen to get that.
But in today's article speaking of Uber and Lyft, LA Metro has just started a deal which, initially
looking at this-- I haven't dug in with a microscope-- but $3 trip using Lyft to metro rail stations.
So just bringing that to everybody's attention because of the flood of emails that we get. Sometimes
we don't read to the bottom. And that article was more towards the bottom of that one.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd like to also point out that here in the greater Denver region, DRCOG is
giving vouchers on a program that they have with Lyft. And 211 United Way, mile high United

Way, is giving vouchers for a program that they have with Lyft. So those programs with TNCs are
in operation here.
Last week, I believe, the head of DRCOG, the head of CDOTs, Office of Innovative Mobility, and
a variety of other people had a tour of the Lyft driver center and got to see paratransit mobility
pilots that Lyft is operating in conjunction with other transit agencies in other parts of the country.
So there is a plan afoot to have that presentation done here. And if the Board members are
interested in seeing that, it's possible that we could have that in some kind of a study session. So I
just wanted you all to have that information.
OK, item number five. OK, we've gone through Access-a-Ride, Access-a-Cab reports. And we are
up to the special services fourth quarter 2019 report. Thank you, gentlemen. I want to not forget
to say thank you to everybody for your wonderful information that we have all read and digested,
which is why we have very few questions for you now because you've all done such a great job at
presenting it. Special services fourth quarter report, questions, comments?
LARRY BUTER: Just one thing. You should have received a modified spreadsheet that shows a
summary of the ridership information. Director Williams requested that we add on a line that
showed the average ridership for 2019. So you should have that. If not, you'll be getting that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. That will help us all to pull all of that spreadsheet together
and digest it. OK, seeing nobody else, contracted fixed-route quarterly report, fourth quarter. We
have the quarterly performance stats and the contracted services monitoring summary report.
Anybody have questions, comments on those reports? You guys, just great, great reporting. Very
well done. OK, we're going to move on to the customer common analysis for the fourth quarter.
We received a printout on those comments. Am I going too fast for anybody? Questions,
comments? No? OK, seeing nobody.
Number nine in the updates is the drug and alcohol compliance monitoring report for the fourth
quarter of 2019. Questions, comments? Anything additional staff feels like they need to add? Good
job, gentlemen.
Item number 10, security statistics. I think we have a changing of the guard here. Security statistics
and fair inspection summary. And that includes the Board of Director's fourth quarter report for
2019. Mr. Grado. Does anybody have questions or comments on that? And, sir, do you have
anything you'd like to add beyond the information you've presented to us?
BOB GRADO: I do not.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Tisdale does have something he'd like to ask.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I do have one question, Chief. And that is, I recall when
I first got on the Board and we had these reports that we were averaging something like closer to
5% when we had on light rail four plainclothes officers inspecting. [COUGHS] Excuse me. There

was between 4% and 5%. Now I'm seeing that it's 3.2% and under. Is that a trend that we see? Or
is this just an aberrational quarter?
BOB GRADO: Well, it's actually because we reduced the level of plainclothes services that we're
providing right now as part of our cutback.
DOUG TISDALE: So there's just not as much opportunity to check.
BOB GRADO: Correct.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you. I appreciate that observation.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that question, sir. I have reached the end of the updates that
we have-- thank you, gentlemen-- for this month. We have a agenda item for other matters. If any
of the directors have other matters that they would like to address, this would be the time to do it.
If there are any other matters from staff that we did not get to address, speak now or forever hold
your peace. OK. Seeing none, the next meeting of this committee will be April 14, 2020, and we
stand adjourned. We'll take a break before the next committee meeting.
[GAVEL POUNDS]
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

