Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, April 14, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Tom Tobiassen

A. Call to Order
Attendee Name

Title

Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta
Kent Bagley

Director, District L
Director, District C
Director, District H

Present
Present
Present

6:48 PM
6:47 PM
6:48 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District N

Present
Present
Present

6:48 PM
6:46 PM
6:47 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

6:44 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Absent

6:45 PM

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District I
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present

6:47 PM
6:45 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Absent

6:46 PM
6:47 PM

Tom Tobiassen

Committee Chair

Present

6:44 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

6:45 PM

Director Lasater was absent. Director Solano left before the meeting began.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Lacy Bell, Shirley Bennett, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke,
Carolyn Conover, Lou Cripps, Lee Cryer, Martell Dyles, John Elias,
Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, Dave Genova, Mike Gil, Kim
Heldman, George Hovey, Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop, Erin Klaas, Marla
Lien, Michael Nabhan, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Barbara
McManus, Deborah Mendez-Wilson, Vivian Morales, Paula Perdue,
Scott Reed, Jan Ross, Jannette Scarpino, Zamy Silva, John Tarbert,
Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington

Others Present:

Josh Benninghoff, Heather Copp, Eugene Howard, Bill McMullen,
Daniel Pearsall, John Rebter, Brian Stelmack, Vivian Stovall, Joe
Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Dace West, Tracy Williams

B. Recommended Actions

• Increase General Counsel's Settlement Authority to Colorado Governmental
Immunity Act Claim Limits
It is recommended by the Finance and Administration Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorizes the General Counsel to settle claims made
against the District up to the limits provided in the Colorado Governmental
Immunity Act (CGIA), C.R.S. 24-10-114.
Motion:

Chair Sisk made the motion to move this item to
the full Board at the April 21, 2015 Board
Meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Marla Lien, General Counsel, explained to the Board that prior
to 2013, the Colorado Governmental Immunity Act (CGIA)
limited liability for tort claims, a category that covers most
personal injury claims, at $150,000 per person. RTD’s
General Counsel had authority to settle those claims and
General Manager Washington could settle claims up to
$250,000, which he delegated to the General Counsel’s
office. In 2013 the CGIA was amended and individual claim
limits were increased to $350,000. She said that this request
is to authorize the General Counsel the ability to settle claims
made against the District up to the limits provided in the CGIA,
or $350,000.

Marla Lien stated that this request does not have any budget
implications. RTD is self-insured for most liability and
manages claims with its in-house risk management and legal
staffs. She explained that following the change in the CGIA
limits, her department worked with Finance to begin increasing
the self-insured reserves to account for potential settlements
or judgements under the new statutory limits. She noted that
RTD has an actuarial study performed each year and has its
reserves audited to ensure they are adequate.
Marla Lien reiterated that this action will not impact the
budget; it simply allows the General Counsel to continue to
settle claims within the limits provided in the CGIA, as done
prior to the CGIA amendment. If this action is not passed then
any claims in excess of $250,000 would be brought to the
Board for settlement authority.
Director Hoy asked for clarification if this action provided
General Counsel the authority to settle claims or the General
Manager. He thought he heard both entities mentioned as
being able to settle. Marla Lien stated that this would allow
the General Counsel office to settle claims. She apologized if
at any time she misspoke and said the General Manager
settled the claims.
Director Francone asked if the current General Counsel
authority was for $150,000 or $250,000. She also wondered
how many of the 340 open liability claims might exceed
$250,000. Marla Lien stated that since the General Manager
delegated his authority to the General Counsel department
they could settle claims up to $250,000. She said that it was
very difficult to say what open liability claims might exceed
$250,000 as each case is unique; additionally, there could be
claims that were settled from $150,000 under the previous
CGIA but would settle for a higher amount today.
Director Francone inquired if claims above $350,000 would
still need to be brought to the Board for approval. Marla Lien
explained that there would be no settlements above $350,000
as that is the maximum a claimant can receive by statute.
Director Menten requested if the Board could receive an annual
report related to claims versus settlements. Marla Lien said
that it would take some discussion as RTD would not want to

report on the possible outcome of a claim before it is closed
but her team would work on it.
Committee Chair Tobiassen asked if RTD’s contractors are
protected by the CGIA. Marla Lien stated they are not which
is why they are required to carry much higher liability
insurance policies. Committee Chair Tobiassen noted that it is
similar to the railroads requiring RTD to have additional liability
insurance when we operate in their right-of-ways as they also
are not covered by the CGIA.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy,
James, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Gary Lasater, Paul Solano
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Authorization to Execute a Budget Transfer to Purchase Thermal Printers
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
execute a budget transfer in an amount up to $1,900,000 from the Mall
Shuttle project in order to purchase and install the equipment necessary to
accommodate the sale of fare media under the proposed fare structure.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the April 21, 2015
Board Meeting.
Director Archuleta seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Doug MacLeod, Controller, reminded the Board that this action
was originally presented at last month’s Financial
Administration and Audit Committee Meeting. There were
several questions from the Board so staff decided to bring this
item back to Committee after addressing any outstanding
items. Doug MacLeod explained that although the Board has
not approved a new fare structure that includes printing of the
Day Passes, there are a lot of pieces that need to be put in
place in the background to have the printers in time for the
launch of a new fare structure. He reiterated that staff would
not move forward with purchasing the printers if they are not
required by a fare structure approved by the Board.

Doug MacLeod noted that he had a thermal printer for the
Directors to see. He recognized that it is fairly small with the
only moving part being the mechanism to cut the tickets. It is
a very durable and low-maintenance device.
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations,
explained that it would be integrated into the existing
CAD/AVL system that would control the issuance of the day
passes. He informed the Board that a delegation from RTD
recently traveled to Portland’s TriMet to see the printers in
use. TriMet has around a 700 vehicle fleet and only averaging
around 20 service tickets per month for the thermal printers.
Bruce Abel said those were mostly from the early models
related to paper jams; those issues have been addressed in the
models RTD would be purchasing. He stated that TriMet is
anticipating a 10-12 year useful life.
Bruce Abel commented that RTD cannot initiate any form of
our procurement process unless there is a budget for the
project. He explained that the reason staff was coming to the
Board this evening was to address this internal process issue.
Given that this project was not anticipated when the 2015
Budget was adopted there is no budget for the project. He
said this will allow staff to transfer money to create a budget
line item so that the procurement process may be initiated;
staff will not procure the thermal printers if the fare structure
approved does not warrant a need for thermal printers.
Doug MacLeod reminded the Board that the budget transfer
for this item would come from a portion of the Certificate of
Participation (COP) proceeds that were authorized by the
Board to be used for the replacement of the Mall Shuttles. He
said the next action item is the approval to modify that COP.
He stated that staff did acquire bond counsel sign-off and
approval to use those funds to purchase the thermal printers.
Committee Chair Tobiassen asked if staff planned to backfill
the COP budget at some point. Bruce Abel stated that was
correct; the backfilling might take place before the actual
expenditure. He stressed that this is really just paperwork so
the procurement process may begin.
Committee Chair Tobiassen wondered if there was a back-up
plan in place should the day passes be approved but we did

not have the thermal printers in time. Bruce Abel stated that
there was a back-up plan but staff did not want to implement
it on a long-term basis. Currently RTD offers day passes
through places like the Denver Visitor’s Bureau. These passes
are essentially like cash. He said the plan would be to issue
these passes to the drivers until the thermal printers were
installed. He explained that this process requires
implementation of internal controls that are not in place today.
He noted that additionally there is some security concern in
sending the drivers out with essentially cash in a fanny pack.
Director Folska inquired if the thermal printers would allow
customers to purchase a ticket by credit or debit card. Bruce
Abel stated that the buses do not have the capacity to accept
credit or debit cards. He said that once the SmartCard
program is fully implemented passengers can use them to
purchase tickets on the buses.
Director Francone asked if staff could provide a breakdown of
the cost of the printers and installation. She also inquired
what color they would be. Kim Heldman, Senior Manager of
IT, stated that there was not a breakdown for cost. Bruce
Abel noted that the cost per thermal printer was based on
estimates for RTD’s conversations with TriMet and ours could
be different. He said that his team would work with marketing
to find an appropriate color.
Director Hoy expressed concern over the integrity of the
passes. He wonders how easy they will be to counterfeit.
Bruce Abel stated that there is a hologram on the tape. Kim
Heldman explained that the passes also contain a rotating day
code security feature. Every day there is a new code to help
deter fraud.
Director Menten asked if the staff planned to go out to bid for
suppliers of the thermal printers. Bruce Abel stated that it is
important for the thermal printers to integrate with the
CAD/AVL system. The manufacturer of the CAD/AVL system
also manufactures thermal printers. He said staff does not
know at this time how many other companies might offer
compatible equipment.
Director Walker expressed his support of the day passes. He
wonders how many TriMet has sold to date. He also asked if
the thermal printers would be able to print our current

transfers if the day passes were not approved. Doug MacLeod
said that over 10 million tickets have been printed on TriMet’s
printers. Bruce Abel stated that the thermal printers could be
used to print transfers but it would need to be evaluated
further to determine if there was a benefit.
Director Francone commented that staff indicated they had
received an opinion from bond counsel but she did not see
that included in the packet. Doug MacLeod explained that
was part of the next action item.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 1]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Ernest Archuleta, Director, District C
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James,
Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Tina Francone
ABSENT:
Gary Lasater, Paul Solano
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED.

• Authorization to Execute a Lease Amendment for Smart Card and /or
Thermal Printers
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the
“Resolution”), authorizing the First Amendment to the Lease Purchase
Agreement related to the Certificates of Participation, Series 2013A.
Motion:

Chair Sisk made the motion to move this item to
the full Board at the April 21, 2015 Board
Meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Doug MacLeod explained that this action is asking for approval
to perform an Amendment to the Lease Purchase Agreement
related to the Certificates of Participation (COP), Series
2013A. He noted that in the case of the 2013 COPs RTD
issues about $200 million to fund the purchases of buses,
including the Mall Shuttle buses. Since the Mall Shuttle
procurement has been delayed staff is requesting the transfer
of $6 million from the 2013 COPs to fund two projects: (1)
expansion of the Xerox contract related to the smart card
project ($3.8 million) and (2) purchase of thermal printers to
support the proposed new fare structure including the

purchase of day passes on buses ($1.9 million). Doug
MacLeod said that per the recommendation of the bond
counsel staff has rounded the requested transfer to $6 million.
Director Lubow said it was her understanding that issuance of
a COP is based on using collateral. She asked if the $6 million
that will be transferred will now be collateralized by the
purchase of the thermal printers. Marla Lien explained that
when approximately $10 million was paid down on the COPs
certain collateral can be released. Per the amortization
schedule outlined as part of the resolution (Exhibit C), the
thermal printers will be released from collateral as it is a low
value item while the other items purchased (i.e. light rail
vehicles, buses) will remain as collateral.
Director Lubow noted that RTD will still need to purchase Mall
Shuttles when we can find a company to build them. She
wonders how RTD will come up with the missing funding.
Doug MacLeod explained that in June or July staff plans to
issue new COPs for additional rolling stock; $6 million from
those COPs would be used to replace these funds.
Director Menten stated that she will be voting no for the
simple principle that RTD is using borrowed money to
purchase a service contract and thermal printers. This is not
only using money that is borrowed but will ultimately increase
the overall amount owed by RTD.
Director Francone stated that she too has several problems
with this recommendation. She commented that she still does
not see an opinion from bound counsel saying this is okay
included in the packet. Director Francone shared that the
other thing that bothers her is that there is a just a little extra
in the amount requested. She would be more inclined to vote
yes on a request for $5.7 million. Marla Lien explained that
bond counsel opinions are delivered to the trustee and note
holders, not RTD. Doug MacLeod noted that the reason bond
counsel recommended, and staff requested, $6 million was to
try and avoid coming back to the Board to amend the lease a
second time.
Committee Chair Tobiassen shared that he thinks of COPs like
a mortgage that someone might take out to build a house.
RTD is already making interest and principle payments on
money that is just sitting out there; however, it is available

and we already have some equity. He said this is just
borrowing the money temporarily so we can do something else
but ultimately the house will still get built. He believes this is
a good temporary use of the funds.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 2]
MOVER:
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James,
Lubow, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Tina Francone, Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Gary Lasater, Paul Solano
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED.

• Adoption of 2016 Performance Measures
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee
that the Board of Directors adopts the attached 2016 Performance
Measures for mission statement goals 1-7.
There are 23 specific
performance measures in total.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the April 21, 2015
Board Meeting.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager of Budget and Financial
Analysis, indicated that there were several recommended
changes from the goals adopted in 2015. The changes
recommended are:
 Goal 1.4: remove the measure for Reportable Light Rail
Accidents while retaining the Preventable goal. The
first measure is considered no longer relevant as the
focus should be directed to preventable accidents and
brings the goals for Rail Operations in line with those
for Bus Operations
 Goal 3.1: reduce the Local On-Time Bus Service
performance measure from 88% to 86% and reduce
the Regional & Express On-Time Service performance
measure from 94% to 92%. Since moving to using the
GPS component of the Automated Passenger Counter
system in 2011 the collection of on-time performance
data has become far more accurate. The new data
capture methodology has shown on-time performance





consistently in the 83-86% range for local service while
a peer review indicated actual on-time performance of
82% on average.
Goal 3.3: increase the Mileage Between Lost Service
Maintenance Road Calls from 26,000 to 28,000 miles.
With new bus vehicles that dominate the bus fleet and
require fewer maintenance road calls it is expected that
the mileage between lost service will increase.
Goal 6.1: add a yes/no indication of whether the
required SB154 Cost Recovery ratio is met along with
ratio’s definition along with that of the Operating Cost
Recovery ratio (Board-approved goal). This is to
provide clarification between what state legislature
requires as opposed to the Board-approved goal.

Jannette Scarpino reminded the Board that Goal 6.2 and 6.3
are currently placeholders; these measures will be established
as part of the 2016 Annual Budget process.
Director Francone believes it is still valuable to see metrics on
all types of accidents whether preventable or not. She also
suggests leaving the on-time performance metrics as is.
Director Anderson expressed that to her it makes sense to
only track the preventable accidents because there is nothing
that RTD can do about the others.
Chair Sisk expressed a problem with reducing goals for
system-wide on time performance. He stated that we are
going out to the public telling them we are increasing fares yet
also telling them that we are lowering our goal for on-time
performance. He thinks this is sending the wrong message to
the public.
Director Folska stated that she concurs with Chair Sisk. This
performance measures appears to the public that we are
raising fares and lowering performance. She said that
additionally, RTD does not know what the picture will look like
in 2016 with all the new rail openings. She suggested waiting
to establish this performance measure.
Bruce Abel explained that staff was attempting to recognize
that in 2011 the data collection method became far more
accurate. Using the previous observational method data
counts were only about 240/day and are now exceeding

18,000/day. He said the positive is that every year since
2011 the performance has improved; however, every year
since 2011 staff also has to return to the Board explaining
that we are not meeting our goals. Bruce Abel noted that the
proposed goal still encourages staff to improve while still being
a goal that can realistically be met.
Committee Chair Tobiassen reminded the Board that these
goals also drive the budget. He thinks that using new
technology to really fine tune the goals and help staff focus
where budget dollars are allocated is a good thing.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [10 TO 3]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Kent Bagley, Director, District H
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James,
Menten, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Tina Francone, Judy Lubow, Chuck Sisk
ABSENT:
Gary Lasater, Paul Solano
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• Review of 2016 -2021 SBP Development Process and 2016 Budget
Assumptions
Jannette Scarpino reviewed a Power Point with the Board that is available in
the April 14, 2015 Financial Administrative and Audit Committee Agenda
Packet. She explained that the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) is RTD’s six year
financial plan for the Base System that must result in a balanced budget.
FasTracks expenses and projects are in the FasTracks Annual Program
Evaluation (APE) financial plan; cost allocations are made from the Base
System to the FasTracks Operations for the West Line, DUS Bus Concourse,
Free MetroRide and I-225 Rail Line.
Jannette Scarpino explained that staff starts with the 2015-2020 SBP
capital programs as a baseline to develop the current SBP. These projects
are prioritized and evaluated using mission statement criteria and 2016
strategic goals. She said the SBP is comprised of operating elements (bus
service, LRT service, and operating and passenger facilities) and capital
elements (fleet plan and operating and passenger facilities and equipment).
Jannette Scarpino noted that there are several revenue and cost
assumptions used in development of the SBP which are:

Revenue Assumptions:
 Sales and use tax growth rates
o 2016: CU-Leeds School of Business currently forecasts 4.8%
increase over 2015
o 2017-2021: based on quarterly forecasts from CU-Leeds
School
o January 2015: actual sales/use tax is 10.8% over January
2014
 Federal Grants
o Based on actual 2015 appropriations
o Assumed to increase at rate of inflation
 Fare revenue
o Assume 10% fare increase in 2016 over 2015 budget
o Per policy, Board will consider a fare increase every 3 years,
scheduled increase for 2014 was deferred to 2015 and 2015
Cost Assumptions:
 Operating and maintenance costs
o Based on 2015 proposed Amended Budget
o Costs escalated at rate of inflation
o Collective Bargaining Agreement incorporated, fixed through
2017
 Diesel fuel costs
o Locked at $2.95 per gallon in 2015
o Current futures estimate is $2.12 per gallon for 2015
o Conservative cost assumptions and escalated at rate of
inflation
o Provide monthly updates
 Debt service
o Interest payments on existing debt and assumed financing
 Inflation rates
o Based on Moody’s forecasts as of December 2015
o Denver-Boulder inflation rate: 3.1% in 2016
o National inflation rate: 2.6% in 2016
Jannette Scarpino pointed out that there are many issues and challenges in
developing the SBP. The cost of fuel is very volatile so it can be difficult to
make assumptions over several years. Additionally, staff must always look
to optimize/improve service levels, prioritize competing projects and maintain
a State of Good Repair.
Jannette Scarpino stated that staff will continue to review the assumptions
and refine the SBP accordingly. She said the next steps in the process are
to review the first draft of the SBP at the Budget Study Session, review the

second draft of the SBP at the following Financial Administration and Audit
Committee Meeting with the SBP hopefully being approved in July.
Director Folska inquired how far in the future we can buy fuel. She wonders
if we can stock up on fuel for perhaps 2017, 2018 and 2019. Marla Lien
explained that RTD does not purchase fuel from the commodities market; we
sign a contract with a vendor to formulate the diesel, deliver it to our
locations, etc. She said that we have never found a vendor willing to enter
into a contract of longer than one year. Marla Lien stated that the vendor
may have options for purchasing fuel further out on the commodities market
but that option is not available to RTD.
Director Lubow asked what impact there might be on the SBP when new
corridors go online like we will have in 2016. She noted one slide of the
presentation mentioned cost allocations for several FasTracks project bus
not the Eagle P3 lines or US 36 Bus Rapid Transit and she wondered why.
Jannette Scarpino explained that the opening of FasTracks lines does have
an impact on the SBP; initially all operating costs are carried in Base
Systems and then there is an allocation made to the FasTracks Operating
budget based on a cost allocation formula. Jannette Scarpino commented
that is it important these are segregated because of the legislation that was
passed requiring a separation of the 0.6 and 0.4 cent sales and use taxes.
She said that the Eagle P3 lines will not be allocated because operation of
those lines is through Denver Transit Partners. As for the US 36 BRT and
new cost allocation formula will need to be created prior to opening as RTD
does not own the entire project like we do for something like the West Line.
Director Lubow noted that during the Northwest Area Mobility Study there
were a variety of BRT corridors proposed. She wonders, given the other
projects already included in the SBP, when those lines might show up on
this plan. Jannette Scarpino said that those BRT lines would not show up in
the SBP until they had been formalized. Doug MacLeod stated that those
BRT lines would also not be included in the APE that will be presented in the
next few months; until RTD has identified a way to pay for and operate a
new service it is not included in the list of projects.
Director Menten noticed that the Power Point indicated the SBP would be
brought back to the Board at the April 28th Study Session. She wondered if
that was still scheduled as that is also the Study Session to further review
the Fare Study. Dave Genova, Interim General Manager and CEO, said that
staff was still reviewing the schedule. It is possible that the SBP may not be
presented again until the May.
Director Bagley believes it needs to be recognized that the diesel price per
gallon Jannette Scarpino mentioned for 2016 is only an indicator of what it

might be. The futures market can change very quickly and only
demonstrates a trend of what is happening with fuel prices.

• Internal Audit Charter
Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop, Manager of Internal Audit, stated that the Audit
Charter was included in the Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Agenda Packet and asked if there were any questions.
Director Hoy asked for further clarification on the process for the Board to
interact with the Internal Audit Department. Scott Reed, Assistant General
Manager of Communications, explained that the internal audit plan is
developed in the 4th quarter of each year. He said at that time the Board is
asked if they have any suggestions of possible audit topics to include in the
plan. He stated that if at any time throughout the year a Director had
questions about an existing audit his team would be more than happy to
discuss it with the Director.
Committee Chair Tobiassen asked if information security falls into the Audit
Charter or if this is something that needs to be included. Ann Marie IsaacHeslop said that it includes general audit responsibility but does not outline
any specific audit classifications. That is done during development of the
Internal Audit Plan each year.
Director Menten wonders what resources are available for employees to
suggest areas that they feel need to be audited, especially if they want to
remain anonymous. Scott Reed stated that there are several different ways
for employees to give suggestions and may remain anonymous if they wish.
He said that employees can also contact the Internal Audit Department
directly as well. Dave Genova noted that RTD also has an employee liaison
that is very engaged with the employees. He said this is a great conduit to
get feedback from employees. Dave Genova said that it might be valuable
to bring the liaison, Beverly Lindsey, into a future meeting.

• February 2015 Monthly Financial Status Report
Doug MacLeod reviewed the February Monthly Financial Status report that is
available in the April 14, 215 Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Agenda Packet with the Board. He noted that for the year to date ridership
is down 1.3% but fare revenue and sales and use tax are up 0.5% and
9.5% respectively. He pointed out that we are still under budget and sales
and use tax continues to be strong.
Director Bagley reiterated that the trend for this year is that ridership is
lower than what we project. He said that when the Board talks about
increasing ridership, there are so many externalities that cannot be
anticipated, noting that no one would have predicted the current price of oil.

He stated that external factors are something that the Board really needs to
think about. It is not simple to try to increase ridership, balance the budget,
and have fare revenue and sales and use tax be rosy because of all the
externalities.
Committee Chair Tobiassen commented that ridership appears to be down,
perhaps due to decreased gas prices, but as he drives along the interstate he
sees an H-Line packed to standing room only leaving Nine Mile. He said that
he also does not see an improvement in congestion no matter what is done
to make the highways better.
Director Bagley echoed Director Tobiassen’s observation of congestion. He
believes the significant growth in the region in the last three years has really
added to the issue.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - May 19, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 8:28 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

