Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
November 9, 2010
Page 1 of 2

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

November 15, 2010

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
November 9, 2010 at 7:47 p.m.
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Chair Christopher, Directors Bagley, Brohl, Cohen, Daly, James, Kemp,
Malpiede, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Tayer and Tobiassen.
Directors’ Busck and O’Boyle.

Staff Present:

Susan Altes, Rolf Asphaug, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Kevin Diviness,
David Genova, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Nadine Lee, Barbara
McManus, Anthony Menendez, Karen Morales, Ana Mostaccero, Jerry
Nery, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Chris Quinn, Scott Reed, Daria Serna,
Pranaya Shrestha, Julie Skeen, Greg Straight, Liz Telford, Pauletta
Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Christina Tubb, Del Walker, Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Gene Putnam - City of Thornton, Jeanne – Adams County, Dave Erb DJEB & Co, Marilyn Erb - DJEB & Co, Jeb Sloan – Baker, Nina Cregg Baker, Carl Bourgeois, Lisa Nert, Larry Hoy, Lorraine Anderson, Randy
Pierce, Greg Amparano, James W. Devine, Chuck Easterling, Mac
Callison - City of Aurora, Debra Baskett - Broomfield, Liz Rao - HNTB,
Heather Balser - Louisville, Martin Willie - USNC, and Vince A.
Chowdhury.

****
Call to Order:

Committee Chair Christopher called the meeting at 7:47 p.m.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
November 9, 2010
Page 2 of 2

I.

Recommended Action
Grant of Permanent Easement for Utility Facilities to the City of Aurora, at 14100 East
Colfax Ave.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to convey a permanent utility easement allowing for the construction,
operation and maintenance of a new sewer line (Sand Creek Interceptor to Tollgate
Creek % I-225) containing approximately 27,467 square feet and a temporary
construction license on property owned by RTD at the southeast quadrant of I-225 and
13th Avenue (extended) and adjacent to the East Metro Operating Facility at 14100
East Colfax Avenue, City of Aurora, Arapahoe County, Colorado.
MOTION:

Director Bagley made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the November
23, 2010 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Tayer seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed with (1) abstention.
Director Brohl abstained for a conflict of
interest.

II. Updates
 FASTER – Staff discussed the CDOT FASTER Grant Program with the Board. A
copy of the presentation is available in the minute notebook.
III. Other Matters
There were no other matters.
IV. Next Meeting Date
The next meeting of the Planning and Development Committee is scheduled for
December 7, 2010.
V. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 7:57 p.m.

