Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

December 15, 2009

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
December 15, 2009 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Pro Tem Martinez called the meeting to order at 5:32 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Nine (9) Board members were present at roll call. Directors Bagley, Brohl, Chacon, and Cohen
arrived after the roll call. Director Busck was absent and also Chair Kemp.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
There were several retirees for the month of December. Nine were present to receive their
awards.
Bus Operations Retirees
John Espinosa retired with 34 years of service. Mike Gil, Acting Assistant General Manager
for Bus Operations, thanked John for his many years of service. John is planning to relax with
his family that includes seven children and sixteen grandchildren. John stated he had a great
time working here and thanked everyone for their support.
Bonnie Gingles-Cordova, a bus operator with over 30 years of service, has held a number of
positions including being an instructor for the revenue and non-revenue. She has been a good
bus driver and will be missed. Ms. Gingles-Cordova has three boys, three girls, ten
grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
Conner Holmes III retired with over 25 years of service and is looking forward to new
opportunities. Conner has five children and ten grandchildren. Mike Gil introduced him as a
man of integrity and honor. Director Martinez reflected on the fact that he has known Conner
for many years and his children attended school with Conner’s children. Conner said a simple
thank you.
Thomas Hurja retired with over 35 years of experience. He was described as a man who
loved his job. Mr. Hurja thanked everyone and state he enjoyed every minute of it. As a
matter of fact, in over 35 years, he maybe had three or four days that he did not want to
come to work. He was a great employee.
Thomas Jiron retired with 30 years of service and was described by Mike Gil as one of the few
people he knew who never owned a car. Mr. Jiron either caught the bus or walked
everywhere. He can out-walk anyone. Mr. Jiron thanked his co-workers, street supervisors
and all the people he worked with. Above all, he thanked God and gave all glory to him.

Stephne Keller retired with over 36 years of experience. She was the first lady bus operator
which she jokingly described as “just passing through.” Ms. Keller was a loop driver and
worked the graveyard shift.
Edward Martinez retired after 25 years of service. Mr. Martinez thanked his support system,
most of all his wife who woke him up early to get to work.
Maintenance Retiree
Dean Shaklee introduced Jesus Aguayo, as a good unit shop technician with over 29 years of
experience. Mr. Aguayo rebuilt automatic transmissions, and worked on brakes and other
small components. He will be missed.

Rail Operations Retiree
Bill Bell presented Elizabeth (Sally) Trujillo who comes from a long family line of RTD
employees. Twenty years ago to the day, her father retired from RTD after serving 31 years.
Ms Trujillo has worked in several areas, most recent as a fare inspector. Ms. Trujillo stated
how much she enjoyed her time here but her milestone was having her parents with her
tonight to join in the retirement. Her parents who have been married 61 years were
introduced.
IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Doug Connor, Denver, spoke on his support for Phil Washington as permanent General
Manager. Although he has only known Phil Washington for about three months, he has come
to know him as a man of integrity without question. Mr. Washington possesses knowledge
about this district and truly cares about the district. Mr. Washington is a straight shooter from
the hip and has passion for people and loves his job.
Gloria Holliday, former Board member who served on the Board for eight years representing
District B, also gave her support to Mr. Phil Washington. Phil Washington is extremely
qualified, having served well as head of Administration for over nine years. He is a true
gentleman for the people and serves the people well. She petitioned the Board to continue with
the five points of distinction with the system that former director Jack McCroskey was
instrumental in starting. The Board can serve the people well by making Mr. Phil Washington
the permanent General Manager for RTD.
Mr. Jack McCroskey, former Board member, indicated he had posed a question to the Board
when he was here about four months ago. His question “Do you intend to use the pension plan
as a method to reward some and not others?” has still not been responded to by the Board. He
also commented on the multi-million dollar deficit on FasTracks and indicated the economy was
not to blame but based on three political decisions made by the Board that he may elaborate on
in the future.
Mr. Herman Malone, representing the African American Business Advisory shared his
perspective of Phil Washington as an exemplary visionary who brought stability, vision and
transparency to the agency. He applauded the Board effort to be transparent including the
stakeholder’s forum. The community understands well that additional resources may be needed
for the build out of FasTracks. Nevertheless, he believes under the exemplary leadership of Phil
Washington this can be accomplished.
Annie Nelson who considers herself a long time patron and advocate for mass transit offered
her support to Phil Washington. She talked about how top executives are expected to do
everything right but no one person can be all things to all people. Phil Washington understands

what is needed and is also aware of his weaknesses. He is committed to the process of going
from good to great and knows how to reach out to stakeholders, riders, and diverse people.
When you look at the four characteristics of great leaders, namely (1) sense making (2) relating
(3) visualizing and (4) inventing, Phil Washington understands the importance of this
collaborative balance. RTD cannot move forward without this and Phil Washington is well
positioned to lead this effort.
Landri Taylor, former Board member, complimented the Board on having the courage to make
this decision and congratulated the group of retirees. He came as a friend of RTD who
supports Phil Washington in the position of permanent General Manager. This is a position that
requires great management skills, people skills, and courage. The vision of having commuter
rail and light rail along with the bus operations offers this community a good quality of life. Phil
Washington possesses the people skills and courage needed to guide RTD to achieve this vision.

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
There were no changes to the Committee reports.

VI.

GM TRANSITION AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REPORT
Chair Pro Tem Martinez indicated the Board has not made a decision at this time. He cannot
offer any timetable on when that might be.

VII.

METRO MAYORS REPORT
There was no Metro Mayors Task force report.

VIII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF November 17, 2009
MOTION:

Director Brohl moved for the adoption of the November 17,
2009 regular board meeting minutes.
Director Pulliam seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in favor and 0
against. Chair Kemp and Director Busck were absent.
Chair Pro Tem Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

IX.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
 Fiscal year 2010 DOT, HUD and Related Agencies (THUD) Appropriations Bill
Interim General Manager, Phil Washington shared that RTD had received $90 million for
the West Corridor and also some funds for the East and Gold Corridor that keeps us on
track for the Full Funding Grant Agreement. He had received a call from Congressman
Perlmutter congratulating RTD and encouraging us to stay on track with FasTracks.
 2010 Diesel Fuel Lock of another 25% at $2.22/gallon
Interim General Manager Phil Washington commented that we had locked in another
25% at $2.22 per gallon. The previous 25% lock in the amount of $2.25 gives us a
50% average lock of $2.23/per gallon.

 Success of 2009 Operation Give-a-Gift
Interim General Manager Phil Washington shared the 2009 Operation Give-a-Gift was a

major success with employees donating over 1000 gifts. The Diversity Council
sponsored this activity and will be sponsoring it each year. Directors Brohl, Chacon
and James attended this event.
Chair Pro Tem Martinez asked Interim General Manager Phil Washington to relay the
Board’s gratitude to the employee for being caring and for their contributions to this
great effort.

X.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
Chair Pro Tem Martinez asked for a motion to approve
the unanimous agenda items A through I.
MOTION:

Director Pulliam made the motion to approve the
unanimous consent agenda items A through I.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 13 votes in
favor and 0 against. Chair Kemp and Director Busck
were absent.
Chair Pro Tem Martinez declared the motion PASSED
unanimously.

A.

Approval of the Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between Sand Creek
Metropolitan District and RTD
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the Interim General Manager to enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between the Sand Creek Metropolitan District
(SCMD) and the Regional Transportation District (RTD) for the purpose of
coordinating to provide a grade separation from 40 th Avenue on the East Corridor
alignment near the proposed 40 th/Airport Station. The IGA describes the terms of,
and schedule for, coordination between RTD and the SCMD. The IGA provides for
the inclusion of a grade-separated crossing in the East Corridor project if funding
for the additional cost can be secured by SCMD, and if SCMD provides for the
lowering of 40 th Avenue.

B.

Approval to Release the Central Corridor Extension Draft Environmental Evaluation (EE)
Document
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
direct the Interim General Manager to release the Central Corridor Extension Draft
Environmental Evaluation (EE) document for agency and public review.

C.

Approval to Release the Northwest Rail Corridor Draft Environmental Evaluation (EE)
Document
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
direct the Interim General Manager to release the Northwest Rail Draft Environmental
Evaluation (EE) document for agency and public review.

D.

GIS Consulting Services
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
a contract in the amount of $115,000 for 1,250 hours of Graphical Information

Systems (GIS) Consulting Services. The contract is to be awarded to Idea Integration
following a competitive review of four submitted proposals and candidate interviews.
Idea Integration is a certified Environmental Systems Research Institute’s (ESRI)
Corporate Consultant. The contract runs for a period of one year with two additional
one-year options. This has been determined to be a personal service contract by legal.
E.

Oracle Database Administrator Option Year
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the Interim General Manager to execute all documents necessary to
award the first year option, for the amount not to exceed of $200,000, for Senior IT
Oracle Database services. The contract (28DJ024) was originally awarded January
2009 to Sol-IT, an SBE/DBE firm, through the competitive bid process. The contract
allowed for an initial-year plus two (2) one-year options to renew based on positive
performance by the vendor. The contract is being brought to the Board because it is a
Personal Services contract per RTD Resolution No. 27, Series of 1985.

F.

Oracle Software Maintenance Sole Source
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the Interim General Manager to execute all documents necessary to
award a sole source contract with Oracle Corporation in the amount of $556,186.01
for software maintenance and support for 2010.

G.

Salaried Employee Insured Benefits
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the 2010 Plan Year Salaried Insured Benefits Program and authorize
the Interim General Manager to enter into an agreement with the Insurance Carriers.
This represents a potential cost savings to the District of $526,553 (or 8.5%) less than
the 2009 projected benefit plan cost.

H.

Execution of 2010 Option with Global Transportation for the provision of access-a-Ride
Service
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager or his designee, to amend the
existing contract between RTD and Global Transportation for the provision of access-aRide paratransit services in order to incorporate an option for the provision of access-aRide service for the period January 1, 2010 thru December 31, 2010. This contract
amendment will be for one year in an amount not to exceed $5,059,742.00. There will
still be two (2) additional one year options. This amendment will bring the three (3) year
contract total with Global Transportation to a maximum that shall not exceed
$13,185,321 for the period January 1, 2008- December 31, 2010. The amounts for
the remaining two (2) one-year options shall not exceed $5,600,616 for the 2011
option year and $6,205,151 for the 2012 option year. The combined total amounts
for this contract, including all option years, shall not exceed $24,991,088 for the five
year period. In addition, RTD will reimburse the contractors’ direct fuel costs in
amounts estimated to total approximately $2,457,532 for the initial three year period
and $4,445,115 for the five year period. This results in combined contract totals not to
exceed $15,642,853 in total for the initial three year period (2008-2010) and
$29,436,203 for the five year period 2008-1012.

I.

Federal Legislative Liaison Services
It is recommended by the RTD Board Executive Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the Interim General Manager to enter into a new agreement for
Federal Liaison Services with Patton Boggs LLP for a one-year base period (February 1,
2010 through January 21, 2011), Contract No. 19-DX-001, at a cost of $228,000.
The contract also includes four additional one-year option periods that would require
annual Board approval.

XI.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
J.

Item from Executive Session on 12/1/09 – Disposition of Real Property
MOTION:

Director McMullen made the motion to approve item J,
Disposition of Real Property.
Director Pulliam seconded the motion.

VOTE ON THE
MOTION:
XII.

The motion passed 13 in favor and 0 against.
Kemp and Director Busck were absent.

Chair

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
There was no unfinished business.

XIII.

NEW BUSINESS
There was no new business.

XIV.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
MOTION:

Director Pulliam made the motion to approve an executive
session for the purpose to discuss C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(e)
Matters subject to Negotiations: New General Manager
Contract Parameters.
Director Brohl seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 13 votes in
favor and 0 against.

Chair Pro Tem Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

XV.

ADJOURNMENT TO EXECUTIVE SESSION
The meeting adjourned to executive session upstairs at 6:20 p.m.
The meeting resumed from Executive Session at 8:47 p.m.

XVI.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
GM Committee Chair Noel Busck provided these comments to the audience. This has been an
interesting process and he has learned a lot about shared leadership. This has truly been a
team effort and the committee members really worked hard to develop a process that was
open, fair and transparent. He is very proud of this committee and the full Board for their
dedication and commitment to the process. Thanks for a job well done.
Director Tayer responded to GM Committee Chair Noel Busck and thanked him for his
leadership. He thanked Phil Washington who had performed as a very capable Interim General
Manager. He reviewed the process followed and indicated they had established qualifications
and characteristics of the desired leader for RTD and had reduced the pool of prospects from

over 250 down to a manageable list of candidates from which the finalists were drawn.
Committee Chair Busck did a great job of guiding this committee and keeping us together.
Director Tayer also thanked Directors Bagley and Christopher who were part of the working
group to facilitate the meetings and generate strategy.
Chair Pro Tem Martinez thanked everyone for the honesty, integrity and candor that was
shared in this committee. He then entertained a motion.

MOTION:

Director Brohl made the motion to name Phil Washington
as the new General Manager for RTD.
Director Daly seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 13 votes in
favor and 0 against. Chair Kemp was absent and
Director O’Boyle had left.

Chair Pro Tem Martinez declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
Newly named General Manager Phil Washington thanked the Board, staff, members of the
community, and all who supported him for this position. He thanked them for the confidence
and also for the responsibility. He then cited some of his priorities that include:
 Providing safe, clean, reliable, courteous, accessible and cost-effective transportation
throughout the district—getting folks home safely is a priority for him.
 Completing FasTracks—working with the RTD Board, elected officials, the business
community, our Federal partners, all neighborhood communities, RTD employees and
consultants to complete FasTracks which will provide great transportation options for
the region and also provide an economic boost for the metro area.
 Tend to the employees. Take care of the base business operation.
 Implement Board policies
 Continue as he has for almost ten years to ride the system regularly and to engage
other system riders in conversations about how we are doing and what they need—to
know what our riders are thinking and to evaluate the system for myself.
 Listen, lead and motivate.
 Have fun and keep a sense of humor
 My vision is to make RTD the best transit agency in the world by providing the best
service in the world and having the best, most professional transit employees in the
world.

Thanks again to the Board for giving him the opportunity to lead and serve. He will not
disappoint.
XVII. ADJOURNMENT FROM MEETING
The meeting adjourned at 9:00 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, December 15, 2009

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Chris Martinez, First Vice Chair
Bruce Daly, Secretary
John Tayer, Treasurer
Kent Bagley
Barbara Brohl
Juanita Chacon
Bill Christopher
Matt Cohen
Bill James
William McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Wally Pulliam
Tom Tobiassen

District B
District N
District O
District H
District D
District C
District J
District M
District A
District E
District G
District L
District F

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Jane Donovan
Sherry Ellebracht
Marla Lien
Trent Ratcliff
Cal Shankster
Bill Van Meter
Michael Washington
Bill Bell
OTHERS PRESENT:
Chris Taylor – Spectrum A/V
Tex Elam
Doug Connor
Holman Carter – ATU
Conner Holmes
Dee Holmes
Gloria Holliday
Jonnie Thomas
Addison Paul Jones
Sally Trujillo
Angie Trujillo
Landri Taylor – Urban League
Ed Bush – CRMCA
Stephne Keller
Bonnie Gingles-Cordova
Thomas M Hurja
Ed Martinez
May Martinez
Stella Casias
Bob Wilson - GLAC
Herman Malone
Les Townsend
Matt McClain – Denver Post
Annie Nelson

Bob Downes
Mike Gil
Caitlin Magee
Scott Reed
John Shonsey
Pauletta Tonilas
Phil Washington
Brian Middleton
Shirley Bennett

Martell Dyles
Kenn Hardin
Paula Perdue
Dean Shaklee
Errol Stevens
Lisa Trujillo
Ty Perry

Mile Malone
Jesus Aguayo
Rich Himmel
Tommi Himmel
Jack McCroskey
Bill Garcia
John Espinosa
Pauline Jones
Sharon Terranova - DRCOG
Jeff Leib – Denver Post

