1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Bob Broom, District F
Claudia Folska, District E
Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M

Ken Mihalik, District G
Doug Tisdale, District H
Jeff Walker, District D
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Ad Hoc Committee on Code of Conduct
Wednesday, June 3, 2020
Remote
8:00 AM
Zoom Meeting: Link
Zoom Meeting by Phone: # 669-900-9128
Meeting ID: 964 8169 1009
Password: 022090

Ad Hoc Committee on Code of Conduct
Chaired by Angie Rivera-Malpiede

A. Call to Order
B. Review Committee Feedback
C. Next Steps
D. Next Meeting date - June 17, 2020
E. Other Matters
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.F.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Paul J. Ballard, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date:

From:

Barbara G McManus,
Board Office

GM

Executive

Manager,

Date:
Subject:

Board Meeting Date: June 3, 2020
Ad Hoc Committee - Code of Conduct Meeting
Documents

ATTACHMENTS:
•

Ad Hoc Committee Feedback

•

Aubrey Hasvold - Code of Conduct comments 5.20.2020

•

Denise Maes - Code of Conduct Comments (PDF)

•

Marisela Sandoval - Code of Coduct Comments

(PDF)
(PDF)

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Nicole Carey, Administrative Specialist
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 3

Code Location
Current Text
Respondent
Marisela Sandoval
Paragraph 1 ‐ Purpose Any person who engages in prohibited
conduct may be subject to enforcement
ranging from a verbal or written warning,
immediate suspension, or a criminal citation
(see Section 5: “Enforcement”)

Concern
Many committee members seemed to
agree that "education" should be the
first step in enforcement of the Code.
Perhaps we somehow incorporate that
sentiment into the Purpose paragraph.

Rule 6

This seems a little outdated with RTD’s
new fare structure.

Rule 8

Failing to leave an RTD vehicle upon reaching Marisela Sandoval
the destination for which fare was
purchased.
Unauthorized presence on any RTD property Marisela Sandoval
that is not open to the public.

Rule 10

Marisela Sandoval
Violating the terms of, or failing to have
possession of, an RTD Facilities Use Permit
when required. Commercial activity and
certain other activities require such a permit.

Rule 14

Drinking on any RTD vehicle (drinking
permitted from containers with lids}

Rule 21

Engaging in activities not authorized by RTD’s Marisela Sandoval
Facilities Use Policy.

Marisela Sandoval

6/1/2020
1.F.1.a

Attachment: Ad Hoc Committee Feedback (4215 : Code of Conduct Committee Documents)

Ad Hoc Committee on Code of Conduct ‐ Feedback on Specific Provisions

Suggestion
RTD will make every attempt to first educate
the public on the conduct prohibited by this
Code. However, in order to ensure the safe
and efficient provision of transit services, any
person who engages in prohibited conduct
may be subject to enforcement ranging from a
verbal or written warning, immediate
suspension, or a criminal citation (see Section
5: "Enforcement").
Failing to leave an RTD vehicle once fare has
expired or upon reaching the fare zone for
which fare was purchased.

Individuals may not know which specific Better/more signage to delineate which areas
areas of RTD property are not open to are not open to the public.
the public.
More detail can be added for clarity and Violating the terms of, or failing to have
may help provide better notice of what possession of, an RTD Facilities Vendor License
is prohibited.
or Use Permit when required. Commercial
activity and certain other activities that, for
example, involve use of equipment or may
attract large crowds require such a license or
permit.
Individuals may think this only applies to Drinking of any liquid on any RTD vehicle (only
alcoholic drinks.
drinking of non‐alcoholic beverages from
containers with lids permitted).
People might not know how to access
the Facilities Use Policy or what is not
authorized by the policy.

Engaging in activities not authorized by RTD's
Facilities Use Policy (https://www.rtd‐
denver.com/reports‐and‐policies/facilities‐use‐
policy).

Packet Pg. 4

Ad Hoc Committee on Code of Conduct ‐ Feedback on Specific Provisions

Rule 28

Taking any animal into an RTD indoor facility, Denise Maes
onto a vehicle or within a fare paid zone
unless: (1) the animal is intended and trained
to assist a person with a disability, (2) the
animal is proven to RTD’s satisfaction to be
in training to assist a person with a disability,
or (3) the animal is in an appropriate animal
carrier (including locked, standard
commercial containers in the underfloor
luggage bays of regional bus coaches). All
dogs must have proof of current vaccinations
required by the local jurisdictions in which
the
animals are traveling.
Occupying more than one seat per person of Denise Maes
an RTD vehicle or facility (subject to ADA
reasonable modification; see Code Section 4)

Marisela Sandoval

Service animals are permitted if “proven
to RTD’s satisfaction”, the animal is in
training to become a service dog. Is RTD
trained in this area such that each
employee or agent can make such an
assessment? I seriously doubt it. This
also would permit RTD person A to say
one thing and another RTD person to
say the opposite. This is vague and I
doubt enforceable on that basis and on
the basis that RTD is not able to
determine such training simply because
it lacks the training and expertise to
make such assessments.

Attachment: Ad Hoc Committee Feedback (4215 : Code of Conduct Committee Documents)

Rule 22

6/1/2020
1.F.1.a

“Occupying more than one seat”
language is somewhat problematic.
Does the parenthetical address
individuals that are obese? Curious if
someone can pay for more than one
seat and, then, can they be permitted to
take up more than one seat? How about
the guy who spreads his legs out and/or
puts his arm on the seat next to him?

Occupying more than one seat per person of
One committee member expressed
concerns that prohibiting the holding of an RTD vehicle or facility (subject to ADA
a child or a child sitting on an adult's lap reasonable modification; see Code Section 4).
while in one seat was an unintended
consequence of this rule. I think the idea
of this rule is to prohibit an individual
from discourteously taking up more
than one seat and preventing others
from being able to sit. Perhaps a
question for Security: do we ever have
issues with adults sitting on each other's
laps?

Packet Pg. 5

Rule 29

Rule 30

Rule 31

Lying or sitting on the floor, platform,
stairway, landing, ground, or conveyance of
an RTD vehicle or facility.

6/1/2020
1.F.1.a
Lying or sitting on the floor, platform, stairway,
landing, ground, or conveyance of an RTD
vehicle or facility (sitting on the floor of an RTD
facility when seats are unavailable permitted
so long as it does not cause an unsafe
condition or interfere with the operation of
RTD’s system or the comfort of RTD
passengers or patrons).

Marisela Sandoval

People may need to sit on the floor if
the system is delayed for a prolonged
amount of time and there are no seats
available.

Denise Maes

Is it a violation to sit on the floor at all
RTD facilities???? Wow.
This feel extremely subjective and opens List specific behaviors.
the door to blatant discrimination
against people who look like they are
experiencing homelessness. It would be
helpful to list behaviors considered
hazardous so both visitors and
enforcement staff know what hazardous
means.

Sleeping or dozing where such activity may, Aubrey Hasvold
in RTD’s opinion, be hazardous to the person
or others or may interfere with the operation
of RTD’s system or the comfort of RTD
passengers or patrons.

Attachment: Ad Hoc Committee Feedback (4215 : Code of Conduct Committee Documents)

Ad Hoc Committee on Code of Conduct ‐ Feedback on Specific Provisions

Denise Maes

Sleeping or dozing where “in RTD’s
opinion”, this activity is hazardous.
Again, vague. How does one even begin
to know what behavior is truly
prohibited. There are no defined terms.
Passengers are relying on the whims of
the various bus drivers, and other RTD
employees.

Marisela Sandoval

I would think the purpose of the rule is Sleeping or dozing where such activity may, in
to prohibit sleeping or dozing that
RTD’s opinion, causes concern for the person’s
wellbeing be hazardous to the person or
causes a disruption and to permit a
transit security officer to approach a
others or may interferes with the operation of
person if they are concerned for their
RTD’s system or the comfort of RTD
wellbeing. Perhaps we can work on the passengers or patrons.”
language of the rule to better achieve
that purpose.
My problem with this item is some folks
take RTD simply because they are too
drunk to drive. That, frankly, should be
encouraged. But with this provision RTD
is discouraging a cost effective means
for alternative transportation.
Packet Pg. 6

Entering or remaining on RTD property or
Denise Maes
vehicle while the person’s ability to function
safely in the environment of a transit system
is impaired by the consumption of alcohol or
by the taking of any drugs.

Rule 32

Camping without a permit.

Aubrey Hasvold

Rule 35

Remaining at a facility after being asked to
leave. RTD may, in its sole discretion,
regulate the movement of individuals to
enable the provision of transit services.
Facilities are to be used only for travel‐
related purposes, except when a permit is
otherwise granted, so that passengers can
utilize the transit system in a safe and
efficient manner without inconvenience or
delay.

Aubrey Hasvold

Denise Maes

6/1/2020
1.F.1.a

This feel extremely subjective and opens List specific actions and behaviors that are
the door to blatant discrimination
disruptive.
against people who look like they are
experiencing homelessness. It would be
helpful to list behaviors considered
hazardous so both visitors and
enforcement staff know what hazardous
means. Recommendation: list specific
behaviors that are disruptive.
List specific behaviors that are disruptive.
The proposed rule appears to target
people experiencing homelessness and
could result in increased criminalization
of people who appear to not have a
home or are engaging in basic life
functions like resting. We all know that
there are not enough adequate
alternatives for people without homes –
this is a community problem, not just
and RTD problem. If anyone is engaging
in criminal activity or the truly disruptive
or dangerous behaviors outlined in the
rules – housed or not – that’s not okay
and we appreciate that enforcement
needs to happen. However, this
language focuses on the an identity
rather than a behavior.
This provision is beyond vague. It
basically permits RTD at any time and
for any reason to “regulate the
movement” of all individuals at an RTD
facility, which by definition includes
asking one to leave the premises. You
could simply delete all of the code
except for this provision! It basically
grants unfettered discretion to RTD to
do whatever it wants, when it wants and
to whom it wants and without proper
notice of what constitutes a violation of
this code.
Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: Ad Hoc Committee Feedback (4215 : Code of Conduct Committee Documents)

Ad Hoc Committee on Code of Conduct ‐ Feedback on Specific Provisions

Rule 36

Rule 37

Denise Maes
Blocking or impeding the movement of
another person or blocking an aisle, elevator,
escalator, door, or stairway with one’s body
or any object (except a mobility aid), in a way
that poses a danger, unreasonably impedes a
patron’s movement, or displaces a person.
Occupying, obstructing, or placing an item or Denise Maes
object on any seat other than the single seat
being occupied by the passenger, in a
manner that restricts others from being able
to use that seat (subject to ADA reasonable
modification; see Code Section 4).

6/1/2020
1.F.1.a

Attachment: Ad Hoc Committee Feedback (4215 : Code of Conduct Committee Documents)

Ad Hoc Committee on Code of Conduct ‐ Feedback on Specific Provisions

I can imagine a situation where folks do
these items without the intention of
impeding anybody’s movement or use
of seat. Intent language may help
address this one.
I can imagine a situation where folks do
these items without the intention of
impeding anybody’s movement or use
of seat. Intent language may help
address this one.

Packet Pg. 8

Ad Hoc Committee on Code of Conduct ‐ Feedback on Specific Provisions

Rule 44

Rule 45

Unauthorized use of an electrical or data
outlet.

Bathing, washing, or leaving needles in RTD
restrooms.

Denise Maes

What is an authorized use??

Marisela Sandoval

Unauthorized Use of an electrical or data
I agree with the sentiment that
outlets in any RTD vehicle or facility.
“unauthorized use” is not clear. I
suggest the language below or, if
possible from a practical and financial
perspective, to offer some outlets for
Some more specificity is needed here. I recommend getting specific or removing this
piece. With regard to needles, I think it would
As worded here, it sounds like hand
washing could be against the rules. I’m be helpful to word it as “improper disposal of
still not clear what behavior is not
needles.”
allowed – is it taking up too much space
on the counter? Spending too much
time at a sink? Splashing water? Or do
people just not want to look at someone
giving themselves a little bird bath?
Again, this seems identity‐focused
rather behavior focused. How would
this disrupt the delivery of RTD services?
I recommend getting specific or
removing this piece. With regard to
needles, I think it would be helpful to
word it as “improper disposal of
needles.”

Aubrey Hasvold

Attachment: Ad Hoc Committee Feedback (4215 : Code of Conduct Committee Documents)

Rule 40

6/1/2020
1.F.1.a

Denise Maes

No one can wash their hands in an RTD
bathroom. Or throw water on their face
if they need a quick wake up or have
burning eyes. Rough

Marisela Sandoval

I think we should think through this rule Bathing, washing clothing or other items,
and get more feedback from the
failing to properly dispose of needles, or
Committee. Perhaps a revision
otherwise interfering with the ability of others
something like below.
to safely and conveniently use RTD restrooms.
What is the difference between soled
and unsoled footwear? Is RTD really
going to ask its personnel and/or
security personnel to inspect people’s
footwear? You may have 4th
amendment issues with those searches.

Failure to wear soled footwear, shirts/tops, Denise Maes
and pants/shorts/skirts in an RTD vehicle or
facility (subject to ADA reasonable
modification; see Code Section 4).

Packet Pg. 9

Rule 46

Putting shoes/feet up on a seat on a station, Denise Maes
platform, or vehicle.

Rule 47

Denise Maes
Fouling any seat or other area (other than
designated trash receptacles) with liquids,
soils, greases, oils, foods, litter, urine, feces,
other bodily fluids, or any other substances.
Causing disruptive odor (subject to ADA
Aubrey Hasvold
reasonable modification; see Code Section
4).

Rule 48

Denise Maes

Maybe I don’t understand what a
“platform” is but I thought it is or can be
a place you walk on to access the RTD
bus or train. If I’m right, it is impossible
to not put your feet on the platform.
Seems harsh if I accidentally spill
something on a seat, even if just water.

Who determines this? This opens up the Remove.
door to discriminatory enforcement
based on housing status, race/ethnicity,
etc.

“Disruptive odor”?? If it means men’s
bad cologne or women’s bad smelling
perfume, I’m all in! (Written facetiously,
but i think you get my point).

6/1/2020
1.F.1.a

Attachment: Ad Hoc Committee Feedback (4215 : Code of Conduct Committee Documents)

Ad Hoc Committee on Code of Conduct ‐ Feedback on Specific Provisions

Packet Pg. 10

Marisela Sandoval

Rule 53

Denise Maes
Failure to obey any directive from an RTD
employee or representative related to RTD
operations. For example, RTD's Trailblazer
Operators Guide contains many procedures
and requirements related to ADA policies,
including wheelchair securement, boarding
with strollers and other large items,
passenger locations on vehicles, and other
topics

This is another rule we might want to
think through, but perhaps a revision
something like below (borrowed in part
from LA Metro).

Vague

6/1/2020
1.F.1.a

Attachment: Ad Hoc Committee Feedback (4215 : Code of Conduct Committee Documents)

Ad Hoc Committee on Code of Conduct ‐ Feedback on Specific Provisions

Causing an unavoidable grossly repulsive odor
so extreme it causes a nuisance, unreasonably
interferes with the use, operation, or
enjoyment of the RTD vehicles or facilities,
facilities or vehicles for RTD representatives or
patrons, or creates a direct threat or an unsafe
condition (subject to ADA reasonable
modification' see Code Section 4). Extreme
odors may arise from a variety of sources,
including one's body, possessions, clothing,
food, chemicals or accompanying animals.

Packet Pg. 11

1.F.1.b

indicate SMART (specific, measurable, attainable, realistic, time-based) goals are
preferred.

OCCUPANCY
30. Sleeping or dozing where such activity may, in RTD’s opinion, be hazardous to the person or others
or may interfere with the operation of RTD’s system or the comfort of RTD passengers or patrons.
This feel extremely subjective and opens the door to blatant discrimination against people who look like
they are experiencing homelessness. It would be helpful to list behaviors considered hazardous so both
visitors and enforcement staff know what hazardous means. Recommendation: list specific behaviors
that are disruptive.
32. Camping without a permit.
What does camping mean? Using a tent? Covering one’s self with a piece of cardboard, a blanket, or a
coat? Accidentally dozing off? This seems to specifically target people experiencing homelessness,
regardless of whether or not their behavior is disruptive to the delivery of RTD services.
Recommendation: list specific actions and behaviors that are disruptive.
35. Remaining at a facility after being asked to leave. RTD may, in its sole discretion, regulate the
movement of individuals to enable the provision of transit services. Facilities are to be used only for
travel-related purposes, except when a permit is otherwise granted, so that passengers can utilize the
transit system in a safe and efficient manner without inconvenience or delay.
The proposed rule appears to target people experiencing homelessness and could result in increased
criminalization of people who appear to not have a home or are engaging in basic life functions like
resting. We all know that there are not enough adequate alternatives for people without homes – this is
a community problem, not just and RTD problem. If anyone is engaging in criminal activity or the truly
disruptive or dangerous behaviors outlined in the rules – housed or not – that’s not okay and we
appreciate that enforcement needs to happen. However, this language focuses on the an identity rather
than a behavior. Recommendation: list specific behaviors that are disruptive.
SANITATION
44. Bathing, washing, or leaving needles in RTD restrooms.
Some more specificity is needed here. As worded here, it sounds like hand washing could be against the
rules. I’m still not clear what behavior is not allowed – is it taking up too much space on the counter?
Spending too much time at a sink? Splashing water? Or do people just not want to look at someone
giving themselves a little bird bath? Again, this seems identity-focused rather behavior focused. How
would this disrupt the delivery of RTD services? I recommend getting specific or removing this piece. With
regard to needles, I think it would be helpful to word it as “improper disposal of needles.”

Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: Aubrey Hasvold - Code of Conduct comments 5.20.2020 (4215 : Code of Conduct Committee Documents)

1. Cite the specific paragraph in the Code of Conduct;
2. State your specific question or concern; and
3. Suggest a realistic change to address your question or concern. Suggestions that

1.F.1.b

Who determines this? This opens up the door to discriminatory enforcement based on housing status,
race/ethnicity, etc. Recommendation: Remove.

Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: Aubrey Hasvold - Code of Conduct comments 5.20.2020 (4215 : Code of Conduct Committee Documents)

48. Causing disruptive odor (subject to ADA reasonable modification; see Code Section 4).

1.F.1.c

Attachment: Denise Maes - Code of Conduct Comments (4215 : Code of Conduct Committee Documents)

From: Denise Maes <dmaes@aclu-co.org>
Date: May 31, 2020 at 4:55:17 PM MDT
To: Denise Maes <dmaes@aclu-co.org>
Subject: RTD Code of Conduct comments

RTD Code of Conduct comments

I’ll start with an overall picture that many provisions are vague and grant too much discretion to RTD, which if
I understand correctly, RTD contracts out a lot of this enforcement to Allied Security. Regardless, it’s simply
too much discretion. I don’t think you will find a single municipal ordinance that uses the term, “at Denver’s
peace officer discretion” such and such is true.

22 Service animals are permitted if “proven to RTD’s satisfaction”, the animal is in training to become a
service dog. Is RTD trained in this area such that each employee or agent can make such an assessment? I
seriously doubt it. This also would permit RTD person A to say one thing and another RTD person to say the
opposite. This is vague and I doubt enforceable on that basis and on the basis that RTD is not able to determine
such training simply because it lacks the training and expertise to make such assessments.

28 “Occupying more than one seat” language is somewhat problematic. Does the parenthetical address
individuals that are obese? Curious if someone can pay for more than one seat and, then, can they be permitted
to take up more than one seat? How about the guy who spreads his legs out and/or puts his arm on the seat next
to him?

29 Is it a violation to sit on the floor at all RTD facilities???? Wow.

30 Sleeping or dozing where “in RTD’s opinion”, this activity is hazardous. Again, vague. How does one even
begin to know what behavior is truly prohibited. There are no defined terms. Passengers are relying on the
whims of the various bus drivers, and other RTD employees.

31 My problem with this item is some folks take RTD simply because they are too drunk to drive. That,
frankly, should be encouraged. But with this provision RTD is discouraging a cost effective means for
alternative transportation.

35 This provision is beyond vague. It basically permits RTD at any time and for any reason to “regulate the
movement” of all individuals at an RTD facility, which by definition includes asking one to leave the premises.
Packet Pg. 14

1.F.1.c

Attachment: Denise Maes - Code of Conduct Comments (4215 : Code of Conduct Committee Documents)

You could simply delete all of the code except for this provision! It basically grants unfettered discretion to
RTD to do whatever it wants, when it wants and to whom it wants and without proper notice of what constitutes
a violation of this code.

36, 37 This applies to both provision. I can imagine a situation where folks do these items without the intention
of impeding anybody’s movement or use of seat. Intent language may help address this one.

40 What is an authorized use??

44 No one can wash their hands in an RTD bathroom. Or throw water on their face if they need a quick wake
up or have burning eyes. Rough

45 What is the difference between soled and unsoled footwear? Is RTD really going to ask its personnel and/or
security personnel to inspect people’s footwear? You may have 4th amendment issues with those searches.

46 Maybe I don’t understand what a “platform” is but I thought it is or can be a place you walk on to access the
RTD bus or train. If I’m right, it is impossible to not put your feet on the platform.

47 Seems harsh if I accidentally spill something on a seat, even if just water.

48. “Disruptive odor”?? If it means men’s bad cologne or women’s bad smelling perfume, I’m all in! (Written
facetiously, but i think you get my point).

53. Vague

There are some issues with the enforcement, but the one I will highlight is whether RTD has the legal authority
to expel one from using RTDs transportation services or entering an RTD facility for any period of time much
less for an indefinite (or even definite) period.
Sent from my iPad

Packet Pg. 15

1.F.1.d

TO:

RTD Board Chair Angie Rivera-Malpiede

FROM:

Marisela D. Sandoval, RTD Code of Conduct Ad Hoc Committee Member

CC:

RTD Code of Conduct Ad Hoc Committee Members

DATE:

May 28, 2020

RE:

RTD Code of Conduct Comments
1.

2.

3.

4.

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO
80202
303.299.6000

a. Paragraph 1: Purpose
b. Question/concern: Many committee members seemed to agree that
“education” should be the first step in enforcement of the Code. Perhaps we
somehow incorporate that sentiment into the Purpose paragraph.
c. Suggestion: RTD will make every attempt to first educate the public on the
conduct prohibited by this Code. However, in order to ensure the safe and
efficient provision of transit services, any person who engages in prohibited
conduct may be subject to enforcement ranging from a verbal or written
warning, immediate suspension, or a criminal citation (see Section 5:
“Enforcement”).
a. Rule 6: Failing to leave an RTD vehicle upon reaching the destination for
which fare was purchased.
b. Question/concern: This seems a little outdated with RTD’s new fare
structure.
c. Suggestion: Failing to leave an RTD vehicle once fare has expired or upon
reaching the fare zone for which fare was purchased.
a. Rule 8: Unauthorized presence on any RTD property that is not open to the
public.
b. Question/concern: Individuals may not know which specific areas of RTD
property are not open to the public.
c. Suggestion: Better/more signage to delineate which areas are not open to
the public.
a. Rule 10: Violating the terms of, or failing to have possession of, an RTD
Facilities Use Permit when required. Commercial activity and certain other
activities require such a permit.
b. Question/concern: More detail can be added for clarity and may help provide
better notice of what is prohibited.
c. Suggestion: Violating the terms of, or failing to have possession of, an RTD
Facilities Vendor License or Use Permit when required. Commercial activity
rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: Marisela Sandoval - Code of Coduct Comments (4215 : Code of Conduct Committee Documents)

Regional
Transportation
District

1.F.1.d

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

a. Rule 14: Drinking on any RTD vehicle (drinking permitted from containers with lids).
b. Question/concern: Individuals may think this only applies to alcoholic drinks.
c. Suggestion: Drinking of any liquid on any RTD vehicle (only drinking of non-alcoholic beverages
from containers with lids permitted).
a. Paragraph 21: Engaging in activities not authorized by RTD’s Facilities Use Policy.
b. Question/concern: People might not know how to access the Facilities Use Policy or what is not
authorized by the policy.
c. Suggestion: Engaging in activities not authorized by RTD’s Facilities Use Policy
(https://www.rtd-denver.com/reports-and-policies/facilities-use-policy).
a. Rule 28: Occupying more than one seat per person of an RTD vehicle or facility (subject to ADA
reasonable modification; see Code Section 4).
b. Question/concern: One committee member expressed concerns that prohibiting the holding of a
child or a child sitting on an adult’s lap while in one seat was an unintended consequence of
this rule. I think the idea of this rule is to prohibit an individual from discourteously taking up
more than one seat and preventing others from being able to sit. Perhaps a question for
Security: do we ever have issues with adults sitting on each other’s laps?
c. Suggestion: Occupying more than one seat per person of an RTD vehicle or facility (subject to
ADA reasonable modification; see Code Section 4).
a. Rule 29: Lying or sitting on the floor, platform, stairway, landing, ground, or conveyance of an
RTD vehicle or facility.
b. Question/concern: People may need to sit on the floor if the system is delayed for a prolonged
amount of time and there are no seats available.
c. Suggestion: Lying or sitting on the floor, platform, stairway, landing, ground, or conveyance of
an RTD vehicle or facility (sitting on the floor of an RTD facility when seats are unavailable
permitted so long as it does not cause an unsafe condition or interfere with the operation of
RTD’s system or the comfort of RTD passengers or patrons).
a. Rule 30: Sleeping or dozing where such activity may, in RTD’s opinion, be hazardous to the
person or others or may interfere with the operation of RTD’s system or the comfort of RTD
passengers or patrons.
b. Question/concern: I would think the purpose of the rule is to prohibit sleeping or dozing that
causes a disruption and to permit a transit security officer to approach a person if they are
concerned for their wellbeing. Perhaps we can work on the language of the rule to better
achieve that purpose.
c. Suggestion: Sleeping or dozing where such activity may, in RTD’s opinion, causes concern for
the person’s wellbeing be hazardous to the person or others or may interferes with the
operation of RTD’s system or the comfort of RTD passengers or patrons.”
a. Rule 40: Unauthorized use of an electrical or data outlet.
rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: Marisela Sandoval - Code of Coduct Comments (4215 : Code of Conduct Committee Documents)

5.

and certain other activities that, for example, involve use of equipment or
may attract large crowds require such a license or permit.

1.F.1.d

11.

12.

a. Rule 44: Bathing, washing, or leaving needles in RTD restrooms.
b. Question/concern: I think we should think through this rule and get more feedback from the
Committee. Perhaps a revision something like below.
c. Suggestion: Bathing, washing clothing or other items, failing to properly dispose of needles, or
otherwise interfering with the ability of others to safely and conveniently use RTD restrooms.
a. Rule 48: Causing disruptive odor (subject to ADA reasonable modification; see Code Section 4).
b. Question/concern: This is another rule we might want to think through, but perhaps a revision
something like below (borrowed in part from LA Metro).
c. Suggestion: Causing an unavoidable grossly repulsive odor so extreme it causes a nuisance,
unreasonably interferes with the use, operation, or enjoyment of the RTD vehicles or facilities,
facilities or vehicles for RTD representatives or patrons, or creates a direct threat or an unsafe
condition (subject to ADA reasonable modification’ see Code Section 4). Extreme odors may
arise from a variety of sources, including one’s body, possessions, clothing, food, chemicals or
accompanying animals.

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 18

Attachment: Marisela Sandoval - Code of Coduct Comments (4215 : Code of Conduct Committee Documents)

b. Question/concern: I agree with the sentiment that “unauthorized use” is not clear. I suggest the
language below or, if possible from a practical and financial perspective, to offer some outlets
for use by the public.
c. Suggestion: Unauthorized Use of an electrical or data outlets in any RTD vehicle or facility.

