2020-06-03
Ad Hoc Committee
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Hey, Barbara.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Morning.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: How are you?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Good. And you?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm good. Did Mr. Meader get what he needed?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I sent him a copy of the agenda and the attachments, and I asked him
to forward the comments to Roger and John.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, great.
MICHAEL MEADER: Yeah. I did. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, hi, Mr. Meader. How are you?
MICHAEL MEADER: Doing good. How are you?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm good. So sorry you had to come in on your day off.
MICHAEL MEADER: That's OK. This is important.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well-KATE WILLIAMS: Does he get a day off?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, that's what I heard.
[CHUCKLING]
I don't know what that means, actually.
KATE WILLIAMS: No. Nor you, nor Barbara, nor many people.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Probably him. He's probably still working on his day off. Well,
he is. Look at him this morning, so-- OK. Good morning, Mr. Tisdale.

DOUG TISDALE: And good morning to you all. Long time, no talk.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I know, right?
KATE WILLIAMS: Doug, I'm glad to hear you're back in the race. I was getting worried.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I appreciate that, Kate. And it will be interesting gathering
signatures. Barbara and I have talked about this. You know, you go up to someone and you say-you've got a mask on, and you have a dirty pad or a dirty piece of paper that many people have
touched and say, would you mind signing this for me?
KATE WILLIAMS: Exactly. And then you have to explain to them that it doesn't mean they're
voting for you. They don't have to vote for you. It only means that you're allowed to get on the
ballot. Yeah, it'll be an interesting experience.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, Yeah. But you know these elections are always interesting
experiences. This one's just going to be more interesting.
KATE WILLIAMS: Everything these days is more interesting. It's nuts. Did that work? Can you
guys see me now?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. Hi, Kate. I see you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I have never done a Zoom meeting on my phone. So this is the first.
MICHAEL MEADER: Angie, we've got 16 folks on.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Should we get going?
MICHAEL MEADER: It's 8:02. Just looking at who we're missing. I think you can go.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Good morning, everybody. And thank you for
taking your time out of your busy schedule. This has clearly been another unprecedented
experience week for all of us. And I know it's been really tough for a lot of you. I know RTD has
really been in the trenches trying to work to make sure that people are being served and that we
have a safe, reliable service.
I want to thank you for the ad hoc committee. This is the Code of Conduct Ad Hoc Committee for
Wednesday, June 3. And I am calling the meeting to order at 8:02 AM, Mountain Daylight Time.
And what I'd like to do is just do a roll call. If you could just say if you're here. Kate Barton.
KATE BARTON: Sorry. I'm here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Hi, Kate.
KATE BARTON: Hi. How are you?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good. How are you? Bob-KATE BARTON: Good, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Bob Dorshimer. Bob? OK. I'll go next. Carly? Denise?
Denise Maes, are you on? Aubrey?
AUBREY HASVOLD: Good morning. I'm here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thanks, Aubrey. Gary?
GARY BRYSKIEWICZ: Good morning, everyone.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good morning. Britta?
BRITTA FISHER: Present.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Chief Pazen? And Evan Dreyer? OK. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm here, as soon as I can get to the Mute, I'm here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Good morning. I'm here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Mihalik. Director Lewis.
KEN MIHALIK: Sorry, Madam Chair. I am here. I was trying to get to the Mute button.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, thank you, Director Mihalik. Director Lewis? OK. I'm gonna
go down. Interim General Manager Ballard?
PAUL BALLARD: Paul Ballard is here. Good morning.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good morning. Mr. Ford?
MICHAEL FORD: Michael Ford's here. Good morning.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good morning. Mr. Meader.
MICHAEL MEADER: Mike Meader is here. Good morning. Marisela Sandoval.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: I'm here. Good morning.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good morning. Ms. McManus.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Good morning.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. McKay. OK. We have a quorum to get going. One of the
things I'd like to do is thank everybody who submitted comments. I've read them all, and I think
that they really made me stop and think. As you know, the Code of Conduct was written in 2016
originally, and it was a code of conduct that was really kind of in the same step of 95% of other
transit agencies.
This is now 2020, and bringing up the Code of Conduct to take a look at it, it was very clear that
we needed to really reevaluate it and see if it still fits what we need today. So we've asked
committee members to do a deep dive and to give us their thoughts, their suggestions, and their
comments. This is not an exercise in futility. I really think that we really want to hear and we want
to see what we should implement and what we need to take out and really listen, because I think
one of the things that I've learned, if I've not learned anything at all, is sometimes we get so caught
up in our jargon that we don't realize what the words are saying to the public. And there's an
assumption that everybody understands what the intent is. And I know that that was not how this
was written in the first place.
So what I'd like to do is to-- first of all, we're going to go through all the comments that we received.
But the other thing is, before we go to the comments, I want you to know that our next steps will
be to give all this information to Mr. Meader and his team to take back, look at it, implement it,
and look at your suggestions and see how it works out, and then come back to this committee with
a revised code of conduct for your view and discussion. So with that, I'm going to go ahead and
start.
In your screen right now, you're seeing the comments that we did receive. And what I'd like to do
is just go through them and see if anybody has any additional comments. And I would for sure like
to call on people who made the comments on what their suggestions are and why. So the first one
is the paragraph on the purpose. And the original current verbiage is that "Any person who engages
in prohibited conduct may be subject to enforcement ranging from verbal or written warning,
immediate suspension, or criminal citation." And then it says, "See Section 5-- Enforcement."
Marisela, you had a comment on this. Do you want to talk about your concern and then your
suggestion, please?
MARISELA SANDOVAL: Sure. I think that the sentiment I gathered from everyone at RTD as
well as outside of RTD was that the first step is really education about the Code of Conduct and
what is prohibited and not. And so I thought maybe if we add that in our purpose, we would better
convey that to the public, that our goal is not to enforce in a criminal fashion or in a discriminatory
fashion, but it's really, again, to promote the ability and efficiency to use transit. And so we have
this code, but it doesn't necessarily mean that this is implemented with a heavy hand. So just
something to think about.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it. Any other committee members have any comments?
KATE WILLIAMS: This is Director Williams. I think the concept that we want to educate people
about what we expect is a great idea.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Yeah, terrific add. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore, thank you. All right. Hearing none other, I'll
go to the next one. Rule 6, "Failing to leave an RTD vehicle upon reaching the destination for
which the fare was purchased." Marisela, I'm going to send it to you again on your concern and
then your comment.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: Sure. I reread that more carefully and looked at our fare structure, and
I didn't think it necessarily was clear. Also, I work with security often, and Steve Martingano,
who's the deputy of RTD police, thought there could be some clarification, too, that would be
helpful for his transit security officers. And so I tried to match it a little bit more with our fare
structure and give better idea of what we're getting at here, which is basically ride the fare that you
purchased. And so I tried to make that clear, but I'm definitely open to edits there. I just wanted to
make that a little bit match better with our structure.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, great. Thank you. The next one is Rule 8, "Unauthorized
presence on any RTD property that is not open to the public." Once again, Marisela.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: Yes. I try to lead us with a critical eye. I know everyone worked really
hard on the latest edits and the original draft, too. But this I've heard through several meetings-I'm a part of the homeless initiatives that RTD is also working on as well. We have several working
groups. And I have heard that a lot of people are confused as to what is kind of the property they're
allowed to be on. There's obviously some obvious ones-- don't stand on the tactile strips and things
for safety. But I don't know if it's possible we could have better signage. I know it's very difficult
to delineate certain areas of specifically the DUS complex, but maybe just a suggestion, if we
could add better signage or somehow, again, better educate the public on where is unauthorized so
they feel more comfortable when we put this out that we're not going to just kind of arbitrarily say,
oh, this place is unauthorized.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Any other comments from any other committee
members? All right. We do have comments from other committee members, I just want you to
know that. But Marisela seems to be the first one up.
BRITTA FISHER: Madam Chair? This is Britta. Sorry, I couldn't get off of Mute fast enough.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, Britta, go ahead, please.
BRITTA FISHER: I just wanted to echo that same comment of Marisela. I asked about this actually
on our first meeting as well, which properties this is applied to. And that is not readily apparent
when reading this without the preamble with all of the properties listed. And so it just needs to be
apparent how that rule correlates to property.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it. OK, great. OK. Next one-- anyone else before I move on?
OK, Rule 10. "Violating the terms of, or failing to have possession of, an RTD Facilities Use

Permit when required. Commercial activity or certain other activities requires such a permit."
Marisela.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: So I will read through the language that I added, but again, just more
clarity around this-- I think perhaps people don't necessarily go and read and find the Use Facilities
Policy, so adding just a little bit more there about what the type of activities that you may need a
license or permit for-- so large crowds or if you're going to put something down, equipment, and
things like that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Anyone else?
KEN MIHALIK: Madam Chair, this is Director Mihalik. I was going to say that maybe you could
add a comment about-- unless otherwise protected by-- unless it's otherwise constitutionally
protected activity.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it. Thank you, Director Mihalik. Any other comments? All
right, Rule 14. "Drinking on any RTD vehilce-- drinking permitted from containers with lids." And
I have to tell you, Marisela, when I read this one, I was confused, too. So please, go ahead and cite
your concern and then your suggestion, please.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: Another great add by Deputy Chief Martingano is that, again, it was
a little ambiguous, you know, what can we drink? It says in another rule that there's no alcoholic
beverages allowed, but then you can drink on a vehicle. And I guess he thought that the public
might think, well, you know, as long as you're drinking an alcohol beverage with a lid-- so again,
just adding more here that no alcoholic beverages, but if you want to drink your coffee, for
example, in a thermos, that would be permitted.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So I would like to ask a question of Mr. Meader or Chief Grado,
is can people take coffee into RTD vehicles? Because I was always under the impression that you
could not take food or drink. There is signage that says that, correct?
BOB GRADO: This is Chief Grado. Yes, there is signage, and honestly it's a little confusing. We
do not talk to people that are drinking, like Marisela said, out of a-- you know, if you have a
Starbucks in your hand with a lid on it, we're not going to bother you. It's very commonly done.
So it is a little confusing. And I don't think it's realistic to say you can't drink any type of liquid on
a train. People have bottled water. They have other things. So that may be something to look at
signage-wise as well. And maybe just say, you know, no alcohol permitted may be the easier thing.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: This is-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead.

KATE WILLIAMS: --Director Williams. Yeah, we need to either say one way or the other,
because you can't just say, well, we're going to overlook this guy with the Starbucks cup but we're
not going to overlook that guy with the Starbucks cup.
BOB GRADO: Yeah, it's very confusing. You know, to me it's always-- you know, my goal is to
treat people like family. So that's the message we're constantly trying to get across. You're not
going to be upset with somebody if they come into your home with a Starbucks in their hand. So
it is very confusing, I agree. And I see the intent there, because they didn't want the mess. But it's
pretty rare that people spill stuff anyway. It should really be alcohol that we're concerned about.
MICHAEL MEADER: This is Mike.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Mr. Meader.
MICHAEL MEADER: Yeah, sure. You know, it's really just-- we'd like to have the lids on them,
right-- because as things stop and start and things slosh around. So we just need to look at how we
maybe better communicate that, separating the alcohol obviously from this piece, too. But I agree
with Chief Grado. We need to clear that up.
BOB GRADO: Yeah. Maybe say lid required, no alcohol-- we'll come up with something else.
MICHAEL MEADER: Yeah, we'll come up with something for that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, you know what? When I was reading this, the thing that
came into my head were toddlers and baby bottles as well. So yeah, I do think that this needs a
little bit more clarification. So thank you. OK. Next one is rule 21, "Engaging in activities not
authorized by RTD Facilities Use Policy."
MARISELA SANDOVAL: Yes, just a quick citation to that actual policy-- whether someone's
actually going to take that second step and find it is another thing, but at least we're kind of
providing the location of it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Director Tisdale, I'm going to go back to you on
your comment on Rule 10, if you don't mind.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I appreciate that, Madam Chair. I'm just pointing out
that the first amendment is not a blanket exception that allows anything. Property owners-[COUGHING] excuse me, and it began with the PruneYard case, and I represented shopping
centers for years and years around the country. We can regulate time, place, and manner. So as
long as you have a rule that permits such activities, you may regulate time, place, and manner. And
that means you could say, you can do it in this section, you can't do it over here. You can do it
during these hours, but not at these hours. You can do it in such a way that it does not exceed 60
decibels within 10 feet or whatever. So you do have time, place, and manner regulations that you
can impose. Thank you, ma'am.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank, you Director Tisdale. OK. So I think we're done with Rule
21. Roger, can you go to the next page? OK, these are the next set of comments. This is by Denise
Maes from the ACLU. And let me just read Rule 21. And under Denise's, she has concerns but not
specific suggestions. So maybe we could just talk about it as a committee.
The rule is, "Taking any animal into an RTD indoor facility, onto a vehicle, or within a fair paid
zone vehicle unless-- the animal is intended and trained to assist a person with a disability, or two,
the animal is proven to RTD's satisfaction to be in training to assist a person with a disability, or
three, the animal is in an appropriate animal carrier, including locked--" is that right-- "locked,
standard commercial containers in the underfloor luggage bays of regional bus coaches. And all
dogs must have proof of current vaccinations required by the local jurisdiction in which the animals
are traveling."
So her concern was, "Service animals are permitted if proven to RTD's satisfaction?" That's a
question from her. "The animal is in training to become a service dog. Is RTD trained in this area,
such as each employee or agent can make an assessment? I seriously doubt it. This also would
permit RTD person to say, A, one thing and another to B. This is vague and I doubt enforceable
on the basis of RTD is not able to determine such training simply because it lacks the training and
expertise to make such an assessment." So with that in mind, I'd like to hear comments from other
committee members.
MICHAEL MEADER: Madam Chair, this is Mike Meader. This one has become a little bit more
difficult, because there are so many different animals now that are considered to be service
animals. It used to be pretty much they were dogs. We see more of those. My understanding in a
conversation with a couple of the service animal organizations is that if there's an animal that is in
training, typically they're wearing something that states they're in training. So that one should be
pretty fairly clear. I can't say for sure for every single animal, but they said generally speaking,
you should see something that actually designates the dog or the animal to be in training to be a
service animal. So that hopefully clears that up.
The other thing here that we teach the operators to follow is if the animal is well behaved, it's not
an issue. If there is an animal being brought on with, let's say, a rope around their neck as a leash
and is barking at everyone, those kinds of things, that would raise the question. So I know we're
continually looking at some of the regulations in terms of service animals. We encourage,
certainly, training our operators not to question it unless there's some concern about safety because
of the way the animal is acting. It is very difficult to include because we see service rabbits and
things like that now that make it a little bit more challenging. But we will definitely try to kind of
tighten this one up a little bit more.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: --transported, that your rules reflect that. If you're not giving everyone
the equipment and training to know all the documentation and questions that they can and can not
ask, I would recommend strongly that you not set yourself up for that kind of management issue.
MICHAEL MEADER: No. No, I agree. And this is not an issue that rears its head at all, really.
We don't run into this situation too much. But we will definitely take a closer look at that for sure,
because it does raise some questions.

BOB GRADO: And this is Chief Grado, if I may. This is a tough one, too, for the airlines. And
they are in the process-- a recent meeting I had with TSA. They're rewriting their stuff, because I
totally agree, we don't know what is service and what isn't. So it might be interesting to look and
see what they come up with on their side, too. You know, really, the big concern-- sometimes we
complicate things too much. The big concern is aggressive animals. That's always been the
concern, because we've had passengers and operators bit by dogs, and they clearly weren't service
animals. So definitely I agree. This needs to be looked at a little further.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You know, in reading this, it really made me stop and think about
what folks were thinking when Denise wrote this piece, because I've been on buses where clearly
someone's bringing a little dog in with no service vest or anything but is their companion. And so
I do think we do need to tighten this up and look at it, because we can't tell if it's a service dog or
if they've been trained or whatever. But the actual piece about aggression, I think, is really, really
important for the safety of our patrons and our driver. So yeah, I think we do need to tighten that
one up. Are there any other comments from any other committee members?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I have a comment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Pardon?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I have a comment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can hear you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. So this was one of the pieces of the Code of Conduct that I had some
concern around. So as you know, as many of you might know or you may not, if you look at the
Rocky Mountain ADA Guidance, it actually tells us that we can only ask two questions. We can
ask if it's a service dog, and what service does the dog provide? And so there are actually no
requirements for service dogs to be identified through patches, harnesses, or any other clothing.
And so I think it is important that we make that distinction, because a lack of a license or behavior
cannot be cause to deny service.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. Agreed. And I think the other thing that's really true is that
each driver is very different, and they may not be in the same uniform kind of thing. So I think we
really do need to take a deep dive on that one. OK, thank you.
The next one is Rule 28. And that is, "Occupying more than one seat per person at an RTD vehicle
or facility, subject to ADA reasonable modification. See Code, Section 4." Marisela, I'm going to
have you start first, and then I'll read Denise's response or concern to this.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: Sure. I looked at this one because I can't recall who, but someone had
a concern that perhaps this would unintendedly prohibit a parent from holding their child in their

lap or any other kind of similar situations. And so I try to write it a little bit more simply. I don't
know if that came across well or not. But again, I think the-- and maybe looking to security, what
they deal with, but the obvious concern I would see is someone laying on the seats perhaps and
taking more than one seat in that sense and kind of prohibiting other people from sitting down,
especially when it's crowded.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. All right. So your suggestion is occupying more than one seat
per person on an RTD vehicle or facility, subject to ADA reasonable-- so can you just go through
that again? I was just reading Mr. McKay's comment about this piece with you. So-MARISELA SANDOVAL: I didn't get that comment. But yeah, I guess I was just trying to make
it a little more clear, the intent of this rule, which I think it would be, we don't want people laying
on three seats or two seats and taking them up for other passengers. And we're really not looking
to-- you know, like we said in the last meeting, if a parent is holding their child, we're not after
you for that. We're just kind of trying to make sure people are courteous in use of their seats, I
think is the main goal of this. And so I tried to edit the rule in that way, but looking at it again, I
think it could use some work.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, great. Denise Maes said, "'Occupying more than one seat'
language is somewhat problematic. Does the parenthetical address individuals that are obese?
Curious if someone can pay for more than one seat, and then they can be permitted to take up more
than one seat. How about the guy that spread his legs and/or puts his arms on the seat next to him?"
I would ask other committee members if they have any comment on Rule 28.
SHONTEL LEWIS: This is Director Lewis. I agree with Denise's piece about someone who might
be obese. I don't know that the-- I have to think about what the suggested language could be to
address it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. This one is a tough one, too, I think. And Mr.
Meader, I know that you're taking copious notes on this, but do you have any thoughts on this?
MICHAEL MEADER: Yeah, just exactly what Marisela said. You know, the intent of this is
someone who's laying down or has sat up and put their feet across seats kind of sideways, those
kinds of things. We're certainly not going to challenge an obese person who may be sitting in one,
one and a half, two seats, whatever that is, with this rule. And I'll have to look back in the ADA
reasonable modification to see if that captures that. I can't remember off the top of my head.
But no. I mean, that certainly is what the intent is. Again, we are taking a look at all of these. These
are great comments by the way, very seriously, to see how we can slightly change or, like I said,
tighten up the language to ensure that we account for those kinds of things. But no, again, as Chief
Gardo said, it's courteous behavior we're looking for, just making sure people have a place to sit.
But we'll definitely take a look at that. And I am taking copious notes, so thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. I'd like to go now to the next page, Roger, for
Rule 29. And, Marisela, let me just read it. "Lying or sitting on the floor, platform, stairway,

landing, ground, or conveyance of an RTD vehicle or facility." Marisela, do you want to start with
your concern and then your suggestion, please?
MARISELA SANDOVAL: Sure. I heard at the last committee meeting-- which, it may have been
Denise-- that sometimes there could be occasions where you would need to or want to sit down at
an RTD facility because you're waiting for a long time, and perhaps there's no seats available. So
just trying to-- again, I think it's really difficult to address every situation. And I know we don't
want that arbitrary discretion where someone comes up to someone discriminatorily. But we can't
address every situation. So I just try to say, you know, when there's unavailable seats and you're
out of the way and you're not really causing a safety concern, we're not going to bother you. But I
would look to security, too, to see their operational needs, because I think it's important that-- I
mean, we do have to limit sitting on floors as well.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Denise Maes' comment was, "Is it a violation to
sit on the floor at all RTD facilities? Wow." And I do think that this is one of those areas where
the average person doesn't think about this. And I've been down in the bus barn where you're
standing and waiting for a bus to go somewhere, and you just get tired. And you just need to sit
down for a minute. So I could see where people need to do that. But in terms of developing under
the Code of Conduct a rule for that, I'd like to hear some other input from committee members
what they think about this piece.
KATE WILLIAMS: This is Director Williams. I think we need to word it differently, because I'm
telling you that I have sat down on the floor while I was waiting in a line at a bus station or Union
Station or wherever. And I think that that is not in any way an action that should cause me to be
thrown out. But I think the concept that we want is not people-- I don't know, lounging? I think we
need to word it. I think the concept is right. You know, you don't want people just kind of hanging
out, getting their book and their drink and parking. But I think we need to word it differently. And
I'm sorry I'm not helping any.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, but you bring up a good point, because if I'm down in the bus
barn and I'm there early and there's no seats available, I might want to charge up my phone or
check my email or just sit in a corner somewhere. That would be lounging. And so I do think we
need to take a deeper dive into this and look at the wording and what the intent is. And so maybe,
Chief Grado, you can maybe expound on exactly what Rule 29 is supposed to convey.
BOB GRADO: Yeah, I think-- thank you. The issue is, when you get crowds of people doing it, it
becomes a safety problem. That's really the intent. So maybe there's a way to word it around safety.
Again, if somebody is sitting Indian style, waiting for a bus and seats are taken, I would hope that
nobody would bother them with that. So yeah, for me, it's more about safety and then someone not
just doing it, like a loitering fashion, to where they're just sitting there with no intent to use service.
That's the other part.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it.
MICHAEL MEADER: Yeah. Yeah, it is purely-- sorry, this is Mike Meader.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
MICHAEL MEADER: It's for safety reasons, people blocking the movement of people. We
certainly don't want anyone stepped on or tripping over someone. You know, even in, like, the
airport, they have some specific rules that said seating-- you know, in designated seating areas,
although you'll walk through the airport when a flight's delayed, and you see people laying down
and resting and those kinds of things. And that's the same way we would approach this as well. As
long as they're out of the way and not going to put themselves in harm or someone else in harm,
we're not going to enforce it any differently.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
MICHAEL MEADER: We'll take a look at the language.
KATE WILLIAMS: So this is Director Williams again. And you just went right to the heart of the
matter, Mike, because those people that you see in the airport have gone through a security system
and shown that they have fare.
MICHAEL MEADER: Right.
KATE WILLIAMS: And that maybe is some wording that we want to put in there that says-- you
know, you must have appropriate fare, and it must be within a reasonable amount of time of that
fare usage or something.
MICHAEL MEADER: Yeah. No, that's good. I think we can come up with some language with a
lot more specificity to that so it'll make it more clear. But that's a great comment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I wonder if the airlines have some verbiage around that that we
could look at.
MICHAEL MEADER: I'll check on that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Any other comments on Rule 29.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I have a question for Mr. Meader.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I know we talked about fare paid zones, and I thought that the
intent-- when this conversation came to the Board was to address that to the fare paid zones. So
could you talk a little bit about that as it pertains to this rule? Because now I'm a bit confused.
MICHAEL MEADER: OK. I think what we were talking about, Director Lewis, was that
designating those areas-- so the bus concourse as a paid fare zone-- you know, the expectation
would be that you would be down in the bus concourse for the purpose of riding transportation.
And so you would purchase a fare in order to be there.

If you have that fare purchased, then certainly you're down there to ride on a vehicle. If the vehicle's
delayed for some reason or something like that, you know, we're not expecting you to leave the
facility. And if you need to sit down while you're waiting there, that's fine if you have that. The
paid fare zone is just designating an area where there's an expectation that people would have
purchased fare with the intent of using our services. I don't know if that clears up your question or
not.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis, does that clear it up?
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's still a little confusing to be completely honest, if I'm just being honest. It's
a bit confusing.
MICHAEL MEADER: I'm happy to get with you outside of this, Director Lewis, and chat a little
bit more about it.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK.
MICHAEL MEADER: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. All right. Rule 30, "Sleeping or dozing where
such activity may, in RTD's opinion, be hazardous to a person or others or may interfere with the
operation of RTD's system or the comfort of RTD's passengers or patrons." Aubrey, I'm going to
turn this to you to talk about your concerns and if you have any suggestions.
AUBREY HASVOLD: Thank you very much, Chair. So my concern, and it sounds like it is
echoed in Denise's and Marisela's comments as well-- but just that it's not clear what hazardous
means, and giving RTD full discretion to decide that in the moment seems like it could open up
the door to discriminatory enforcement, particularly against people who appear to be unhoused or
for other reasons, including along racial lines. And we know that there is a big intersection there,
too-- an overlap between folks of color who are overrepresented in the homeless population. So I
think especially in this cultural moment and the culmination, a tipping point of years of really ugly
treatment of black and brown folks, that this is something that we should really consider and get
specific about, what those behaviors are that are problematic, so that there isn't that different
enforcement from person to person.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I will read Denise's comments, and then, Marisela, I'll
go to you. Denise Maes says that "Sleeping or doing where, 'in RTD's opinion' this activity is
hazardous. Again, vague. How does one even begin to know what behavior is truly prohibited?
There are no defined terms. Passengers are relying on the whims of various bus drivers and other
RTD employees." Marisela?
MARISELA SANDOVAL: Yes. Thanks, Chair. Again, I heard those concerns at the last meeting
and tried to work on that a little bit. I do know, as Chief Grado mentioned last meeting, there was
an individual who did pass away. I did watch that. It was on camera, and we had to give that out
for a Quora request-- but besides the point. So there are some valid concerns here where sleeping
could cause us concern.

And so I try to make it a little bit more centered around the person, where if we notice that person
perhaps hasn't been moving in a while or looks, I don't know, stiff or something like that, then
that's when we would approach him. Or if it just causes an interference, if the person is kind of
falling over onto another passenger. Or again, I don't know if, Security, you have some other
specific examples. But I get the concerns. And so I'm trying to word it better, but there are also
some concerns on RTD's side, from an operational perspective and also for the person's well-being.
Because like we said, we've had those incidents.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Right. Any other comments from anyone else on the committee?
BRITTA FISHER: This is Britta. And I feel like when I brought this up, I had some questions
about it the first time. It's the idea that sleeping or dozing doesn't naturally sound hazardous. And
I think there were some things that were pointed out, like we can't have people on the train and
sleeping during certain maneuvers and so forth. I wonder if you really need to address sleeping or
dozing and rather whether or not people can be on the train during certain maneuvers and that RTD
staff have the ability to check on the well-being of someone who they have concern for their life
and safety rather than pointing out sleeping and dozing as potentially hazardous.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Britta. I actually agree with you. Maybe the verbiage
has to do something that RTD retains the right to check on a passenger if they feel like they're in
medical distress or that there needs to be a well-check being-- or something. I don't know what it
is. But I agree with you. The way that it's worded with "sleeping and dozing," I have to tell you,
after being on two or three buses commuting, sometimes I might doze off a little bit. So I mean, it
is something I think we need to take a look at for sure. Any other comments from any other member
of the committee?
KATE BARTON: Hi, this is Kate.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Kate.
KATE WILLIAMS: Go ahead, Kate.
KATE BARTON: Sorry. [AUDIO OUT] about, to that same end, does RTD have a policy on
welfare checks, making sure someone's OK? And if so, could that be incorporated into this
component?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Chief Grado or Mr. Meader?
BOB GRADO: Yeah, this is Chief Grado. I don't know that-- we don't have a policy, but we do
like to do welfare checks. So I kind of like what Britta said, just having the ability to check on
them, because in the instance Marisela is talking about-- and this has happened. You know, I've
been with the agency for 10 years. This has happened several times, probably three or four times
a year, we have someone pass away on a vehicle. And you know, the families are usually upset
that, well, why didn't anybody check on my husband or whatever? So it's tough, because people

do-- you know, when you're moving around on the bus, it just kind of has that motion that kind of
makes you doze off if you're a little tired.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, it does.
BOB GRADO: We would like the ability to check on the welfare of people in that scenario. It's
not necessarily sleeping. And then there's-- and this might be why this is in there. We have folks
that will just get on a vehicle and ride for hours and hours and sleep, especially late at night. And
they're kind of using it as a hotel room, for lack of a better word. So that may be where some of
that came in. But for me, I definitely-- if we can make people aware that if they are sleeping, we
would like to have the ability and make them aware that we will check on them.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it. Boy, I do think this one needs-- we really need to take a
look at it, because it makes me think about a lot of things in terms of if I pay a fare, I should be
able to stay on it as long as I want to, at least till the end of the line where it goes. I'm not sure. But
it is something I think that's up for discussion that we really need to take a look at.
BOB GRADO: And for us-- again, Chief Grado here-- I would like to have clarification for our
people. So that would be very helpful. Personally, I don't-- it usually is the end of the line where
people-- or we have to wake them up. You know, tail tracks and things like that, where they're not
permitted. And then on buses at the end of the line.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: Hello. Detective Williams here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes? So you guys are all on the right track. The problem with this is the way
it's worded, because we could word it to be a caring activity. I mean, I was asked out on the bus
for whatever reason-- whether I was tired or I was drunk or whatever, I would want somebody to
check to see if I was OK. So I think it's just a matter of how we approach the idea that if there is
somebody who is in some state of unconsciousness, it's OK to check on them. It's a good thing.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, I agree. And I think that the wording about-- we retain the
right to check on your well-being if you are not seeming to be alert might be a good way to do
that, just so that they know that they're not going to just be left there alone the whole time. OK.
Thank you. OK.
SHONTEL LEWIS: This is Director Lewis. I just a couple of things. I had a quick comment. So
this was one of the rules that I had a concern about when this initially came to the Board. And I
just want-- I appreciate this discussion and this dialogue and really listing out specific behaviors.
I think that was really important. And I, like Britta, don't think sleeping or dozing off is a hazard
activity. And so I appreciate us naming that.

Additionally, this discussion about someone's well-being versus you know someone just sleeping
or dozing off I think is really important and really centering the person in this discussion and
conversation I am really encouraged by. And so I just wanted to thank you all for that discussion,
because I think it's an important one.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
MICHAEL MEADER: Chair, this is Mike Meader. I'm sorry.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
MICHAEL MEADER: I was going to say-- you know, one of the comments that was made, and
as I continue to talk through this with all of the committee members here, really more people
centered, I can see how we could change some of this language. There are certainly specific events
where we see where the sleeping or the dozing creates some issues and we can map those out. But
I think, you know, to begin more of these things with, you know, to ensure the well-being of our
passengers, those kinds of things, would certainly help with an understanding and interpretation
of some of these. So we'll certainly look at those very closely to do that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Meader. I also think I really like that term, people
centered, so that it is inclusive of everybody and doesn't seem to be pointing to specific stereotypes.
So thank you for that.
BRITTA FISHER: Madam Chair, just a quick comment. I would also encourage you not to go too
far in the over-checking on the well-being of some people versus others. But again, to provide
some training as to how to look for signs that somebody is in distress, not just we're going to
interrupt your nap.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: I think that's a really good point, Britta.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It is a great point. OK, thank you. Rule 31, "Entering or remaining
on an RTD property or vehicle while the person's ability to function safely in the environment of
a transit system is impaired by the consumption of alcohol or by taking any drugs." Denise Maes
wrote, "My problem with this item is that some folks take RTD simply because they are too drunk
to drive. That, frankly, should be encouraged. But with this provision, RTD is discouraging a costeffective means for alternative transportation." Comments from anyone else?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I think that-KATE WILLIAMS: This is Director Williams. Go ahead. Shontel?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Go.

SHONTEL LEWIS: I think Denise raises a really good point. And it also is a bit contradictory to
what we do for New Year's, when we offer our services for people to get on and encourage them
to not drink and drive.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. We do do that, it's absolutely true.. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: This is another where it needs to be people centered language. We can say
that thing. And you can't just say "any drugs." You know, I can't be thrown off the RTD because I
took my osteoporosis medicine in the morning. So that's a little broad there, but it needs to be
people centered. So again, it's the language. It's not the intent. It's the language.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Anyone else?
BRITTA FISHER: This is Britta. I would just echo that. Fully describe the behavior for what it is
to have inability to function safely rather than just relating it to the impairment by alcohol and
drugs. So what does unsafe ridership look like?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right. On to Rule 32. "Camping without a permit."
Aubrey, I'm going to get this over to you, please.
AUBREY HASVOLD: Thank you, Chair. And this actually looks like my comment from the
previous, maybe, Rule 30. I got my question about the permitting process answered at our last
meeting. So I think we can remove that and move on.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Rule 35, "Remaining at a facility after being asked
to leave. RTD may, in its sole discretion, regulate the movement of individuals to enable the
provision of transit services. Facilities are to be used only for travel-related purposes, except when
a permit is otherwise granted, so that the passenger can utilize the transit system in a safe and
efficient manner without inconvenience or delay." Aubrey?
AUBREY HASVOLD: Thank you. So again, I think that there does need to be more specificity
here. What are the behaviors that are disruptive? Giving RTD sole discretion to regulate the
movement of individuals just seems very broad, very vague. So I'm curious to know more about
what that would look like and how we could communicate that best to the public.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I guess my question to you would be, what specific behaviors
would you list there?
AUBREY HASVOLD: That's a good question. I mean, certainly criminal activity, activity that is
disruptive to the delivery of services. And that could certainly be broken down into more specific
actions.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: The one thing that I'm learning as we're going through this stuff
is being specific is really difficult. And I think that's one of the issues in writing a Code of Conduct,
is figuring out specifically what are the descriptors that would be utilized, and keeping in mind

people centered. Like, what would be good for the whole, and what would be destructive to them
as well? So that might be a good point to go from. So thank you so much.
Denise wrote, "This provision is beyond vague. It basically permits RTD at any time and for any
reason to regulate the movement of all individuals at an RTD facility, which by definition includes
asking one to leave the premises. You could simply delete all of the code except for the provision.
It basically grants unfettered discretion to RTD to do whatever it wants when it wants and to whom
it wants and without proper notice of what constitutes violation of this code."
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. So I-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chiar. This is one of the ones I had great concerns about when
this initially came to the Board, because I agree with Denise, that's exactly the concern. So it's not
specific in saying, like-- I don't know what behaviors would constitute someone being asked to
leave-- like, what they would be needing to do. Like, if you don't pay your fare, folks know you
can't take public trans-- well, right now you can take public transportation without paying your
fare. But normally, you can't take public transportation without paying your fare. And so that's
something that's specific that, if you do this, then this is going to be the consequence. But this is
just very, very vague and doesn't let you know what the specific behaviors are. And it looks like
Britta might have something.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. Go ahead, Britta.
BRITTA FISHER: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just wanted to ask because this has been helpful
on some of the other rules, what is the exact problem we're trying to solve with this language?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Meader?
MICHAEL MEADER: Sure. And this, to be honest with everyone here, I would not have any issue
just removing this rule from the Code of Conduct.
BOB GRADO: Yeah, Chief Grado here. I agree.
MICHAEL MEADER: So if no one else objects, I would say, why don't we just remove this one?
BOB GRADO: Yeah, because the Code of Conduct covers the bad behavior.
MICHAEL MEADER: It really is behaviors that are counter to the Code of Conduct. And so
putting this in here is somewhat redundant. The airlines, for example, have an overarching
statement like this-- very strict rules in causing any disruption to the movement of the airlines,
those kinds of things. And they're challenged, too, with trying to capture by listing out behaviors.
I think it might be better to remove this. The code specifies the rules that we would consider to be
counter to that for the most part, and we're talking through those. This may just be one we could
just remove, and we're still covering all of the bases.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Great. I'm all for that. Anybody opposed to that?
KATE WILLIAMS: No. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Cool.
MICHAEL MEADER: Fine with me.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good. There you go. We're down to our last two. Rule 36,
"Blocking or impeding the movement of another person, or blocking an aisle, elevator, escalator,
door, or stairway with one's body, or any object-- except mobility aid-- in a way that possesses a
danger, unreasonably impedes a patron's movement, or displaces a person." Denise Maes, her
concern is, "I can imagine a situation where folks do these items without the intention of impeding
anybody's movement or use of a seat. Intent language may help address this one." Comments?
Well, I do have one comment. As I'm looking at this, I wonder if we can incorporate the floor in
this one as well, because it's another-- I think it hits all the points that we want to say in people
sitting on floors, but that it could cause blocking as well.
MICHAEL MEADER: Sure. I think that's a great idea. We could certainly incorporate that in
there.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That would be great. Any other comments from anyone else?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I have-- I'm just saying, I don't disagree with Denise, but I'm trying to think
of what language might be more helpful as it relates to intent. So I'm just thinking. So I might have
something for our next conversation.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
BRITTA FISHER: This is Britta. I think maybe one of the ways that this could improve is not that
it just blocks from impeding movement anywhere but that would block or impede the delivery of
services. Because if somebody is moving out of the way, I hear that that is OK from our other
conversation. But if somebody is blocking the flow-- and then I think the other part, I understand
Denise's comment on intent, but perhaps there's a different point on this which is really on how it
would be enforced, which I understand would probably start with verbal direction that this is
impeding the delivery of services, and we need you to please move X beyond where you are right
now.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. Duly noted. I think that's a great idea.
KEN MIHALIK: This is Director Mihalik. Yeah. Hi, Chair. This is Director Mihalik, I was just
going to ask for clarification. Is it the potential to obstruct or impede? Or you have to actually-there has to be actually, we'll say-- well, someone that is being impeded?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Meader or Chief Grado?
BOB GRADO: Yeah, this is Chief Grado. Yeah, Director Mihalik, I think that is the intent here.
Maybe we need to clean that up. We do have Facebook-- or what do you call it? Yeah, Facebook
Live, YouTubers, they will intentionally sit in the middle of an aisle where we have people flowing
to challenge us. So maybe that does need to be clarified. It's the people that are there doing it
intentionally just to upset other people that are trying to get through.
MICHAEL MEADER: Yeah. It is around intention obviously. And so we would need to clarify
that. You know, it's not uncommon, people just kind of gather and start talking. Maybe they're
standing in front of an aisleway, and typically, you know, you walk up and you say excuse me or,
hey, could you move over to the side. That's how we're going to handle those things, just to not
block that. It's really with that intent to create that problem. And we'll work on the wording there.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It might be helpful to just add-KEN MIHALIK: Thanks, gentlemen. I think that's an important distinction.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So Director Mihalik, could you repeat that?
KEN MIHALIK: Oh, yes. I was going to say, thanks, gentlemen. I think that's an important
distinction.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. And Britta, were you on next?
MICHAEL MEADER: Rule 37 is the same pretty much there.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. All right. So 36 and 37 are-BRITTA FISHER: I already made my comment. I'm good.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. All right. So let's go on to Rule 40, "Unauthorized
use of electrical or data outlet." Denise is, "What is an authorized use?" And Marisela, I'll have
you go ahead and comment on Rule 40, please.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: Sure. I thought we should just-- use of an electric-- make it clear. If
we're not going to be able to offer it or we choose not to, whatever the case may be, then we just
say use of an electrical outlet. Electrical or data outlet in any RTD facility or vehicle. So just
making it clear. I know there was some confusion about, well, what's authorized and what's not
authorized? And what I gathered is that we were not authorizing use of any of them. So if you see
one, you can't use it. It would be great if we can offer it, certain maybe stations like they do at the
airport. I don't know if that's possible from an operational standpoint or anything like that, but--

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think this brings up a really good point, particularly for people
who have their cell phones and they find an outlet because it's about to die and they need to call
their babysitter or something. But the other part of that is our Flatiron Flyer, one of the big pluses
is that it has Wi-Fi on it. So I'm wondering if we need to look at this again. And on the trains, if
you sit in the front seat, on the right, there's an outlet where you can plug in your charger or
whatever. So I do think we need to figure out whether we're going to allow people to use outlets
or not, and if we're going to provide free Wi-Fi. I think it's just something we really need to take a
look at. I think this has changed quite a bit since 2016. Any other comments?
BRITTA FISHER: Yeah. [INTERPOSING VOICES].
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No, go ahead, Britta.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, Britta.
BRITTA FISHER: Yeah, in today's world, I think electrical outlets are kind of seen as a part of
service. I mean, at restaurants and many places that have services, including other transportation,
those kinds of needs are significant for people for communication. And so I thought last time that
we had a conversation about this, about what's an unauthorized place, rather than just allowing it
everywhere, I'd really encourage RTD to consider how to label or make it clear where it is
unauthorized, that you cannot remove a plug or to put security onto the types of outlets that are not
to have cords removed, rather than prohibiting this widespread. I think that would have a lot of
impact to the use and enjoyment of the services of RTD.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, thank you. Director Lewis, and then Mr. Meader.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Britta said it very succinctly, so I will not comment. Thank you, Britta.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Mr. Meader?
MICHAEL MEADER: Sure. And thank you for those comments. I think Marisela nailed it here,
just for the time being, because there really isn't any authorized use. So that clears it up. I have
reached out to facilities to have a conversation and quite frankly just didn't follow up. But I will
do that to see how we might be able to create some opportunities for people to do that movement.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. All right, thank you.
PAUL BALLARD: Madam Chair, this is Paul Ballard, General Manager.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Mr. Ballard.
PAUL BALLARD: Yeah, this is a throwback to another time. And it really shouldn't be in our
code of conduct. You know, we should actually be putting out more plugs for people to charge cell
phones and such. So personally I'd like to see this go away and we actually provide more

opportunities for people to charge a cell phone or something, because you're absolutely right. If
you ride certain trains and the suburban buses and so on, I mean, we're providing those outlets
specific for the customers. So this is just outdated and really should be thrown out.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I would like to ask the committee if they would be OK with us
throwing out Rule 40.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Totally.
MICHAEL MEADER: Chair, this is Mike Meader. I don't really have any issue with that. I just
want to check with facilities to make sure that there isn't any kind of an issue from a loading
standpoint or anything like that. I can't imagine that there is, but I want to verify that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I would like, though, for the committee to chime in so that
when you talk to facilities, they know what the committee thinks.
MICHAEL MEADER: Sure, absolutely.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Could I just have verbal from everyone if they're OK with
eliminating Rule 40?
BRITTA FISHER: Aye.
TROY WHITMORE: Absolutely.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Totally.
AUBREY HASVOLD: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes? I think we got a pretty good yes. Let's eliminate it if we can.
BOB GRADO: Chair, if I may, this is Chief Grado again. That was originally put in there, I think- well, I know we've had issues in the bus box that folks were unplugging equipment that needed
to be plugged in. Like TVM stuff, believe it or not, there's a cord with a plug in certain locations.
So we had people unplugging those to plug in devices. So I'm fine with getting rid of it and doing
something different. I agree with everybody. We really should modernize and have some sort of
charging stations. Even our own boardroom in T and D, we struggle with-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, we do.
BOB GRADO: [INTERPOSING VOICES] that want to plug in their cameras and stuff. So we
probably should be looking at that.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You know, Chief Grado, when you were talking about that, you
know, remedy might be just putting a Plexiglas box over the plugs that you don't want people
touching and screwing it in, so that they know that that's not easily available to unplug and plug
things in. That might be a way to do it.
BOB GRADO: Yeah, and that's there. But they go around that. So I'd be happy to see some sort
of charging stations to make it less tempting.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. All right. Rule 44. Who knew there were so many
rules in this Code of Conduct, right? "Bathing, washing, or leaving needles in RTD restrooms."
Aubrey, I'm gonna have you kick this off, please.
AUBREY HASVOLD: Sure. Thank you, Chair. Like we discussed in our last meeting, the way
that this is worded, it sounds like even washing your hands is not allowed, which I'm sure is not
the intent. But I think being specific about what the problem is that we're trying to solve-- what
are the issues that we've encountered? Is it folks taking up too much space at the sink, spending
too much time, is it splashing water and leaving paper towels on the floor? So just looking more
at how this could possibly be disruptive. Because like Denise said, folks who are coming off of
the train may want to splash some water on their face or do a little bird bath, and we want to make
sure that that is something that is allowable.
And one more thing on the needles. I appreciate our discussion last time about different ways to
build in proper disposal items into the walls so that people can properly dispose of needles, because
I know there was an issue about kind of ripping those disposal receptacles down. So I think
exploring that more would be really valuable as well.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Marisela?
MARISELA SANDOVAL: Yes. So I took a look at this rule based on Aubrey's comments last
meeting. I think they just really resonated with me. So I tried to look at it and better the language.
I don't know if I did that, but I don't know. I struggled with this one personally because I get both
ends of it. I get RTD, we're trying to make use of these facilities as bathrooms and kind of in and
out type of thing, use the restroom and wash your hands and leave. But I also-- I thought about,
well, if someone is washing a shirt or taking a birdbath, is that really disruptive. And so I don't
know. I'm still kind of chewing on it. But that's kind of where I was struggling and tried to propose
some language to better address more disruptive behavior. But-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, I agree. This one's a tough one on how to word it, because
there are so many different things that could be happening to a person where they actually need to
utilize the facilities at a much deeper level than just going to the restroom. Any other-[SIDE CONVERSATION]
Any other comments?
SHONTEL LEWIS: If I may, Chair.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: One of the things that concerns me about this statement with the washing is
we are actually, in the times of COVID-19, encouraging folks to wash their hands. And so maybe
it's separating out improper disposal of needles from the washing, because we do want people to
wash their hands quite a bit that are utilizing our services to limit the spread of COVID.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I actually think that's a great idea. Mr. Meader?
MICHAEL MEADER: Yeah. No, I was going to actually say the same thing. I think maybe we
could move the needles to another thing. And we could certainly clarify the washing and bathing.
I think Marisela did a great job starting that out. But that's a great suggestion. Chief, we may want
to address the needles separately. And we'll specify or clarify the language on what kind of
washing, I guess, expectation one might have.
BOB GRADO: Yeah, I agree with Director Lewis. You know, I looked at the Denver Public
Library. And I think, Marisela, you got close to theirs if memory serves. But the library, their code
of conduct is wonderful. I really like the way they worded it. I suggest people take a look at that.
And in there it says "laundry" and things like that. And so that's what I think the issue is. We
definitely want people to wash their hands, but I'm going to be very blunt here, we have people
getting naked and bathing in our bathrooms occasionally. So that's really the issue. So I think
Marisela definitely improved upon that rule, the way that's worded now. So I suggest we look at
the library, because I think they kind of nailed it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Do you mind sending that out to us.
BOB GRADO: Yeah, I actually saved it on my machine here. So I'll get it to you guys.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right, any other comments on Rule 44? OK, Rule
45. This is failure to wear soiled footwear, shirts, tops, and pants/shorts/skirts in an RTD vehicle
or facility subject to ADA reasonable modification. See Code Section 4." Denise wrote, "What is
the difference between soiled and unsoiled footwear? And is RTD really going to ask its personnel
and/or security personnel to inspect people's footwear? You may have a fourth amendment issue
with those searches." Comments from committee members. Hearing none, Chief Grado, can you
talk about Rule 45, Please
BOB GRADO: This actually comes out of the operations manual for riding on buses and trains
without-- in the Trailblazer-- it requires people to have shoes on. So it says you can't walk barefoot
and things like that, unless it's an ADA issue or a child in a stroller, obviously. So we kind of took
this out of that, the Trailblazer.
So other than that, we have people challenging us. We had one person that was skipping with his
shoes off and dancing instead of walking. So I think we were trying to clarify it for that. But again,
this is not a transit police issue. It's a Trailblazer issue. And I'm not sure where that comes from.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Could we maybe just say for your safety, all passengers must wear
shoes unless ADA prohibits it, something like that? Because I don't understand the piece about the
shirts, tops, pants, shorts, skirts, on part of this, too.
BOB GRADO: Well, yeah. Again, that comes from the Trailblazer. And I think just as a common
courtesy, if you're riding the mall shuttle and it's crowded, you probably don't want a guy standing
next to you with his shirt off that's sweaty or whatever. So yeah, I'm thinking to the footwear part,
that's when we're challenged. You know, businesses in most cities, they require that you have shoes
and shirts and pants to go into a business. So yeah. I see Britta chimed in. She can probably help
us with this one.
BRITTA FISHER: I just had a funny comment for everyone, a moment of levity. My baby just got
old enough where she got her first pair of rubber soled shoes, and I thought of you all.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Tisdale? Director Tisdale, are you still on?
DOUG TISDALE: Ah. Thank you. I had my mouth full of breakfast here. No, I'm just pointing
out that there is simply a safety rule-- and I assume that the FTA probably has that as well-- soled
footwear is for safety purposes. Shoes will protect you from having your stockinged or your naked
feet get cut up. You can get your toes caught in things if you don't have the benefit of shoes. That's
the reason for it. It's a safety consideration.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You know, in thinking about this, it makes me in my mind's eye
go to a restaurant where it says no shirt, no shoes, no-- whatever, no surface kind of stuff. I think
we just need to simplify it, because this really feels like it's intense. And really, the ultimate deal
is that we just want people to be safe and not hurt, and to be respectful of other people. Director
Lewis, do you have a comment?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I don't.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Anyone else? OK. Rule 46. This is another foot thing.
"Putting shoes and feet up on the seat on a station platform or vehicle." Denise Maes wrote,
"Maybe I don't understand what a platform is, but I thought it is a place where you walk on to
access RTD bus or train. If I'm right, it's impossible not to put your foot on a platform." So I think
this is wording more than anything else. So Mr. Meader? Did we lose you?
MICHAEL MEADER: Chair, this is Mike Meader. Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can now. Thank you.
MICHAEL MEADER: OK. Yep, it's a little broken up here with my connection, I think. I
apologize. And I don't know if someone said this. The intent is putting your feet up on a seat in a
station on a platform or in a vehicle. It's not talking about putting your feet on the platform. So we
just probably need to clarify that language.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think the one thing that I'm learning is the wording that we use,
people don't understand what we're intending. And so it really needs to be in layman's terms so
that anyone could understand it. I think that's it. Or even signage that shows no feet on the seat or
something. Director Tisdale, did you have a comment?
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, I was just agreeing that it's a grammatical issue. I think it's on a seat at a
station, at a platform, and in a vehicle.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it. All right, thank you.
BRITTA FISHER: This is Britta. Just if I may, I think our other rule-- there was another rule that
said you can't block a seat and someone's ability to use it. So is this really necessary?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good question.
BOB GRADO: Well, if I may-- this is Chief Grado again-- yeah, this is specifically talking about
people that like to sprawl out and take up two seats. But I see what you're saying, Britta. Yeah,
because they had their feet, and they're blocking the use of that seat for somebody.
Plus it's just, you know, not good manners to put your feet up on a seat where someone's going to
be sitting. You know, we walk on all kinds of gross things. So I think that is the intent. So I don't
know if it can be added or to that other one maybe more specific. But that's what the intent of that
is.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I just need to give us an eight-minute warning before our
Zoom ends, so let me go quickly to Rule 47. "Fouling any seat or any other than designated trash
receptacles with liquids, soils, greases, oils, foods, litter, urine, feces, other bodily fluids, or other
substances." Denise, of course, says, "Seems harsh if accidentally spilled something on the seat,
even if just water." I would like to get some comments from the committee about what they think
about Rule 47. Chief Grado.
BOB GRADO: OK. I feel like I'm hogging the floor here, so-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, please.
BOB GRADO: Yeah. Again, we have people that intentionally do this. I hate to even say this, but
they urinate on seats and do the other business on seats occasionally. Either they're very intoxicated
or they're just, you know, not a nice person.
So as far as the grease, oil, food, we're not supposed to eat on our trains and buses. So that's a
tough one. Again, if someone's sitting there eating an Egg McMuffin while they're traveling, we're
not going to bother them. I guess it's the spirit of the law. But sometimes people are just nasty, and
they do mean things to our property. So-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Any other comments from committee members?

MICHAEL MEADER: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
TROY WHITMORE: I would like to suggest a word. And if this makes it worse, then take it out.
But right before "substances," could we put objectionable or something of that nature to kind of
alleviate the occasional water spill that we could probably tolerate, or crumbs from the Egg
McMuffin While we don't like them, that's not our concern. It's the other gross stuff, as the Chief
says. So just a thought.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That could be. One of the things we're asking is that Mr. Meader
and Chief Grado take this back, take a look at it, play around with it, and then bring it back to our
next meeting so we can wordsmith it more if we need to. But I appreciate that word, Director
Whitmore. I think that will be helpful.
I don't know what to say about this, other than this is really, really tricky. And it might just be
worth looking at other language from different agencies on how they deal with this. But I
understand the spirit of it and the intent of it. And unless you actually experience that while you're
on a transit facility, it is not fun, for sure. So OK, thank you.
I think this is our last one. It's rule 48, "Causing disruptive odor subject to ADA reasonable
modification." Aubrey, I'm going to have you talk about this.
AUBREY HASVOLD: Great. Thank you. So I'm just wondering who determines what a disruptive
odor is. And that just seems like it's very broad and has maybe some identity and cultural
implications, so I'm wondering if it's necessary. And it seems like odors that come from bodily
fluids or feces or urine, that might make sense to address. But as far as body odor or perfume and
cologne, I don't know if that seems like something that's necessary to monitor.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm wondering if it doesn't fall in line with the one above.
AUBREY HASVOLD: That's what I was thinking as well.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. If we could incorporate 47 and 48, it's going to be a tough
one to write, but I'm wondering if that could all fall under that. Any other comments from
committee members? OK. Hearing none, Roger, next page. Oh, my goodness. I thought we were
done.
OK. Marisela, I see that you wrote this whole piece on Rule 47. But I think if we can incorporate
the two, 47 and 48, and relook at this working, that might be a good way to start the conversation
on how to word it.
Rule 53, "Failure to obey any directive from an RTD employee or representative related to RTD
operations. For example, RTD's Trailblazer Operation Guide contains many procedures and
requirements related to ADA policies, including wheelchair securement, boarding with strollers,
and other large items, passenger locations on vehicles, or other topics."

This is really vague. I agree with Denise. And it's a lot of verbiage from RTD. The average person
would know what a Trailblazer is. They won't know any of that stuff. And so I'm wondering if we
could take a deep dive look into this and simplifying it to make sure what it is we're trying to
convey to passengers. Any other comments on this? OK.
BRITTA FISHER: I still don't know what a Trailblazer is.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. A trailblazer is the handbook that every operator gets. It
tells you all the bus routes, all the rules and regulations you have to have, how you wear your
uniform, where you turn on the street. It's their bible, so to speak. Thank you. See, exactly. OK.
Next page, Roger.
This is just the outline of what we asked people to submit. And I want to say thank you. Our next
meeting is-- Roger, can you go back up to the top, please, so everybody can see? And I want to
just talk a little bit about next steps again-- is on the agenda page, yeah. Our next step is that
everything that we did today was recorded, and it will be given to Mr. Meader and Chief Grado
and Mr. Ballard to take back and look at and come back to our next meeting, which will be June
17, with how they've altered the whole code of conduct.
So I want to thank you for all of your comments and insight. I think that I'm feeling really positive
that this has been a great dialogue. And we really want to listen to what you all have to say. And I
think that all of these comments and suggestions have been really, really good. So thank you. And
with that, I'm going to-- is there any other matters before I adjourn the meeting, from anybody?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director-- Chair Malpiede, I have a quick question for you. The next meeting
is on the 17th. Will there be an opportunity for folks to have-- for us to take this back to have folks
comment outside of this group?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You know, Director Lewis, let's do ours first and then send it out.
I'd like to have that discussion, because I think the Code of Conduct really belongs to the whole
community. And so I do think it would merit having the public look at it as well. Let's do our work
first and then go from there if you don't mind doing that, because we also need to take this back to
the board to adopt and go forward. So yeah, I think that that might be the next step we'd look at.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, thank you. And I wasn't clear. I didn't mean between now and our next
meeting. I mean after we had this in-- after we draft this in a way that we feel like it's completed
and we're going to take it back to the board, is there going to be an opportunity for public comment?
That's essentially the question. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Any other matters? OK. Seeing none, I'm adjourning.
It's 9:27 AM. Thank you all, and we'll see you on June 17.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah.
AUBREY HASVOLD: Thank you so much.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Bye.

