2025-02-03
Performance Committee
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Good morning. The Tuesday, February 3rd Performance Committee will now come
to order. We are convened as of 8:32 AM. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute
yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Please note that the committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom,
and will be audio and video recorded. The meetings recordings, along with unofficial minutes of the
meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website.
During today's meeting, we are providing Communication Access Real Time Translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtddenver.com and a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript can be
automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like access to a live transcript of this meeting
in Spanish. A live stream of this meeting is also available at RTD's YouTube page. I would now like to call
the role of the committee members. Vince Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Lynn Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Chris Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Matt Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Chris Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Present.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Peggy Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: And I am Michael Guzman. I also see that we are joined by Kathleen Chandler. I don't
see any other Directors at this time.
I would like to open to public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any
topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. If you wish
to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone.
During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would like

to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board at rtd.directors@rtddenver.com. Are there any hands raised?
JACK KROLL: Chair Guzman, there are no hands raised at this time.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I don't see any other participants in the queue, so we will close the public
comment period at this time. We have three discussion items today on the agenda. The first item is for the
strategic plan document. And I would like to ask General Manager and CEO Johnson, as well as Mr. John
McKay, the Executive Business Partner, to present this item. The floor is yours.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much. Good morning all. Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO.
And as indicated, I'm joined by Executive Business Partner McKay. The intent of this item today is to orient
the Board to staff's intention relative to updating the strategic plan, just from an administerial vantage point.
Recognizing back in August of 2021, the Board of Directors adopted a strategic plan that consisted of a
vision, mission, values, and four strategic priorities.
Those elements of the strategic plan were agreed upon during the course of several work groups study
sessions that were held with members of the leadership team, in addition to a special workshop retreat that
had with the Board of Directors in June of 2021, recognizing the adoption of the various elements I just
outlined. Considering this is a Board approved document, nothing can be modified relative to those
elements I outlined without the Board's approval.
Where we sit today is that our intent is to do a reprint of the strategic plan, recognizing the input we received
from the Office of the State Auditor when there was a misunderstanding relative to what had not happened
with the strategic plan. And in doing so, I am going to yield the floor to Mr. McKay to orient you all what the
intent would be going forward. And this is merely a discussion item as we are convened this morning. Mr.
McKay, I will yield the floor to you, sir.
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you very much. Not much to add on top of that. Just that the Board adopted the
scorecard, the annual performance scorecard back in October of 2024. That was an update to the very
central core of the strategic plan that has information about the metrics and the success outcomes and
strategic priorities associated with the strategic plan.
In the RTD response to the Office of the State Auditor back in August of 2024, the staff or the response did
acknowledge that we would be coming back to the Board in the March time frame with a recommended
action regarding the re-adoption of the strategic plan in its printed form. And in the following month's Board
meeting, we'll be bringing back a delineation of those items that staff can tweak without the Board's approval
and those which staff cannot. So that will be coming in the March time frame. This is just the discussion
item associated with that. Just to follow up with any questions, we can answer those before the next month's
meeting. But at this point, I am open to questions from the members.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Are there any questions or comments from the committee? Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: I just want to-- thank you, Chair Guzman. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board
Office. I just want to put in a plug for the training session upcoming for the Board members on Thursday
afternoon regarding agency performance. You all had asked for that training to be moved up.
And so we did that in accordance with your request as a group of incoming Directors. And so there'll be a
fair amount of discussion, too, at that juncture around how we got to the performance metrics that the

agency is being measured by. And that's a direct result of the work this group did with GM and CEO
Johnson, with respect to the strategic plan.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Yeah, thank you. I was looking at the strategic plan scorecard, and apologies
if I missed it, but the reporting cadence says annual. And I'm just curious at what point in the year-- how
frequently is that updated? Is it real time? That's the nature of my question.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Mr. McKay.
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. To speak to that, the annual cadence right now is for the
employee surveys, those have been conducted in April of each year. And the customer and community
surveys have been conducted later in the year, in the August or September time frame, for the last three or
four years. For this year, we are syncing those up in April, so we'll have good information we will be
presenting to the Performance Committee in late May or early June of this year, I'm hoping, so that we'll
have the data back from all of those surveys so that those can be reviewed, and some of that information
can be used to leverage budget changes for the 2026 cycle.
But right now, most of the-- if you look at the scorecard, most of the metrics are predicated upon annual
survey data, because those metrics tie up to the strategic outcomes. So net promoter score, for example,
for customers is predicated by the survey data that we garner every year. So there are other metrics,
including on time performance for bus and some financial metrics that are on a more frequent cadence. But
by and large, the customer, community, and employee survey informs the metrics on the scorecard on an
annual basis.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Just waiting to see if anybody else raises their hand. I don't see any. All right. The
second item is for the Board briefing documents. I would like to ask Jack Kroll, Board Office Executive
Manager, and John McKay, Executive Business Partner, to present this item, please. Who is going first?
JACK KROLL: I'm happy to just give a brief introduction to this item. For those of you who were present at
the retreat on Saturday, I made mention as we were all departing that this would be on your agenda for
today's meeting. The goal here is to get Board feedback on the items you all wish to see in the Board
briefing documents. So I'm hopeful that many of you have had the opportunity to take a look at the Board
briefing documents and have some feedback ready to go.
Couple of things to note on this. One is these are compiled every month of the year, typically right in the
lead up to the monthly Board meeting. These are still compiled in August and December, even though
those months typically don't have a regularly scheduled Board meeting occurring in them. The goal of these
documents, or this document, is to provide information critical to you all for assessing the performance of
the agency, which is why we've decided to bring this discussion item to you all here to ensure that you're
getting the right information in the right format, at the right time.
We also, in our weekly email to the Board from the Board Office, provide a hyperlink to the website where
all of the Board briefing documents are maintained. And with that, I'm happy to share my screen and yield
the floor to the Executive Business Partner McKay to see if he has anything else he'd like to add.

JOHN MCKAY: Thank you Jack. If you're going to the table of contents, that would be helpful. Perfect Thank
you. So these are the typical items that the Board sees on a monthly basis. So the unaudited monthly
financial statements, agreements with other entities, monthly purchasing activity and so on. The bus and
rail operations service availability and headcount information.
Some of these items are duplicated on the performance dashboard. And so there is an opportunity now to
streamline this larger document. If it's the intent of the Board to remove some of these items, because this
document-- the danger is that this could become unwieldy and it could become too much to be useful on a
monthly basis.
In particular, the monthly purchasing activity and new contracts, that was an item that was requested by a
Board member a few years back. And the risk management claim settlements is sort of a new item within
the last couple of years. These items are absolutely necessary for us to publish for transparency's sake,
but is this document the appropriate vehicle through which they should be published? That's the question
before you today.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Directors, are there any questions or comments? Director Buzek
VINCE BUZEK: I think Guissinger was first, but I'm happy to go ahead.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Sorry, I just finally got to the page on the screen with everybody. So you were first in
queue.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, [INAUDIBLE] then. Yeah, so to the extent that we have things on our dashboard, I
don't believe we need to replicate them in the Board briefing document, because that's just a duplication of
not just information, but effort, because it takes staff time to do both of these different things. So to the
extent they're on our dashboard, I think we can take them out of the Board briefing document.
It's good information to have and for the newer Directors. And Lynn, you'll remember this. We used to get
presentations at every Board meeting on each and every one of these things. So it's much more streamlined
for our purposes as well. So yeah, that's all I have. Thanks.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. The whole checkbook purchasing thing, as Mr. McKay said, came out of
one director's desire to have the checkbook in there. I find it sort of annoying, because it takes up a couple
of hundred or maybe 250 pages of the whole thing. So the critical parts to me are the financial and the bus
operations and rail operations and some of those things.
I haven't looked in the last couple of weeks at the performance dashboard, but my hope is that it is picking
up-- it just wasn't robust enough. So my hope is that it's picking up a lot of this information and getting it out
there so it's out there for the public and for us.
In terms of Vince's point of not putting them both places, I'd have to think about that. I'm not sure if there's
value in having them both places. I certainly hear the question about whether it takes a lot of staff time.
In terms of other things in there, I know I've requested this before, but I hear it from a lot of people is that
Jeff Becker used to do that chart that showed number of boardings by route with the amount that RTD has
to subsidize. So I thought it was a great tool for us to see what buses, what trains are working well for us,

are busy, and not costing us as much, and what other ones we need to look at. So I continue to hope that
we can bring that back along the way. Thanks.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Nicholson, you're next.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you, Chair Guzman. Actually, great minds think alike, Lynn. I wanted to echo
the exact-- one of the things I'm about to say is the exact same point. I think the financial data by route is
something that would be extremely helpful, not just to me, but to the public as well.
And I'd add to that, I think the on time and service availability by route, which should be fairly easy to pull
from. I think it's rideshare plus or one of the other databases that we have. Just to give us a sense and the
public a sense of what lines are working well, what lines are not working well over the previous month. So
I would really-- that's the first thing that I'd like to-- really would love to see in that.
The second would be an executive summary. I think it's a lot of data. And being able to have a two page
summary that calls out, hey, you should pay attention to these 10 items in this 50 page document that you
might be interested in would be really, really helpful, I think, to a lot of Directors who may or may not actually
go through and try to pick out all the interesting stuff in a really large document. So it could facilitate perhaps
more useful conversations at the Board meeting if we had something like that.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Is that everything?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: That is all. I'll put my hand down.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I hope you don't mind, but I'm going to call on Director Catlin. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Guzman. I echo Lynn's sentiments regarding the checkbook register. I
think for transparency, it's nice to have it, but rather than embedding it in the Board briefing documents or
the dashboard, why can't we just provide a link to it? And it's available for those who are curious enough to
go in and see line by line what is being spent. Other than that, I think we're making good progress. Thank
you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Sorry, Director Larson.
MATT LARSEN: Yeah, I just want to say I agree with the Director Guissinger's and Director Nicholson's
comments about boardings and subsidization by route and on time service availability by route and the
executive summary. And also everyone else's comments about the check information. Thanks.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, thanks. I just wanted to give a thumbs up on the check register stuff. I remember
where that came from. And also the subsidy information is pretty helpful too. So thanks. That's all.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, just one other thought, which is, excuse me, Vince mentions that in the past,
we'd go over all of these in every meeting. And I don't think that's necessary. But I would like to see some
of this data brought into the meeting. And when Eric was Chair, Davidson, he started talking about some
of the data in his Chair's report.

And Debra, I don't know if you'd want to include this in your CEO's report or if we would want to add a
standing piece where-- some piece. It wouldn't have to be everything. But maybe we're bringing out and
talking about the fact that our sales tax is down, certainly from what we budgeted and a little bit from last
year, and what that means for us as we move forward. I think that having those conversations helps the
public and help us as well to keep them top of mind.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Vice Chair Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Thank you. Yeah, just a thought. I was thinking about having a section or just
somehow covering capital projects or key projects that are ongoing. I think it'd be nice just to have a
summary of what's going on there. Progress, key things to be aware of. For me personally, I think that'd be
helpful.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, I want to echo Director Gutschenritter. I think there's a lot of interest in, for
example, the Colfax BRT, the I-25, and some of the station upgrades. Any of those big, expensive things
that the public is going to notice, care about, be impacted by. The slow zones is another one where if we
had just basic information on as much as we know about when the slow zones are going to be lifted, that
kind of stuff. I think that having that in a clean, easy format for people to get the basics so that when they
get questions about it, they have the simple information they can convey to customers and constituents,
that would be huge. So thanks.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. CEO Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. If you had something to add, I was reserving my comments for
the end. If there was something that you wanted to impart.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I just very generally agree about the checkbook comment. And I think bringing up
highlighted information that we need to look at is important. I would try to keep it within the strategic plan,
something that is relevant to the four pillars. And I think that's how we plan to proceed with this committee
this year in our ongoing conversations with you and our one on ones where we're looking at a specific area
as we go forward. But there might be something that comes up that we need to discuss that's intermittent
to that.
I do like the suggestion that Director Guissinger gave about attaching it, whatever that highlighted piece is.
I really did appreciate that former Chair Davidson was able to do some of that at the Board meetings. But
maybe we can work together a little bit closer on how we do that in this committee. I would caution and
recommend to everybody that we consider as we go forward that we do have in particular certain things
like the slow zones.
There's a whole web page dedicated with very accessible and ready to read and access information for the
public. And it was designed for that purpose to be transparent. And so some of that is new Directors coming
on Board and needing to get very comfortable with our website and being able to use that as a tool as you
go out and knowing what those links are. But they're pretty common sense rtd-denver.com and then slow
zones or media relations or learning the tags so that what they are is really helpful.
And then finally, I think the financial data is important sans checkbook. Link to that if you need to. But I
really do want to see the forecasts and where we're at in the fiscal year. I think as a member of both finance
and this committee, I would like to continue seeing some of that documentation, because it's just so relevant

to what we're doing and understanding what's trending and what's not. And the public pays for the system
through sales and use tax. And so that particular set of information is very relevant to what we do and
understanding how that works. That's all I have to say. Debra. Sorry, Madam CEO, it is your turn.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Guzman. I was going to say something very
similar in reference to all the feedback. Thank you very kindly for that. Recognizing the intent of the
Performance Committee was to delve into certain areas relative to performance, that's what the intention
is going forward.
So, for instance, what Director Guissinger put forward about looking at some of the performance data, that's
the intent. Further to the point, Committee Chair Guzman, what you raised relative to the information that
we have readily available on our website, we can embed that in the document if that's easier for members
of this committee, the Board as a whole, as well as the general populace.
More so, I heard reference and Director Guissinger referenced a former employee that preceded me, but I
do know what she's speaking about. We're talking about a service report. And then I heard routes, lines. It
would be encompassing both bus routes and rail lines. But also it's critically important to keep in mind that
people in this district can utilize park and ride lots, which this agency subsidizes. So I'd have to caution as
we go forward, that would be something that we would include as well, because taxpayer dollar, sales and
use tax to pay for the park and ride lots. So that's a critical piece as we go forward as well.
And then recognizing while some people may not use bus routes and light rail lines, we heavily subsidize
our paratransit programs, which is a critical point as well. And we'd be remiss not to factor that in, keeping
in mind the large subsidy that the agency provides to have the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990
supplemental paratransit service, as well as access on demand, which is a supplemental premium service
to paratransit. So just wanted to call that out.
So we will endeavor, I'll be working with Committee Chair Guzman and Vice Chair Gutschenritter as we put
some of these elements together so it addresses the needs of you and your constituents and the public as
a whole. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Mr. McKay. You're on mute. Sorry.
JOHN MCKAY: Thought I clicked the button. I just wanted to call out that in the next discussion item, the
committee will be looking at the draft work plan for the Performance Committee. And in that work plan,
there are items on a quarterly basis. The in-depth conversations that the staff will bring to the Board with
respect to the Strategic outcomes. And that's notwithstanding any other information that could be provided
to the Board, but there is at least a scheduled intent to bring forth information about financial success,
employee ownership, that sort of thing on a regular quarterly cadence. At least that's in the draft work plan,
assuming that the committee will adopt that.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I just for the record want to point out I missed the addition of Board Chair
Bouquet, who has joined this meeting, and I want to make sure that's on the record. Are there any other
comments or questions? Chair Bouquet, I saw your hand go up and then go down. You may not be able to
speak.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, sorry.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Go ahead.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Sorry, I just wanted to get recognized for the record. And you already-- the comments
that Miss Johnson already made in regards to these resources are already actually out there when it comes
down to information. So don't want to repeat myself, but just wanted to be recognized also for the record.
Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Good. Thank you so much. All right. Are we comfortable there, everybody? Head
nods. All right. Then let's go on to our third and final item, which is the 2025 Performance Committee work
plan.
In agreement and conversation, just for full disclosure for everybody's sake, with Chair Bouquet and the
speed at which we had to work in the beginning of the year, we did delay focusing so heavily on our work
plan to get our other work finished immediately. That was on a time schedule that required it. And so we
will have most likely a prepared and more informed work plan for approval in the March time frame from
this committee to go back to the Board.
And that's having a month of focusing intensely on our work before we needed to jump into planning for the
rest of the year. So I just want to let everybody know that we have not made any final plans, and this is the
beginning of that conversation. And so there may be some things that we need to bring up, as we did at
our retreat for this particular committee.
And the reminder that even when we pass it out of the committee, it's not a finalized, etched in stone plan.
Things will change, both on the side of the General Manager CEO, staff matters that come up, survey
results that come in and may come in on time and be finalized, or may be delayed before our committee
meets. So it will be a living document that we will have to adjust with along the way.
And I know Vice Chair Gutschenritter, as well as myself, are both committed to making sure that we try to
get as much input on this as possible as we move forward so that we have a very robust year, and we have
a work plan that is well balanced to get our work done and focus on the right work and meet all of our
requirements. So with that, I would ask the General Manager and CEO Johnson, as well as Jack Kroll, the
Board Office Executive Manager, to present this item, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Once again, Debra Johnson, General Manager
and CEO. You outlined very succinctly what the intent is going forward, and it's my intention to be working
in conjunction with you and Committee Chair Gutschenritter. As it stands now, these items that are included
are the things from staff perspective relative to what we anticipate going forward.
Considering the previous discussion we had relative to the Board briefing materials, we can identify topics
whereby we will do a deeper dive from a performance agency, performance vantage point that we can
incorporate in. So I look forward to that discussion with you and the Vice Chair. With that, I'll yield the floor
and see if Mr. Kroll has any additional comments. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Guzman. And thank you, CEO Johnson. Jack Kroll, Executive Manager
of the Board Office. I just want to point out there's one addition to this work plan subsequent to conversations
and feedback received following your discussion on this item in January. And that is in May, we've added
a review of the assessment tool. I think it's really important for this committee, as well as incoming Directors,
to have a good grounding in where that tool came from and the process that led to its development and
where it stands now.

So we've added that. But certainly this is a time and place, and I would encourage if there are ideas that
you all have that you would like to see on this work plan, now is a great opportunity to share those out for
the Committee Chair and Vice Chair and GM and CEO Johnson to contemplate as part of your work this
year.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Just a couple of reminders that came out of our retreat. Director Larsen
and Board first Vice Chair O'Keefe will be working together on timelines that align finance and planning with
the goal setting for the agency, for the General Manager CEO for the coming year, so that those can work
cohesively. That will be work that ultimately comes back to this committee in some form or another. So
keep that in mind, and it will require an adjustment on our work plan later in the year when we have more
information on that. I saw some hands, so I am ready for your feedback and input. Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you, Chair Guzman. I think one of the things that would be really helpful for
me in understanding what this committee typically does on its work plan would be to get copies of previous
year's work plans for performance. I kind of have a better sense of the stuff that comes up on OSS and the
stuff that comes up on finance and planning, but it's hard for me beyond what is on the work plan from staff.
I'd love to see what stuff other Directors in the past have added to the work plan for performance.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Sorry. I'm going to call on Peggy. Director Catlin, go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And that's why I had my hand raised. This committee has evolved
enormously over the past seven years. And Mr. McKay might recall this, but we used to meet, at best,
quarterly, usually twice a year with this committee. This is only the second work plan that we have
developed. The first one was developed last year.
It's become a much more robust and sophisticated process than what this group had done before. It used
to be called the GM-- was it GMC? GM CEO? It wasn't even called a Performance Committee. We didn't
even look at an agency performance. It was strictly meeting with the GM CEO. And it was typically meetings
between the Chair and the General Manager.
So we have really taken on a lot more, and I think it's for good in this committee than what had previously
taken place. So just for the new Directors especially, we're still evolving and it's going to get better. And I
know the kerfuffle that took place at the end of last year, as you all were coming on, I said, no good deed
goes unpunished. We very well could have adopted the short term goals at the end of last year, but we had
hoped to get new Director input.
And so this work plan, like I said, it's only the second one. So, Chris, you're not going to find anything in the
archives of RTD that shows any kind of a structure to, to this particular committee. That's all I had to say.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Buzek and Director Guissinger probably have some perspective. And I know
John McKay, you probably do too, going back.
JOHN MCKAY: It was GMOC.
PEGGY CATLIN: GMOC. And so I just wanted to emphasize that. And you all and we all have an
opportunity to shape this to be the meaningful committee that we intend it to be. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great. Thank you. Director Bouquet.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Feel free to call on committee members first if you like also, Director Guzman, but I'm
happy to speak.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Go ahead.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK perfect. Thank you so much, sir. So, yeah, Director Guzman hit on-- or Committee
Chair Guzman hit on the idea of the evaluation of the 2026 goals and also the short term goal setting
process, as mentioned at the retreat. This will come to that committee. Even though Director Larsen and
Director O'Keefe are going to be the ones kind of evaluating as a working group, it'll be ultimately up to this
Performance Committee to look at that work and go forward with it.
Talking with the GM CEO, we really have to have this prior to July. In all honesty, the latest we should be
going at is June so that they can start setting their budget. And again, as mentioned, it is a twofold process.
It's not only the process of setting the 2026 goals up or short term goals up for our GM CEO. It is also the
process of making sure we have the most efficient process. So yeah, I just wanted to add some weight to
that, that even though those two Directors will be working that as a working group and exploring, it will come
to this Performance Committee to overview. And appreciate your guys' willingness to look at it.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Jack, can we just make a note on the work plan that May, June timeline
is something we should be expecting it for?
JACK KROLL: Chair Guzman, if I may, there are a number-- so absolutely duly noted. I just want to point
out there are already a number of items that were placed onto the work plan relative to the timeline for the
GM and CEO's 2025 performance appraisal and 2026 goal setting process.
And so certainly the deadline is being imposed of having all that sorted by June. But for example, we have
the check in on the GM and CEO performance appraisal in 2026 goal setting timeline scheduled for April
as well as June. And then there's an additional one in September. So this will be something that you all
track on pretty consistently over the course of the coming year.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great. Thank you. Director Buzek, I apologize. Thank you for waiting.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, no problem. And that's my point as well. The 2026 goal setting to make sure. And
maybe we need another one in May. Because if the goal is to try to get it locked down by the June timeline,
we're going to need not just the ad hoc or the two people and then this committee and then the full Board
weighing in on it as well. So we got to make sure that we have-- keep talking about this today. But no, I
mean, it's going to be upon us before we know it.
And hopefully at the Board meetings, I think our Chair is still on, make sure that when these things are on
a Performance Committee agenda, that the full Board is made aware of it and invited to attend so that we
don't come out of Performance Committee and say, here's all this hard work we did, and then have it picked
apart by people that didn't bother to participate. Thanks a lot.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Chair Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, no, absolutely. I think, Director Buzek, you hit on that of there's a lot of work that
gets done and I know it isn't-- pardon me-- an early meeting with this 8:30 timeline on Mondays. But again,
Committee Chair Guzman, Committee Vice Chair Gutschenritter, those are going to be good resources for
you to send feedback potentially and keep yourselves in the loop when it comes down to performance if
you're not part of this committee. So yeah, just added weight to that, because this will come to the full

Board, and we ultimately will make discussions and decisions on it. So reach out to your committee chairs
if you have questions.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great. Thank you. Just checking in, because all of this has to do with our wonderful
General Manager and CEO, Debra Johnson. Do you have anything to add to that conversation at this time?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Committee Chair Guzman, if I may yield the floor to General Counsel Snyder, her hand
has been raised. So it may be-MICHAEL GUZMAN: Oh, sorry.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Just to clarify. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: It's the same color as the background on my computer, and I didn't see it. I apologize.
Please proceed. That's OK.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, so speaking of-- thank you, Chair. Speaking of things that will be upon the Board
before it, as you might recall, the compensation philosophy that the Board of Directors adopted did state
that the Board would endeavor to start conversations with the GM and CEO about whether to further extend
her contract 18 months out from the termination of the contract. So I just wanted to flag that that will be
upon you in November of this year.
And so to the extent those conversations start and whatever those end up looking like, you all might be in
a position, or the Board might be needing to look at starting a recruiting process for the next GM and CEO.
So I just wanted to flag. I know it's off in the not too distant future, but I just didn't want anyone to lose sight
of that timing.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Noted. Thank you so much. All right. Any other discussion? Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Guzman. I just want to point out very quickly here, and I'm going to share
my screen, but it won't take me long to get my point across here. But to Director Nicholson's request, I think
it was a good one. Unfortunately, as Director Catlin pointed out, there's not a lot of previous work plans to
provide a roadmap for you all. But the Committee and the Board worked hard late last year to update the
definition of the Performance Committee in the bylaws, and that is printed here at the top of the work plan
and also found in the bylaws as well.
And the hope with including that information at the top of the work plan was to get folks thinking about, OK,
this is the role of the committee. These are the types of things the committee should look at. And so what
should we add to this work plan that reflects the roles and responsibilities of the committee? And with that
Committee Chair Guzman, I have nothing further to add.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Awesome. Thank you. So, fellow Directors on this committee, anybody else that's
listening in that wants to chime in, please email comments for the work plan that you may have through the
form. The form is still the way to do this. I'm going to double down on that with Chair Bouquet and Jack to
just have everything in one place.
I know we did receive a couple of comments. There's some things that went to different committees that
might be appropriate here, some things that might be appropriate for other places that we need to discuss
and try and figure out where the best place for the information to be presented is. But all ideas are certainly
welcome.

So I know that we were supposed to have all of that in for the retreat, but because we delayed this
committee's work, I believe the form is still live. Is that correct? So you can still access it and send it in. If
you read through that definition of what this committee is all about and have some ideas, that would be a
great place to have it so we can figure out what we're working on and what the priorities might look like
from multiple Directors, so that we can engage in that kind of conversation and sort this out.
I'd like to keep everything well ordered and be able to balance the work for the rest of the year. I think that's
sometimes where I have seen we have tripped up a little bit by not planning out far enough ahead, and then
everything hits at once in the busiest time of year for all of the committees. We're all scrambling to try and
read through massive amounts of paperwork or understand huge concepts. So let's do ourselves the favor
and create this together in a way that provides us the best path forward.
All right. We have made it through all of that. Vice Chair Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Yeah, I just had a question, and sorry if I missed this information. But is there
a process in place for 360 feedback? I'm curious, does CEO Johnson, does her direct reports provide
upward feedback outside of just the employee surveys?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: I'll yield to GM and CEO Johnson and add anything further.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, so thank you very kindly, Director Gutschenritter, for that information. So there
are several avenues in which I receive feedback directly from employees. As it relates to 360 review, we
did that just with this most recent endeavor whereby there was input received from what I would deem to
be colleagues that were randomly selected with the Board's input. Those included individuals that are transit
agency CEOs across the country, recognizing my involvement at a national level, and then those that are
local, recognizing we're the only intermodal transit agency.
There were individuals that, for instance, the Executive Director of DRCOG was included in that pool, the
Executive Director of CDOT, the Executive Director of the-- sorry, the Denver's Department of
Transportation and infrastructure, just to name a few. As it relates to feedback, relative to my performance
from any employee, I have a General Manager email address. I also have bimonthly forums in which
employees can attend.
And I basically am instituting office hours. So those are the different avenues that I leverage. And then I
have recurring one on ones, not only with my direct reports, but also a level down within the organization
of some key divisions in which I confer with those individuals on a monthly basis. So hope that answers
your question. Thanks.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I would also add, just because I know this and it's not often discussed, our CEO goes
to the divisions, shows up at the workplaces and the work sites at all hours of the day and night, when it's
appropriate to be there to meet people who are often maybe feeling a little forgotten, because they're on
that overnight shift and don't see everybody else that's busy at the office during normal business hours and
engages in conversations.
Invited me to go to the rodeo for the snow plows, and encouraged me to get in and drive a truck, which I
thought I was going to completely destroy, but I actually survived and nobody got hurt. So that was the
good news. My time was long, but I think I did OK. Only hit one cone, if I remember correctly. So General
Manager CEO Johnson is doing the work that we need her to do in the office from the thinking point of view

and the strategizing and the planning and the execution of what we've given as policy, but also is very down
to Earth and boots on the ground with the employees.
And so that's also where she gets feedback directly from front line employees and back line employees that
don't see the public very often but are doing the work that keep us going. So if you don't know that, maybe
set up a meeting and find out what she's going to do that 2:30 AM round in [INAUDIBLE] or over at
[INAUDIBLE] and meet her there, because it's quite a commitment she makes outside of regular business
hours for this agency. Director Catlin, your hand is raised.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. Vice Chair Gutschenritter, on a more formal basis, and maybe I just missed this, but
as part of the formal 360 review, GM CEO Johnson talked about peers that evaluated her. As part of that,
we also had Board members from this committee who completed a 360 review, and then from a slate of
potential direct reports for GM CEO Johnson, there were some selected at random that also completed the
360 review. So on a more formal basis, that was put in place for the first time last year. So I just wanted to
amplify what GM CEO Johnson said about that process. So there is a structure in place that allows for more
formal feedback. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Go ahead.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Yeah, just thank you, Director Catlin. Was aware of the Board providing that
360 feedback and know that GM Johnson is definitely out, boots on the ground talking to employees
constantly. But was just curious to learn what the formal on paper mechanism was for direct report
feedback.
I think it would be helpful, at least from a Performance Committee perspective, to see and hear that
feedback, I guess, directly and not as feedback, but formally documented. Just to hear of all the great work
that GM Johnson is doing in the eyes of her direct reports and hearing about the support. So was just
curious to hear about that formal mechanism of her direct reports. Was aware of the Board 360 setups. But
thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, I just wanted to make sure that you knew that there was a formal mechanism. And
it was randomly selected so that it preserved anonymity among direct reports.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: CEO Johnson, go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, just one other element it just dawned on me I failed to mention. Last year, around
this time, I had convened an organizational workplace and design review, and that was another mechanism
in which there was feedback that was provided with the help of a third party, whereby there were work
groups and actually one on one engagements with members of the leadership team and senior managers
and cross sections of the organization. So that was a formalized process as well, in which there was
anonymity involved. Because I'd like to hear feedback, but I don't want anybody to be fearful of any
retribution or anything along those lines. So thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Any other comments? Going once, going twice. All right. Other matters. Before I open
the floor to other matters, next month, we are scheduled to conduct the first of several deep dives into key
organizational performance metrics. I would like to use some time now to give staff some general direction
on what metrics we would like to explore next month. Ideally, the data we explore next month should be
focused on one of the four strategic pillars. Community value, customer excellence, financial success, and
employee ownership. Are there any thoughts from the Committee on this item? Director Larsen.

MATT LARSEN: Yeah, I would definitely like to dive deeper on the customer excellence measures. I actually
had a request out to Jack to get more information on the surveys, and I'd also like to understand better
some of the transit watch information that's provided, and see if we can get-- what more detail is available
with that. And also anything we do to monitor the condition of the buses and trains in terms of cleanliness
or anything else. I would love to learn more about those issues.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Other Directors? Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, so I think I'm really interested in how in community value. I think how we
measure our value to the community is really important. And what we think of as community and how we
factor that in is a meaningfully significant question at this moment. So I think examining both how we define
that and then how we measure it is going to be really important to me, because I know there are a lot of
people who feel left out of that definition at the moment and unheard. And exploring ways to make them
feel adequately included, I think is important.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. If nobody else has anything, I am going to offer this with regard to financial
success. I am concerned that since the goals have changed and the budget was already done, I would like
to hear more information about what is needed to support the goals that are in place right now, and if any
work needs to be done there to make changes to our budget and reapportion money in some way or
recalculate matters in some way to support those goals.
I think that's a really important piece of what happened last week and what we need to address going
forward, because we now own those goals as Directors alongside our GM CEO and the entire agency. So
if we want success there, we need to talk about numbers and figure out if we have what we need or if we
need to strategize on how to do things better.
And given all of the changes at the federal level, and Debra and I have talked about this. I apologize, CEO
Johnson and I have talked about this with Denver City Council. In real life, real time in front of them were
asked the same questions. And I'm not sure that we have any more information today than we did when
we were first asked. But I am deeply, deeply concerned about the financial pressures that we may run into
if we're not cognizant of that.
Some of that conversation certainly belongs to the Finance and Planning Committee. Some of it certainly
belongs here in terms of matters of performance. But I think as we engage going forward, looking at what
adjustments might need to be made. If a recommendation should need to be taken from one committee to
another, I think all of the committee chairs would be willing to entertain those conversations and bring them
through the appropriate channels to get back to the Board. So I want everybody to consider those
ramifications.
And that matter did come up in the Finance and Planning Committee discussion during the retreat. But for
our purposes, financial success is all of our success, and that's what helps us meet the goals. So as they
were adjusted, so maybe we need to discuss adjusting the budgets. I would like to get some feedback on
that. I am asking for feedback on that as we go forward in the appropriate time and manner.
Are there any other thoughts from any other committee members? If not, please know you can email me.
You can email Vice Chair Gutschenritter. We will collaborate together with staff to get something robust
and have a good conversation next week. It will be a long meeting. Plan not to have any hard stops, because
we might have to extend past our regular time. Fair warning.

I'm even going to have to make adjustments on my schedule for that. But it's valuable time to be spent with
the General Manager and CEO to have that interaction, but also for us to continue getting our work done
on different levels. Any other matters to discuss at this point? Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: I'm sorry. There's a meeting next week?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: No, sorry. The next committee meeting of the Performance Committee. Sorry. Did I
say next week? I may have misspoke. I meant the next Performance Committee meeting in March. I
apologize.
MATT LARSEN: OK, thanks.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Any other matters? Going once, going twice. All right, so the next meeting date is
Monday, March 3rd. That was the meeting I was referring to. [LAUGHS] It will be a busy one. We may need
extra time. Please plan accordingly. Our draft work plan has us set to take action on our final work plan on
the strategic plan document discussed today, as well as conduct a deep dive into key organization
performance metrics. Finally, we will have one of our four quarterly performance check ins scheduled with
General Manager CEO Johnson, which will be a conversation we hold in executive session.
Just so you're aware, follow along questions, please email. If you need to get it out to more than two
Directors, I would highly suggest emailing it to Jack or to General Counsel Snyder, depending on the matter,
and then it will be sent to the appropriate Directors. Just as a matter of course, to avoid any potential
problems with questions that might be of a sensitive nature regarding our personnel. Any other comments?
Last chance.
Seeing none, the meeting is adjourned at 9:29 AM. Thank you so much for your hard work. Look forward
to hearing you. See you next time.

