Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
Tuesday, October 3, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
Chaired by Judy Lubow

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Lubow called the meeting to order at 6:08 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
6:05 PM

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

6:12 PM

Bob Broom

Director, District F

Present

6:05 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District N

Absent
Present
Present

6:03 PM
6:08 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

6:07 PM

Judy Lubow
Ken Mihalik

Committee Chair
Director, District G

Present
Present

6:05 PM
6:05 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale

Director, District M
Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District H

Present
Absent
Present
Absent

6:09 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

6:06 PM

6:06 PM

Kate Williams

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

6:06 PM

Directors Deadwyler, Sisk, and Tisdale were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Andrew Bates, Rachel Carson, Joe
Christie, Garrett Christnacht, Lou Cripps, Nate Currey, Kevin
Diviness, Jeet Desai, Sherry Ellebracht, Raleigh Elstun, David Genova,
Bob Grado, Cheryl Graves, Pauline Haberman, John Hersey, Gary
Hougen, Jeff Kay, Jim Kelley, Mitch Kuharski, John McKay, Heather
McKillop, Barbara McManus, Allen Miller, Andy Mutz, Ryan Oge,
Thomas Papadinoff, Tai-Shrae Parish, Mike Peters, Michael Porter,
Scott Reed, Jenifer Ross-Amato, Ruth Seleske, Pranaya Shrestha, Bill
Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Rebecca Tate, Brian Thye, Mark Tieman,
Gary Turnquist, Ashland Vaughn, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Brian Welch,
Jeff Whiteman, Karen Young.

Others Present:

Terri Bender, Zac Brown, Shelley Cook, Mark Deven, Mike Dino, Stan
Edwards, Jean Gordon, Jeremy Gregory, William Gross, Hannah
Jackson, Tracey Kraft-Tharp, Bob Manwaring, John Marriott, Loren
Naftz, Roger Sherman, Peter Strange, John Thompson, Joe Triplett,
Megan Wagner, Walter Weart, Kami Welch, Bob Wilson.

Committee Chair Lubow noted that Director Anderson wanted to say a few words before
the meeting commenced.

Director Anderson stated that it was her pleasure to welcome State Representative Tracy
Kraft-Tharp, Arvada City Councilmember John Marriott, Arvada City Manager Mark Deven,
and Arvada Public Works Manager Bob Manwaring. She also wanted to welcome former
RTD Board member Terri Binder from Arvada and noted that there were people present
who want to emphasize how important the G Line is to the City of Arvada.

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• University of Colorado A Line and B Line Grade Crossing Update
Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs, stated that based on
the outcomes last week with the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) and the Colorado
Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) staff felt it would be appropriate to provide the Board
with another update. He noted that staff wanted to get through the presentation quickly,
then open the floor for any questions.

Mr. Stopplecamp noted that Positive Train Control (PTC) included the following:
 PTC is not a technology
 PTC is Federally Mandated for
o Train separation or collision avoidance
o Line Speed enforcement
o Temporary speed restrictions
o Rail worker wayside safety
 PTC is RTD’s primary train control system
o Network utilizes wireless & fiber communication
o Functions as a “moving” block system
 RTD’s current PTC Efficiency is at +98%
 DTP selected Wabtec I-ETMS system because it is an industry leader
Mr. Stopplecamp explained that Automatic Train Control (ATC) was:
 Conventional Train signaling system
 Has been utilized in the USA since the 1920’s
 “Fixed Block” system
 Utilizes Track Circuit Technology
 Incremental Speed Restrictions
 DTP selected Siemens/Alsom & GE because they are industry leading suppliers
Mr. Stopplecamp commented that Grade Crossing Activations & Predictions have:
 Conventional Activations
o Function of the ATC system
o “Fixed” approach lengths
o Based off Civil Track speed
o System Fails Safe and provides the minimum 20 second warning time
required by law
 Wireless Activations
o Utilizes the PTC system technology
o Constant communication with crossing equipment
o “Pings” approximately 10x per second
o Provides dynamic control of crossing
Mr. Stopplecamp noted that Types of Grade Crossing Activation Systems include:
 Traditional Predictors
o Utilized by many freight rail roads
o Will not function with RTD’s system
o Low voltage AC current in rails
 Incremental Train Control System (ITCS)
o Utilized by some commuter rail roads
o Will not function with RTD’s system
o Low voltage AC current in rails combined with track circuits
 Inoperable Electronic Train Management System (I-ETMS)

o
o
o
o

Technology utilized on RTD’s system
Utilizes wireless technology
Is an overlay to the traditional ATC System
Functions in a AC electrified environment

Mr. Stopplecamp explained that RTD cannot use traditional predictors because:
 RTD’s system is powered by 25,000-volt AC
 The residual AC current is returned through the track rails
 RTD’s system cannot distinguish between return current and the predictors
Mr. Stopplecamp remarked that effects of warning time on driver behavior and safety at
Grade crossings included:
 Warning times in excess of 30-40 seconds caused many more drivers to engage in
risky crossing behavior
 Most drivers expect a train to arrive within 20 seconds from the moment the
activation begins
 Drivers begin to lose confidence in the traffic control system if the warning time
exceeds approximately 60 seconds
 Suggested warning time guidelines are: 20 second minimum, 25-35 second
average, 60 second maximum
 Four-quadrant gates should be used if 10% of warning times exceed 60 seconds
Mr. Stopplecamp noted that the FRA approved the new design and the waiver request had
been granted to RTD with a few conditions.
General Manager Genova noted that RTD filed three petitions at the same time with the
FRA, including a petition for a waiver to complete the remaining testing on the G Line. He
stated that the FRA wanted to get through the University of Colorado A Line before the G
Line would be considered, but the petition is still under consideration. He added that the
previous week RTD met with the CPUC and submitted three applications for the University
of Colorado A Line as well as application amendments for the G Line crossings in order to
complete the remaining testing for the G Line. He noted that the CPUC had scheduled
RTD for their docket the following day, but in terms of timing, staff would not have a good
timeline until all of the permissions from the FRA and CPUC were received. He stated that
staff is working on a funding recovery plan with the concessionaire and once that is
finalized it will be presented to the Board. He explained that timing cannot be applied to
regulatory processes, and that is the current unknown.
Director Folska asked if PTC is the overall general idea for Diesel and Electric Multiple Unit
(EMU) trains.
Mr. Stopplecamp explained that PTC is a mindset, not a technology. He added that there
are four goals and the FRA does not care how you get there as long as the goals are met.

Director Folska commented that this seems more like a safety conversation and the
regulatory agencies should treat it as such.
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that RTD’s PTC system is working, and 98% of trips are on PTC.
He noted that the wireless crossings conversations have come down to what is the
definition of an appropriate wireless crossing time.
Director Folska inquired about the quiet zones along the University of Colorado A Line and
asked where RTD was with that process.
Mr. Stopplecamp remarked that the quiet zones can be implemented after the FRA has
approved the rail line. He stated that, as soon as the flaggers are pulled off, the next step
will be to prove that the line falls under the requirements for quiet zones. He added that
RTD’s goal is to push that through as fast as it can. He added that RTD will have to
submit notification to the FRA that it has met all of the requirements and once the CPUC
also approves the application, the quiet zones will be implemented.
Director Archuleta asked why the B Line is not currently stopping at the 41st and Fox
station.
General Manager Genova explained that staff is working through waiver conditions and
additional documents are needed before the FRA will approve the B Line stopping at the
41st and Fox station.
Director Anderson asked if the CPUC said that RTD could not test the G Line.
General Manager Genova said that was the verbal decision that staff had heard the
previous week. He added that the CPUC had not provided that ruling in writing, and staff
is unsure as to what sort of action will occur at the following day’s meeting. He noted
that they did approve the initial testing, but they have since denied the ability to continue
testing.
Mr. Stopplecamp noted that the CPUC only has control over the at-grade crossings.
Director Anderson inquired whether FRA’s approval to finish testing could overrule the
CPUC’s decision.
General Manager Genova commented that RTD would need approval from both agencies
since the CPUC has authority over the at-grade crossings.
Director Anderson questioned if it would be helpful if the CPUC had a public hearing to
hear from people that want the G Line to begin service.
General Manager Genova explained that unfortunately there is no public comment portion
during the hearing. He stated that the only way for someone to speak is if they were a
noticed party to the proceedings.

Director Anderson commented that her community is concerned about the crossing
flaggers that are stationed in Arvada 24/7. She asked if there was a way to change their
presence since the G Line is not running.
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that RTD had asked the CPUC if the attendants could be removed
and they said no.
Director Anderson asked the members of her community to fill out the comment cards
provided at the sign in table and submit them so that staff could have an opportunity to
answer all of their questions.
Director Menten asked what time the CPUC hearing would commence and wanted
confirmation of the address.
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that it would begin at 9:00 a.m. at 1560 Broadway in Denver.
Director Menten noted that, in the CPUC recording from the previous week, there were
questions raised by the City of Aurora. She asked if their questions had since been
addressed by staff.
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that in the last meeting questions were raised by Union Pacific,
the City of Aurora, and the City of Denver. He said that staff would not have had enough
time to have addressed all of the concerns by the next morning, but Aurora and Denver
only asked for additional information.
Director Menten asked that staff provide the terms and conditions of the FRA waiver to
the Board.
Committee Chair Lubow said that, as she listened to the CPUC meeting from last week, it
was not very flattering and she got the impression that RTD had not presented enough
information. She inquired if staff had started to think of a plan b.
General Manager Genova commented that he was surprised by the remarks that were
made by the CPUC and remarked that the previous CPUC meeting was one day before the
FRA waiver was received. He noted that the next CPUC meeting would be a good
opportunity for the commission to request additional information from RTD as staff has a
lot of additional data that was not included in the applications to the CPUC. He added
that the commission, like the FRA, is seeing things differently than they ever have before,
but he is confident that RTD can get through this with education and information.
Committee Chair Lubow stated that she has been in touch with a constituent about the
University of Colorado A Line and how people are going crazy with the constant train
horns. She noted that it was not unreasonable for RTD to hold a public hearing or
outreach meeting so that the people impacted can understand what is going on and the
anticipated timeline.

General Manager Genova said that he would review that and determine how RTD could do
a better job passing that information along.
Committee Chair Lubow asked that staff keep the Board apprised with the outcome of the
CPUC meeting.

• Southeast Rail Extension
Andy Mutz, Engineering Project Manager, stated that the E, F, and R Rail Extension is part
of RTD’s 2004 voter-approved FasTracks plan to expand transit across the metro region.
He said that the Southeast Rail Extension (SERE) extends the E, F, and R lines 2.3 miles
from Lincoln station to Ridgegate Parkway station in Lone Tree. The extension will include
the addition of three new stations: Sky Ridge, Lone Tree City Center, and Ridgegate
Parkway. The project is 50% compete and the estimated completion date is March 2019.

• North Metro Operations & Maintenance
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that RTD received an updated proposal on September 22nd and
staff would provide an update during the Executive Session.

• Continuous Improvement & Innovation at RTD
Ruth Seleske, Senior Manager of Continuous Improvement/Innovation, stated that RTD is
facing many challenges both external and internal to the agency in terms of:
 Environment
o Population Growth
o Low Unemployment
o Customer Expectation changes
o Technology Changes
 Industry
o Technology Changes
o Emphasis on Equity
 Inside RTD
o Limited Revenue Growth
o Competing Needs of Capital Growth and Operations
o Data assets not Optimized
o Decreasing Ridership
o Aging Workforce
Ms. Seleske stated that RTD has already started a formal approach to improvement. She
noted that:











RTD conducted 30 “Listening Sessions” at 15 facilities and received nearly 1400
employee surveys in 2015
Several employees attended the Peak Academy with the City and County of Denver
RTD began the E3 Program (Engage, Exchange, Empower), with the primary goal of
employee engagement to provide employees with foundational skills and a
framework to apply expertise and ideas and solve problems
RTD imported existing training from Peak Academy and adapted it for the needs of
the agency
RTD implemented Pilots in Customer Care and Bus Maintenance which led to
meaningful increases in engagement and many local improvements
RTD emphasized front line training and coaching to support engagement
RTD established a base program for shared mindset and language around finding
solutions
RTD created a new Continuous Improvement Division

Ms. Seleske explained that the vision for continuous improvement and innovation includes:
 Training, Facilitation, Coaching, and Tracking
 Process Improvement and Process Data Analysis
 Mode Share, Customer Satisfaction, Employee Engagement, Asset Availability
Efficiency, Process Capability and Strategic Management
Ms. Seleske commented that for the remainder of 2017, the continuous improvement and
innovation division will help address critical challenges and put into place foundations for
future improvements which include:
 Recruiting
 Scheduling
 Benefits
 As well as identifying and mapping core processes in preparation for enterprise
resources planning (ERP) system assessment
Director Folska stated that people applying for jobs have remarked that the online
application process is extremely cumbersome.
Chair Hoy remarked that one topic he has thought a lot about was employee retiention.
He said that retention rates are a serious problem for the agency and it should be
examined thoroughly.
Ms. Seleske noted that staff is beginning to review the whole life cycle and is trying to
determine where improvements can be made.
Chair Hoy indicated that there are hundreds of items that make people stay and the Board
has seen it at Board meetings where retirees are honored after 30-plus years of service.
Director Menten asked what “Stood up new Division” meant on page 6 of the
presentation.

Ms. Seleske stated that, the continuous improvement and innovation division is brand
new. She said that employees were borrowed from other departments and cobbled to do
the work.
Director Francone asked how many people were in the new division.
Ms. Seleske stated that she was the only full time employee, and there were two
consultants.
Director Francone inquired as to what type of trainings were being offered to staff.
Ms. Seleske commented that various training options included process improvements and
safety issues. She added that most of the tools have been centered on process mapping
and similar work.
Director Francone asked how the continuous improvement and innovation department will
quantify its efforts.
Ms. Seleske stated that as of now, goals will be established as project goals instead of
delivery goals.
Director Francone commented that it is important to have a measureable goal. She noted
that the Board wants everything to run a bit leaner, but the Board needs to see some type
of measures to see improvement.
Director Williams noted that there are 250 people a day that move to the greater Denver
metro area. She said that RTD needs to examine how it can get 10% of those to work for
RTD and added that RTD needs to be the premier employer in the region.
Director Solano remarked that RTD needs to step up and be the top employer for the
state. He said that RTD needs to offer its employees excellent medical, education, and
other benefits. He noted that if RTD pays its employees well, they will produce more for
the agency and it would pay off.
Director Archuleta asked how RTD is going to come up with all of the operators it needs
when the N Line and SERE open. He stated again that RTD needs to advertise its jobs on
local Spanish radio.

D. Other Matters
Director Francone expressed her thanks to Gina Callahan, Deputy Assistant General
Manager of Bus Operations, for helping a constituent that was being continually passed up
by buses. She stated that the constituent had asked for a light pole to be installed, but
that was not something RTD could do. She added that staff has been working with the
constituent and appreciated their efforts.

E. Next Meeting Date - November 7, 2017
F. Motion to Move into Executive Session


North Metro Rail Line Operations & Maintenance: CRS 24-6-402(4)(e)(I)
(Determining positions relative to matters that may be subject to negotiations;
developing strategy for negotiations; and instructing negotiators)
1. Motion To:

Motion to Move into Executive Session

COMMENTS - Current Meeting:
Committee Chair Lubow stated that she would entertain a motion to move into Executive
Session for the purpose of discussing North Metro Rail Line Operations & Maintenance:
CRS 24-6-402 (4) (e) (I) (Determining positions relative to matters that may be subject to
negotiations; developing strategy for negotiations; and instructing negotiators)
Motion:

Director Broom made the motion to move into
Executive Session for the purposes of discussing
CRS 24-6-402 (4) (e) (I).
Director Folska seconded the motion.

The Board moved into Executive Session at 7:45 p.m.
RESULT:
PASSED [10 TO 0]
MOVER:
Bob Broom, Director, District F
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Walker,
Williams
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Chuck Sisk, Doug Tisdale
AWAY:
Lorraine Anderson, Paul Solano

G. Adjourn
Committee Chair Lubow adjourned the meeting at 9:30 p.m. directly after the Executive
Session.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

