Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on March 3, 2009
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

March 4, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on March 2, 2009 5:34
p.m. in Rooms R, T, & D
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Chair McMullen; Directors; Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Cohen, Daly, James,
Kemp, Martinez, O’Boyle, Pulliam, Tayer, and Tobiassen.
Directors; Bagley and Christopher

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Dennis Cole, Kevin Diviness, Jane
Donovan, Carol Duecker, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Terry Howerter,
Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Caitlin Magee, Cal Marsella, Brian Middleton, Karen
Morales, Andy Mutz, Jerry Nery, Mike Peek, Paula Perdue, Chris Quinn,
Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna, Dean Shaklee, Cal Shankster, John Shonsey,
Bill Sirois, Julie Skeen, Greg Straight, John Tarbert, Liz Telford, Pauletta
Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Sean Von Feldt, Larry Warner, Phil
Washington, and Susan Wood.

Others Present:

Jeff Leib – The Denver Post, Tim Romer – GS, Pete Tobin – ADC, Anne
Hayes – CAC, Lisa Nery, Christine Gar – CAC, Steve Cook – DRCOG, Bob
Murphy – Mayor of Lakewood, Heather Balser – City of Louisville, Peter
Kenney – Metro Mayors Caucus, Chuck Sisk – Mayor of Louisville, Gene
Putman – Thornton, Debra Smith – DRCOG, Steve R – Systema, Nicolas
Stahl, Robin Kniech – Fresc, Mac Callison – Aurora, Mike Rael, Joe
Racosky, Audrey DeBarros, Roger Sherman - CRL
****

Call to Order

Director McMullen called the meeting to order at 5:34 p.m.

Director McMullen requested that Item 2 on the agenda (Recommended Actions) be discussed
first.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on March 3, 2009
Page 2
II.

Recommended Actions
Approval of Contract Amendment with David Evans and Associates for West Corridor
Final Design Consultant and Design Services During Construction, Contract No.
15DH007
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or designees to execute all documents
necessary to award and implement a contract amendment to David Evans and
Associates (DEA) for the following services: inclusion of final stakeholder comments into
the Issued For Construction (IFC) documents; Additions to the Scope of Work: and
Design Services During Construction (DSDC) for them and their consultants to administer
field design changes and to inspect portions of the construction for which they have
certified the design. The total increase in contract No. 15DH007 is $2,660,802.00.
Funds are included in the budget for the West Corridor.
Rick Clark, Acting Assistant General Manager, FasTracks/Engineering, presented this
item to the board. This is a supplemental contract amendment. They are the final
designer on West Corridor Project. David Evans did 100% design – and when project
goes into construction there are a number of submittals that need to be reviewed. Rick
is requesting that the final designer be the primary responder to submittals.
The five (5) major additions to the scope are:
The I-70 Accelerated Bridge Construction (ABSC) in lieu of a tunnel. (will save several
million dollars).
Auraria Station Design
Decatur/Lakewood Gulch Bridges and walls
Siegel Oil Spur
Jefferson County Third Level at the Parking Structure
MOTION:

Director Pulliam made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the March 17,
2009 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Daly seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

Approval to Release the Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility Supplemental Environmental
Assessment
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
direct the General Manager to release the Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility
Supplemental Environmental Assessment for public and agency review.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on March 3, 2009
Page 3
Bill Van Meter indicated that this is pretty straight forward – they are asking the Board
to approve the release of the Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility Supplemental
Environmental Assessment for public and agency review.
MOTION:

Director Daly made a motion to forward this
item to the full board at the March 17, 2009
Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Martinez seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

Chair McMullen reminded the Board that there is an Executive Session at the end of
Planning and Development Committee meeting and urged them to stay.
FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors appoint seven citizens to the FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee; one
member to fill a vacancy created by a resignation from the Committee and six new
members for pro-rated terms of one to three years.
Roger Sherman requested that the Board approve this action to appoint 7 members to
the CAC Committee – 1 will fill a vacancy and 6 are new members. In December 2008,
the Board approved the expansion from 11 members to 17 members.
The new recommended members are: Alex Sammoury, David Lewis, Debra Wilcox, Alice
Borodkin, Don Moore, Ken Burns and Niloufar Vakil.
MOTION:

Director Kemp made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the March 17,
2009 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Busck seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on March 3, 2009
Page 4
I.

Updates


Present FasTracks Financial Plan

Bill McMullen introduced the Mayor’s in the audience and asked if any would like to
speak.
Cal Marsella, RTD General Manager presented the Present FasTracks Financial Plan to
the RTD Board. This report reflects changes in economic conditions from 2008 report.
The items that were discussed in this presentation included:
2009 Annual Program Evaluation (APE) Results,
Changes in Economic Conditions from 2008 APE,
2009 APT Methodology and Results
-Costs
-Revenues
FasTracks Capital Cost Estimates by Corridor
Next Steps
RTD used the Consumer Price Index (CPI) to forecast labor and ROW cost
escalation – based upon data from the Colorado Legislative Council
The details of the presentation are included in the board back-up.
III. Other Matters
IV. Next Meeting - The next FasTracks Monitoring Committee will be held on Tuesday, April
7, 2009.
V. Adjourn - Hearing no objections, Director McMullen declared the meeting adjourned at
7:30 p.m.

