2022-09-13
Finance and Planning Committee Part 2
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right, it is 8:45, so hopefully everybody is back from break here and able to get
back on. We're going to go ahead and get started again. Thank you for taking the break. I think we're
making up for August right now. So thanks, everybody, for the patience.
Let's move to our third recommended action. That is going to be the bank signature authorization. This is
for the Board of Directors to approve the attached bank account signature authorization to authorize
certain staff members to sign payments exceeding certain thresholds regarding checks, automated
clearinghouse payments, and wire transfers to remove requirements that the Board officers provide wet
signatures for certain payments. Do we have a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
SHELLEY COOK: I'll second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right. I have the mover as Director Catlin and the second as Director Cook. So with
that, I'm going to hand it over to Mr. Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer, as well as Brenden Morgan,
who's joining us this evening as Senior Manager of Debt and Investments to present this item to the
Board. Thank you to the committee.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you Mr. Chair. So yes, this item-- I'll give you a little bit of background about
how our control process works in terms of making payments from RTD. So essentially the way things
work is the Board appropriates a budget. That budget is very detailed, so it's appropriated for projects,
specific uses such as salaries and wages, benefits, et cetera.
So that budget that's appropriated is actually loaded into Oracle. And we have several budgetary controls
within there. So in order for me to procure a service as an employee or otherwise, I go through
Procurement. One of the checks is to make sure that amount was actually budgeted in order to issue a
purchase requisition. So it goes through an approval process. And the whole chain of approval processes
is depending on the type of purchase requisition. One of those is a budget check to make sure there's
budgeted funds before we go forward with a procurement.
So I say this because we have several budgetary controls in place. And really there's no payments that
go out that haven't been approved by the Board and go through a very rigorous control process in terms
of separation of duties, approvals, et cetera. And in fact, our external auditors, Plante & Moran, and prior
to that, Rubin Brown, part of their financial statement audit is to review our internal controls.
One of the items that we've had in place for quite a while is any payments that go out, with the exception
of certain payments such as debt service and payroll payments, any accounts payable, generally those
types of payments to pay our vendors, any payments exceeding $25,000 require a second signature. So
all payments that go out have General Manager Johnson's electronic signature because they're
considered low value, low amount.
Anything $25,000 up to just below $100,000 requires a second signature by an authorized signatory staff
member. And that's shown in the signature authorization that comes to the Board for approval in January.

And it comes in January because we have new executive officers on the Board, and those are the ones
that are authorized to sign off on checks.
The third level is anything $100,000 and above requires a wet signature from a Board member. And
Director Whitmore has been fabulous coming in on a weekly basis, sometimes more often as necessary
to sign off on those checks.
But essentially what happens is Accounts Payable, they do two check runs per week. And I refer to
checks, but a lot of our payments are ACH, so they're debits to bank accounts. All of those payments are
controlled by the bank through Positive Pay.
So when we have a check run, we send a file to the bank. And the bank knows exactly what those
payments are and those authorize payments that have been appropriated by the Board. So no payments
go outside of that. So if I do a fraudulent check and try to submit it, the bank will reject it because it's not
part of that Positive Pay file. So we have lots of controls in that manner.
The signatures, it's a relic of days past. Signatures are still required on payments, on checks, in particular,
but the banks-- and our bank-- we've checked with them several times on this. They don't verify
signatures. They do keep on record a signature block, which shows the individuals who are authorized to
sign checks just so they have it on their records, if they need to do a double check.
But they don't actually look at the signatures themselves. So there's almost really no control purpose for
those signatures in and of themselves. So what this item is asking, because we have those two check
runs per week, any of those checks that are $25,000 and above come over twice a week, Tuesdays and
Thursdays, through a check bag.
We separate out the checks that are 100,000 or above. Director Whitmore comes in once a week to sign
those. It can cause delays in payments. We have some pretty critical tight turnarounds in some of those
payments.
And I'm not saying this is a Board issue. It's part of the process and why we have so many layers and why
we would like to eliminate the Board wet signature from this process. But it's an administrative exercise
that really provides no value to the organization, both our auditor, Plante & Moran, and the banks. There's
really no reason to have a third signature or a Board signature on those checks.
It doesn't add any value to our control process. One of the things we also do for information to both the
public and the Board is we produce an Accounts Payable check register on a monthly basis and post it on
the website, on the Financials page. So it shows every payment that goes out the door with the exception
of payroll or any confidential payments, but it's all the accounts payable payments. We already have that
method of being transparent.
So to summarize what we're asking for is to remove an administratively burdensome item with requiring
an additional signature from a Board member, not requiring that Board member to make the trek to Blake
at least once a week to sign checks or in emergencies, and really just leave it [INAUDIBLE] from staff. So
that would summarize my comments, Mr Chair. And I'd be happy to answer any questions.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. MacLeod, much appreciated. We'll go ahead and do
questions and discussion. Director Catlin, please.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. In our pre-meeting, Doug, we talked about providing a summary
of those checks over-- what-- 100-- whatever-DOUG MACLEOD: 100,000, yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: 100,000. Provide a summary, so the Board doesn't have to go through each and every
one of the check register items. And you said that you could do that, just provide a summary to the Board
so it would be available.
DOUG MACLEOD: Absolutely. And because we have that check register that we post out there monthly,
what I could do, so we don't duplicate efforts, what we can do is sort that biggest to smallest. So if
somebody were to go in there and look, they could see not only the 100,000 and above, but they can see
everything if that's acceptable. I think that would be a great place to refer to, and also not confuse people
with multiple different sources.
PEGGY CATLIN: Sure. Whatever makes sense, but I just think that it would be nice for updates to the
Board in that fashion. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Yeah, it'd be nice if we have that register and not have to
duplicate efforts to do a sort. I think that's a great idea.
I'm wondering if Treasurer Whitmore, I saw you chuckling a little bit, and whether this provides value. But
I'm wondering, since you're currently in the seat there, if you wouldn't mind commenting on if you have
anything to share with the discussion item at hand.
TROY WHITMORE: No not a great deal. My feelings are a little hurt with the lack of my job going away-not at all. Yeah, I think this is a move to modernize since the security is all there. And I don't mind doing
the chore, but there could be a day where it would be very difficult to have an Executive Committee
member that could make it to Blake every Thursday or Friday morning. So even though I'm sad, I think
the time has come. So I support the recommendation. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great, thank you. Thank you for sharing that. Excellent. OK, well, seeing no further
discussion or hands up, I'll go ahead and call for the vote.
I do see, and I'm just going through here, I don't see Director Dishell. So just to be sure, I'm going to go
ahead and do a roll call vote to make sure I get the numbers correctly.
So Director Broom, please?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell? Director Guissinger?

LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And I am a yes. So that will be six yes votes with one hesitant one, and one absent,
zero no votes. And the recommended action will pass. Thank you very much, Mr. MacLeod for that. And
thank you Directors for-- as Director Whitmore, like he put that-- modernizing the system since we have
the controls in place.
OK. So at this time we're going to move forward to our final recommended action for the evening, which is
the Salaried Trustee Appointment. This is for the Board of Directors to approve a resolution appointing
Mr. Bill Sirois, Senior Manager, Transit-Oriented Communities, to a term expiring December 31, 2023, as
a trustee for the Salaried Employee Defined Benefit Pension Plan, a.k.a. the Pension Plan, and Salaried
Employment Defined Contribution Retirement Plan, a.k.a. DC Plan, effective October 1, 2022. Do I have
a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
BOB BROOM: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I Have the mover as Director Catlin, the second as Director Broom. And I'll go ahead
and again call on Mr. Doug MacLeod, chief financial officer, to present this item to the committee.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just very quickly-- so we have a vacancy on the trustee
appointments due to Bill Van Meter's retirement, who's served admirably over the years. General
Manager Johnson selected Bill Sirois as the candidate to replace Bill Van Meter.
Just wanted to point out that one of the things that we've tried to do on that trust, we have five members
from staff and two Board members-- Director Catlin and Director Broom. The five staff members, we've
tried to keep it balanced to have representation for both the DC Plan participants that are in that plan, like
myself that are newer, and then veterans like Bill Sirois and Bill Weidenaar, who've been in the Defined
Benefit Pension Plan.
So we're looking for if the committee approves Bill. We're looking forward to having him serve with us.
And I think that's all I have to say. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, sir. Any questions or discussion from Directors? All right, just to
make sure I'm not missing anyone, I will do the roll vote again. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell? Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Well, I lost a job and Bill gained one. Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And I am a yes. So again, we have a motion passing with six aye votes, one absent,
and zero no votes. Thank you very much. And congratulations, Mr. Sirois. And thank you for being willing
to serve in the post. Much appreciated. Important post. Thank you.
All right, that concludes our recommended actions for the evening. We do have three discussion items
this evening to continue with. The first is regarding the Family and Medical Leave Insurance, or FAMLI
program participation consideration.
So I'm going to go ahead and ask Ms. Leah Riley, our chief administrative officer-- excuse me-- to please
present this item.
LEAH RILEY: Great. Thank you, Mr. Chair, members of the committee. Again, Leah Riley, chief
administrative officer. And I'm going to talk briefly tonight about FAMLI. FAMLI is an abbreviation for
Family and Medical Leave Insurance, which is a state-run paid leave program that builds upon the
Federal Family Medical Leave Act, otherwise known as F-M-L-A, or FMLA.
In November 2020, Colorado voters approved Proposition 118, which paved the way for this program.
And it was designed to ensure all Colorado workers have access to paid leave in order to take care of
themselves and their family during life circumstances that would require them to take leave for. The
program is funded by a 0.9% premium on employee wages that will begin January of 2023.
So similar to FMLA, FAMLI provides 12 weeks of paid leave per year, but FAMLI goes beyond FMLA by
covering a percentage of employee salary during their leave. It also extends the definition of a family
member beyond immediate family to grandparents, grandchildren, siblings, and any other individual with
whom the employee has a significant personal bond.
It also provides safe leaves for the employee if they or a family member are a victim of domestic violence,
stalking, sexual assault, or abuse. And it provides an additional four weeks of leave for complications that
are due to pregnancy or childbirth. Under this new law, any family leave that also qualifies for FMLA has
to run concurrently. However, FAMLI provides income to the employee during that leave, whereas FMLA
does not.
And should an employee take a family leave for a circumstance that does not qualify for FMLA, the
employee is still eligible for up to 12 weeks of FMLA leave subsequently. Employers are not allowed to
require their employees to first use paid time off or sick and vacation leave to be paid under FAMLI.
The eligibility for FAMLI is based on earnings. An employee must have earned at least $2,500 within the
previous four quarters. They have to have been employed by the same employer for 12 months. And they
have to have worked a minimum of 1,250 hours.

And the benefits that are paid under FAMLI are determined by the state average weekly wage, or SAW,
in addition to the employee's wages. So an employee is eligible to receive weekly payment equal to 90%
of the SAW, plus 50% of their wages above the SAW. Payments can not exceed $1,100 weekly.
Again, the program is funded by a premium of 0.9% on employee wages. And that premium is split
between the employer and the employee. And the premium applies to all wages up to the Social Security
max, which is currently $147,000 annually. Again, premium collections began on January 2023. And
employees become eligible for paid benefits on January 2024.
FAMLI affects local governments differently than private businesses. And RTD falls under the definition of
the local government. The statute was written to give local governments options to participate. They can
participate fully, they can decline full participation, or they can decline employer participation.
And if a local government chooses to opt out, it has to do so before the end of calendar year 2022. And
its governing authority must hold a public vote to do so. Any local government that elects to fully
participate in FAMLI has to remain in the program and agree to pay premiums for a minimum of three
years.
If RTD chooses to participate in FAMLI, the estimated financial impact is just over $2 million annually.
That would be split equally between the agency and employees.
And as I previously mentioned, the Board is required to take testimony prior to any FAMLI vote. And
notice that the vote has to be provided to employees and the public.
And the Board's vote is not permanent. It has to be reconsidered every eight years. And the Board's vote
is all or nothing. It is not an option to opt out certain groups and opt in others.
So in order to act in good faith and allow our employees time to understand and ask questions about this
program, we're going to begin providing notice to employees regarding the parameters of FAMLI in the
upcoming discussion with the Board. And at this time, staff is assessing the various options. And we're
going to return to the committee, and subsequently to the Board with the staff for recommendation in
October.
That's the end of my discussion item. And I will welcome any questions. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Riley. Much appreciated. A lot to consider here. Appreciate this and
look forward to the further guidance as I understand these costs better and implications. Director Broom,
please.
BOB BROOM: Would this apply to Board members?
LEAH RILEY: Good question. If you are technically employees of the agency-- I'm sorry, Debra's shaking
her head. Go ahead, Debra.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So, no, no, please. I was just saying, it's for employees and not members of the
Board. That's all.
LEAH RILEY: Thank you.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Ms. Johnson, you have your hand up. Did you want to comment further on
that? OK, no problem. Director Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, thank you, Leah. In our pre-meeting you mentioned the fact that if the agency opts
out, the employees still can opt in. And regardless of the agency participation, the employee still is eligible
for 100% of the benefits. Is that the way I understood it?
LEAH RILEY: That is accurate. The employees that could voluntarily opt into the program would
voluntarily choose to have 0.45% of their wage annually submitted to the state. And they would be eligible
for 100% of the benefits of the FAMLI program.
PEGGY CATLIN: And if I might ask another question. You had given us some data regarding actions
taken by some of the local governments. And could you share that with us, please?
LEAH RILEY: Sure. But I guess at a high level at this time, there is not a local government that has opted
in to the program. So at this time, I can tell you that the City and County of Denver has opted out, the City
of Golden, City of Lafayette, the City of Loveland, City of Wheat Ridge, City of Black Hawk, City of
Greenwood Village, City of Louisville, the towns of Silverthorne and Frisco, and Denver Public Schools
have opted out.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Catlin, for asking those questions. Thank you. Ms. Riley, the
important consideration on there.
And one of the things we talked about in the pre-meeting, just for the benefit of everyone. And Ms. Riley,
if you'd like to expound upon this please. Is the question of the cost of administering this, since this is
relatively new, it sounds like a number of entities are still trying to understand even how to determine that.
So something. I'd would imagine we'll hear more when we get the update and when this comes to the
Board for a vote, but anything you'd want to add to that as well, Ms. Riley.
LEAH RILEY: Thank you, Mr. Chair. We are exploring as the agency the option to provide the
administrative benefits to our employees as the employer. So there are brokerages that are trying to
scramble and get together to be able to provide administrative insurance, options to employers who want
to be able to collect the employee wage premium to report to the Department of Labor and wages, et
cetera, on behalf of their employees who're voluntarily opting into the program. So hopefully we'll have
some administrative costs to share with you prior to in the October meetings.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, wonderful. Thank you for expounding on that. Any further questions or comments
from Directors? OK, wonderful. Well, thank you very much for the presentation. Certainly a lot to
understand here and unwind now that this has been passed and is rolling out. So thank you.
All right, we're going to move to our next discussion item this evening. This is regarding an update on our
Transit-Oriented Development. So I will ask Ms. Chessy Brady, Manager of Transit-Oriented
Development to please present the update.
CHESSY BRADY: All right, good evening. I will keep it quick, as it's late. Thank you for having me. First of
all, I want to talk about how the-- make sure I get to my next screen there. There we go.

The Transit-Oriented Development program strongly supports the new strategic plan. And very
specifically in the Planning Department our scorecard requires that we increase revenue from transitoriented development and joint development on our RTD-owned land, which is a mandate I'm very happy
to work towards every day.
I want to give a quick update on where we are on three current projects. The first is 29th and Welton. So
this project was brought to the Board about a year ago. And the Board approved disposition prior to us,
going out with an RFQ. We did release that RFQ and select Shanahan Development with Elevation
Community Land Trust.
And that partnership has allowed them to propose a 100% affordable condo project, which goes above
and beyond the Board's requirements or our requirements for the site as far as affordability goes. So over
the next couple of years you'll be hearing updates from me as we negotiate that deal with them with the
closing. Hoping to get to a closing in 2024. So that's moving along and we're really excited about the
Land Trust Partnership and 100% affordable condos. It's a very innovative space.
Next, 38th and Blake-- this park and ride was acquired for the A Line. And the idea is that it will continue
to serve as a park and ride, but with development above. Portman Holdings is an Atlanta firm that
submitted an unsolicited proposal in August 2021.
Here we are a year later having gone through our unsolicited proposal procedure. And after releasing an
RFQ and reviewing alternate proposals, we have selected Portman Holdings to continue with that to
pursue that project. So we do expect to come back to the Board in the next month or two to request your
authorization to enter into an exclusive negotiation agreement. So you should expect to hear much more
about this project in the near future.
Sheridan Parcel, we also talked about around a year ago, as we released it from the certificates of
participation that financed the parcel. Since in the past year as the financial and legal requirements
around that were worked out, we've now moved into the planning phase where we're working through the
City and County of Denver's processes to do entitlements-- not entitlements, but survey work and zone lot
amendments and other wonky planning things. So again, plan to come back to you with that in the near
future.
Some past projects-- I know it's late, but I'd like to take some time to celebrate some successes, because
we don't do this very often. So a couple of projects.
The first is Sheridan Station Apartments, which I think this Board is familiar with. RTD leased parking
spaces to this 100% affordable building at Sheridan Station on the W Line. And there was never any fear
of those residents overrunning this enormous park and ride that doesn't have very high utilization.
And in fact, only about 60 residents actually use parking spaces. So this is just a great example of RTD
supporting a local development project and helping people live near transit while meeting zoning
requirements. And there's more development coming there soon.
And then Alameda Station-- so in 2015 the Denizen Project replaced the park and ride right at Alameda
Station. And it wasn't necessarily the perfect project. It wasn't the densest. It didn't have the least parking.
It didn't generate quite the revenue that we wanted.
But we believed at the time that that development would catalyze development across the sea of parking
that you see going from the station over to Broadway and Alameda to the south and big box stores. And

in fact, that's really what we've seen. So there have been almost 1,000 residential units built, another 500
under construction, office and residential planned.
And so that investment, so to speak, that RTD made right at the station has yielded positive
repercussions that over time will lead to greater density and a more transit friendly and transit supportive
area, not only for the rail lines but also for the Zero and other bus lines that go through these corridors.
And then lastly, Olde Town Arvada, which was executed around the same time as the Denizen Project
was going on and involved many stakeholders, much negotiation, and is finally yielding residential units.
So again, not to go into detail but Trammell Crow is constructing 252 residential units, as well as hotel
and restaurants on land that was originally slated to be surfaced parking lot for RTD, so really positive
move. And it takes time, but these things do happen.
And then a few quick updates on some TOD topics. Last year, this Board approved the equitable TOD
policy. And not only are we on track to meet those goals that we set with 29th and Welton, 38th and
Blake, and other sites, but what this policy really has done is raise the stature of affordable housing and
its relationship to RTD property.
So that when we do receive unsolicited proposals now, they always include some affordable housing and
our often 100% affordable, which is very consistent with what the policy was aiming for and also what
supports transit and supports the economics of the region.
So a reminder on how that unsolicited proposal procedure works-- developers submit more and more
detailed proposals as the process goes on. 38th and Blake, for example, is currently step 6, or will be
when we come to it soon to get that approval.
13th Avenue Station has a lot of interest from Aurora. Many other sites are elsewhere in the process. And
if anyone wants to circle back, I'm happy to get into more detail.
And lastly, we have published our 2021 TOD Status Report online. There's a link here-- I'm happy to send
it separately as well-- continuing to show a high level of development around our station that in time will
lead to higher ridership and transit supporter.
So that's all I've got. I'm happy to take any questions.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Brady. Much appreciated, impressive presentation. And $0.02, there's
a lot of information in a quick period of time, and then also really, really great information. And thanks for
taking the time to celebrate victories. That is really cool that all of our unsolicited proposals are including
affordable housing components. That's our huge victory, so well done and thank you for sharing that.
I see that Ms. Johnson has her hand up, so please. Yep.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Of course. I had to do it at least once. So thank you very much, Chair Davidson, for
giving me the opportunity. I wanted to echo what Ms. Brady said and acknowledge that we need to
celebrate victories and successes. And I wanted to publicly acknowledge Chessy Brady for being one of
the 40 honorees by Mass Transit, which is an industry-based publication.
This is the 14th year. And what this program is all about-- since 2008 Mass Transit has compiled a list of
emerging leaders within the transit industry to showcase the drive, ambition, entrepreneurship, and cando attitude of individuals who will be tasked with carrying the industry forward. It's my understanding that

this year brought a record number of nominations. And the result is a group of professionals who
represent the breadth of specialties.
And so with that as the backdrop, I wanted to acknowledge Ms. Chessy Brady for being in the 2022 class.
And I think as you all clearly have seen that you know her talents. And I just wanted to take this
opportunity and acknowledge her and say congratulations. I'm so honored to be on the same team.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Bravo.
CHESSY BRADY: Thank you so much.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
CHESSY BRADY: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, it's great. Thank you, Ms. Johnson for bringing that up and congratulations. That
is super, super cool and, yeah, easy to see why.
Any questions or discussion items from Board members? All right, well that's awesome. Well, thanks for
hanging out this long and thank you for a great presentation.
Also, piling on the accolades, thanks for a great presentation to APTA at the Board conference. I know
you had to zip right out of there, but a lot of great feedback after that from folks there from other agencies.
So thank you for that.
CHESSY BRADY: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Wonderful. Well, thank you, everybody. We're going to move on to our final item of the
evening. So very much thank you to those of you that stayed to present this.
So the System-Wide Fair Study and Equity Analysis is our final discussion item. And I'll call upon Mr.
Chris Quinn, Planning Project Manager, and Mr. Carl Green, Jr., Acting Director of Civil Rights, to please
present this item and declare victory on staying here to be the last item. So go ahead.
TROY WHITMORE: It's after 9:00. You can take your tie off.
[LAUGHING]
CHRIS QUINN: Thank you, Director. I'm going to share my screen, and let's see. Is that showing?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, it is.
CHRIS QUINN: Oh, excellent, great. So again, I am Chris Quinn, a Planning Project Manager. And both
Carl Green, Jr. and I are co-project managers for this process. We last provided an update to the Board
back in June. So we wanted to provide yet another update on progress that's been made.
Oh, I realize I'm not at the beginning. Sorry. I wanted to provide an update of where we stand in the study
right now, provide information on what has happened since the last update, community input that we've
received, the alternatives that we're currently proposing for consideration, and then go over what our next
steps are going to be. And Carl next is going to provide just a little bit of a reminder on some of the

background of where we are as well as some of the community input that we have received to date. So
Carl?
CARL GREEN, JR.: All right, thank you, Chris. So just this slide here is the study overview, goals, and
schedule. Next slide, please.
So just as a refresh to the Board of Directors and other attendees here at the Board meeting, the study
goals-- there are three. And leading, the first of three, is equity. And as you can see, the sub-bullets
underneath that is to support transit reliant financially burdened customers, and to provide equitable fair
access to fares, products, and discounts, regardless of race, color, national origin, income status, and
other marginalized communities.
The second goal is affordability. And the bullet underneath there is to align fares with the service
received. And then the last is simplicity-- making fares easier to understand. And this pertains to
standardized discounts and streamlining fare payment options. Next slide, please.
So as far as the project schedule, really the project started in earnest in January. But as far as this
timeline before you all tonight, we're capturing the engagement milestones, so to speak, so dating back to
April. That's when we started gathering feedback on our current fare structure. And we provided an
update to the Board this past June on the feedback that we received from engagement milestone 2.
Right now, summer of 2022, we shared and gathered feedback on the conceptual fare options, which
we'll be doing tonight, as well as looking at some of the alternatives that we've compiled. Right now at this
stage in the game, we're about 40%, 42% in respect to the project timeline.
And as you move from left to right looking at early 2023, that's when we'll move forward with the formal
public comment and hearing. And then spring of 2023, we'll get into the new fare structure decision by the
Board. And then as far as implementation, that's to be determined. Next slide, please.
All right, so I'll give an overview of the engagement activities. So really this is centered on engagement
milestone number 2, so first of which we had customer and community meetings, which were held in
Zoom, both Spanish and English. And we had over 100 attendees.
Based off of the feedback that we received from those meetings, we compiled, along with our consultants,
the feedback that we received and then presented it to the three feedback panels, which were Equity,
Pass Programs, and Jurisdiction. And that provided the opportunity to garner more feedback and to make
tweaks and fine tuning of the information that we received.
And equally as important of receiving our customer and community feedback, we also took it in-house to
garner and solicit information from our staff, both operations and on the back-end. And we communicated
it broadly through our Inside Connections, which is our inside or internal newsletter, as well as presented
three times use it utilizing our Facts and Snacks, which is our internal presentation. And then we
formulated our questions and answers. Next slide.
All right, so as far as our customer and community meetings from June 23 and June 29, the biggest piece
or takeaways that I wanted to present to the Board today is the input themes that we received. First and
foremost, equity is important. People with lower income should pay less. You should have free fares,
expand EcoPass access. Bottom line-- all of our pass programs and our discount fares is being able to
provide access and remove those barriers. And then the last piece is just to communicate better the
relationship between fares and RTD operational costs.

Another highlight that I wanted to showcase with the Board tonight is the polling results. As you can see
based off of the representation on the different counties, we had great representation considering the
amount of time and effort that our consultants and community partners were able to recruit folks across
the district. And this also provided another opportunity as we forge ahead in October with engagement
milestone 3, where we need to make a more concerted effort to bring upon more representation, as you
can see here the dashed lines with Broomfield, Weld, and some lower percentages. So we're taking a
concerted effort and a multifaceted approach to ensure that we have greater representation across the
service district.
And then the last note that I wanted to make on this slide here is just the increase in interest of folks that
didn't necessarily attend the first customer and community meeting, so knowing that there are more
representation from folks. So this basically broadly communicates that we're getting them the message
and our communications out regarding our System-Wide Fair Study and Equity Analysis.
So again, the point to drive home is-- and this is something that we've mentioned early on, that it's a
customer and community-centric approach. And we're double downing on our effort to ensure that we are
having the broadest reach with respect to our engagement. Next slide.
And then in July 13, July 14, we conducted our feedback panels. And essentially we provided a content
update, making sure that as we're moving throughout this Fair Study and Equity Analysis Project, that
they are in the position to serve in coveted roles and positions with respect to these three feedback
panels, and ensuring that they have the ample information that they need in order to help inform
decisions and the like.
And as far as prioritization of alternatives, specifically thinking about the Equity and Jurisdiction panels, is
the identification of lowering fares as the highest priority. And the Pass Program panel identified flattening
fare structure and reducing the monthly pass pricing as their highest priority. And then last but not least is
that there is no consensus reached between the panels on questions of the discount. Next slide.
All right, so moving into the alternatives evaluation. Next slide. So a key driver as we're thinking about this
copious amount of information and feedback that we're receiving from our customers and community,
ranging from the multiple different methods that we're deploying, is how are we looking to evaluate these
fares or the structures that we're going to be moving forward with or making a decision on how we should
proceed from what is the best direction for our new fare structure in 2023.
So there are five key elements to that. Again, one of which is the customer and community feedback on
the fare alternatives, utilizing our three goals-- equity, affordability, and simplicity. Again, thinking about
CFO Doug MacLeod mentioning with the MTFP as it relates to fare revenue and ridership is the fare
modeling to determine pricing.
And then the fourth one that I like to highlight is the fare equity analysis. We've been presenting a lot
today on the fare study portion of it. But equally as important is the equity analysis portion. And what I
wanted to highlight is being able to identify the potential adverse effects and the benefits on minority and
low-income populations as it relates to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and FTA regulations.
One thing that I wanted to highlight that I did not mention before is the way that we structured this project
is to perform a preliminary Title VI fair equity analysis. This is considered a best practice in the sense that
we're doing it ahead versus after once we've already have the alternatives displayed. So this is just the
best practice, so I wanted to highlight that.

And then the last piece as far as the evaluation of the alternatives is consideration of operational,
technological, and capital impacts. So with that being said, I'll now pass it back over to Chris.
CHRIS QUINN: So I'm going to talk about the concepts that we have under consideration, beginning with
the key components that make up those alternatives. And first is lowering the actual fare, simplifying the
fare structure. As we've heard a lot, as we've been out in the public, the fare structure is rather
complicated.
Also looking at what are the ways that we can reward our frequent customers. And given the complexity
that we have related to our discount fares, can we simplify the fare system and the Pass Program. And
then also, are there ways that we can leverage technology to simplify the fare payment system?
Now I want to note also on the right side of the slide, you do see that we currently have underway the
implementation of fare capping. And I know the Board has been apprised of that, but want to make sure
that that's also known that that's in the background as we move forward with the alternatives.
Now some specific items that are not under consideration at this point are going with the Zero Fare
Program. Also, as part of this study, we are not looking at identifying any kind of new fare revenues. That
was one of the tasks of Reimagine, so we're not duplicating that in any way.
And we also want to be cognizant as we're running the models, the financial model, making sure that any
recommendations that we come up with don't have such an adverse effect to our finances that we would
have to implement some kind of service cut in order to make it work. And lastly, we're not looking either at
broadening any of the discount eligible categories. So we would stay still with just youth, low income, and
elderly.
So the conceptual models that we're looking at to model are as follows-- and before I get into them, I do
want to note-- these are four concepts. As we move forward, our intent is to probably merge some of the
components of these so that we lower the number of alternatives when we move forward to the public.
But I'll talk a little bit more about that a little bit later in the presentation after we go through the actual
alternatives.
First alternative being lower fares. Pretty much speaks for itself. In this particular case, we would keep the
existing fare structure so that we would still have local regional airport fares, but the intent would be all of
the fares would in fact be lower than what they are right now. And the highest priority would be to lower
the fares for the local services.
Also, right now the LIVE discount is currently a 40% discount. And we would like to as part of this
alternative increase that to be a 50% discount so that it also aligns with the senior and disabled discount.
And then lastly, this would include lowering the monthly pass multiple. And what we mean by this is
currently if you buy a monthly pass for say the local service, that cost is 38 times of what a three-hour
pass would be. So if you were say a typical commuter, you would have to use that 19 times round trip, or
38 total, in order to get your money's worth or to break even on that pass. So we'd like to propose a lower
multiple for that. And some of the other alternatives include this same bullet as well.
Second alternative focuses on mobility and access. So here we keep the same general fare structure for
the customers, but instead this one focuses on discounts for say our low-income fares. So as an
example, we would flatten fares for discount customers. So if you were to buy a local pass, you would be
able to use that pass on all of the services.

We'd also as part of this alternative try to improve access to the LIVE program. One of the things that we
have heard is the whole application process is rather complicated and tedious. And then are there ways
that we could also introduce new pass options for those most in need, such as non-profit programs,
affordable housing programs, or even expanding the school pass? And then, similar to the first alternative
also, here again, lowering the monthly pass multiple from 38 to a lower number.
Alternative 3 focuses on simplicity. This one would be what we refer to as a flat fare with an airport
premium so that whether you get on a local bus or a regional bus, you pay the exact same fare, the
exception being if you are traveling to the airport.
Here again, we would align the discounts. So 50% for a three-hour and day pass for discount customers.
And then also we would propose increasing the discount to 70% from 50% for a monthly pass, but also
introduce bulk purchase discounts.
And then with the EcoPass, right now we have a rather complicated structure of what we call SLAs, or
Service Level Areas. They're basically zones in which if your business is located in specific zone, then
you pay a different rate than a business that's located in another zone or SLA. What we'd like to do is
consolidate the number of SLAs and also consolidate the employer size groups so that it would be easier
for the public, if they're interested in pursuing an EcoPass, or businesses interested in pursuing an
EcoPass, easier for them to understand what they would actually be paying based on their business size
and their location, but also, like here again, to reduce the monthly pass multiple consistent with all of
these.
And then the last alternative that we'd be looking at would be a complete flat fare. And that would include
a flat fare, even for the airport. So no matter what RTD service you get on-- bus, light rail, train-- you
would pay the exact same fare. Similar to the previous alternative, here again aligning the discounts for
senior/disabled at 50%, simplifying the Pass Program and EcoPass again, along with all of the previous
alternatives lowering the monthly pass multiple.
So our next steps, what we'd like to do is take the alternatives that we're presenting tonight and start to
refine those, possibly consolidate those so that when we go out to the public we have a reduced number
of alternatives that are picking up the key elements of the alternatives that we're presenting tonight. We
are now working on modeling these alternatives, see what the impacts are to both revenue and ridership,
and working out how we best communicate to the public exactly how these alternatives work, since
obviously there's quite a bit of nuances in how each one performs for individual customers.
As Carl noted, we are at what we're calling milestone number 3. So this is where we will be going back to
the public for our community meetings. Similar to our previous outreach, we will again be doing a meeting
in English, and then followed by a meeting in Spanish.
Our hope is to have those meetings scheduled for sometime late October. We are right now working on
dates for those meetings. And then along with those meetings, we are working with our community
partners to conduct focus groups and see if we can partner on outreach events.
So that's our path moving forward. And happy to try to address any comments, questions, concerns that
you may have.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Great, thank you very much, Mr. Quinn and Mr. Green for a great presentation and
great progress. Much appreciated. Go ahead and call on Directors for comments and questions. Director
Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Bravo. It looks like you're doing some great work. And I really like looking at the
non-profits and the affordable housing. Like a neighborhood, I think both of those-- our LIVE program is
great, but people have to go through a whole process. And I think enabling our non-profits to help people
as they come in is a really important thing. And the affordable housing just seems like a great thing.
Are the alternatives all separate? Or will you maybe end up picking up pieces of various ones?
CHRIS QUINN: So right now we have them all separate, but our intent when we go to the public is to
have these consolidated so that we would in a perfect world go forward with say two alternatives that pull
out, for lack of a better way to say it, what we believe to be the best components of those concepts.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. And just one more question, Chris. Are you looking at any changes to the
neighborhoods to make those more attractive than neighborhood EcoPasses?
CHRIS QUINN: Yeah, so we're looking at both the Eco and the NECO Pass, any way to make it for either
of them to simplify the process-LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
CHRIS QUINN: Recognizing again that it is a complicated structure right now.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, no, I think that there's some really interesting ideas. And I look forward to
following it in the future. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Very much, Director Guissinger. Director Cook, please.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks. So the flat fare on its face is so attractive, because it does a couple of things.
It makes it more affordable for a swath of the ridership, but also simplifies.
However, I wanted to ask you. Does that assume or do we think then that the flat fare will be higher than
what we have as local fare now, but somewhat less than the regional fare? Is that what the assumption
would be? And do we know what percentage of tickets purchased or rides are local versus regional?
CHRIS QUINN: We are in the process of modeling right now to see what we-- I don't want to say could
get away with in terms of the lowest fare for that. But we are working through determining what that would
be, whether that would be higher than the current local fare or whether, in fact, we could go lower than
that, but not sure yet.
And then, Carl, I don't know if you happen to know. I can say that we do have our highest percentage of
ridership is customers using the local fare. I don't know percentage-wise though what that is. And we can
certainly follow up with you to that.
SHELLEY COOK: The second question is I think this is implied. When somebody qualifies for the LIVE
program or the senior citizen discount, do they then have that same percentage discount applied to the
monthly pass? It sounded like it did. I just wanted to verify that.

CHRIS QUINN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: All right, thank you so much for what you're doing.
CHRIS QUINN: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. And I see that Mr. Bill Sirois raised his hand. So I wondered if you had
something to chime in on those questions.
BILL SIROIS: Yeah, I just wanted to add a little bit to what Chris was saying in terms of the consolidation
alternatives. Another factor that we're looking out of these is equity and how equity plays into the different
alternatives. So as we look at consolidation and other things, that's going to be a factor that we'll be
looking at as we pull out things or keep things in.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Thank you very much. Director Whitmore, please.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Earlier this evening, Director Cook eloquently talked about
some things we're celebrating, things that we've done that we don't get a lot of recognition from the
general public-- the pension plan changes for our employees and state of good repair movement and
three months operating reserves and partnership potentialities. And then we hear from Mr. Brady on the
great news on the transit-oriented development.
But I just continue to marvel at the actions we're taking. And I just want to give kudos on this study, Fair
and Equity Study. It's been needed for a long time.
I love the presentation. I need to go back over it again. But I appreciate you gentlemen hanging with us till
9:30 to present it. So thank you all for the good input.
And as Chessy or Debra said, we do need to celebrate. I know this is not all, but it's moving in the right
direction. So thank you all.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I couldn't agree more. Thank you, Director Whitmore, for that. Really great work and
really exciting. And I think things that we all hear about quite often and also live with-- I think I know many
of us have lived in very different areas and used very different systems and have seen lots of
opportunities for improvement here. And this team is really taking that on and biting that off. That's really
exciting. It's really cool. Thank you.
Are there any more questions or comments from Directors or anything else that the team wants to add?
All right. Well, with that, thank you very much for the presentations and to everybody for all of the
discussion items.
We're going to go ahead and move to our other matters. Are there any other matters to discuss at the
committee this evening? Shockingly, I don't see any hands at the moment. So we will have no other
matters this evening.
With that, our next meeting of this committee, the Finance and Planning Committee, will be held on
Tuesday, October 11, 2022. And with that, seeing no other discussion, we will adjourn the meeting at
9:43 PM Mountain time.
Thank you so much, everybody. Great work. Good to see you all.

