Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

August 18, 2009

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
August 18, 2009 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:34 p.m.

II.

III.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Thirteen (13) Board members were present at roll call.
arrived after roll call.

Directors Christopher and Tayer

RETIREE AWARDS
There were no retiree awards.
Special Acknowledgement-International Light Rail Participants
Randall Lovegrove, George Sweeney and Cass Skelton were recognized for their participation
in the International Light Rail Roadeo. They were acknowledged by Chair Lee Kemp, Phil
Washington, Cal Shankster and William Bell.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Jack McCroskey spoke about the legislative decision to perform an audit on RTD and stated
he was instrumental in getting this to happen.
Public participation was initially closed but opened up per discretion of Chair Kemp when
Mark Costello arrived to speak regarding access-a-Ride. Mark spoke on behalf of Jennifer
Osborn, a cerebral palsy access –a-Ride customer who needs a special drop off point. He
asked if anything can be done to drop her off in front of the church around 72nd & Simms.
Director Pulliam indicated this matter came up last year and Chair Kemp directed staff to revisit this issue.

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
There were no changes to the committee reports.

VI.

GM TRANSITION AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REPORT
GM Committee Chair Noel Busck thanked Director Martinez for his coordination of the
Executive search firm process. He shared that the recommendation for approval tonight is to
select the firm of Krauthamer & Associates as the search agency. He indicated the Board
intends to do due diligence in this search process and had invited Dr. John Buechner to share
his perspective on the executive search models and outreach process. Dr. Buechner is a
former president of the University of Colorado and mayor of Boulder with significant

experience and expertise in the political process associated with this type of search.
The schedule for Tuesday, August 25, 2009 involves bringing the search firm in to meet with
the GM Executive Search Committee and the full Board to establish a profile. The goal is to
have a General Manager in place by January 1, 2010.

VII.

METRO MAYORS REPORT
Chair Kemp reported there the meeting held on August 18, 2009 went well and the mayors
understand the dilemma. They have provided their support to work with RTD between now
and next year. They are developing their strategy to set up future meetings to discuss the
FasTracks financial plan. Moving forward, these stakeholders will be very engaged and are
looking for open, transparent discussions with all cards on the table. The Board will still have
to make the tough decisions in the end.
Director Busck added that staff had done an extremely god job in their presentation to the
Metro Mayors-perhaps the best he has seen in three years. Staff was confident in what they
presented; it was transparent and identified the issues in the P3 process. They received few
questions from the mayors (which is a rarity). The transition to the Interim General Manager
with Phil Washington has facilitated this open dialogue. RTD will continue to build on their
relationship with the Metro Mayors.
Phil Washington, Interim General Manager, reflected on how his staff has stepped up to the
occasion and spent tremendous time preparing for this presentation. He thanked the staff for
their hard work.
Director Pulliam commented on how well the staff was received at a meeting he had attended
and concurred with these statements.

VIII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF July 21, 2009
MOTION:

Director Martinez moved for the adoption of the July 21, 2009
regular board meeting minutes.
Director McMullen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 14 votes in favor and 0
against. Director Brohl abstained since she had missed the
meeting.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

IX.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
 Light Rail Roadeo at Elati August 15, 2009
Interim General Manager Phil Washington reported that there were a number of
participants and winners at the light rail roadeo. Cal Shankster and his team did a good
job of putting this together. Director Tobiassen was also present.
 West Corridor Elected Officials Meeting August 14, 2009
Director Cohen hosted this event. Director Daly and some former Board members also
participated. Mayor Murphy was present as was Jim Starling the new project manager
for West Corridor. They had a strong turnout. Approximately 500 jobs in this corridor
alone will be created.

 West Corridor Construction Progress and Related News
The PI team will be providing updated construction news to the entire region.
Associated with this is donating various appliances from the condemned apartments to
Habitat for Humanity, working with CDOT on signage, and highlighting the RTD
DBE/SBE program where we are currently at 24% participation with about 164
subcontractors. About 90% of the firms are local with RTD providing our own
economic stimulus and development program in this region.
 DRCOG RTC Meeting News August 18, 2009
DRCOG RTC meeting recommended annual FasTracks plan to go to the DRCOG Board
of Directors for approval.

Director Martinez commented how thrilled he was with the positive PR and asked if the
Channel 8 LCD could include information on the number of jobs and SBE/DBE involvement in
this project.
Director Christopher noted that signage should include the US 36 queue jumps, slip ramps and
pedestrian bridge.
Director Bagley wanted the status on signage for the ARRA stimulus fund in the Southwest
corridor.
Director Christopher requested the staff to report back on their conversation with DRCOG on
the comments made that RTD’s financial plan was too optimistic.
X.

PUBLIC HEARING ON PROPOSED 2009 AMENDED BUDGET
Chair Kemp read the public announcement on the 2009 amended budget and asked if anyone
wanted to speak. Hearing none, the public hearing portion of the meeting was closed.
A.

Proposed 2009 Amended Budget
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt Resolution No. ___, Series of 2009 to amend and appropriate funds for
the proposed 2009 Amended Budget, to decrease the appropriation by $(122,238,931)
to $1,223,283,199 as detailed below in the Overview of the 2009 Budget
Amendment, and to decrease the appropriation of Capital Carryforward (Previously
Approved Capital Funds) by $(129,262,471) to $296,757,845.
MOTION:

Director Pulliam moved for the adoption of the proposed 2009
amended budget.
Director Tayer seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 15 votes in favor and 0
against.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

XI.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
MOTION:

Director Busck made the motion to approve the
unanimous consent agenda items B through F. Item G
was moved to recommended action.
Director Brohl seconded the motion.

VOTE ON

MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 15 votes in
favor and 0 against.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

B.

Construction Contract Award to Krische Construction for Southwest and Central
Platte Valley Corridors 4-Car Platform Extension Phase II
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to execute all documents
necessary to award a construction contract to Krische Construction in the amount of
$2,262,746 for the Southwest and Central Platte Valley Corridors 4-Car Platform
Extension Phase II. Funding for this contract is provided through the American
Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA), and is included in the 2009 Adopted
Budget.

C.

Purchase of approximately 33 miles of track on the Boulder Industrial Lead (North
Metro)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the purchase of approximately 33 miles of track located on the newly acquired
Union Pacific Railroad (UPRR) Boulder Industrial Lead from the UPRR. UPRR sold the
Right of Way to RTD, but retained the salvage rights to the track. Cost to the
FasTracks program would be $3.6 million, which is included in the 2009 Adopted
Budget for the North Metro Corridor.

D.

Contract Amendment to Michael Baker Jr., Inc. for I-225 Corridor Environmental
Evaluation/Preliminary Engineering, Contract No. 17-DH-006
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or designees to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract amendment for $343,730 to Michael Baker Jr., Inc.
(Baker) for additional planning and preliminary engineering work effort. Funds for this
contract amendment are available in the FasTracks Budget for the I-225 Corridor
Project.

E.

FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee Appointment
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee of the Regional
Transportation District (RTD) that the RTD Board of Directors appoint one member to
the Committee to fill a vacancy created by resignation.

F.

2009 Increase Contract Authority for Fixed Route Contracts
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the Interim General Manager or his designee to authorize increases
in funding for the Veolia “Group 17”, First Transit “Group 18” and First Transit “Group
19” fixed-route contracts to cover increased costs incurred due to service level
increases and increased fuel costs over the term of the contract.






Group 17 – add $1,748,546 to increase the contract authority from
$51,708,888.00 as approved by the Board of Directors on November 14,
2006, to a revised contract authority of $53,457,434.00.
Group 18 – add $1,258,867.00 to increase the contract authority from
$60,063,921.00 as approved by the Board of Directors on November 14,
2006, to a revised contract authority of $61,322,788.00.
Group 19 – add $3,681,842.00 to increase the contract authority from
$110,812,253.00 as approved by the Board of Directors on November 14,
2006, to a revised contract authority of $114,494,095.00.

XII.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
G.

Award of Contract – Disclosure Counsel Services
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the Interim General Manager to award a contract for Disclosure
Counsel Services to the team of Sherman & Howard L.L.C. (Sherman & Howard) and
Garcia Calderon Ruiz (“Garcia Calderon”).

MOTION:

Director Brohl made the motion to approve the award of
the disclosure counsel service to the team of Sherman &
Howard L.L.C. and Garcia Calderon Ruiz.
Director Pulliam seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 14 votes in
favor and 0 against. Director Chacon abstained citing
conflict of interest.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

XIII.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
There was no unfinished business.

XIV.

NEW BUSINESS
Chair Kemp declared a thirty minute recess while the Board waited for a presentation by
DUSPA.
The meeting adjourned from recess at 6:55 p.m.
Honorable Elba Wedgeworth introduced the team from DUSPA and indicated this was a
collaborative partnership with RTD and the City of Denver. This committee meets every
two weeks and she invited the RTD Board to attend. She thanked RTD for its wonderful
representation by General Counsel Marla Lien and CFO Terry Howerter.
The DUSPA team consisted of Chairwoman Elba Wedgeworth, Vice Chair Jerry Glick, Bill
Mosher, Trammel Crow and Mike Sullivan, Trammel Crow.
Bill Mosher and Mike Sullivan made the DUSPA presentation to the Board. For a copy of
that presentation, please contact the Board office.
After the presentation, Director Tayer requested a copy of the routing plan. Staff will
provide.
Director Bagley asked about the meeting schedule in September. Because of the requested
public hearing, the schedule will need to be revised to take this into consideration. Paula
Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board, will work with senior staff and the Board to
provide a revised schedule.

XV.

ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 7:45 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, August 18, 2009

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
Chris Martinez, First Vice Chair
Noel Busck, Second Vice Chair
Bruce Daly, Secretary
John Tayer, Treasurer
Kent Bagley
Barbara Brohl
Juanita Chacon
Bill Christopher
Matt Cohen
Bill James
William McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Wally Pulliam
Tom Tobiassen

District I
District B
District K
District N
District O
District H
District D
District C
District J
District M
District A
District E
District G
District L
District F

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Bill Bell
Shirley Bennett
Rick Clarke
Susan Cohen
Carolyn Conover
Phil Eberl
Dave Genova
Martha Hecox
Terry Howerter

Brian Iacono
Marla Lien
Caitlin Magee
Robert Merriman
Paula Perdue
John Perry
Scott Reed
Teresa Sedmak
Daria Serna
Cal Shankster

OTHERS PRESENT:
Steve Gee – Spectrum A/V
Jack McCroskey
Cass Skeleton - RTD
Ed Colby - URS
Tanya Lovegrove
Randall Lovegrove – RTD
George Sweeney - RTD
Janet Sweeney
Mark Sweeney
Michael Sweeney
Burt Lorren Fraser – First United CC of Arvada
Mark Costello – First United CC of Arvada
Honorable Elbra Wedgworth - DUSPA
Jerry Glick - DUSPA
Holman Carter – ATU
Jeff Leib – The Denver Post

Bill Sirois
Greg Straight
John Tarbert
Liz Telford
Pauletta Tonilas
Lisa Trujillo
Bill Van Meter
Phil Washington
Larry Warner
Greg Yates

