Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, February 23, 2010,
Page 1 of 3
Regional Transportation District

Memorandum
To:

RTD Board of Directors

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

February 23, 2010

Subject:

Minutes of the Meeting of the Legislative Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, February 23, 2010 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Committee
Members Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Directors Bagley, Christopher, Kemp

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Sherry
Ellebracht, David Genova, Mike Gil, Gary Googins, Bill Holmes,
George Hovey, Terry Howerter, Brian Iacono, Caitlin Magee, Tony
McCaulay, Robert Merriman, Paula Perdue, Trent Ratcliff, Scott
Reed, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna, Cal Shankster, John Shonsey,
Errol Stevens, John Tarbert, Liz Telford, Mark Tieman, Phil
Washington, Linda Wells, Susan Wood

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Julie McKenna, Andrew Shoa (Hanson
Communications), Ed Bush (CRMCA), Pete Comps (LTK
Engineering), Sharon Terranova (DRCOG), Steve Rudy (DRCOG),
Roger Johnson (Advanced IT Solutions), Celina Benavidez (Celina
Inc), Sandy Weinberg (ACS), Xavier De Fremme (ACS),
Christopher Jarrett (ACS), John Gobis (ACS), Marc Gordon (ACS),
Larry Johnson (IBI Group)

Call to Order:

I.

Committee Chair Daly, Vice-Chair Pulliam, Directors Busck, Cohen,
James, Martinez, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen

****
Committee Chair Daly called the meeting to order at 5:33 p.m.

State Legislative Issues
a. Update on state issues by Brandeberry-McKenna team – Jenifer Brandeberry spoke
about current bills that may be of interest to the Board.
HB 10-1143 – This is the TOD bill. It passed the house with 50 “yes” votes and is
now in the Senate where it will go to the Senate Local Government Committee.
Regarding the various sales tax bills – These bill are attempts to balance the FY 09-

Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, February 23, 2010,
Page 2 of 3
10 State budget. The District is in conversations with the Department of Revenue
on how RTD may be affected by these bills because the language is somewhat
ambiguous. These bills were not up for amendments and are currently waiting for
the Governor’s signature.
The railroad right-of-way bill has been calendared for Judiciary Committee, March 8,
2010. Brandeberry-McKenna would like to have a director there for support. They
are continuing to meet with entities to make sure there are no impacts or opposition
to the bill.
b. Ms. McKenna discussed SB 10-116 and HB 10-1162. SB 10-116 is carried by subcontractors and is limited to change orders in construction contracts and the
timeframe for payment on change orders. Most public entities feel they can live
with the bill since it is limited to change orders and a process that they have
negotiated with their contractors.
HB 10-1162 deals with retainage and construction contracts. Right now 10% can
be withheld in retainage pending completion of a project. This bill proposes to cut
that amount in half. Both public and private entities are opposed to this legislation.
It will be heard tomorrow at 1:30 p.m.
c. HB 10-1272 deals with the fair campaign practice act. RTD is not mentioned in this
bill. This is a bill to bring RTD in line with other elected officials. The committee
decided to watch the bill.
Director Pulliam asked about the retainage bill - were Jenifer and Julie looking for a
position from the Committee? After a short discussion, the Committee made a
decision to oppose this bill.
II.

Other Matters – Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer, gave a quick Federal
update. Director Martinez has requested that any information being shared with the
Directors attending the APTA Legislative Conference in Washington, D.C. be shared
with the other Board members as well. Patton Boggs will do a PowerPoint on Monday,
March 15, 2010 to the delegation attending the conference. The presentation will be
distributed to the Board the Friday prior to the conference (March 12, 2010).
In December 2009 the House passed a bill known as the “HIRE” jobs bill for $154
billion. The Senate version of this bill has been reduced to $15 billion. The Senate is
voting on it tomorrow (Wednesday, February 24, 2010). It is possible the House will
concur with the smaller amount with the understanding that there will be a series of
smaller jobs bills coming down the line. The reason they will concur is that SAFETEALu reauthorization expires on Sunday, February 28, 2010 and there has to be some
vehicle which extends it and this Senate bill extends it until December 31, 2010.
What is in the $15 billion bill -- it is not a “jobs” bill in terms of money for projects. It
focuses more on tax credits for small businesses for hiring people that have been
unemployed. It is still important to look at the District’s list of projects because the bills
following this one may have money for more projects.
Director McMullen requested a sheet of “good news” regarding grants and money

Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, February 23, 2010,
Page 3 of 3
awarded to the District.
III.

Date for Next Meeting – The date for the next Legislative Committee will be determined
later.

IV.

Adjourn to Study Session – Committee Chair Daly adjourned the Legislative Committee
meeting at 5:54 p.m.

