Corrected and Approved Minutes for 8/19/08

Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

August 19, 2008

Subject:

Corrected Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
August 19, 2008 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D as approved in Board meeting
9/16/08

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Thirteen (13) Board members were present at roll call. Directors Brohl and Tayer arrived after
roll call.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
Douglas Ferguson, bus operator with 41 years of service, was present to receive his award.
He stated he has enjoyed his time at RTD and the time has gone by fast.
Patrick Archuleta, bus operator with 20 years of service, also accepted his award. AGM
Dodsworth noted that Mr. Archuleta had been the recipient of the outstanding achievement
award in 1994. Mr. Archuleta indicated it was a pleasure but now it is time to move on.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Fred Weade, access-a-Ride user shared some of his issues and spoke on behalf of other
access-a-Ride users who were having issues. Fred expressed that he thought since the
multiple contractors the service had deteriorated and several dialysis patients were not
getting picked up on time or returned on time. This affects their window for treatment and
snowballs everything else. He also complained about foreign drivers who did not speak much
English and who did not know the town and felt better training is required. He stated an
overall dissatisfaction with the current access-a-ride service.
Russell Greear, Denver, shared he will be deadlocked during the DNC week and no service
will be available to his area. He also shared an experience on the #30 bus where the driver
indicated she could not pick up a handicap person due to the bus being overloaded.
John Tighe, Park County Commissioner, shared a desire to partner with RTD, CDOT, Jefferson
Counties and all the respective entities to address the park-n-ride there and to obtain possible
grant monies to subsidize some of the costs. He stated the US 285 Coalition is
working
diligently on a solution and requested consideration from RTD for those fringe areas such as
Pine Junction park-n-ride.
Sheree Zamarripa, Bailey, is also a member of the US 285 Coalition. She shared information
on the efforts by this group to educate and create awareness in that area for mass transit.

Corrected and Approved Minutes for 8/19/08
She stated they had received lots of support from the people at King Soopers where they had
set up a booth. She also stated she is a major shopper who shops in the RTD district.
Barb Steinmeyer, Denver, spoke to the University Light Rail Station development and stated
they all knew it was a done deal from the beginning. However, there are two things which
they desired: clarity on the actual owners of the property and a review of the perceived
property value for that space. She also made an observation that in looking at item 5 of the
performance measures, it states 100% actual performance which appears to her as
inaccurate reporting.
Andrew Funk, bicyclist from Denver who works in Boulder, shared the challenges of buses
being able to accommodate bikes and provided up a few suggestions to address this issue
(please see handout included in the minute notebook in the Board office).
Teri Westerman, Lakewood, provided an update on access-a-ride since her last visit to the
Board meeting in July. She stated that on her ride, she was told by the driver that the driver
had one mission-to get her to her destination on time and that she had been flagged in the
system. She thanked RTD for this special consideration but stated her desire is for an overall
fix to the access-a-ride issues that is applicable to all users. She also stated that she was
concerned about the drivers and what she is hearing from them of ridership having dropped.
She stated one driver shared a story with her of how he had to carry one access-a ride user
because the user had missed one dialysis treatment and was too weak to walk to the other.
She asked how is RTD servicing the disabled population and does it take someone dying before
something is truly done? She also stated she had not heard of any improvement in service
since the implementation of RouteMatch.
Chair Kemp requested Cal Marsella to followup with Terry on more details.
Robert Baxter, Pine Junction, asked for a re-consideration of the parking management policy to
charge Pine Junction. He stated this is an unpaved lot and very small and would not be a cost
effective change.
Pam Beckhorn, representative for Riders 285 Coalition, provided an update since her last
attendance in July on the efforts by this group to increase awareness and promote ridership of
mass transit. She indicated this effort was successful and that another awareness date of
September 20 is planned. She stated that if the parking management policy was implemented,
they would honor it. However, they have a number of concerns about the implementation at
Pine Junction including the possibility that it could drive people away from mass transit and
into carpooling. She also questioned how RTD could implement designated reserved spacing in
this unpaved, unmarked lot. Nevertheless, Riders 285 Coalition remains committed to forming
a strong partnership with RTD, CDOT, JeffCO and other entities to work together for more
permanent park-n-ride structure.
Lacey Burks, Denver, is an access-a-ride user who expressed several concerns about the
service. She indicated that this has been a life saver for dialysis patients but recently the
program sucks. It has been hard to get through or get hang ups. She has been late for several
dialysis treatments which affects her window. The drivers appeared stressed and RTD needs
to do something about the schedule. The schedule they are given does not appear to match
the manifest and confusion occurs. She petitioned RTD to do something about this issue
before something serious occurs.
Martin Wirth, representative of Riders 285 Coalition, stated he has some ambivalence about
the proposed parking management program which seems to only give RTD 30 cents on the
dollar. He cited the awkwardness of having riders to pay as they come into the station

Corrected and Approved Minutes for 8/19/08
especially since most riders are running to catch the bus. He feels there will be enforcement
issues and is skeptical of the software that is being used. He feels if not properly
implemented, the parking management system could antagonize customers. He requested that
RTD reconsider this proposal.
Keith Howard, Sunnyside Neighborhood, expressed concerns on the lack of clear cost
information on FasTracks and the PPP. He had submitted 41 questions to RTD but had not
received a response so he stated he may have to issue a formal complaint against RTD.
George Gershen, Transportation Director for Boulder, spoke on the proposed RTD fare
increases. He stated their support of with the following exceptions: remove minimum
employee requirement, lift moratorium from Neighborhood Pass program, postpone decision on
EcoPass until data can be gathered from fareboxes and included the proposal for low income
housing.
David Cook, parking and transportation services at CU also spoke on EcoPass. He read a letter
on behalf of the Vice Chancellor of Administration that had been sent to the RTD Board. A
copy of that letter is included in the minute notebook located in the Board office.
Martha Roskowski spoke on the proposed fare increased and what is perceived as a structural
change to the EcoPass program. She shared what would be some of the impacts in respective
Director districts, should the proposed increase of employees as a minimum for eligibility to the
EcoPass program be increased.
Glenda Richey spoke against the proposed fare increase and suggested most people will opt to
carpool rather than take the bus. She then asked the question of how does the decrease in
sales tax revenue and the rising costs for transit service impact on the bonuses given to RTD
executives. She stated there must be consideration for the handicap, elderly and those on
fixed income.
Gary Sprung, Highlands, spoke also on the issue of bikes on buses. He shared that there is an
increasing number of bike riders which is truly an enhancement on mobility. Over the past 7
years as a rider, he has observed increased demand for bus service for bike riders and RTD
needs to address this demand. Any future plans for FasTracks must consider this increase in
demand for bike riders.
Sean Bell, Louisville resident, shared that he is in the process of trying to implement a
Neighborhood Pass program and ask that RTD reconsider the proposed moratorium on the
Neighborhood Pass program.
Curtis Brink, Campus Crusade for Christ, expressed how since using mass transit a couple of
years ago he loves the service and suggested that the proposed increase in EcoPass would
discourage use of the service. He indicated that if this passes, he may just buy a scooter.
Pat Reed spoke about the disservice to access-a-Ride users and expressed concern over
getting people to their dialysis treatment on time both during the week and weekend.
V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
Director Christopher noted that the minutes from the F&A meeting on 8/12 excluded him from
the list of Board attendees. Director Daly added that he was also excluded. A correction has
been made to those minutes.

VI.

Corrected and Approved Minutes for 8/19/08
APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF June 17, 2008
MOTION:
Director Pulliam moved for the adoption of the July 15, 2008
regular board meeting minutes.
Director McMullen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 15 votes in favor and 0
against.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

VII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
1. FTA System procurement Review
Cal Marsella shared contractors are performing a FTA system review and things are
proceeding naturally.
2. Presentation to Nashville MPO on August 12th
Cal Marsella provided a comprehensive review of FasTracks with the delegates from
Nashville. Information was well received.
3. APTA Peer Review
During the week of 8/11, APTA performed a Peer Review of Customer Services and
provided a readout back to senior staff. Cal Marsella will get with senior staff to provide a
follow up action plan. This was a value add review which provided information from a
new system user perspective. In general the report was very positive about RTD and the
team stated RTD was one of the best agencies they have reviewed. Director Bruce Daly,
Chair of the Operations/Customer Service Committee, accompanied this group on the first
day on their tour.
4. Contract Signing for Ft. Lupton Properties and Governor’s Press Conference
RTD is in the process of closing on the two properties that were purchased as part of the
UP Fort Lupton deal. RTD sold this at fair market value and should break even on the deal.
RTD sold to a company in the wind power business that will provide an
economic benefit to this area. The Governor, City of Brighton, Weld County and other
local municipalities recognized RTD for their role in helping to consummate this deal.
Director McMullen noted that RTD was the subject of much negative press during the
initial purchase of this property and the claim that this property was not re-saleable.
However, there is little press about the fact that RTD sold this property, not at an inflated
price, but at a fair market value. RTD is indeed concerned about the interest of the
community.
5. Board Candidate Briefing on August 14
The Board office hosted a candidate briefing with the 2008 candidates for the RTD Board.
Chair Lee Kemp facilitated this meeting and Cal Marsella provided a technical overview of
the organization and FasTracks. The meeting was well attended and professionally
managed by the Board staff.
6. Economic Roundtable Review with Mr. Simonson of the AGC
Per Director Tayer’s request to have the number vetted by a third party, Mr. Simonson of
the AGC reviewed the numbers and financial assumptions and concurred. Additionally, 3rd

Corrected and Approved Minutes for 8/19/08
party validation was performed by JP Morgan, the City of Denver CFO, and DRCOG.
7. Other Issues
 Access-a Ride
Cal Marsella provided an update on access-a-Ride since the implementation of the
RouteMatch software. He indicated that complaints are down significantly,
productivity has improved and they have assigned a fulltime person to work with the
dialysis centers. There has also been an improvement in the phone system
performance.
Director Ruchman asked if Terry Westerman’s trips are now flagged and coded. Cal
Marsella responded yes and that he encourages this practice as it enables the center
to be proactive on this account. He does not feel it subrogates other access-a-Riders
but alerts the center to potential areas of concerns.
Director Chacon asked Bruce Abel to speak to the long delays a customer has in getting
someone on the phone. Bruce Abel responded from a reservation perspective the
average wait time is 4 minutes. He did not have that information for dispatch.
Director Quinlan inquired about statistics on dialysis patients. Bruce Abel indicates we
do not track by medical reasons but that he has a fulltime person assigned to working
with the dialysis centers.
Director Daly inquired if we were too top heavy with supervision for the five private
companies providing access-a-Ride services. Bruce Abel responded that we were not.
Directors Brohl, Yamrick and Ruchman were concerned about the cost aspect of this
and the expected productivity improvements. Director Brohl requested a weekly
analysis providing statistics on the expected goals, actual performance to goal,
and the targeted time to reach goal.
Director Busck added he would like to see these statistics by time of day (peak hours
versus off hours).
Cal Marsella stated they would assemble a report to provide all these statistics.
 DNC Update
Cal Marsella reported that in addition to information already shared, RTD is working
with CDOT and the respective DNC parties to address workarounds for the I-25
closure on Thursday night of the DNC. RTD is on top of it and we are fully staffed
and ready to go. However, in his discussion with some of the Boston officials, they
cautioned to expect last minute changes.
VIII.

PUBLIC HEARING ON PROPOSED 2008 AMENDED BUDGET
Chair Kemp read aloud the statement on the public hearing for the amended 2008 budget
and asked if anyone wanted to comment or speak. Seeing there was no one the Board
voted to move ahead with this process. The vote was 14 yes and 0 no. Director Chacon
had left.

IX.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
MOTION:

Director McMullen moved that the Board of Directors
adopt the Unanimous Consent Agenda A-D

Corrected and Approved Minutes for 8/19/08
Director Christopher seconded the motion.
AMENDMENT TO
MOTION:

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Director Martinez made motion to pull item D to
recommended action. Director Tayer seconded.

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 14 votes in
favor and 0 against. Director Chacon had left.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

A.

Proposed 2008 Amended Budget
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt Resolution No.___, Series of 2008 to amend and appropriate funds for
the proposed 2008 Amended Budget, to increase the appropriation, by $10,455,280 to
$892,438,867 as detailed below in the Overview of the 2008 Budget Amendment, and
to decrease the appropriation of Capital Carryforward (Previously Approved Capital
Funds) by $49,610,894 to $304,785,131.
The 2008 Amendment Appropriation includes the amounts in the August 2008
Amended column:
2008
Adopted

August 2008
Amended

Change

$382,905,106
$ 75,533,891
$388,544,590
$ 30,000,000
$ 5,000,000
$881,983,587

$390,236,116
$ 65,467,440
$404,341,667
$ 30,000,000
$ 2,393,644
$892,438,867

$7,331,010
-$10,066,451
$15,797,077
$
0
-$ 2,606,356
$10,455,280

District-wide Previously Approved Capital $354,396,025

$304,785,131

-$49,610,894

2008 Amended Operating Expenditures
2008 Amended Interest Expenditures
2008 Amended New Capital
FasTracks Contingency Reserve
Transit Development Reserve
District-wide 2008 Appropriation

B.

Consulting Services-Geographical Information Systems
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
a contract amendment to initiate the second-year option with Idea Integration
incrementally increasing the limit to $891,600 to extend the contract for Consulting
Services and part-time GIS programming services-Geographical Information Systems
(16DK006). This contract was originally awarded in 2006 to Idea integration through
the competitive bid process. The contract allowed for an initial year plus two one-year
options to renew based on positive performance by the vendor. The second one year
option is to begin on September 1, 2008 and remain in effect for one year until August
31, 2009. The annual limit is not to exceed $308,480.

C.

Submittal of New Starts Applications for Gold Line, East Corridor and Commuter Rail
Maintenance Facility
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors provide direction to the General Manager to submit the Gold Line Corridor,
East Corridor and the Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility projects for approval to enter
into FTA’s New Starts program by September 5, 2008. Submitting these applications
will not preclude the RTD Board of Directors from making any future decisions
concerning the implementation of the overall FasTracks program.

Corrected and Approved Minutes for 8/19/08
X. RECOMMENDED ACTION
Upon the advisement of the General Manager, Chair Kemp moved up the voting of the
recommended action items D-F ahead of the Executive Session and returned
after the Executive Session to vote on item G.
D.

2009 Fare Policy Public Input Process
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that RTD staff be
directed to solicit public input regarding staff recommended changes to RTD fare policy.
The recommended changes would increase cash fares for local, express, regional and
skyRide service by approximately 14 percent and would also include corresponding
increases in other multi-ride tickets and passes. Following consideration of public input,
staff is further directed to present a final recommendation to the RTD Board not later
than the regularly scheduled Board meeting in October.
MOTION:

Director Pulliam made a motion to approve 2009
Fare Public Input Process.
Director Yamrick seconded the motion.

PRIMARY AMENDMENT:

Director Martinez passed out a handout on his
calculations on October 2008 Rate Increase
Proposal and requested an amendment to the
proposed 2009 Fare Policy Public Input Process.
Director Ruchman seconded this motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director Martinez focused on the issue of having
cash customers pay additional amount on all
passes and suggested that if the cost increase is
due to fuel charges, this should be applied
equitably across the Board.
Director McMullen concurred and thanked Director
Martinez for coming up with a method that is fair.
He stated fuel surcharge should affect everyone
equally.
Cal Marsella and Bruce Abel responded with the
reasons why having different rates for discounted
passes may be a benefit to RTD: Offering
discount for prepaid media saves RTD in handling
expenses; RTD gets money upfront (Present value
of money versus future value); and generates
customer loyalty.
General consensus was
obtained that taking this modification out to
public hearing should be done to get customer
input.
The primary motion for the 2009 Fare Policy
Public Input Process was amended to include the
proposal from Director Martinez to add an
additional $2.00 to the local, express and regional
discount pass programs.

Corrected and Approved Minutes for 8/19/08
VOTE ON
MOTION:
An electronic vote was taken with 14 votes in
favor and 0 against. Director Chacon had left.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED
unanimously which includes this amendment to
carry the proposed change by Director Martinez
back to the public for public comments.
SECONDARY
AMENDMENT:

Director Tayer made a motion for a second
amendment to the 2009 Fare Public Policy Input
Process which would include the following
changes:
o Remove from the EcoPass Program the
proposed increase to 50 employees as the
minimum for eligibility to participate in the
EcoPass program; and the new $5 skyRide fee
for Eco Pass holder; and
o Remove from the Neighborhood Pass program
the moratorium on new or expanded
Neighborhood Pass contracts until smart card
data is available and the new $5 skyRide fee
for Neighborhood Pass holders. (A copy of the
proposed change is attached to the minutes in
the minutes notebook located in the Board
office).
Director Martinez seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director Tayer read a prepared statement as
noted below:

“RTD staff has done an excellent job over the past few months preparing a proposal for bus and
light rail adjustments that will help RTD maintain its service standards. The proposal that sits
before us tonight contains a series of balanced rate adjustments that are worthy of our planned
public input process. These rate adjustments cover all of RTD’s fare payment mechanisms, from
direct cash fares to annual Eco Passes.
At the same time, beyond the typical fare adjustment discussion, RTD staff is proposing a series of
measures that fundamentally change the structure of our Eco pass and neighborhood pass
programs. I am speaking specifically of the proposals to place a moratorium on Neighborhood
Passes, to increase the minimum employee thresholds for the Business Eco Pass Program and to
charge all Eco Pass holders a new $5 fee for skyRide service.
These proposed measures have significant policy implications for the Eco Pass and Neighborhood
Pass programs. You have seen the e-mails and heard the testimony this evening. These proposed
structural adjustments will have a devastating impact on RTD customers from across the Denver
region, many of who are RTD’s most loyal riders.
Further, RTD staff offers these proposed structural changes to the EcoPass and Neighborhood pass
programs at the very time that we are expecting to get the hard ridership data that will help us to
make truly sound policy decisions. In 2009, after too many years of delay, we are finally installing
the fareboxes that will definitively answer the questions we have regarding Eco Pass ridership. So,
why now, just as we wait to receive this data, should we take precipitous action based on

Corrected and Approved Minutes for 8/19/08
information that we have been arguing about for the past 16 years?
It is for these reasons, because of the devastating implications to our most devoted transit
customers and the precipitous nature of the proposed measures, that I ask my fellow Board
members to please join me in supporting a proposed amendment that removes the non-germane
structural adjustments to the EcoPass and Neighborhood Pass programs from the proposed 2009
fare policy changes.”
Director Yamrick asked what was the purpose of removing this from public comments. Is it
possible to just move it ahead to public comment and let us hear from the public?
Director Brohl asked if these changes were removed from the staff 2009 Fare Policy proposal,
what would be the financial impact. Bruce Abel responded approximately $2M impact @14%
proposed fare rate increase or $1M net impact.
Director Tayer asked for better clarity of what amount was being contributed to his proposed
amendment change. Bruce Abel responded that approximately $2M of the $3M EcoPass new
revenue is due to the changes from the 14%, 5% and $5.00 SkyRide surcharge and approximately
$1M of the $3M EcoPass new revenue is attributable to the estimated net gain of the 50 person
minimum pricing.
Director Quinlan stated that this proposed change by Director Tayer does not meet the “So what”
test. This amendment needs to be taken off the table and allow the 2009 fare policy public input
process to proceed to the public. He felt this is a Boulder issue at the expense of others.
Director Ruchman asked for the empirical base for the 5% and was provided this by Bruce Abel.
Director Martinez asked what was the outcome from the group that had been put together to study
the EcoPass program. Cal Marsella responded that essentially they did not come to consensus.
Director Martinez stated this is more than a Boulder issue as he has Neighborhoods and others who
are interested and in the process of implementing EcoPass program. Their momentum will be
stopped. He concurs that the EcoPass needs to be removed from the public comments.
Director Busck indicated we need to let the process work. We have not heard from the public and
we need to move ahead in order to hear from everyone.
Director Pulliam commented that the EcoPass program has been discussed ad nausea over the past
several years. The complaint has always been we do not have enough data and his fear is we will
never have enough data to satisfy the people who object to our proposed changes.
Director Kinton reemphasized the importance of having 3rd party validation of the data that has
been presented this far on the Eco Pass program as the staff numbers and the numbers presented
by Director Tayer vastly varies.
After continuous discussion, Cal Marsella summarized the issues on the table. He stated that
pertaining to the 50 employee person minimum, The 50 employee person minimum does not mean
that all the companies cited are out. It just means they have another decision to make. With the
50 person minimum, the price structure will just say there is a minimum ante to get into the
EcoPass program. They will look at how many people use it and how many don’t and they will say
do I stay in it or drop out or perhaps subsidize a different type of program like the Flexpass,
monthly pass, whatever. Some will still stay in because if the business case say they have so
many people using it, it still works for me. It is not like they are out by definition. That is a
business decision they are going to make. As for the $5:00 SkyRide, we have beat this to death.
It is a very long trip. I agree with the arguments made here and have nothing to add. For the

Corrected and Approved Minutes for 8/19/08
neighborhood, we have expressed concerns about it. I believe the household cost was around $58
per household. That could generate 4 or 5 passes that the children use, the wife use, the husband
use 2 or 3 times to go back and forth to the airport. I don’t know what that is exactly but you can
see it is a small subset of the community. There are only EcoPass neighborhood programs in
Boulder. It is a great deal for Boulder. However, it is so narrowly tailored that we feel if we do not
do this moratorium, constituents will be back here next year asking why did we take it away from
them. We recommend a moratorium because we think we have a problem with it.
Director Tayer indicated that he still wanted to go ahead with the vote to make his amendment to
the proposed 2009 Fare Policy Public Input Process.


Clarification of the Motion: The motion to be voted on is to go ahead with the staff
recommendation for the 2009 fare policy which now includes the amendment made
by Director Martinez to add the additional $2.00 change for the discount programs
for the public with the recommended changes by Director Tayer to remove from the
EcoPass Program the proposed increase to 50 employees as the minimum for
eligibility to participate in the EcoPass program; and the new $5 skyRide fee for Eco
Pass holder; and remove from the Neighborhood Pass program the moratorium on
new or expanded Neighborhood Pass contracts until smart card data is available
and the new $5 skyRide fee for Neighborhood Pass holders.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken on the
motion as modified by Director Tayer with
5 in favor (Christopher, Daly, Kinton,
Martinez, Tayer)and 9 against (Brohl,
Busck, Elfenbein, Kemp, McMullen,
Quinlan, Pulliam, Ruchman, Yamrick).
Director Chacon had left.
Chair Kemp declared the Motion FAILED.

VOTE ON ORIGINAL MOTION
INCLUDING AMENDMENT 1:

An electronic vote was taken for the
original recommendation to move the
2009 Fare Policy to Public Comment
and add the Amendment by Director
Martinez to take his proposal out for
public hearing also with 13 in favor
(Brohl, Busck, Christopher, Daly,
Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton, Martinez,
McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan,
Ruchman, and Yamrick) and 1against
(Tayer). Director Chacon had left.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

E.

Adoption of 2009 Performance Measures
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the 2009 Performance Measures for Goals 1-6 and non-capital
measures for Goal 7. The Performance Measures indicated below have been modified
as requested in the Financial/Administration Committee of August 12, 2008.


Goal 1.1, Passenger Accident Ratio per 100,000 miles System-wide; modified





Corrected and Approved Minutes for 8/19/08
from ≤0.20 to ≤0.18.
Goal 2.2, Dirty Bus Complaints per Month; modified from ≤0.5 to ≤0.4
Goal 3.3, Hours Between Lost Service Maintenance Road Calls (Mall); modified
from ≥500 to ≥600
Goal 4.4 Improve Customer Information Through the Use of Technology;
modified form 3.0M to 3.3M
MOTION:

Director Pulliam moved that the Board of Directors adopt
the 2009 Performance Measures.
Director Yamrick seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 14 votes in
favor and 0 against. Director Chacon had left.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

F.

Parking Management Program
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to implement the 2008 Parking
Management Program as detailed in the attached document entitled “2008 Parking
Management Program” dated August 2008, and to amend the existing contract with
Central parking to accomplish implementation.
MOTION:

Director Yamrick moved that the Board of Directors adopt
the Parking Management Program as defined.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

PRIMARY
AMENDMENT:

Director Daly asked a question about the type of system
that would be installed at Pine Junction. Errol replied
that legislature requires a large revenue box at each
system but that the majority of riders will opt to set up
an account.
Director Daly offered an amendment to exclude Pine
Junction from the parking management program due to
the fact it is an undeveloped lot, it has elements of
uniqueness and customers in that area do not have other
choices.
Director Brohl seconded the motion.

FRIENDLY
AMENDMENT:

Director Kinton offered a friendly amendment to change
the language to say exclusion of unpaved park-n-ride
surfaces.
Directors Daly
amendment.

DISCUSSION:

and

Brohl

accepted

this

friendly

Director Busck indicated the fundamental driver of this
parking policy is to discourage riders who live outside the
District from occupying space that district riders need.
This parking management program is a fair program and

Corrected and Approved Minutes for 8/19/08
we cannot make exceptions. Director Elfenbein agreed
that it is poor practice right out of the gate to start a
program with exceptions.
Director McMullen reiterated that the cleanest solution to
this issue is for Park County to join the District. Director
Christopher responded that we need to be careful what
we ask for as right now we may not be able to provide
transit coverage even if they join the district. Director
Yamrick agreed that just because you are annexed does
not mean that RTD can provide immediate service.
Director Martinez asked how RTD would know at such a
lot when/if a person left and came back. Errol Stevens
responded there are options, one of which is to monitor
twice daily or the other is to put an X on the tire.
Cal Marsella provided a list of a number of locations that
would “fit” under the definition of unpaved lots.
AMENDMENT TO
FRIENDLY
AMENDMENT:
VOTE ON
MOTION:

Director Kinton amended his friendly amendment to say
“any fully unpaved park-n-ride lot”.
An electronic roll call vote was taken with 4 votes in
favor (Daly, Martinez, Kinton, Tayer) and 10
against(Brohl, Busck, Christopher, Elfenbein, Kemp,
McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman, Yamrick) Director
Chacon had left.
Chair Kemp declared the motion FAILED.

MOTION:

Director Yamrick moved that the Board of Directors
adopt the Parking Management Program as defined.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in favor
(Brohl, Busck, Christopher, Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton,
Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman, Tayer
and Yamrick) and 1 against (Daly). Director Chacon had
left.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

XI.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
MOTION:

Director Martinez made the motion to
move into Executive Session for the
purpose to discuss C.R.S. 24-6-402(a) (a)

Corrected and Approved Minutes for 8/19/08
Real Property-Disposition of Land at
University in Fort Lupton and C.R.S. 24-6402(4) (f) and (e) Personnel Matter
Director Elfenbein seconded the motion.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

The Board adjourned to Executive Session at 9:05 p.m.
The Board adjourned from Executive Session at 9:45 p.m.
X.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
G.

Disposition of Land at University (From Executive Session)
MOTION:

Director Brohl made the motion to authorize the
General Manager to negotiate with Mile Hi
Development for the disposition of land at
University.
Director Elfenbein seconded the motion.

VOTE ON THE
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 14
votes in favor and 0 against. Director Chacon
had left.
Chair Kemp
unanimously.

XI.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
There was no unfinished business.

XII.

NEW BUSINESS
There was no new business.

XIII.

ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned at 9:50 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

declared

the

motion

PASSED

Corrected and Approved Minutes for 8/19/08
ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, August 19, 2008

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
Chris Martinez, First Vice Chair
Noel Busck, Second Vice Chair
William McMullen, Secretary
John Tayer, Treasurer
Barbara Brohl
Juanita Chacon
Bill Christopher
Bruce Daly
Bill Elfenbein
Daryl Kinton
Wally Pulliam
O’Neill Quinlan
Dave Ruchman
Barbara Yamrick
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Carol Coe
Carol Duecker
Mike Gil
Bob Lewis
Cal Marsella
Paula Perdue
Scott Reed
Daria Serna
Bill Sirois
Liz Telford
Joy Volz
Greg Yates

District I
District B
District K
District E
District O
District D
District C
District J
District N
District A
District H
District L
District G
District M
District F

Susan Altes
Lee Cryer
Sherry Ellebracht
Cheryl Holmes
Marla Lien
Tony McCaylay
John Perry
Chris Reiter
Cal Shankster
Errol Stevens
Lisa Trujillo
Phil Washington
Rick Clarke

OTHERS PRESENT:
Kevin Flynn – Rocky Mountain News
Jeff Leib – The Denver Post
Fred Weade
John Tighe – Park County
Russell Greear
Patricia Steffes
Janet Arrowood
Nyla McKeon – Riders 285 Coalition
Frank McKeon – Riders 285 Coalition
Chris Taylor – Spectrum A/V
Sheree Zamarripa - Riders 285 Coalition
Barb Steinmeyer – University Neighbors
Andrew Funk
Ed Colby – URS

Ron Dodsworth
David Genova
Terry Howerter
Caitlin Magee
Robert Merriman
Liz Rao
Teresa Sedmak
John Shonsey
John Tarbert
Bill Van Meter
Susan Wood

Corrected and Approved Minutes for 8/19/08
Teri Westerman
Lynda Bissett - Riders 285 Coalition
Juanita Kursevich - Riders 285 Coalition
Holman Carter – ATU 1001
Justin Herrera
Robert Baxter - Riders 285 Coalition
Pam Beckhorn - Riders 285 Coalition
Bruce Beckhorn - Riders 285 Coalition
Kelly Hausmane
Richard Chapman
Robin Kniech – FRESC
Debbie Champion - Riders 285 Coalition
Lacey D. Burks
Melissa Barnes - Riders 285 Coalition
Steve Barnes - Riders 285 Coalition
Jane Parker - Riders 285 Coalition
Glenda Richey
Angie Malpiede – Stapleton TMA
Craig Lessard
Michelle Halstead – CDOT
Phil Hernandez – Denver Police Department
Jerry Staples
Adam Goldstein – Aurora Sentinel
Peter Lorenzen
Gary Ulberg
Pete Tobin – Ascendant Development
Constatin Nickonov – SUNI
John Maslanick
Bill James
Curtis Brink – Campus Crusade for Christ
Chad Stewart – Campus Crusade for Christ
Martin Wirth - Riders 285 Coalition
Eugene Howard – SUNI
Keith Howard – SUNI
Kim Snyder
Jack McCroskey
Dave Bishop
George Gerstle
Laura Yribia
John Valerio
Ymana Miyamae – News 2
Jolynn Pryor - Riders 285 Coalition
Ken Bagley
Sean Bell
Galen Foster
Martha Roskowski
Gary Sprung
Robyn Henk
Greg Henk - Flatiron
David Cook – University of Colorado
Pat Reed
Dave Minshall
Zak Brown – Daily Camera

