Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
May 21, 2015 at 12:00 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Pro Tem Tobiassen called the meeting to order at 12:04 p.m.
Committee members in attendance:
Committee members absent:
Other Board members present:
Others Present:
Constituents present:

II.

Chair pro-Tem Tobiassen, Secretary Walker, 2nd
Vice-Chair Menten.
Chair Sisk, Treasurer Hoy
Director Bagley, Director James, Director Folska
(via phone)
Interim General Manager Genova, Paula Perdue
Jane Smith, David Sachs, editor at Streetsblog
Denver

Action Item: Video Recording for Board Chamber
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the
Interim General Manager to implement a system to audio and video record all RTD Board
meetings, committee meetings and study sessions, and post the videos to the RTD
website for public viewing. This action also approves the initial upfront costs not to
exceed $25,000 to purchase and install equipment necessary to record the meetings. In
addition, this action approves funding for a contract technician to facilitate the video
recording at each meeting and an offsite contractor to provide closed captioning services.
These services combine for an estimated not-to-exceed amount of $35,000 a year.
Chair Pro Tem Tobiassen asked Interim General Manager Genova to speak to this item.
Interim General Manager Genova noted that a Board report had been for the videotaping of
the RTD Board meetings in RTD and the Executive Conference room. The initial upfront
cost not to exceed $25,000 for the purchase and install of equipment and an additional
amount for the contract technician and stenographer for the closed captioned services for
a total amount not to exceed $35,000 per year. The initial funding is available in the
General Manager’s unallocated budget. This item will need to be budgeted for the

following years. This proposal included two cameras as they did not feel one camera
would provide the desired quality.
Director Menten acknowledged this proposal and recommended that other audio from past
years should also be made available on the website. This may be an action for future
consideration.
Director Walker inquired if the lights in the RTD room are movable. He noted having
proper lighting is important. He also wondered if we would be capturing public comments
with these cameras. Could this be an issue if people did not desire to be on camera?
Director Bagley thanked the Board members for agreeing to move this forward. He
commented the idea and request had come from him. However, he expressed concerns
that three of the Board members who he knows favor this recommendation would not be
available to vote at the Board meeting on Tuesday. He considers this of vast importance
to the full Board and therefore requested that this action be postponed until June, 2015.
Director James indicated that he liked the idea of video recording for transparency
purposes but suggested that perhaps we need to do some thorough analysis before
making this decision. He shared he had been in a meeting in Commerce City and perhaps
we can talk to them about their experiences. He also recommended we could use the tech
support from our meetings and create some efficiency. Paula Perdue corrected him and
stated there is no technician available at our committee meetings, only the Board
meetings.
Director Folska stated she believes this is a good idea. However, her concern right now is
overextending our resources. Our focus should be on the opening of the 4 corridors plus
the BRT in 2016, the effects of the fare study rollout, the GM Search efforts, the APTA
Seminar, just to name a few, and felt we should try to avoid mission creep. She
wondered if it would make sense to postpone this effort until 2016 when these projects
are completed. She felt all hands need to be on deck to make sure we can have
successful project completion.
Director Bagley emphasized that now is the time for the video to be installed. He feels
that the project rollouts that Director Folska identified is all the more reason to have the
cameras installed. He stated this was first brought to his attention before the fare study
and it is beneficial to our efforts to install video for transparency purposes. He feels it
should be done now, rather than later.
Motion:

Director Menten made the motion to approve the videotaping of the
RTD Board meetings and to move it to the Board meeting on
Tuesday, May 26, 2015.

Director Walker seconded the motion.
Discussion:

Interim General Manager Genova indicated staff would be able to
implement if this action gets approved. He sees no problem with
doing it now.
Chair Pro Tem Tobiassen shared that he is in support of the video.
However, we do have budgetary concerns as presented by Jannette
Scarpino with the projected SBP shortfall of $26M. He is also
concerned around the issues of affordable fares. He recognizes this
is little money but every penny is important when balancing the
budget. Interim General Manager thinks this is reasonable and would
have minimal impact. Above all, he wants to make sure this would
not affect the Board’s office negatively as with workload or
resources. He wants this implementation to be total transparent to
the work of the Board office.
Director Bagley responded the funds will be coming from the General
Manager’s unallocated budget. It will take a few months to get
equipment ordered so he did not see it impacting on the APTA
Seminar and could be done in August.
Paula Perdue responded that this is not a project that has ever been
discussed with her on its impact on her staff or resources. This
request was brought directly to former General Manager Washington
by Director Bagley. She had made it clear at that time that her office
has no bandwidth or resources to implement or manage this
additional responsibility. This was supposed to be an action for the
communications department. Whether it gets implemented in August
2015 or August of 2017, her response is still the same. It cannot be
transferred to this Board office to maintain or budget funds. She is
simply out of resources and is already concerned about the work
overload by her staff now and in the future. Her concern is on the
quality of life for her employees and this cannot be pushed off on the
Board office now or later.
Director Bagley indicated he was sensitive to the concerns expressed
by Paula. His real concern is this is a project that needs to be
implemented now. If not now, when? He shared this would require
a vote of eight. He believes postponing this action to June would be

better when a more representative number of Board members could
be present.
Director Menten inquired how many employees are in
communications. Interim General Manager Genova indicated he will
have to check the actual headcount and that they have salary and
represented employees. He believes the number is somewhere
around sixty. Chair Pro Tem Tobiassen indicated this question would
need to be clarified as a large number of these employees work for
TIC and also a number of the staff includes project people. Chair Pro
Tem Tobiassen noted that Interim General Manager Genova had
contingency funding, the quality of the service proposed appears
good, he does not see much risk of taking this before the Board as it
appears there is overall support so they would move this action item
forward.
Vote on Motion:

III.

The motion PASSED Unanimously.

May Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Pro Tem Tobiassen called for a discussion of the May agenda.
Motion:

Director Menten made the motion to approve moving the May agenda
forward to the Board meeting of May 26, 2015.
Director Walker seconded the motion

Discussion:

Chair Pro Tem Tobiassen indicated that all items had been discussed
and vetted in the Committee meetings so he did not see many
questions. Director Folska suggested that the Board report on fare
study should highlight the different phases that are under
consideration as she is not sure that everyone understands our next
steps.
Interim General Manager Genova indicated they are anticipating a
large number of people for the meeting on Tuesday and asked if
preparations had been made for the overflow. Paula Perdue indicated
this has not been a ASK of her and since her budget was tight due to
the General Manager’s Search process, she has not taken any steps
to make this happen. This is an additional cost item. Chair Pro Tem

Tobiassen inquired what needs to happen and placed a request of
Paula to make the necessary preparations for overflow on Tuesday.
Vote on Motion:


The motion PASSED Unanimously.

Unanimous Consent
A.
Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report to
Governance
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors accept and enter into the record the District’s audited financial
reports relating to the year ended December 31, 2014 as prepared by Staff and
audited by the District's independent auditor, RubinBrown, LLP.
B.

Approval of Bank Signing Authority for RTD Chief Financial Officer

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the attached Bank Account Signature Authorization
Agreement (the “Agreement”).


Recommended Action
C.

State Legislative Liaison Services Contract Renewal

It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the Interim General Manager, or his designee, to enter into an
agreement for state legislative liaison services with Brandeberry~McKenna Public
Affairs (BMPA) to exercise a one-year option (June 30, 2015 through June 29,
2016) to extend Contract No. 13-DX-001, at a cost of $117,000, pursuant to the
Contract Award agreement.
D.

Award of Contract for On-Vehicle Advertising (Paratransit Fleet)

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
General Manager or his designee be authorized to enter into a contract with ZoZo
Group, LLC of Denver for the sale and installation of exterior advertising on ADA
paratransit vehicles for the two and one-half year period July 1, 2015 through
December 31, 2017 with two one-year options for 2018 and 2019. Under the
terms of the recommended action, ZoZo Group, LLC would remit to RTD either 1) a
minimum guarantee of $45,000 in 2015, $200,000 in 2016 and $210,000 in
2017 or 2) sixty percent of net sales, whichever is greater.

E.

January 2016 Recommended Fare Policy Changes

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
Board of Directors approves the recommended fare policy changes, as outlined in
Attachment A, to take effect beginning January 1, 2016.
F.

Videotaping RTD Board Meetings

It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the Interim General Manager to implement a system to audio and video
record all RTD Board meetings, committee meetings and study sessions, and post
the videos to the RTD website for public viewing. This action also approves the
initial upfront costs not to exceed $25,000 to purchase and install equipment
necessary to record the meetings. In addition, this action approves funding for a
contract technician to facilitate the video recording at each meeting and an offsite
contractor to provide closed captioning services. These services combine for an
estimated not-to-exceed amount of $35,000 a year.
IV.

Other Matters


V.

Director Bagley requested a record of the names of the constituents who were in
attendance at this meeting. Paula Perdue pulled the sign in log and recorded the
attendees as Jane Smith representing self and David Sachs, Streetblog.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 12:45 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

