1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
Special FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Thursday, November 14, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Special FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Larry Hoy

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 5:32 p.m. He recognized Chair
Anderson and Director Folska who were participating via conference call.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Arrived
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Remote
Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

5:21 PM

Bruce Daly

Director, District N

Present

5:32 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Remote

5:32 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater

Chair
Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Present
Present

5:26 PM
5:25 PM
5:27 PM

Judy Lubow

Vice Chair

Present

5:27 PM

Natalie Menten
Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District M
Director, District C

Present
Present

5:38 PM
5:23 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present

5:29 PM
5:21 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:34 PM
5:20 PM

Staff Present:

Rolf Asphaug, Bob Brown, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Lee Cryer,
John Dawson, Kevin Diviness, Bob Downes, John Elias, Sherry
Ellebracht, Ron Enserro, David Genova, Terry Howerter, Brian Iacono,
Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Barbara McManus, Anthony Menendez,
Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Pranaya Shrestha, Bill Sirois, Jim Stadler,
Jim Starling, Henry Stopplecamp, Kirk Strand, Walt Stringer, John
Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington

Others Present:

Torie Brazitis, Leonard Dinegar, Jane Donovan, Mike Fitzgerald, Joni
Goheen, Honorable Mayor Jim Gunning, Michelle Halstead, Bruce
Hammon, Erik Hansen, Jack Hilbert, Seth Hoffman, Dale Honor, Scott
Jones, Cary Kennedy, Steve Klausing, Brian McDonald, MaryAnn
Migliorelli, Susan Monard, Beth Mouriguand, George Noe, Krista
Mann, Shawn Plichta, Don Pohlman, Elaine Pohlman, Gene Putman,
Caitlin Quander, Holli Riebel, Mike Salmon, Roger Sherman, Jeanne
Shreve, Carl Smith, Lindsey Smith, Karen Stuart, Brook Svoboda,
Ravi Swamy, Maureen Tarrant, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Charles
Ward, Hugh Wilson, Libby Winter

B. CAC Update
Hugh Wilson, Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) Co-Chair, informed the Board
that the CAC met last night for a presentation done by RTD staff regarding the
North Metro proposal. He said that he wanted to share the CAC’s support of RTD
staff’s recommendation. Hugh Wilson congratulated RTD staff on a thorough and
inclusive process. He stated that the CAC is encouraged by the high level of
collaboration and stakeholder involvement which resulted in both RTD staff and the
stakeholder evaluation team independently reaching the same recommendation.
Hugh Wilson and the CAC commend RTD staff for seeking out innovations to
complete FasTracks as soon as possible. He provided the Board with a formal
letter from the Citizens Advisory Committee that is available in the November 14,
2013 FasTracks Monitoring Committee Agenda Packet.

C. Public Participation - North Metro Line
Committee Chair Hoy read the following statement regarding public participation:
“As the Agenda states, we are now holding a special opportunity for public
participation concerning the North Metro Line. Normally committees like this don’t
have public comments; instead, we invite members of the public to provide
comments at full RTD Board meetings – not committee meetings - on RTD matters
that concern them, whether or not those matters are on the agenda.

Tonight, however, because we want to provide additional opportunity for public
comment, we are having a special public participation session at this committee
meeting – limited to comments about the North Metro Line. In particular, we are
inviting comments from the public going to the merits of the recommended action
before this committee tonight: whether to forward from this FasTracks Monitoring
Committee to the RTD Board of Directors a recommendation for approval of a
contract award to Graham, Balfour Beatty, Hamon Contractors for the design and
construction of the North Metro Rail Line Project.
So, we will ask you to limit your public comments to those subjects, because we
need to make sure everyone has time to talk about those issues and that we have
time to consider this issue tonight. Please save public comments on any other
topics for the next RTD Board meeting. Thank you.
With that understanding, I’m going to start calling on persons who have signed up
to provide public comments concerning the North Metro Line. “
Jack Hilbert, Douglas County Commissioner, thanked the Board for the opportunity
to speak. He shared that he comes to the Board wearing four hats: Douglas
County Commissioner, Vice-Chair for Denver Regional Council of Governments
(DRCOG) Board, I-25 TMA Chair and C-470 Corridor Coalition Chair. He believes
this is an incredible process that RTD has put together and a brilliant proposal.
Jack Hilbert feels this goes a long way in keeping the promise that RTD made to
the public when we had our election; it goes a long way to fulfilling that promise as
well as meeting an incredible transportation need for the North Metro corridor.
Jack Hilbert noted that he has been involved in transportation in this region for over
eight years. He stated that this is very exciting; the Board and staff should be
congratulated and very proud. He reiterated that this proposal as a whole is
excellent and he is looking forward to looking at all components; however, the
northern corridor is critical to regional connectivity and the timing could not be
better. Jack Hilbert stated that he highly recommends that the Board approve this
proposal and move forward.
Jim Gunning, Mayor of Lone Tree and Metro Mayor Caucus (MMC) Chair, said that
he has been a member of the MMC FasTracks Task Force for the last five years.
He thanked RTD for the opportunity to make public comments; he believes that
public comments are very important. Jim Gunning believes it is really noteworthy
that RTD continues to build out the system and exceed expectations. He thinks
building the North Line to 124th is tremendous. He said that this was fantastic
news to everyone in the metro area as the North Metro really needs transportation.
Jim Gunning shared that his partners that live in the North Metro have worked long
and hard on achieving that goal. He commended RTD Board and staff for
everything they have done to make that happen. Jim Gunning stated that he would
be remiss if he did not quickly get in a plug for the Southeast extension. He
commented that the Request for Proposal (RFP) process really gave the Southeast
confidence that RTD is trying to keep its commitment of finishing the system as a

whole. He thanked RTD for pursuing the New Starts grant as well as for the RFP
process and continued building in his area. He shared that as a corridor, the
Southeast always stands ready to partner with RTD to accelerate any build out that
they can. Jim Gunning reiterated that the Board and staff have done a tremendous
job in completing this system.
Erik Hansen, Adams County Commissioner and Chair of the North Area
Transportation Alliance (NATA), began by thanking Jack Hilbert and Jim Gunning;
the fact that they are here tonight speaking in support of this proposal says a lot
about regional cooperation. He has worked with them over the years and both
have been consistent in their massage that we need to move forward and get the
system done. Erik Hansen thanked the Board and other elected officials for looking
at the North Metro Line and making it a top priority. He noted that the North Metro
really needs transit and it will make a tremendous difference when that happens.
Erik Hansen shared that the North Metro Line has been on his mind for many years;
he has spent sleepless night thinking about this. Erik Hansen felt like he went
through the stages of grief over the North Metro Line: denial, anger, bargaining, and
acceptance. There was a time when he decided the line was not going to get done
which is why he is amazed and pleased that that is not going to be the case. He
noted that what is even more amazing is that it will be pretty much on time. Erik
Hansen read a letter to the Board from NATA that is available in the November 14,
2013 FasTracks Committee Agenda Packet.
Cary Kennedy, Denver Deputy Mayor, thanked the Board and other elected officials.
She stated that on behalf of Mayor Michael B. Hancock and his entire
administration, she is happy to be here to voice Denver’s support of this proposal.
Cary Kennedy said that building to 124th as a first phase makes complete sense.
She expressed that everyone on Mayor Hancock’s team is confident that RTD will
find a way to fund the rest of the line sooner rather than later. Cary Kennedy noted
that the City of Denver has a vested interest in all of the FasTracks projects being
completed because it is the integration of the whole system that will truly make an
interconnected, multi-modal transportation network for the entire region. She
stated that this line will not only drive economic development but also increase the
quality of life for all of our metro area residents and visitors; it will also continue to
make the region more globally competitive. Cary Kennedy commented that as
regional partners everyone has worked through many challenging issues and
celebrated many successes; collaborating to make the North Metro Line is among
those challenges and we are now on the cusp of realizing yet another mutual
success. She shared that during the evaluation process RTD incorporated a
stakeholder group that included a member of the City of Denver’s staff; Denver,
Commerce City, Northglenn, Thornton and Adams County were all at the table to
determine which proposal was best. The RTD staff and stakeholder evaluations
resulted in the same outcome that Graham, Balfour Beatty, Hamon Contractors
(GBBH) is the best overall proposal to expand to the North. Cary Kennedy stated
that this once again shows why our Denver Metro region is an example of regional
cooperation. She reiterated that on behalf of Mayor Hancock and the City of

Denver she encourages the Board to move forward with this proposal from GBBH to
build the North Metro Rail Line.
Skip Noe, Aurora City Manager, shared that Mayor Hogan extends his apologies for
not being able to attend but he did want a letter read in support of the proposal as
well as his commitment to the completion of the entire FasTracks project. This
letter is available in the November 14, 2013 FasTracks Committee Agenda Packet.
Leonard Denigar, CU Sr. VP & Chief of Staff, read a letter from CU President Bruce
Benson in support of the GBBH proposal. Bruce Benson believes this proposal
provides a clear path for how to enhance our regional connectivity; it is important
that the whole region stay focused on the value that completing the FasTracks
program brings to everyone. This letter is available in the November 14, 2013
FasTracks Committee Agenda Packet.
Holli Riebel, Denver Metro Chamber (Chamber) COO, stated that the Chamber has
been a long supporter of FasTracks; in 2004 they put the first money into the
FasTracks campaign. She believes that to fulfill the promise to voters the system
must be finished. Holli Riebel noted that the economic development impact is
critical to the economy. Since 2004 FasTracks has injected over $2.8 billion in the
local economy, creating over 11,000 direct and indirect jobs. She said that the
Chamber applauds RTD for their innovation to complete the initial phase of the
North Metro Line as well as the commitment to completing the system. She stated
that for these reasons the Chamber recommends approval.
Mike Fitzgerald, Denver South EDP, commended General Manager Washington,
staff and the Board for the diligence, creativity, and can do attitude that has really
positioned the entire Front Range as a national model for transportation. He noted
that nothing that is being done in the region is as important as finishing FasTracks.
Mike Fitzgerald stated that he was encouraging the Board to support this proposal
and expedite the project. He reminded the Board that his organization served on
the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force so they were able to learn a lot about the
administration, finance, and operations of RTD as well as meet many of the staff
first hand. He shared that his organization was the group that initiated the idea of
T-Rex 15 years ago and have been ardent regional supporters of finishing this
complex system since then. He said that Denver South EDP supported the I-225
line, in 2010 they were the first and only business to commit to a .4% tax to finish
FasTracks, and they put up $500K for a campaign that never got going. He
reiterated that Denver South EDP is an ardent supporter and understands that the
system will not reach its full potential until it is done. Mike Fitzgerald shared that
Denver South EDP is concentrating on solving the last half mile issue as well as
completing the Lincoln extension. He stated that Denver South EDP’s
recommendation is to keep going.
Gene Putman, City of Thornton, explained that Mayor Williams and the City Council
send their regrets that they are unable to attend as they are out of town at a

conference; however, they wanted him to read a letter to the Board. He noted that
the letter that was passed out was not on small paper by heavy weight paper
because Thornton has been a strong supporter of FasTracks. Gene Putman shared
that when RTD projected the North Metro Line being completed in 2044, Thornton
was a little on the angry side but right now this is a happy time. He shared that
the letter states that Thornton is fully in support of the unanimous recommendation
of not only RTD staff but of the stakeholders group. Gene Putman said that one
council member even commented on how unique it is to have a unanimous vote.
He stated that Thornton also wants to work with RTD to finish the line as it was
originally approved by voters up to 162nd. Gene Putman encouraged the Board to
move forward with approving the GBBH proposal and said that Thornton will be
with RTD step-by-step until it gets done. This letter is available in the November
14, 2013 FasTracks Monitoring Committee Agenda Packet.
Brook Svoboda, Northglenn Director of Planning and Development, explained that
Mayor Downing also apologizes for not being able to attend. He shared that
Northglenn was holding a special meeting for appointments that Mayor Downing
needed to attend. Brook Svoboda read a letter into the record on behalf of Mayor
Downing that is available in the November 14, 2013 FasTracks Monitoring
Committee Agenda Packet. Brook Svoboda noted that on a staff level as the
Director of Planning, he extended his thanks to the RTD staff. He believes it is
truly remarkable how much progress has been made in 18 months.
Michelle Halstead, Commerce City Director of Communications and Government
Affairs, shared that she was expressing support for the North Metro line. She read
a letter that is available in the November 14, 2013 FasTracks Monitoring
Committee Agenda Packet.
Brian McDonald, Charles Schwab, thanked the Board for the opportunity to speak.
He stated that the Southeast communities and businesses support the full build out
of FasTracks. He believes RTD has done an amazing job and shown great results in
what has been done so far. Brian McDonald stated that RTD’s leadership and
results have given Charles Schwab as an employer great confidence that RTD will
continue to do a great job. He also thanked the Board and RTD for continuing to
pursue the build out of the South East extension. He said that as an employer
Charles Schwab wants to emphasize how important the full build out of FasTracks
is to the company and its employees.
Don and Elaine Pohlman shared that they are residents of Thornton and live one
mile east of the planned 124th station location. They stated that there is a great
deal of congestion in this area already due to the many schools. They are
concerned about having 124th as the terminus for the North Metro Line due to the
additional congestion. They believe that 162nd is a better terminus as the highway
is better suited for lot of traffic. They hope that RTD will build the line to 162nd as
soon as possible.

Maureen Tarrant, Skyridge Medical Center, commended the Board for their efforts.
She has lived in Boston, New York, and Washington, D.C. so having public
transportation has been part of her every day existence. She believes it is a sign of
a great city. She noted that Skyridge Medical Center located in Lone Tree in the
hopes that someday RTD’s great progress would continue to the South. Maureen
Tarrant shared that every employee of Skyridge has an EcoPass. She stated that
they would love to have a station adjacent to their campus so that van service for
the last mile is no longer necessary. Maureen Tarrant thanked the Board for
continuing to support FasTracks throughout the metro area.
Caitlin Quander, Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck, stated that she is an attorney
representing Leroy Industrial, LLC that owns property along the proposed North
Metro Line. She explained that this property is unique as it contains a rail spur;
their tenet, Atlas Roofing, utilizes the rail spur on a regular basis. Caitlin Quander
shared that during several meetings with RTD it has been indicated that RTD may
take this land through right-of-way. She expressed that loss of the rail spur would
force Atlas Roofing to terminate their lease. She stated that while her client and
the tenet are open to work with RTD during construction it is their hope that RTD
will not take the land.
Karen Stuart, Smart Commute Metro North, shared that Smart Commute is a transit
management organization that serves the 13 communities that are close or adjacent
to I-25 north of I-70. Smart Commute is committed to providing information,
action and advocacy for transportation and transit improvements that increase
mobility options, reduce congestion and foster economic development and support
for our residents and businesses in the North Metro area. She stated that she was
speaking to the Board in support of RTD staff’s recommendation to move forward
with the proposal from GBBH to design and build the North Metro Line to 124th by
January, 2018. Karen Stuart applauded GBBH for early stakeholder outreach and
collaboration; they took the time to understand the stakeholder needs and listened
to their expectations. She thanked General Manager Washington and the staff for
their commitment to build the North Metro Line as part of the FasTracks system
that the North has been supporting since 2004. Karen Stuart also thanked the
Board of Directors for their leadership and consensus of purpose. She believes that
getting the North Metro Line to 124th is a great start. She thinks this will serve
many of the North Metro residents with a transit option that will help reduce the
congestion on I-25. Karen Stuart noted that the last two stations of the North
Metro Line, 144th and 162nd, will serve neighborhoods and employment centers that
currently have no transportation options of any kind. She encouraged RTD to find
funding to complete the line and benefit from GBBH’s agreement to hold the price
for these segments for 2 years. Karen Stuart commented that the North Metro
really appreciated the significant interest the RFP got from the private sector; they
feel encouraged that the remaining Northwest line will become an industry focus
next. Karen Stuart stated that with each step toward the goal of building
FasTracks in its entirety, RTD is fulfilling its promise for regional investment in a
transit system that benefits everyone.

D. Recommended Actions

• Approval of Contract Award to Graham, Balfour Beatty, Hamon Contractors
for the Design and Construction of the North Metro Rail Line Project
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors ("Board") authorize the General Manager to award the
design/build contract and negotiate final terms with Graham, Balfour Beatty,
Hamon Contractors (GBBH) to serve as the Contractor for the North Metro
Rail Line Project ("Project"). The Project consisting of the North Metro Rail
Line from Denver Union Station to 162nd Avenue with a Notice to Proceed to
124th Avenue, which will be constructed for a lump sum amount of US
$343.3 million. Acceptance of this proposal would complete the North
Metro corridor to 124th Avenue with options to extend to 162nd Avenue as
funds become available.
In addition, it is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors provide the General Manager or designee with
authority to enter into all contracts, and intergovernmental agreements for
the North Metro Project in the amount not to exceed the remaining project
budget to 124th Avenue of $633.8 million. This authority shall include the
ability to negotiate and execute all contracts; work orders; change orders
and contract modifications; and Intergovernmental Agreements that are
necessary or advisable to complete the North Metro Project to 162nd Avenue
within the scope of the North Metro Project budget and to accept grants or
other contributions and to increase the project budget in the amount of thirdparty contributions for project work. The General Manager will also be
granted authority to exercise the option to extend to 162nd Avenue and issue
a notice to proceed for that phase, should funding become available. This
option would be presented to the board through the annual budget
appropriation and with approval of financing provisions.
It is also recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors direct RTD staff to proceed with the submittal to the
Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG) of an amendment to the
2035 Regional Transportation Plan (2035 RTP) consistent with the Project
scope as described herein.
This contract provides major benefits to RTD, the FasTracks program and
the entire region.
 It demonstrates RTD’s commitment to the northern suburbs toward
completion of the FasTracks program.
 It provides a firm, fixed price commitment to complete a key part of the
FasTracks program. It also provides a fixed capital cost. The commitment
to this cost and scope is not likely to be available at a later time due to
time escalation of prices.









This proposal is consistent with the stated goals of the FasTracks
program to seek innovative approaches to delivering the program.
It is consistent with the RTD Board’s stated direction to the General
Manager (2013 GM Task Goal #1: Pursue collaborations and partnerships
with local, regional, state, and federal stakeholders; and Task Goal #2:
Actively and aggressively pursue all potential federal, state, local, private
sector, and other funding sources for FasTracks).
Completion of this North Metro Rail Line maximizes mobility for transit
dependents both temporary and long-term, to key job centers and
provides clean, safe, reliable, accessible and cost effective transportation
in keeping with RTD's overall mission.
The line provides access for northern residents to major employment
centers in downtown Denver and the Denver Tech Center.
The North Metro Rail Line connects Thornton, Northglenn, Commerce
City and parts of Adams County with all other rail lines via Denver Union
Station and provides regional connectivity to a major portion of the metro
area, including Denver International Airport.
Motion:

Director Solano made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the November 26, 2013
Board meeting.
Director Lubow seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Solano read the following statement regarding his
motion into the record:
“As you all probably know, when I was elected to the RTD
Board of Directors I was quite critical of how progress on the
North Metro Line had been slow and uncertain. The budget
issues confronting RTD at that time seemed insurmountable,
and it looked to us in the northern area like we had no choice
but to sit back and accept that we would not get our rail line
for many years. But we are now poised to change all that.
RTD staff, the RTD Board and all of our hard-working
stakeholders and elected officials continued to push forward
and seek innovative ways to move in a positive direction, and
we now have the North Metro Line contract proposal up for a
vote by the Board. This evening I am quite pleased to be able
to make the motion for RTD to move forward with
construction of the North Metro Rail Line by awarding this
contract. I am proudly supporting this item and I urge my
fellow Board members to do the same.”
General Manager Washington read the recommended action as
follows:

“It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors (“Board”) authorize the
General Manager to award the design/build contract and
negotiate final terms with Graham, Balfour Beatty, Hamon
Contractors (GBBH) to serve as the Contractor for the North
Metro Rail Line Project. The Project consisting of the North
Metro Rail Line from Denver Union Station to 124th Avenue,
which will be constructed for a lump sum amount of US
$343.3 million. Acceptance of this proposal would complete
the North Metro corridor to 124th Avenue with an option to
extend to 162nd Avenue as funds become available.”
General Manager Washington stated he wanted to read the
recommended action because that is what the Board and staff
are focused on; building the North Metro Rail Line from DUS to
124th with an option to extend to 162nd as funds become
available.
General Manager Washington noted that there had been some
questions from the Directors that he wanted to address.
1) Total Project Budget
General Manager Washington explained that the total
project budget is $633.8 million. This includes some prior
expenditures that RTD has made for the North Metro such
as purchasing extra vehicles, expanding the Commuter Rail
Maintenance Facility, and purchasing Right-of-Way. He
stated that these items are included in the $633.8 million
cost to build the North Metro Line to 124th. General
Manager Washington noted that the $633.8 million also
includes the construction cost of $343 million that the
Board is being asked to approve tonight.
2) Repayment of Certificates of Participation (COPs)
General Manager Washington stated that the COPs will be
repaid from the .4% FasTracks Sales Tax revenue. This
will be a 30 year issue. He said that approximately $470
million will be needed for the construction fund to build out
the corridor.
3) Incremental Cost of North Metro to 124th of Operations
and Debt Service Over North Metro to 162nd
General Manager Washington said that staff is preparing
the comparison and will have it for the Board prior to the
November 26, 2013 Board Meeting.
4) Use of COPs on Additional Projects
General Manager Washington stated that COPs can be
used on other projects.

5) Extensions
General Manager Washington explained that the RFP asked
proposers to include pricing for all of the extensions. He
stated that while we may not have funds today the idea
was to get a price that would be good for two years. He
said that RTD does retain the option to put the extensions
back out for bid if we decide the prices are not good.
6) Fiber Optic Investments
General Manager Washington stated that we could do
some fiber optic investments along the North Metro Line to
help pay for DUS to 124th, 124th to end-of-line or anything
else in the FasTracks system.
7) DBE Participation
General Manager Washington said the contractors have
done very well on their DBE goals. He noted that one of
the primes, Balfour Beatty, actually doubled their DBE goal
on the West corridor. He stated that all of the primes have
committed to exceeding the project goals that were
outlined in the RFP.
8) Internal versus Bid Cost
General Manager Washington stated that the price given by
GBBH is within 3% of the internal estimates that were
prepared with the last annual program evaluation that was
done one year ago.
9) COPs and TABOR Debt Limit
General Manager Washington explained that COPs have no
impact on RTD’s TABOR limit.
10) Timing of Other Projects in Regional Transportation Plan
(RTP)
General Manager Washington noted that this project does
not have any impact on the timing of other projects
outlined in the RTP.
General Manager Washington commented that the Board had
been provided with a memo that breaks down the $633.8
million total project budget. He thanked the RTD staff for all
of their hard work. He noted that staff has been very
aggressively pushing this forward. He thanked the
Stakeholder Evaluation Committee for the yeomen’s work they
did; he also thanked all the elected officials and individual
stakeholders that came to speak to the Board.
Director Rivera-Malpiede thanked everyone that came to the
meeting. She said that one behalf of her constituents she is
thrilled to be supporting this recommended action.

Director Lubow asked if the Board was only approving the
$343.3 million with this recommended action and then would
be approving the total project budget of $633.8 separately.
She also wondered if anything in the difference between
$343.3 and $633.8 was new or is it all things that have
already been approved or recommended. General Manager
Washington explained that in addition to approving the
construction budget of $343.3 million, this action also
authorizes the total project budget of $633.8 million.
Director Bagley commented that there is a reason this is called
the Regional Transportation District and that is because we
think regionally. He thanked the members from the Southern
part of the metro area that came out to support this
recommended action. He thinks this demonstrates that the
people in the South end are very interested in the entire
system; this is a supposed to be a regional system and it will
not be until much of it is completed. He believes the support
from the South if vital to completing FasTracks. He noted that
having an employer on the south end support this action
demonstrates that there is concern and willingness to make
sure this is a regional system. Director Bagley stated that he
is excited to be supporting this recommended action.
Director Daly believes the inclusiveness of the stakeholders
was brilliant. He hopes there is more stakeholder involvement
in future lines. Director Daly asked for clarification regarding
Atlas Roofing and Leroy Industries, LLC. He thought that we
were allowing one freight train per week to provide service
along the line. Jim Starling indicated that there was one
customer along the line, Atlas Roofing. He said we will need
to work to accommodate them through construction, but once
done the current agreement will allow for deliveries when RTD
is not running.
Director Solano stated that building North Metro to 124th as a
first phase makes it affordable for RTD to utilize our own
financing opportunities to get most of the project built now,
while continuing to find a way to fund the whole line up to
162nd. This also will serve most of the ridership of the corridor
as we continue to work toward completing the project to
162nd. He recognized that RTD has encouraged companies to
think outside the box and approach RTD with ideas to get
projects done sooner rather than later; we are now once again
reaping the benefits of that bold thinking. Director Solano

stated that tonight, we start down the path of progress that
will bring rail to our Northern area.
Director Sisk shared that he appreciated very much the
involvement of stakeholders in this process. He stated that
many of the stakeholders had been working on this for such a
long time. He said that he was going to enthusiastically
support this action. Director Sisk commented that things
happen because of RTD staff taking the initiative; he shared
that he is proud to know them and be associated with them.
He noted that when the first financial plan was done in 2004
the estimate to build the North Metro Line from DUS to 162nd
was about $428 million while the expenditures getting to
124th and the Union Pacific Right-of-Way will actually be about
$700 million. He reminded the Board of questions they have
received of other lines, i.e. the Northwest, where people are
commenting that the line is more expensive than RTD first
said. He believes it is important for the Board to talk to
stakeholders and remind them that the figures were not set in
concrete in 2004. He feels this is a great opportunity to make
a significant improvement to the FasTracks system. Director
Sisk reiterated that he is going to enthusiastically support this
action. He said that he really appreciates the stakeholders
talking about wanting to complete the entire system as that is
why he is on the RTD Board.
Director Lasater noted the parallel of what RTD is doing today
and what the E-470 Board did years ago. He stated that it
was the same scenario of the south being built first and
everyone else wanting their portion finished. He said that
when they finally got the bonding capacity to build everything
it helped the economy, helped the flow of traffic in the area
and helped the flow of traffic to the airport. Director Lasater
thinks the Board is doing the same thing with RTD. He stated
that even though a Director is elected by their District,
everyone must look at this in a regional manner. He
commended RTD for what we are now able to do. Director
Lasater thinks it will be great when we are able to connect
north and south. He is very excited to see that as RTD and a
region we are able to make transportation in the metro area
more conducive.
Director James thanked staff for being creative in their efforts
to encourage the private sector to help RTD enhance mobility
in the area. He agrees with Directors Bagley and Lasater
about the importance of regionalism within the District. He

shared his motto of ‘Think Locally and Act Regionally’. He
believes this motto will benefit everyone. Director James
looks forward to working with all the Directors to enhance
mobility.
Director Deadwyler stated that she agrees with the other
Directors. She said that on behalf of her constituents she will
be supporting this recommendation.
Director Folska thinks this is a very exciting time. She noted
that since discussing numbers in 2004 to actually getting this
line on the ground, things can change. She stated that thanks
to the vision and perseverance of General Manager
Washington and the staff we are able to move forward. She
will be voting in support of this recommendation on behalf of
her constituents.
Chair Anderson shared that she has worked on regional
transportation since before Guide the Ride but she said that
this recommendation is particularly satisfying because the RTD
staff found an innovative way to continue to build FasTracks
in light of all the setback of the past few years. She
commended the staff and General Manager Washington who
have all worked so hard to bring this action before the Board.
She also commended all of the regional governments who
have come out to support this wonderful occurrence. Chair
Anderson said she was very happy to vote in favor of this
recommendation. Chair Anderson recognized the work that
Committee Chair Hoy has done for the North Metro; he
stepped in when all of the Directors for the North Metro faded
away. She thanked him for the hard work he has done in this
corridor from the beginning.
Director Menten noted Chair’s request that Directors explain
why they are voting no on an item. She stated that she is
voting against this item for her constituents to restrict RTD’s
debt. She commented that there is a tremendous amount of
debt with this plan, nearly $600 million. Director Menten also
thinks that this is actually a violation of the taxpayer’s bill of
rights. She is concerned that RTD is already involved in a
lawsuit due to ignoring these regulations.
Committee Chair Hoy shared that when he was first elected
the heat was on; as Commissioner Hansen commented, people
thought they would never see the North Metro Line but now
he is one of our best supporters along with the other

stakeholders. He said that RTD is building a system and he is
sympathetic to those that do not have theirs yet. He wants
RTD to refocus and start looking at the next line. Committee
Chair Hoy said that he appreciated all the work of staff and
stakeholders. He thinks it is very bold for staff to allow
stakeholders to come to the table.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [14 TO 1]
MOVER:
Paul Solano, Director, District K
SECONDER: Judy Lubow, Vice Chair
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten
Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.

E. Other Matters
Director James stated that he attended the Colorado Commercial Real Estate Expo.
He shared that Tim Richey, Vice Chairman of Cushman & Wakefield, told him that
negotiations for property being built around DUS are around $600 per square foot;
the previous record for office space was $430 per square foot. Director James
also invited the Board to the Last Mile Symposium taking place on Wednesday,
November 20, 2013. He said that he will be conducting a panel along with
Director Rivera-Malpiede.
Director Bagley shared that he had the honor of accepting the Carla Madison Award
from the Transit Alliance for RTD’s work on the Peoria Bridge. He stated that RTD
was very fortunate to be accepting the award along with the other organizations
that were involved.
Director Lasater thanked the staff and Roger Sherman for his first experience with a
telephone town hall. He said he was a little apprehensive initially but once it got
going it was amazing how people knew how to field the questions. He thinks the
constituents learned a lot and had the opportunity to discuss things of concern.
Director Lasater believes this is a great way to get more people engaged.

F. Next Meeting Date - December 3, 2013
G. Adjourn
Committee Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 6:58 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices

Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

