Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Larry Hoy, District J

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
November 27, 2018 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
George “Chuck” Abraham – Bus Operator – 24 years
Charlie Guerrero – Custodian – 34 years
Stephen E. Jones – Train Operator – 27 years
Neal Jay Newby – Street Supervisor – 23 years
César Ricardo Ochoa – Service Planner/Scheduler II – 34 years
Mark S. Walker – Bus Operator – 29 years

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Executive Committee – Chaired by Chair Tisdale
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Chair Tisdale
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Deadwyler
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Mihalik
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Walker

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of October 16, 2018

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Public Hearing for Amendment to 2018 Amended Budget
A.

Amendment to 2018 Amended Budget

It is recommended that the Board of Directors adopt Resolution No. ___, Series of 2018 to
amend the 2018 Amended Budget for the Base System for 1) the inclusion of a new
capital project, and 2) increase to the appropriation.
General Manager’s Goals
Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management
Task Goal #1 – Fiscal Sustainability
Task Goal #3 – Asset Management/State of Good Repair

XII.

Public Hearing for 2019 Budget
B.

Adoption of the 2019 Budget

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt Resolution No. ___, Series of 2018 for the adoption of the 2019 Budget,
Resolution No. ___, Series of 2018 for the 2019 Budget Appropriation and Resolution No.
___, Series of 2018 for the appropriation of 2019 Previously Appropriated Capital.
General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #3: Strong Financial Management
Task Goal #1: Fiscal Sustainability

XIII.

Unanimous Consent
C.

2019 Access-a-Cab Agreements

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to provide a subsidy for Access-a-Cab for calendar year 2019.
General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management
Task Goal #1 – Fiscal Sustainability
D.

Cost Sharing Agreements - Non-urbanized funding for 2019

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into funding agreements with Via Mobility Services and the Seniors’
Resource Center to provide RTD financial support for non-urbanized services for Boulder
County, Adams County and Jefferson County. These Agreements are for calendar year

2019 and for amounts not to exceed $387,271.00 for Boulder County, $380,813.00 for
Adams County and $135,243.00 for Jefferson County.
This recommended action supports the General Manager’s 2018 Task Goal #1 –
Successful Delivery of Transit Services.
E.

City of Englewood Trolley Cost Share

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Englewood to provide
RTD financial support for the operation of the Englewood Trolley circulator bus service in
the City of Englewood. This agreement is for calendar year 2019 and is for an amount not
to exceed $433,738.
This recommended action supports the General Manager’s 2018 Task Goal #1 –
Successful Delivery of Transit Services.
F.

City of Boulder Hop Cost Share

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Boulder to provide RTD
financial support for the operation of the HOP circulator bus service in the commercial
areas of the City of Boulder, the University of Colorado at Boulder and adjacent business
and residential areas. This agreement is for calendar year 2019 and is for an amount not to
exceed $1,559,509.
This recommended action supports the General Manager’s 2018 Task Goal #1 –
Successful Delivery of Transit Services.
G.

Bus Donation to Flat Rock Law Enforcement Training Facility

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the donation of a 40 foot bus that has reached the end of its useful life,
to the Flatrock Training Center to provide a permanent asset for regional law enforcement
and first responder training.
The recommended action proposed supports the following GM Goals:
Core Goal #5 Effective Communications and Community Outreach
H.

Adoption of the Investment Policy

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the attached Investment Policy which contains no recommended changes
from last year.

Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management, Task Goal #1 – Fiscal Sustainability
I.

Adoption of the Salaried Pension Trustee

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approves the attached Resolution No. ______ appointing Bill Van Meter to a term
expiring 12/31/2019 and reappointing Sylvia Francis to a term expiring 12/31/2020 as
trustees for the Salaried Employee Defined Benefit (i.e., Pension) Plan and Salaried
Employee Defined Contribution Plan.
Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management, Task Goal #1 – Fiscal Sustainability, and
Task Goal #2 – Workforce and Human Capital

XIV. Recommended Action
J.

DRCOG Vanpool Cost Share

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Agreement with the Denver Regional Council of Governments
(DRCOG) to provide RTD financial support and expansion of the DRCOG Way to Go vanpool
program in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year 2019 and
shall be in an amount not to exceed $780,000.
This recommended action supports the General Manager’s 2018 Task Goal #1 – Successful
Delivery of Transit Services.
K.

Adoption of the 2019 Performance Measures

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors adopts the attached 2019 Performance Measures for mission statement
goals 1-7. In 2019, there are 41 proposed performance measures to be tracked for the
GM, which is the same number as in 2018. No new performance measures are
proposed.
Core Goal #1: Successful Delivery of Transit Services
L.

Adoption of Free Rides for Active Duty US Military Personnel

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve free rides on RTD for active duty members of the United States Military
for the period of January 1, 2019- December 31, 2019.
Core Goal #5 – Effective Communications and Community Outreach

XV.

Executive Session

XVI. Old Business

XVII. New Business
XVIII. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

