March 5 2019
Study Session
DOUG TISDALE: --32 PM Mountain Standard Time-- last time we get to say that for a while-on Tuesday, the 5th day of March, 2019. We are gathered here in the RTND conference rooms. I
will note for the sake of the record that we have a quorum, that I believe we have, if I can verify- is Director Claudia Folska on the telephone with us?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes, I am, Chair Tisdale. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. We appreciate that. We note that Director
Lubow is absent, and Director Broom, I believe, is at least temporarily or momentarily absent. I
believe he will be here.
Let me begin, as we begin every meeting at the RTD, with a safety briefing. If there is any kind
of medical emergency, General Counsel will call 911. If you are experienced in medical services,
if you could please provide assistance, we would appreciate that. If you need to exit, exit through
the door in the back of the room. And then go on upstairs, and you will be directed outside by
our staff. If you need assistance, there are staff members present who will provide assistance to
you.
And then we have a Mardi-Gras-themed safety moment.
[LAUGHTER]
It was from yesterday's Monday morning briefing and their safety moment. And I'll just quote
part of it, "Stairs are inherently hazardous. A contributing factor is neglecting to use handrails.
Use handrails." And I thought that was particularly appropriate on Mardi Gras, reminding people
that they may need to use handrails.
This evening, we are convened as the full Board in a study session. There will be no formal
action taken by the Board by way of votes. Rather, we are here as we allow ourselves, pursuant
to the provisions of our bylaws, to gather periodically to take a subject and to give it special
attention, to do what you might commonly refer to as a deep dive into some particular topic.
And this particular topic is one that has special importance to us, because one of our strategic
priorities for 2019 that we established in 2018 was to address-- and I'm paraphrasing now-- but
to address, in effect, the Transportation Transformation. We have called that the T2. And we
have a series of thoughts that will be presented to you this evening. And to lead us in that
discussion, I'm pleased to welcome at this time our General Manager and CEO, Mr. David
Genova. Mr. Genova, the floor is yours, sir.
DAVID GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And yes, tonight, we'll go into a lot more detail on
the comprehensive plan and system optimization, which is part of our Transportation

Transformation work that we've been doing at the agency for about the last year and a couple of
months or so. And of course, as you mentioned, Chair, this is very much in regard to our tactical
or strategic priority for 2019 on addressing future transportation. And also, I think it fits well into
some of the-- not to get into next year already-- but a few of the strategic priorities that the Board
came to consensus on on Saturday at the strategic retreat for 2020.
So it's going to be work. We'll start it this year, and you'll hear more about the schedule from the
team as we present, but it is going to be a big effort. It will have a high level of Board direction.
And all the way throughout the process, we'll talk about some of that detail on how that will
happen. We'll have a very large customer and community engagement effort. In fact, that's one
of the four major parts of what we'll be working on. And if we do this work very well, and we
will, it really will be a vision, or even close to a strategic plan for us for the next 5, 10, 15, 20
plus years. So it will be a very good effort that we're going to undertake. And it's going to tell us
a lot about how we will deliver transit and mobility in the near term and in the long term.
So I will ask Bill Van Meter and Bill Sirois are going to be the team members to take us through
the presentation. And we're probably planning what, Bill, about maybe 20 minutes a presentation
time? And then we'll have plenty of time for questions.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Genova. We appreciate that. And, Mr. Van Meter,
are you going to lead us off next, then, sir?
BILL VAN METER: I will indeed. Thank you for the opportunity for this deeper dive, as you
described it. And I am Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning. And I'm joined at
the table by, as General Manager Genova noted, Bill Sirois. We'll do a tag-team presentation
here. And Bill Sirois is the Manager of Transit-Oriented Communities.
So deeper dive-- this is a repeat slide from a presentation that we made to the Board of Directors
a couple of weeks ago, kind of teeing up at the Planning Capital Programs and Fast Tracks
Committee kind of some of the key background information. So I won't run through all of the
bullets once again in terms of the guiding principles-- the draft guiding principles at this point,
because we will be coming back to the Board of Directors once we kick off the study to revisit
these guiding principles and make sure that they are appropriate and capturing the will of the
Board of Directors. So I wanted to give you that assurance and let you know that plan and a
preview of that.
The other thing that we're excited about is the action that the Board took last month to approve
the funding, and particularly excited that DRCOG is putting in $1.4 million to the effort through
their Regional Transportation Improvement Program, or TIP, funding allocation. We see that 1.4
million as a confirmation from their staff, from their technical advisory committees, as well as,
importantly, from their policy board that this effort is important and warranted funding from
them. So I'd like to note that.
Moving forward, you've got a bit of a preview here. Bill and I will be talking about the four
major parts of the scope of work over the next coming 10, 15 minutes, fiscal and financial effort,
the comprehensive assessment and system optimization plan for both bus, rail, and bus rapid

transit, the mobility plan for the future, and then the engagement, communication, and outreach
elements, as well as next steps. So those four are the four major themes.
So going first into the financial scope. We previewed a little bit of this, again, a couple weeks
ago. Financial scope is going to look at our fiscal and financial sustainability over both the short,
mid, and long term for the agency, short being the annual budget and annual budget basis, midterm being the six-year mid-term financial plan, and the long-term actually aligning with the
Denver Regional Council of Government with DRCOG's 2050 plan, because they are moving to
a 2050 time frame over the next couple of years, which coincides perfectly with this planning
effort.
We anticipate, obviously, Board and stakeholder involvement throughout all the plan, but
particular keen interest in the financial elements from you, the Board of Directors. We'll be
taking into account the Transit Asset Management Plan and state of good repair and asset
management requirements as a key piece of this, where we'll be looking to the consultants, with
Board approval and staff input, to make recommendations for an improved financial planning
process, so what improvements can we make to our financial planning process and make
recommendations.
And another key piece, from our perspective and the Board's perspective, will be analyzing the
financial impacts of the alternatives that we develop through the system optimization plan and
the long-range alternatives as well so that you have a clear understanding, as we're looking at
system optimization plan and longer plan alternatives, what the financial impacts are from a
lifecycle cost and to our bottom line. So that's kind of a feel for what that-- a deeper dive into the
financial scope and analysis.
And I'd be remiss if I didn't note and discuss a teeny bit that second bullet. The intent is, for the
mid- and long-term plans, to look and develop both a fiscally constrained and unconstrained
plan. Now, for the system optimization scope, I'm going to turn it over to Bill Sirois for a bit of a
discussion.
BILL SIROIS: Thank you, Bill. So with the comprehensive assessment of RTD services, this
something that, I think, is a trend in the industry right now. There's a lot of agencies around the
country that are looking at this. This is something, I think, as an agency that we really have not
done since-- what did we say-- the late '70s, where we've done a real comprehensive look at our
services and how they're oriented and how we could potentially improve the efficiency of our
services from a comprehensive standpoint.
So I think the key to this is kind of there's going to be a few parts to this. But like I said, we're
looking at all classes of service-- bus, bus rapid transit, and rail. And how do we look at our
current service, and where are there issues, where are there challenges, where are there
inefficiencies, and where are there opportunities, and then taking that as a baseline, and then
moving on to what is the framework for things that we could do to improve that. So are there
things in terms of looking at different types of-- employing different types of service and
different types of conditions, maybe altering routes, because we are going to get down to the
route level in this evaluation.

And then finally, the end, we'll come up with what we call the system optimization plan for
Board approval. So this ultimately ends up, like Brian talks about, is kind of the ultimate run
board in terms of how you may look at changing things at a service level, which could be phased
over multiple run boards. But in terms of looking at that, how do we implement that?
A lot of the ones that the agencies around the country that are doing things right now, you can
see here is a list of the agencies, our peers that have been working on what we call system
optimization plans or kind of a new look or next-gen study of their bus and rail service. All of
these have come up with their plans that they then ultimately implement over time. I think
Houston is probably the furthest along of these. They actually completed their plan in 2015 and
have actually begun implementing at. The majority of the rest of them, I think, have done-completed their plans in the last year or two, so they're just starting to implement their kind of
service changes.
But again, a lot of these are focused on the bus side. The thing I think that we're going to do
that's a little bit different is focus on the bus and rail side. So I think it is going to be a little bit
broader, and I think it will be really interesting to see how it turns out. But again, the expectation
here is that we come up with a very short-term notion of how we can improve and enhance our
service that we provide today. So moving on-I'll let him drive the-- there we go. The mobility plan for the future-- the interesting thing about
this, and this is a little bit of the planner geek in me. I remember when I started my career, I was
looking at a 2010 horizon year, and I thought that was-- wow, that's a long time. And now, we're
looking at 2050, which again, it blows my mind in terms of thinking about that from the
perspective of wow, where are we going to be in 2050.
The other thing, I think, that if you think about this, we really have not done something like this
from a long-range perspective since we completed the FasTracks plan in the early 2000s. In that
case, we developed a long-range plan that was basically a 25-year plan which, at that point, was
implemented in a relatively short frame. And again, we're looking at the same kind of thing.
But it's a much different environment today than it was 19 years ago when we really were talking
about FasTracks. I think there's a lot of things-- and you can see these focus areas that I think
have really become much bigger issues as we've begun to implement FasTracks, and we've had
an evolution of transit in this region, and the region has grown quite a bit. Where are we going to
be on the First and Last Mile? How do we get people to our services? All the subscription
mobility strategies, all these things that are out there that are new things, the disruptors, how are
they going to impact our future? Parking, which is always a big issue and seems like that's the
biggest issue I deal with on a daily basis, how are we going to approach that? Where are we
going to look at as a solution, and where are we going to say we need to pull back?
So there's things like that. There's also the new technology of hey, are we going to electrify our
fleet? How are we going to do it? How can we do it? What makes the most sense? And how are
we going to look at our rail maintenance, bus and rail maintenance facility. Some of them are
aging. They need some investment. We may need a new facility or two. How do we look at that?
How do we plan for that? We're going to be addressing that as part of this.

And then we have some challenges associated with our current situation, namely workforce. We
all know we have challenges on the driver and the mechanic side. Is that a future that we have to
account for in terms of it is something that is going to be embedded in how we plan? So how do
we account for that in terms of looking at our future? So it's really important that I think that
these issues associated with, in 2050-- again, we want to have a significant amount of growth in
transit. Right now, I believe that DRCOG for 2040-- not for 2050-- has a growth in transit trips
of about 250,000 trips over what we have today, which if you look at our system today, we were
really challenged with even being able to accommodate that. So how do we make modifications
to our plans to hopefully accommodate this future growth that we're going to see on the transit
side?
OK, and so there's been some recent plans that I think many of you are aware of. Mobility
Choice, which we briefed you on last month, I believe, which, again, was a great process in
terms of bringing together the public and the private side-- DRCOG, RTD, and see CDOT, as
well as the private sector looking at how do we look at mobility in the future, and how do we
create partnerships, and how do we plan for this changing world. Understanding that, having that
as a primary input to our process, is important.
The First and Last Mile strategic plan, which we'll be briefing you on next month, is just a little
bit of a heads up. And that, again, how do we-- again, that's another plan that's focused on
partnerships, because a lot of those First and Last Mile issues are not necessarily RTD. They're
working with other people, like local jurisdictions who control the street network. And how do
we work with them, and how do we work with services that get people to our facilities, into our
stations and stops.
And then the regional BRT's feasibility study, which, again, I think you heard last month in
terms of an update. And that, we'll be finishing up this summer. And last but not least, we have
FasTracks, which we all know that we have stuff left to do. That will be a fundamental part of
this process in terms of how do we look at FasTracks. How is that incorporated into other things
that we want to look at? Because I think-- right now, I think a lot of the focus has been just on
FasTracks. Tracks But how is that integrated with other things that we have out there that we
want to look at in the future? So that's really important.
So then you move into, which I think is the most important part of this whole effort, because it's
part of the one that I'm going to be mainly engaged in, which is the stakeholder and community
engagement piece, which I think is fundamental to this effort in terms of how do we engage our
stakeholders. How do you, the Board, provide us with direction for leading us through this
process so that we can come up with, in the end, a plan that there is buy-off by all involved in
terms of this is the plan that we agree is what we want to do in the future.
So with the way we look at this with the Board, I think it's going to be-- we are going to keep
you very engaged. We plan to basically come up with updates every other month to come to the
Board to give you a snapshot of what's going on and provide some opportunity for input. We will
also have, at strategic points in the process, opportunities to have a session like this, maybe on a
particular topic or something where we can get into a deeper dive and get some really good
discussion and good direction from the Board. So we think those are important.

The other piece to this, and the other elements to this-- again, this is a multi-tiered effort. The
advisory committee, which I think is made up of some of the thought leaders and the business
and political leaders in the area, which will include members of the RTD Board and senior
leadership, but also include members from local jurisdictions, from the business community,
from the disability community, and other special interests that we think are critical to kind of
helping us to determine our future. And this group will provide some key input to the trade-offs
as we evaluate those throughout the process, and again, with the Board kind of being the ultimate
decision-makers in this process.
And then below that, we have a technical working group, which really, that is a staff level group
which really provides us detailed input on the evaluation process and the technical inputs and
other things that will go into the way this whole thing works. And then kind of at the bottom, you
have another level of involvement as well from a few different angles, one of those being the
customer. We plan to do an extensive customer outreach process, probably primarily through
survey-- the expectation of a survey where we try to understand, looking at our current and
prospective customers, how do they look at the future. How do they look at transit as a role in
their mobility future, and how can we take those cues and have that influence how we look at a
long-range plan?
Then we have other things like that we know we're not going to be able to involve everybody on
either the advisory committee or the technical working group. So there's going to be
opportunities for us to go out and meet with business or civic groups throughout the process to
get some engagement from them, through a speakers' bureau that we would look to get some,
again, feedback through that. And then obviously, there'll be a general public piece where we do
some standardized open-house-type public meetings that we can get the broader public to have
input to the process as well.
And probably last but not least, another element to this that we don't have highlighted on the
slide is input from our own staff. And we do plan to reach out to RTD staff as a whole. We think
they're the experts in a lot of cases in terms of providing us input of how we can maybe change
how we do things and how we can improve. So we are going to have that as a fundamental
element of this process as well.
Next slide-- and so this is just kind of just a little bit of a summary of that piece of it. But I think
the important piece here is it's a multi-tiered strategy with looking at our customer as kind of that
first piece of how will we be responding to our customer and their needs, and also making this a
very open and transparent process. I think that we all would agree that having that type of a
process is really important from multiple aspects, from our stakeholders understanding what
we're doing and how decisions are made, to customers, to our own staff in terms of looking at
that. So I think it's really important that we look at that. And again, like I said, we're expected to
have-- this would be a huge element of the whole process that we think is really important to
kind of making a successful outcome.
So a little bit of the next steps-- so our plan is to come back to you. At least right now, we're
planning to come back in May for an action on the consultant selection. And we plan to release
the RFP shortly. And then from there, we would look to get-- shortly after that, work with the

consultant to finalize the contract and get a notice to proceed in the early summer and then, like
Bill said, come back to you some point later in the summer and say, here are kind of our draft
guiding principles. How do you, Board, want to look at these? Are these consistent with where
you want to go? Are there things that we're missing and that we need to incorporate into kind of
the principles and goals for this planning effort? And then following that, after we get that set,
the expectation is that's when we would initiate that stakeholder and community engagement
process which I just outlined.
BILL VAN METER: So to wrap up this presentation-- I'll get to the next slide, eventually. There
we go. And what Bill just reviewed was essentially the 2019 point on this schedule. In 2020,
then, we anticipate that we will really be deep into the comprehensive assessment of our
services, both bus and rail and bus rapid transit, service optimization, making significant
progress on the future mobility plan, continuing that engagement process, and developing the
recommendations on the financial plan, as well as providing feedback for the Board as we go
through that comprehensive assessment as it relates to the potential financial impacts of different
decisions that we're making.
Such that, by the end of 2020, the Board-- hopefully, knocking on wood here-- will be in a
position to act on those recommendations regarding the comprehensive assessment of our
services by the end of 2020. That's our goal. And that's how we've laid things out, allowing us to
kind of complete the process and the project in 2021, with the future longer-range mobility plan
continuing the engagement process and getting to final plan resolution in that time frame.
So that's an idea and an overview of the schedule. And that's our attempt at articulating a deeper
dive. So at this point, Chair, we are open to discussion and questions and answer.
DAVID GENOVA: Mr. Chair? Sorry.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
DAVID GENOVA: Sorry to interrupt you.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. General Manager, sir?
DAVID GENOVA: If I could just make two other comments I meant to make at the beginning.
But one is, it's important to realize that and just to let you all know that every department is
engaged in this process. And in fact, every department was involved in developing the
requirements within the RFP and the scope of the RFP. You're seeing Bill and Bill because it's
the project management. The effort is being led through the planning department. But every
department is engaged, and every department is involved throughout every aspect of this project.
And you see the schedule. It's a big effort. It's going to take some time to get through. But that
doesn't mean we're not going to be doing other things on the way. Of course, we have all of our
normal activities that we do, our regular run boards that we do three times a year. We'll be
looking for short-term opportunities, as we always do, 61AV and other partnerships that we have

going on. So those kinds of things will continue through this process. Nothing will stop, so just
to be clear on that. And now, we're ready for questions and input. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I appreciate that clarification, because I think that it is tempting
to say, well, if you're doing this, how is everything else going to get done? I have the benefit of
having met with you, gentlemen, earlier last week, and I know that you have a lot of good
planning that has already gone into this. For the sake of the record, before I recognize the first
speaker, I will note that we have been joined both by Director Broom and Director Lubow here
in the meetings, so that with Director Folska on the line, we have all of the directors present. But
for our first question then, let me recognize Director Williams. You are recognized, ma'am.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. I think you probably said a lot of what I wanted to say. I
just want you all to think back, that if the three years on this picture had been 2016, 2017, and
2018, and somebody had come along with a little scooter.
I mean, I just want us to be hyper aware of the fact that I don't think we are able to foresee a
variety of things that are happening in transportation. And I just want to be really sure that we
make a lot of room as we plan. And I think both of you guys are those people, but I felt like I
wanted to get that on the record. Thank you.
BILL SIROIS: And I think one of the things that we expect out of this process is that we hope
that this will be a standard that this is something we'll revisit every few years, every three to five
years, that we will revisit this. Not to say that we'll go to the extent that we're going through now,
but we will revisit, because there will be things like scooters, or other things, that will pop up
after we're done with this. If we look back on it after three to five years, we can say, oh, that's
something we didn't account for, and we need to tweak what our future plan is.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, please. You may continue, Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. And the other thing I'm wondering, so we have the list of all
those cities who are doing something similar. Are we anticipating having some kind of a
comparison chart, where we look at what everybody else is doing in categories and see there's six
checks under, I don't know, electrification. They would all be checked, I'm sure. I'd like to see
that come to us.
BILL SIROIS: Sure.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
BILL SIROIS: Yeah.
BILL VAN METER: I think a peer review will be part of it. Many of these projects are
underway right now so they haven't been implemented yet. For example, Los Angeles's NextGen
bus study. A few of them have been implemented. But they all will be able to share information
because they're doing it in an open and transparent process, as we will. And so I will be looking
to our team to help us with that.

DOUG TISDALE: That definitely is very helpful because we do have to account for Marty
McFly's hoverboard, too, as we go forward. Thank you very much, Director Williams. Director
Rivera-Malpiede, you are recognized, ma'am.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair. It was a great presentation, and I've been
involved with a lot of the plans that have been happening in the metropolitan area. So I'm
looking at your stakeholder and community engagement structure. And I would like to ask, under
the advisory board, if we could add a youth to sit on that advisory committee.
Because if this is a 2050 plan, it seems to me we need to have the voice of our youth at that table
for two reasons. One, they have a different perspective, and two, they are our future leaders. And
if we truly want to make sure that we are providing a sustainable product, then I think we need to
bring that voice to the table. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I think that's a very salient observation. Director Walker, you are
recognized, sir.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Thanks. Yeah, good presentation. This stuff is always fun to talk
about. And as we've mentioned before in this body, Houston has gotten a lot of attention for its
restructuring of its route. And I'm one of the board members. We would exchange information or
he would do most of the talking when we'd see each other at APTA.
Anyway, so not all agencies are equal. Not all regions are equal. At this point, can you identify
which of those on the list, let's say, are most similar or most dissimilar from RTD? And the
lessons learned so far.
BILL SIROIS: I'll take a little bit of a shot of it. I'll say that New York MTA is probably not
something that would be up here. I mean Houston, which again, has a rail, along with the bus
system there, they're service Reimagined plan really focused more on the bus side. San Diego
certainly has, I think, some similarities, because they have a fairly significant rail and bus
network combined. And they're just starting the implementation of their planning process, so I
would put them in that.
Austin, probably not as much. They have a smaller single line, commuter line on the rail side,
but a larger bus network. Sacramento certainly has some similarities, in terms of having a few
lines. I don't think they're expansive as we are. LA, certainly some similarities, but, again, the
sheer size of LA is a little different than us. I mentioned MTA.
Not as familiar with COTA, which is Columbus Transit Authority. I know that they've been a lot
in the forefront of things with the smart cities movement. They were the ones that were selected
as the smart cities pilot for the country that won that grant process a few years ago. I know
they're doing some innovative things on that.
So that would be really interesting to follow up on that and how that's affecting how they're
approaching transit. And then IndiGO, which I know has been to visit us in the last couple years,

has just passed a recent ballot measure to implement BRT. So they probably have a few years
behind us, in terms of service and system.
And there's others that aren't even on this list. I know that, for example, Baltimore is another
region that went through a whole reimagination of bus best service as well. But San Diego,
Sacramento, Houston, probably, on par with us, in terms of the rail and the bus network
combined.
JEFF WALKER: I have a friend who keeps telling me about systems engineering, but this effort
sounds a lot like that, where we're taking all of the components and finding efficiencies within all
of the components, and maximizing effort and minimizing waste, I guess. One thing he said was
you would be looking at bus and rail.
So I'm imagining that that could create new rail routes. So for instance, Southwest Line to
Southeast Line, because there is a connection there over the bridge over Broadway and along I25. Is something like that possible?
BILL VAN METER: Yeah, so we would be exploring options like that. Or Southwest, all trains
to Denver Union Station, and Southeast, all trains to the center of downtown, or vice versa.
Variations like that to look at, how do we best serve our passengers and carry people?
And does that give us any opportunities for increasing capacity, especially on the core segment,
which is between Broadway, I-25, and the Central Platte Valley junction, by making
modifications like that. It might benefit some passengers.
It might cause others to have to transfer at a high frequency location. But those would be the
sorts of things and trade-offs we would be exploring with our passengers, with the Board of
Directors, looking at the ridership and operational impacts, and having that sort of dialogue.
Those are potential opportunities.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. And I do appreciate the observation, once
again, of the engagement and dialogue that this process envisions at all stages of its evolution.
Before I go to the other speakers, let me advise Director Folska, after Director Catlin speaks
next, Director Folska, I'll call you. But I just wanted to give you a heads up, in case you needed
to collect your thoughts or to put your phone off mute, just so if you have comments, they can
come at that time. But now, I will recognize Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Excellent presentation. Thank you both. This is
really resonating with me because when I applied to fill a vacancy on this Board, that was one of
my pitches, was that RTD has long focused on FasTracks as its strategic plan. And now we need
to look to the future, that what happened in 2004, looking forward is very different than what
we're looking at today. Excuse me.

I'm very excited about looking at 2050. So this is, to me, very exciting. I'm also reminded of
when we were planning for Denver Union Station, and there was a lot of discussion about
regional rail service, and then there was a lot of work that was done just to preserve two bus base
for the bus tank. So I thought forward looking at that time, but now I'm wondering how you are
going to incorporate some of those external factors, such as regional rail and high-speed rail into
the efforts.
BILL VAN METER: Well, I personally represent RTD on the CDOT, Colorado Department of
Transportation's Transit and Rail Advisory Committee. And so in that capacity, I have a good
kind of relationship and dialogue at the staff level with the Division of Transit and Rail, DTR,
and am able to kind of keep track of and tabs of where their planning efforts and energies are
going.
We participated and contributed to their planning efforts to look at front range rail and statewide
rail, and particularly focused on the interface between those statewide and Front Range rail plans
and the FasTracks system and our metro area provision, focusing on making sure that our
services, if and when statewide rail or Front Range rail comes to fruition, are complementary,
and not competitive, for example, from a fare structure and from a service provision, so that we
are complementary and not poaching each other's customers, and that the capacity is there for
handling those alignments, whether they go through the heart of downtown or on alternative
alignments to the east or west, potentially, DEN, for example.
I also was selected by the Board to represent RTD on Southwest Chief Front Range Passenger
Rail Commission. And that reminds me, by bringing this up, that I'm probably a little overdue, in
terms of providing the Board an update on activities of that commission. So I probably should be
adding that to my to do list soon.
So there is a close level of collaboration on the major efforts that I'm aware of statewide, both
that state commission, as well as the division of transit and rail, and close history of collaboration
and coordination between those efforts. So I feel pretty confident that we've got a way on both
the bus and rail side to make sure that our plans are aligned.
BILL SIROIS: And just to add, I would fully expect that we would have staff from CDOT on our
advisory and technical working group so that we would have them involved not only with Bill's
efforts, in terms of his coordination with CDOT, but we have them directly involved in the
process as well.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I listened in on Governor Polis's Town Hall outreach for
transportation and human services. And a lot of the folks that called in were questioning what
RTD was going to be doing with such things as high-speed rail, and that sort of thing. So I think
there's a pretty broad interest from our elected officials, as well as the community at large.
And in fact, some of those initiatives, if they did come to fruition, could result in some additional
connectivity issues that we might not have envisioned up to this point. So that's just my two
cents. Thank you. Again, I really applaud what you're doing.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Vice Chair. We appreciate your comments and questions.
Director Folska, I gave you a heads up on this. So now let me ask, do you have any questions or
comments you wish to weigh in at this time?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA (ON SPEAKER): Yes, Chair Tisdale, I do. Thank you very much. Bill and
Bill, I want to thank you for your presentation. It's great food for thought. And I think we can say
that we can imagine the impossible possible, and we're certainly on the road to that.
Regarding this high-speed regional rail, does CDOT have an idea of the back of the envelope
number required to implement that?
BILL VAN METER: They have a number of different numbers, depending on alignments and
end of line locations, levels of service, and things like that. They have a report from a couple
years ago that, if you're interested, I could provide to you, Director Folska, or others, which
provides that level. But it's in the billions of dollars.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA (ON SPEAKER): Like $15 to $20 billion?
BILL VAN METER: I don't recall it getting quite that high, but off the top of my head, $10, $12,
that range, billion.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA (ON SPEAKER): Yeah, right. So I would love to see that, and maybe you
could send it to the entire Board. I'm sure it would be good reading. When thinking about this
long range plan, I wanted to suggest that you look into a division of Google called Sidewalk
Labs. Have you heard of that?
BILL VAN METER: I have not. And I'm looking at Bill Sirois. He's shaking his head no. It's
Sidewalk?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA (ON SPEAKER): Yeah, Sidewalk Labs.
DAVID GENOVA: This is Dave Genova. I'm familiar, Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA (ON SPEAKER): Yes, because we met with them.
DAVID GENOVA: Yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA (ON SPEAKER): Yeah. So I think it might be interesting to see what
they're doing and how if, at all, that might be useful information technology tool for your
thinking and planning. They're kind of building-- well, they are building a smart model city in
Toronto. So that's one thing. When you said that you had the engagement of all of this stuff, does
that include our operators as well?
BILL SIROIS: Yes, that's the expectation, that we would go out to the different facilities and
engage our full contingent of staff.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA (ON SPEAKER): Great. And when you think of the Speakers Bureau-and I really applaud Director Rivera-Malpiede's comment, regarding having youth at the table.
I'm a huge supporter of that. I have done it for years. And I think it's time we have a Citizen
Advisory Committee.
I think it's time to have a Youth Advisory Committee, in general. And they are our future and we
want them to grow up feeling comfortable using our multi-modal transportation system. As far as
the Speaker Bureau goes, have you considered implementing or asking the CAC to participate in
that? Or is that something completely different?
BILL SIROIS: It could be, depending on the topic and the group that we would be engaging. It
certainly could be involved.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA (ON SPEAKER): OK. And the customers that we're talking about, are you
focused on the people that ride or the people that don't ride, as well?
BILL SIROIS: Both.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA (ON SPEAKER): Great. Let's see. Oh, one of the things that I found really
useful was reaching out to people outside of our district and getting their input as well. And I
think it's helpful at the legislature, too. So that's all for now. Thank you, Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Folska. We appreciate your comments as
well. And as always, when any Director asks that materials be provided, of course, we know that
they go to the Board office and they are distributed to the entire Board so that everyone has the
benefit of seeing those. Let me now recognized Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you so much, Chair Tisdale. And I came very late to this meeting so I
didn't hear your presentation, which, excuse me, I assume was wonderful. But I did read the
presentation materials. And I, too, want to say that I'm really pleased about this. I'm old enough
to remember Pan Am, Pan American and Trans American.
And when they went under, I realized if you don't stay current, no matter how big and powerful
you are, you're gone. Doing something like this just makes sense. And I've also noticed that the
transits that have done these type of reviews are either holding their own or having ridership
increase, and everybody else is pretty much going down.
So it's just a very important thing to do. I think it's awesome. And as I said, I came late so I didn't
hear some of the stuff. But I personally feel that any Advisory Committee has got to have some
riders on there. They may not be technically astute, but they use the system. And I would really
hope that that's included.
And the other thing is-- and I don't know if this is part of your operational review-- I'm sorry, I
must've caught something there-- is that maybe there would be time to look at the possibility of a
different paradigm of partnership with our member jurisdictions to look at funding so that there
could be more funding coming in.

And we don't have enough to do everything that we need to do. And I think it is time to rethink
how we handle things. We're a Regional Transportation District. We're also local, but we're
having trouble doing both. And it would be good to use this as a means to reach out to the
stakeholders. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lubow, and for opening an old wound,
because I am the proud possessor of an official certificate of Pan-Am, entitling me to be one of
the first passengers on their shuttle to the moon.
[LAUGHS]
Treasurer Cook, you are recognized, ma'am.
SHELLEY COOK: I'm here. I'm just new to the concept here, so wanted to explore the word
"optimization." Is that defined? Is there something we're seeking to optimize or maximize, or is
there something in each area that you've identified that we're looking at?
BILL SIROIS: One of the things that we've talked about is the Board needs to help us define
what that is. Because there's things like you can optimize frequency. You can optimize coverage.
You can optimize ridership. There's a number of different factors that you could try to optimize,
and that would influence how you would maybe redesign the system. And so we need some
input, or we need some data, to show you about how taking those kinds of approaches would
impact the district. And so I think the expectation is that we will have a dialogue with the Board
to, hopefully, define what real optimization is.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, that sounds like it will be a good thought, or good idea. So does the $1.4
million cover the entire project? I think that's what you said DRCOG is funding. Is that true?
BILL VAN METER: The entire project is more than that. It's in the $4 million range for this
study, plus or minus. I don't want to be too specific because we're about to go into a competitive
procurement. But that information is publicly available in our grant application to DRCOG.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, and we've got it budgeted, I assume. Correct?
BILL VAN METER: Indeed. Action the Board took last month in February.
SHELLEY COOK: Forgive me. Yeah. That's what I remember.
BILL VAN METER: Aligned to that.
SHELLEY COOK: So is the RFP finalized? Because as Director, or excuse me-- sorry about
that, I'm always wanting to start with a D. David Genova had mentioned that we may be able to
incorporate some of that goal setting that we did over the weekend, in terms of moving forward
in the planning for this. Is that true?
BILL VAN METER: Indeed.

BILL SIROIS: And I think we feel the RFP is finalized. I think the expectation is some of the
goal setting that was discussed last week would be incorporated through the process, meaning
when we engage you this summer, after the consultants on Board, that we will use that input to
modify the overall study objectives and goals based upon some of that feedback that you
discussed last weekend.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And specifically, here's one that's a particular interest of mine. And
when I had a chance to sit down with Mr. Genova a month or two ago in Arvada, he thought it
might be relevant for, or be able to be incorporated. Are we able, in this study, to look at the
assumptions that feed into our modeling for pricing? In particular, the price sensitivity that may
have changed with housing cost increase. And can we also look at the impacts of varying
ridership mixes, as well as service mixes, on our bottom line, on other objectives? Can we
incorporate that?
BILL VAN METER: Yes, Director Cook. That's a key piece of the financial tool and analysis
that we are looking for, having that capacity to give us a not precise, but a ballpark
understanding. If we make these sorts of changes, that means we'll have more ridership on locals
and less on regionals, or we'll have more on FlexRide and less on local services. That will impact
our bottom line this way. That will also impact our fleet mix, potentially, and hence, our lifecycle
costs. And the intent is to have a tool that looks at the revenue side, the cost side, as well, and be
able to really understand the impact.
SHELLEY COOK: So not just quantifying or qualifying the riders by trip type, but the types of
riders and the fares they're paying, for example, the purpose of their trips. And then if we can just
reexamine the assumptions that feed into the models that we use for projecting our ridership and
revenues.
BILL VAN METER: Indeed.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Cook. Director Mihalik, you are recognized,
sir.
KEN MIHALIK: Mr. Chairman and Director Cook's comments were a good introduction to what
I was going to say. I know you're looking to contract with a single consultant. But I wonder if
there's a way to engage and utilize the university systems.
We're talking about the scope of this is just more than open. It's just all-encompassing, and I
think there's just some good resources there. I don't know if that's going to be a possibility,
though, with the way that the consultant relationships and the structure. But I think that if we
don't do that, it's a missed opportunity.
BILL SIROIS: One thing I'll add. I think we've already expected that we're going to, one, make
sure that all the local universities get a copy of the RFP so they will be aware of what our intent
is. I think the other thing, we already have engaged, I mean, CU Leeds Business Schools are very
engaged in our financial planning process. I would fully expect them to be engaged in this.

And who knows if any consultant arrangements may be made directly with some of those higher
ed institutions? As part of any teaming opportunities, it's certainly a possibility. We could also
entertain them as separately engaging them on this. I could see any of the number of possibilities,
in terms of engaging the higher ed community.
BILL VAN METER: And I'll add that as a result of some of the actions coming from the
Mobility Choice Blueprint, CSU, University of Colorado Denver, and a couple other academic
institutions, University of Denver, have been working together and collaborating with CDOT,
with RTD, and with the Denver Regional Council of Governments. Not in any formal basis, but
we've had a few meetings and we're trying to meet on a regular basis to identify those
opportunities.
So at a very minimum, we've already got them engaged under that process and can bounce ideas
off and utilize that resource and those schools. Because they're looking at how do can they better
collaborate in the transportation planning, financing, and design and construction fields, their
programs in the collaborative process. And so that's pretty exciting, and we may have that
opportunity to interact at that level with them as well.
KEN MIHALIK: Good to hear.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director. I think that's an excellent point, to make sure it's
confirmed publicly, that we are engaging universities as part of this process as well. Director
Menten, you are recognized, ma'am.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So I will speak to, first of all, page 4 within the document
itself. So 4 or 6 in the packet address financial scope. And the second bullet point there,
"Develop both a fiscally constrained plan and unconstrained plan to understand financial gaps." I
don't foresee a tax increase going forward anytime soon. And I can't think of, really, any
substantial additional funding. So I'm wondering, what would be the gain in spending
considerable amount of time and labor and money, and coming up with an unconstrained plan?
BILL VAN METER: Well, not a direct answer to your question, but I will note that both the
Department of Transportation, CDOT, as well as the Denver Regional Council of Governments,
do that. It's good planning process, especially when you're looking at a time horizon out to the
year 2050. For a while, you may not see a near-term funding increase, or opportunity, when
we're looking at and projecting needs out to the mid- and long-term.
Having a good understanding of what we can do in a fiscally constrained environment, and then
meeting what we project our real needs are and what that gap is, just helps inform dialogue and
decision-making down the road. And as Mr. Sirois noted, if we revisit these analyses every three
to five years, we can update those assumptions and update the trends and identify whether that
gap is growing or shrinking, because of our management and decisions and progress.
BILL SIROIS: The thing that I would add to that, even though there may not be a tax increase-they're considered a statewide lever within the agency-- we are going to have people, and we

already have people, looking to us to invest. I mean, City and County of Denver has come up
with a plan. Certainly the city of Boulder has been very proactive on this.
And if we have, here's what our fiscally constrained plans, that what we can afford, and then
there is things beyond that. And then we say, if you want to work with us and you want to do
those things that are beyond our current means, so that we can use that as kind of a discussion
point with them, to have that, here's where the fiscally constrained piece is. And then if we want
to go beyond that, we need additional resources.
NATALIE MENTEN: So they're implying they have some money set aside?
BILL SIROIS: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: Let me go to the next question then. With the advisory group, there's a
policy and there's a Technical Advisory Committee, noted on page 9/10. I want to just make sure
that that is two committees. They're not separate. Is that right, the reference on both page 9 and
10, are the two same?
BILL SIROIS: Just trying to get to the right page here. Yes. Yes. That is correct. Those are two
different committees. And the Policy Committee equates to the Advisory Committee. The
Technical Advisory Committee equates to the technical working group.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And who would be determining who, on the RTD Board, would be
serving on the Committee?
DAVID GENOVA: I'll take that one. Probably the Board Chair or a group of Board members
that the Board Chair convenes.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. I will mention that I know we like to have meetings between
8:00 to 5:00. But for the average citizen, that's not a schedule that works very well for them. So
the more that we can have people who don't work for our government agency, and therefore, are
allowed to take off three hours to go to a meeting, opens up the door more to the average citizen
that's working the 8:00 to 5:00 or 8:00 to 6:00, or all of those varieties. So hopefully, we can
work with that.
And then the RFP advertisement, you said, will be going to colleges. I get concerned when I see
some of our contractors be the same one over and over. I realize it makes it easy to work with
them, but in such a plan as this, thinking outside the box and not the person who's been running
on that same treadmill for years, is ideal. So who else would be getting this sent to them?
BILL SIROIS: Certainly, we've had, up till now, a lot of discussions and a lot of different firms
that are representative across the country. A lot of firms that are probably involved in a lot of the
peer plans that we've identified are certainly looking to bid on this as a potential. But we feel that
there's going to be a solid response to the RFP in the order of 5 to 6 teams at a minimum.

There's going to be a heavy component of probably an engineering firm. We'll have specialty
firms that are associated with looking at service and service analysis. We'll have financial firms.
We'll have firms that are expertise in community engagement, and other things. So there'll be a
lot of different folks that will be engaged in different teams that would look to bid on the project.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. This will be my last comment. With this list that I gave you
both that has reference to these-- what was the title of that page-- the System Optimization
Examples, on page 8 of the packet. I did a national transit database comparison, 2014 to 2018
transit.
And you said that Houston is one that has gotten further along, because they're the only one that
has a net increase on transit. LA is negative 17%, almost 17.5%, loss in transit. Sacramento,
26.35% negative drop in transit. Austin, 12 and 1/2% negative. So if it's any of the firms-- I'm
just speaking, I'm just going to tell you-- any of these firms that don't have a proven history, just
because they came out with a plan-BILL VAN METER: Was it effective?
NATALIE MENTEN: But you have explained that many of these have just started down that
path. But it does make me a little bit hesitant to just say these examples are, yeah, you all got it
together. So thank you. That's all.
BILL SIROIS: I just want to make one comment on the information that you handed out, which,
again, I don't know if the rest of them got this.
NATALIE MENTEN: No. You were the only ones. I wanted your comments first.
BILL SIROIS: The two that have either the increase or the lowest increase are the two that I
think are furthest along. There's a correlation there that, hopefully, that is a correlation because
the COTA, or Central Ohio Transit Authority, I think from our research, is the only one of the
only ones that started to implement, and so they started to see some impact.
But I do think that, like I said, we think Houston's the furthest along. But I think this goes to
where the industry is, in terms of the bus ridership, in particular, in terms of everybody's trying
to stem the tide of having the ridership downward trend.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. Just a follow-up. I'm sorry, I know we're-- but really, with Houston,
that was a bus optimization. Ohio, a bus optimization. So that's been the little brother that's
getting neglected. And many of these are in the same position. 70% of the riders are using that.
So thank you. That's all.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. And thank you for some of those statistics
because it does help to give the Board a context when we talk about the fact that RTD has
suffered a loss in ridership. That's been confined to buses. Rail operations have increased year
over year steadily, every year. Bus operations are losing 2%-ish, or so, over year over year.

So it's nice to hear the comparisons as to how other-- not to wish them ill-- but just to hear how
they're doing. And to answer the question, yes. The bylaws provide that the Chair appoints
members to a committee, such as this. I think it is well known, however, this Chair always
consults with every Board member relative to such matters.
Vice Chair Catlin, before I recognize you, is there anyone who has not spoken yet who would
like to speak? Because before I recognize Vice Chair, I'll ask you to speak. All right, then Vice
Chair, you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: I just wanted to acknowledge Director Rivera-Malpiede, as well as Director
Mihalik's, comments. And I just wanted to share a little story. I was contacted by a senior in high
school last month, who's with the STEM School, down in Highlands Ranch. And he wanted me
to help him with his senior project, which was looking at the entire bus service of RTD and
seeing how we could redo it.
[LAUGHS]
DOUG TISDALE: Do you have a name?
PEGGY CATLIN: I said-DAVID GENOVA: Can we send him the RFP?
[LAUGHS]
SPEAKER: He'd be the low bidder, for sure.
PEGGY CATLIN: I said, you know, I really appreciate your enthusiasm. But I would have to tell
you that that's a little bit of an ambitious effort, but that we are starting on this project. And I did
encourage him to call you.
But to the point of engaging some of our youth, some of these student projects and some of these
people-- I would suggest they start in their junior year, not the last semester of their senior year.
Nevertheless, it was kind of refreshing that that was something that he was really interested in
doing. So thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: And thank you. That's a good point to make. I appreciate it. Director Lubow,
you are recognized, ma'am.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Just another couple of points. One of them was about the
universities. And I know that I had been talking, and Director Folska, too, with some university
people before we did the Mobility Choice. Because there was the idea that maybe the universities
could be involved with that. And they are a potential with postdocs, with people getting their
PhDs, whatever, in doing some of the projects that are part of this.

And I don't know. I have no idea if you have already spoken to them about it, but it might be
well worth talking to them to see what could be done, possibly, on a cheaper level by high level
students. And the other point was when you had suggested, Bill, Bill 1 or 2-- I guess it's you
both-- about finding from the Board some guidance on optimization, what it would mean. I'm
assuming, and trusting and hoping, that you're also asking that of the stakeholders, because I'm
sure they've got plenty to say. OK. Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lubow. Director Williams, you are
recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Mr. Genova, hi. Is there an APTA group that is
looking at bringing all of these people, and us, bring that together and share that stuff? Or is that
something we could talk about later?
DAVID GENOVA: Yeah. So there's a variety of different APTA initiatives and committees, and
things. And one of the more recent ones is Mobility. And of course, this is something the entire
industry is interested in. But what I know, if there's a specific group that's been consolidating this
kind of work. But that's something I can check into.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
SPEAKER: One thing I would add to that, just to make a plug, is that within the Revolution
envelope, this is a big issue within that group as well. And we typically have, at our annual
conference, multiple panels related to re-looking, re-evaluating, how agencies are re-evaluating
themselves. I think that will be part of that organizations as well.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Director Williams. And
Treasurer Cook, you are recognized.
SHELLEY COOK: Forgive me. I forgot to bring this up. I agree strongly with what Director
Rivera-Malpiede suggested, and wanted to express the hope that that could include both college
age and younger, because college students are already using it quite a bit. I expect to have good
thoughts and are tech-savvy and forward-thinking already. So thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And I think we all agree, with Second Vice Chair
Rivera-Malpiede's observation, relative to getting youth involved. We may, just as we do with
fares, have to draw the line at some point, in terms of how old they are. But I think it is very
important that we have-- maybe we have the height test.
But in any event, Vice Chair points out that I'm sure that staff is aware of and will be following
up on the fact that the United States Department of Transportation does have, apparently, some
grant money that is available for research grants that would pair universities and agencies, and
that there might be a synergy that grows out of that as well. And that could be the reason for
having the universities get even more, potentially, engaged.

And I also hear, from what you said, that there may be an opportunity for a bidder, in effect, to
bring along a university as a partner in the process so that it's not necessarily just ABC Co that's
doing this, or DEF, but rather ABC in collaboration with DEF, and so on. And just for
clarification, what is your best sense of when the RFP will actually go out?
BILL VAN METER: In the next week or two.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. That's perfect. That's fine. In the next week or two. All right. Director
Folska, with all the comments, and with others having repeat shots here, I thought I would come
back to you now and offer you the opportunity.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA (ON SPEAKER): Thank you, Chair Tisdale. There were a couple of other
things. First of all, with regard to partnering with universities, and perhaps having them do some
of the consulting pieces at a much lower cost to the district, I think is an outstanding idea. And I
know that many of the universities and departments, or colleges within those universities, are
eager.
So for example, the Colorado School of Mines has a Transportation Department within their
Engineering Department. Recently, I've worked with those students, and they will be coming
forward with some recommendations on first mile, last mile ideas but that they've been working
on for the last year.
There is also-- you probably are aware-- the Denver Transportation Institute that is housed at the
University of Denver. And also, Andy Goetz-- you probably recall Professor Andy Goetz in the
School of Geography at University of Denver-- would be a great person to be even on the
Advisory Board.
I know that the College of Architecture and Planning, of which Phil is an alumni, as am I, and
has a lot of interest in all of these aspects of mobility. And I know that their graduate students,
master's, and PhD candidates and postdocs could really sink their teeth into this for a long time.
And then what you got is a real study, also. I mean, a proper study, whether it's from your
customers or employees, so on and so forth.
And likewise, in the School of Environmental Science at CU Boulder. And then even perhaps the
junior colleges, like Aurora Community College, and so on. One of the other things that I forgot
to ask you about is, are you including ideas of alternate energy sources as you look in the short,
near, and long-term?
BILL VAN METER: Yeah. We have a specific intent to look at fleet electrification. And that
could be both with fuel cell or battery electric, and do an analysis of the costs, benefits in both
the capital and operating side. If there are other fuel opportunities, we'll look at them as well, but
those are the primary two.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA (ON SPEAKER): Yeah. So I think there are lots of other alternative
energy sources besides electric. And I think having a good analysis-- and perhaps the University

would be keen to do that and look at what the cost of it is and how you get to zero carbon
emissions, if that's the goal, or even negative carbon emissions, and improving the environment.
When we think about growing our regional train network, one of the challenges that we have,
and that we've talked about over and over and over, is the TOD, or TOC, or pedestrian-oriented
environment situation. Because there our communities in the suburbs have not been built for
transportation, other than the single occupancy vehicle.
And I'm wondering if you guys work with the planning departments and these other
municipalities to help them build zoning that supports a regional transportation system so that
people don't need cars as much? Are you working with them on that?
BILL SIROIS: Yes, we are. We've been working extensively with a lot of the planning and
transportation staff over the years, in particular on their master planning efforts, which I think
we've reported back to the Board on in the past. But I mean, there's been an extensive amount of
stationary planning done in this region, really as a result of DRCOG putting a fair amount of
investment in that as an opportunity for those local jurisdictions.
So we have seen that. And obviously, we've seen, I will say, as I think we presented last month
in February, an impact from a development standpoint now. Can we say that impact is-- have we
seen the corresponding impact on the ridership? And I think that's something we still need to
work on.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA (ON SPEAKER): Well, for example, you have Regatta Plaza, right? And
for the longest time, nobody liked anybody in there. There were four different landowners.
Correct me if I'm wrong, too. I think it's four. And they didn't get along. And so it's stalled any
kind of development for a long time. Luckily now, it's something that's moving forward.
The same thing happened at the Southmoor station, where there are several different landowners
and none of them like each other. And therefore, although the actual physical area could be a five
or 10-minute walk, you said, actually, it's a 45-minute walk, you said, because of the barriers that
are built between each of these landowners. You follow me?
BILL SIROIS: Yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA (ON SPEAKER): So that's the kind of thinking. I mean, I don't know. Is it
unreasonable to say, you want to build here, you guys have to be nice to each other and work
together so we can move people around? I mean, like is that too granular?
DOUG TISDALE: I think that definitely should be one of the priorities of the group, as we form
them, is to make sure that they instruct all to play nicely in the sandbox. Anything further,
Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA (ON SPEAKER): That'll be all for now. Thank you Chair Tisdale.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate it. Director Menten, you are recognized
again.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I would just like to go back to the scope of work in RFP. And
it's broken out, with the wording in the presentation, four parts-- fiscal/financial, then the
comprehensive assessment, optimization, mobility plan for future, then the engagement part.
And I thought I heard the possibility of, perhaps, that might be more than one RFP, potentially.
It seems to me, if we were going to get the most competitive bid, breaking that out into pieces
might give that-- I don't know if we had a firm that they're the numbers guys. They're going to do
part 2 and excel at it. You got the guy who does engagement has got the connections. He excels
at that. Is it better breaking it out into the pieces? And if you chose to put it out as one, what
would a company potentially have as an option within the limited amount of time to respond to
the RFP?
BILL VAN METER: So the companies have been aware that this is coming since we applied for
the DRCOG grant last fall. And so they've been talking with various consultant firms who have
expertise in these areas. Because these general areas, without the level of specificity that we've
gone into tonight, have been known for some time, because we needed to communicate those
areas of interest to the Denver Regional Council of Governments.
So if these five, six teams, or more, that Bill Sirois identified earlier, haven't put together a good
team with the right specialties in all of those specialty areas, they have competing firms that are.
And so our intent will be to find that firm that comes with the best combination of all of those
skill sets.
We did identify that our cost modeling, very technical and specialized area, is one effort. Our
operating cost model update is so specialized that we did break that procurement off separately.
That was identified in the Board action last month as one separate piece, because we felt that that
could limit the teaming arrangements.
And so specialized and very few firms do that on in the transit space. We wanted them
competing for our business without having to be part of a larger team and, perhaps, diluting it.
But otherwise, if we don't have strong teams, they won't get selected because there's a lot of
competition.
BILL SIROIS: And one thing to add to what Bill said. I think that some of the challenge of
trying to split things up is just the level of coordination. And frankly, that can put more focus on
staff trying to coordinate with consultants, where I really prefer to have the consultants
coordinate amongst themselves. Because I do think a lot of them have teaming arrangements that
are very familiar with themselves and can get some good synergies with team members.
If we split these out, there maybe this, I'll just say, a level of dysfunctionality. And I've seen that.
I've seen approaches like that that has worked. But I think in this, because of the level of
coordination and the tie between the four elements of this plan, I think it would be difficult for us
to split out things, because it would make for a little bit less of a coordinated effort.

NATALIE MENTEN: All Right. I got confused. We've narrowed it down to five to six
companies?
BILL VAN METER: No. We believe that there are at least five or six teams that are forming
teams to compete for this procurement. At least five or six, we believe, are teams of consulting
firms with specialties, or subconsultants who specialize in each of those areas, teaming for
competition here.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. So because of the DRCOG grant, which was the 1 point
something in total here pocket that we pooled it. We were talking about more like $4.7 million.
But there are people who have been given, or are aware of, advanced notice of this RFP. They're
putting together proposals, working together. When do the universities get notice?
BILL SIROIS: Some of them have been noticed, just in terms of us talking about it, being in
forums that we've talked about this. But our intent was to send out the RFP when it's published
within the next two weeks directly to the universities.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. So I want to go back to that. So there's people who have an
advanced notice, whether that just means they're on the ball and they were watching what was
going on at DRCOG, they were watching our midterm report, or they just got a phone call from
somebody and said, oh, heads up. Here's going to be a whole lot of money to come up with a
plan. A hell of a lot of money.
And then we're going to send it out to some other people, some other entities, public entities,
private entities, that may not be aware of it. I'm just wondering how really widespread-- I'm
really wanting somebody who thinks outside the box. If it's the same old players, they've been
sitting around playing in the sandbox for a long time.
I guess I've got my answers, but I'm not clear. I'm not sure I'm feeling comfortable that we're
really giving it out to a lot of people in a wide notice. I don't know the process well enough to
know. For the guy who's busy, has great plans, can do this stuff, can think outside the box, how's
he going to get a hold of it, unless he's going to our website, happens to run across it? I don't
know. If you want to take it offline and give me some help with that?
BILL SIROIS: Sure.
NATALIE MENTEN: I would love to understand. OK, thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Menten. I think it is fair to say, and as I understand our
procurement process, we make every effort to make sure that when we go out with an RFP, that
it receives the broadest possible attention, because it gives us the broadest possible pool of
candidates to consider the matter.
And when the information comes in, we're confident that we're dealing with people, after we vet
them, that can handle the task. So I appreciate the questioning, because I think it helps to shine a
spotlight on the process, but I do think that we need to clarify that it's not that there's somehow a

list of five or six individuals who will get this RFP, and that's all there is to it. That's not the case,
as I understand it. I think it's important to verify that and state it in a public meeting so that
people can hear that and know that's how we operate. Madam Second Vice Chair, RiveraMalpiede, you are recognized.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Two things. One, as the former Civil
Rights Chair for RTD, I have seen RFPs go out, in that it is an inclusive and the most broad way
of getting information out, including hosting meetings for small businesses and DBEs and SBEs
to come and learn about what kind of opportunities are happening at RTD.
So I've been out in the community with the staff when they presented. I've been to organizations
that take it forward. So I just want to say that I'm absolutely comfortable with the process RTD
does. I think it's fair and inclusive and is in the broadest sense that I've seen. With that, I'd like to
know, is there a DBE goal associated with this?
BILL SIROIS: Yes, there is.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Can you tell me what it is?
BILL SIROIS: I would rather not tell you, just because we have consultants in the room and it
will come out in the RFP.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: We could piecemeal and start disclosing things that we want to go out. And
the rationale for that, just to state that clearly for the record, is to give everyone an equal footing.
That's what we want to see happen here. Everyone has an equal footing, so they all get it at the
same time. All right, are there other comments? I know we promised a deep dive, but not
necessarily a journey to the center of the Earth. And I just want to-CLAUDIA FOLSKA (ON SPEAKER): I have-DOUG TISDALE: Yes. Director Folska? Yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA (ON SPEAKER): Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I know that, in the past, I've
spoken with folks at the College of Architecture and Planning, regarding different opportunities
to respond to an RFP, and they have frequently not received these RFPs in, certainly, an
adequate time frame. So I believe that Director Rivera-Malpiede has a good vision of how it's
done and sounds like it's very broad. I think I'd like to see something broader than just Colorado,
for example.
What about a national search? So there's this is wonderful, really smart guy named Mike Meyers.
He's on the board of TRB. I'm sure Director Catlin knows him. He comes up with some fantastic
ideas. And he looks at things, like how you can share freight and passenger rail. He's really quite
a genius.

And also, I hope that you reach out to the Access Board in Washington to give guidance, so that
those folks who write the regulations for the implementation of the ADA can provide
information at the beginning of the process, instead of after the fact, as an overlay, that they are
engaged from the very beginning, along with folks from our local disability community. I think
that's really critical. That's all.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. We appreciate your additional thoughts. Are
there any other Directors who would like to weigh in at this time on the Transportation
Transformation Comprehensive Plan in depth review? Hearing none, we'll move on to the next
agenda item, which is other matters.
Are there any other matters to come before the Board? Hearing none, and the updates that were
provided in the Board packet are there for your information. So for the sake of this record, I will
announce that at 7:00 PM Mountain Standard Time on Tuesday, March the 5th, we stand
adjourned.

