Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Larry Hoy, District J

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
August 16, 2018 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
Chaired by Doug Tisdale
I.

Call to Order

II.

August Board Meeting Agenda Review

III.

Other Matters

IV.

Adjourn

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - August 21, 2018
I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Shirley Bennett – Senior Manager, Safety and Environmental – 39 years
Carol R. Coe – Paratransit Services Coordinator – 28 years
Michael W. Gonzales – Bus Operator – 23 years
Gilda T. Montoya – Sr. Accounting Technician – 19 years
David R. Padilla – Body Shop Mechanic – 24 years
Tom Sherrick – FM Engineer/Supervisor – 17 years
Special Recognition – 2018 APTA International Bus & Paratransit Roadeo
Bus International Participants
Jimmy Romero (RTD – 46th)
Jose Ek Chan (First Metro – 23rd)

Maintenance International Participants (10th Place)
Ryan Gill, Matt Johnson, and Randall Peterson
Special Recognition – 2018 APTA International Rail Rodeo
Rail Rodeo Operator Team Competition (2nd Place)
Robert Dennis
Narciso Garcia Jr.
Maintenance Team Competition (12th Place)
Mike Hubbard – Mariposa
Matt Jackson – Elati
Special Recognition from the City of Aurora Police Department
Terri Sims – RTD Bus Operator
V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Chair Tisdale
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Deadwyler
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Mihalik
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Walker

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of July 17, 2018

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent

A.

RTD Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments

It is recommended by the Nominating Committee for the RTD Citizens Advisory Committee
of the Regional Transportation District (RTD) that the RTD Board of Directors reappoint
two members of the Committee to an additional three-year term, and appoint three new
members to the Committee to three-year terms.

XII.

Recommended Action

B.

Award of Access-a-Ride Call Center Services

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a contract for the
provision of Access-a-Ride Call Center services with First Transit Inc. This contract is for
three years, with two, one-year options for a total five year amount not to exceed
$15,114,226. This proposal represents the most responsive and cost-efficient proposal
received in response to Request for Proposals (RFP) 18-DK-001, to provide “Access-a-Ride
Call Center” Services. The contract to provide this service is scheduled to be effective
October 1, 2018.
This recommendation addresses two of the General Manager’s 2018 goals: Core Goal #1
– Successful Delivery of Transit Services and Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial
Management.
XIII.

Executive Session

XIV.

Old Business

XV.

New Business

XVI.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

2.11.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: July 30, 2018

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

July 30, 2018

Board Meeting Date: August 7, 2018

Subject:

RTD
Citizens
Appointments

Advisory

Committee

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Nominating Committee for the RTD Citizens Advisory Committee of the
Regional Transportation District (RTD) that the RTD Board of Directors reappoint two members of the
Committee to an additional three-year term, and appoint three new members to the Committee to threeyear terms.
BACKGROUND
The Regional Transportation District (RTD) Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) is made up of residents,
community leaders and business persons from around the region. Members are appointed by the RTD
Board of Directors and volunteer their time to advise the District on a range of issues that can affect
citizens and impact the region. Five current members’ terms expired on May 31, 2018.
Recruitment for citizens interested in serving was publicly advertised through the RTD Web site, local
publications and stakeholder e-mail distributions beginning April 12, 2018. Applicants were asked to
submit a letter stating why they want to serve on the committee and what unique experience and skillset they will bring; describing affiliations and volunteer activities they believe will add value to the
committee; and a statement of personal objectives/goals if accepted for CAC membership.
A total of 20 applications were received by the May 10, 2018 deadline. Three current members are
eligible for reappointment and two of the three expressed an interest in continuing to serve on the
Committee.
The Nominating Committee, consisting of Chair Tisdale, Director Lubow, and Assistant General
Managers Reed and Van Meter, decided, based on attendance, participation at meetings and Committee
consistency to recommend reappointment of the two current members who had requested
reappointment. The Nominating Committee then carefully reviewed each application received and
conducted interviews with short-listed applicants to fill three positions, considering criteria outlined in
the Committee Structure adopted by the Board in 2005, including:
 Demonstrated interest in transit or other public policy advocacy.
 Membership in business, civic, and environmental organizations.
 Member of senior, low-income, minority, and/or disabled populations.
 Experience in working with local jurisdictions on regional issues.
 Previous community service.
 Professional expertise and qualifications.

Packet Pg. 4

2.11.A

The following current members are recommended for reappointment to an additional three-year term
expiring May 31, 2021:
Heather Cronenberg was the Open Space Superintendent for the City of Westminster. In that position,
she focused on real estate transactions for the City, primarily related to open space acquisitions, master
planning, development review, and open space/park amenities. In addition to large complex acquisitions,
Mrs. Cronenberg was actively involved in park visioning, economic development, and planning that
correspond to transportation projects such as the South Westminster rail station. She is a graduate of
the Transit Alliance’s Citizen Academy and sits on the Steering Committee for the Colorado Open Space
Alliance. Mrs. Cronenberg graduated from The University of Georgia with a degree in Political Science
and a focus on non-profit management. She resides with her husband and two children in the Park Hill
neighborhood of Denver, District B.
Rodger A. Hara is owner and Principal of Community Builders Realty Services, a firm that helps
government agencies and for-profit and non-profit developers find their way through the affordable
housing finance and development maze. He has worked in affordable housing finance and development
for 40 years at HUD, the Colorado Housing and Finance Authority, the Denver Housing Authority and
various mortgage companies. He was Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Mercy Loan Fund for 2
years and is currently on the Boards of the Arapahoe House and Sam S. Bloom Foundations, the
Colorado Housing Assistance Corporation and Theatre Esprit Asia. He is a Denver native, life-long user of
public transit and a graduate of the Transit Alliance Citizens Academy. He has a Bachelor of Science in
Business Administration from the University of Denver and is a resident of Denver District E.
The following applicants are recommended for appointment to a three-year term expiring on May 31,
2021:
Heather Britton is the Director of Benefits and Wellness for the City and County of Denver (city) and is
responsible for negotiating, implementing and overseeing all insurance and voluntary benefits for nearly
11,000 city employees and their families. Ms. Britton considers transit passes with RTD an integral,
inexpensive, yet high value, part of the city’s benefit package to be used along with telecommuting,
alternative work schedules or flexible start/end times to make commuting a less stressful component of
employee’s lives. Britton hopes to provide the perspective of the nearly 2,400 employees at Denver that
utilize the city’s discounted transit pass and to help address the needs of employees who are unable to
utilize transit. She holds a Bachelor of Science degree from the University of Colorado, Leeds School of
Business. She has utilized RTD for her daily commute to Denver since 2000. Heather resides with her
daughter in Broomfield, RTD District I.
Nancy McNally has served on the Jefferson County School Board, City Council for Westminster and 10
years as Mayor of Westminster. She currently serves on the Westminster Historical Society, Jefferson
County CSU Extension Board, as President of Citizen Police Alumni, is a Board member for N2Sports,
and a member of Citizen Fire Alumni. Nancy is the facilitator for Westminster Cares (made up of
churches in Westminster.) She is the owner and creative inspiration behind Made and Created and was
awarded Small Business Person of the Year in 2015 by the Metro North Chamber of Commerce. She

Packet Pg. 5

2.11.A

worked on the 2004 FasTracks ballot initiative and is a frequent transit user. Nancy lives in
Westminster, RTD District J.
Dawn Mullally currently works for the Denver Regional Mobility and Access Council (DRMAC). She has
worked in transportation for over twelve years, and in transit for ten. During her time at the Roaring Fork
Transportation Authority she was on the management team that installed the first rural bus rapid transit
system in the nation. Inspired by her time in transit she got her Master’s degree in Environmental Law
and Policy from Vermont Law School, as she believes transit is one of the most powerful things an
individual can do to reduce their daily carbon footprint. Ms. Mullally has managed two chapters of the
Department of Energy’s Clean Cities program on alternative transportation fuels. She has also been on
the Department of Energy’s Bioenergy Technology Steering Committee advising on communication
strategies and sustainability metrics. She resides in Englewood, RTD District D.
ALTERNATIVES
1. It is recommended by the Nominating Committee for the RTD Citizens Advisory Committee of the
Regional Transportation District (RTD) that the RTD Board of Directors reappoint two members of
the Committee to an additional three-year term, and appoint three new members to the
Committee to three-year terms.
2. Modify the recommended appointments to the RTD Citizens Advisory Committee. This is not
recommended as the appointment is within the parameters of the Committee Structure adopted
by the RTD Board of Directors.
3. Do not adopt the Recommended Action. This is not recommended as this alternative would delay
the appointment process of the RTD Citizens Advisory Committee.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no additional financial impact.

Prepared by:
Roger Sherman, CRL Associates, Inc.
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 6

2.12.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: August 8, 2018

From:

Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer

GM

Date:

August 8, 2018

Board Meeting Date: August 21, 2018

Subject:

Award of Access-a-Ride Call Center Services

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a contract for the provision of Access-aRide Call Center services with First Transit Inc. This contract is for three years, with two, one-year
options for a total five year amount not to exceed $15,114,226. This proposal represents the most
responsive and cost-efficient proposal received in response to Request for Proposals (RFP) 18-DK-001,
to provide “Access-a-Ride Call Center” Services. The contract to provide this service is scheduled to be
effective October 1, 2018.
This recommendation addresses two of the General Manager’s 2018 goals: Core Goal #1 – Successful
Delivery of Transit Services and Core Goal #3 Strong Financial Management.
BACKGROUND
The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) requires that public entities operating a fixed route system
also provide paratransit service to individuals with disabilities that is comparable to the level of service
provided to individuals without disabilities. RTD adheres to the U.S. Department of Transportation, Part
37 regulations (Transportation for Individuals with Disabilities) which regulate paratransit services. All
policies regarding services were developed in concert with a Citizen Advisory Committee comprised of
individuals representing the disability community. The original design of the Access-a-Ride program was
adopted by the RTD Board of Directors and was forwarded to the Federal Transit Administration for their
approval.
The current Access-a-Ride structure consists of one Call Center Contractor and four Service Provider
Contractors. First Transit operates the Call Center while MV Transportation, VIA Mobility Services,
Transdev, and Transdev-On-Demand provide the service. In addition, all paratransit eligibility functions
are handled by Easter Seals of Colorado.
On May 25, 2018, RTD issued a Request for Proposals (RFP) soliciting technical and price proposals to
provide Access-a-Ride Call Center Services. This service represents the re-bid of service currently
provided by First Transit. The RFP was mailed to 16 firms that indicated an interest in proposing on this
service. In addition, announcements were placed in transit publications. Proposals were due on June
25, 2018.
DISCUSSION
Four (4) proposals were received in response to RFP 18-DK-001 for the Provision of Access-a-Ride Call
Center services. Proposals were received from First Transit; Global Contact Services, LLC (GCS);
Midwest Paratransit Services, Inc., and 6e Tech.
It is the recommendation of the Evaluation Committee formed to evaluate proposals received in response
to RFP 18-DK-001, that RTD award a contract for Access-a-Ride Call Center service to First Transit Inc.
This recommendation is based upon the evaluation of the proposals according to the evaluative criteria

Packet Pg. 7

2.12.A

as set forth in the RFP for this procurement. The evaluative criteria established for this procurement
were: a) experience of the firm and key personnel in providing service similar in nature and agency size
(25%); b) system management (25%); c) training outline (15%); d) transition and start-up (5%); and e)
price (30%).
The Evaluation Committee consisted of Paul Hamilton, Senior Manager, Paratransit Services; Carolyn
Conover, Senior Manager, Contracted Services; and Larry Buter, Manager, Paratransit Services.
The members of the Evaluation Committee individually reviewed the technical proposals submitted by
the four proposers. Each team member evaluated the proposals on how well the proposal met the
evaluative criteria set forth for the procurement and assigned a score for “Experience of the Firm and
Key Personnel in providing service similar in scope and agency size”; “System Management”; “Training
Outline”; and “Transition and Start-up.” Based on the average of the individual scores received in these
categories, Global Contact Services (GCS) was the highest rated technical proposal followed by First
Transit. 6e Tech ranked in third place followed by Midwest Paratransit Services, Inc. in fourth place.
The proposed costs per provider were as follows: First Transit $15,114,226; Global Contact Services,
LLC (GCS) $19,336,087; Midwest Paratransit Services, Inc., $10,977,722.63 and 6e Tech
$20,449,114. The score for the “Cost” element of each proposal was calculated by the RTD
procurement staff and was then added to the technical score of each proposal to determine the overall
score or rating of each proposal. The total overall scores resulted in First Transit Inc. being the highest
rated proposal followed by Global Contact Services (GCS) second place; Midwest Paratransit Services,
Inc. third place; and 6e Tech fourth place. It should be noted that despite Midwest Paratransit Services,
Inc. submitted the lowest bid, they did not meet the minimum evaluative criteria. First Transit received
an overall total score of 82.70 (out of 100); Global Contact Services received an overall total score of
77.4; Midwest Paratransit Services, Inc. received a total score of 62.47; and 6e Tech received an overall
score of 52.99.
The key strengths of the Global Contact Services (GCS) proposal included extensive experience
providing paratransit call center services for large transit agencies; a proposed management team with
prior experience in their areas of expertise; in-depth explanation for plans to review and refine service
delivery; workforce management; and cross training staff. The weaknesses of the Global Contact
Services (GCS) proposal included concerns about employee shift schedules and experience with
preparation of vehicle deployments.
The key strengths of the First Transit proposal included a high-level of experience with the proposed
service; a proposed management team with prior experience with the proposed service; in-depth
explanation of plan to meet RTD service standards; and proposed improvements to wages. Additionally,
there would be no need for startup and no disruption of service when transitioning to the new contract.
The weaknesses of the First Transit proposal included concerns about corporate support of the local
team and methodologies to ensure quality control.
The key strengths of the 6e Tech proposal included a detailed discussion of the training program and
hiring plan. The Evaluation Committee was concerned with the weaknesses of the 6e Tech proposal
which included a lack of applicable experience in scope, size, and complexity similar to the current Call
Center operations; several key management personnel were not identified; and limited discussion on
methodology to ensure quality control of Call Center operations and strategies to meet service
standards.
The key strengths of the Midwest Paratransit Services, Inc. proposal included experience providing Call
Center services; the experience of the proposed General Manager; and the proposed use of software

Packet Pg. 8

2.12.A

designed to improve efficiencies. The weaknesses of the proposal included a failure to identify several
key management personnel; a limited discussion on how service standards would be met; a limited
discussion on hiring, recruiting and retention of employee; and a failure to address how training
requirements would be met. Based on the proposals and interviews, the overall rating represents the
evaluation process conclusion that the strengths of the First Transit technical proposal outweighed the
strengths of the Global Contact Services; Midwest Paratransit Services, Inc.; and 6e Tech proposals.
It was the consensus of the Evaluation Committee that First Transit Inc. and GCS presented the best
proposals in terms of understanding of the project, proposed management team, proposed
organization/business plan/approach to deliver the requested service, training and transition plan.
Although First Transit provided the lowest priced proposal of the top two proposals, the Evaluation
Committee needed additional clarification on the proposals.
On July 23, 2018, the Evaluation Committee conducted in-person, oral interviews with the two
proposers who scored the highest, First Transit and Global Contact Services (GCS). While the strengths
of both the First Transit and Global Contact Services (GCS) proposals included experienced staff,
training, and operations, the Global Contact Services (GCS) costs exceeded both the internal cost
estimate for the operation of the ADA Call Center and the First Transit proposal. At the conclusion of
the oral presentations, proposers were given the opportunity to present a best and final offer. The
revised scores, which included the best and final pricing, resulted in First Transit receiving a score of
91.21 and Global Contact Services (GCS) receiving a score of 86.37. In addition, contracting with First
Transit saves the District a total of $4,221,861, which includes a savings of $220,716 in startup costs
given First Transit is also the incumbent.
RECOMMENDATION
It is recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter
into a contract for the provision of Access-a-Ride Call Center services with First Transit Inc. This
contract is for three years, with two, one-year options for a total five year amount not to exceed
$15,114,226. This proposal represents the most responsive and cost-efficient proposal received in
response to Request For Proposals (RFP) 18-DK-001, to provide “Access-a-Ride Call Center” Services.
The contract to provide this service is scheduled to be effective October 1, 2018.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
An RTD internal financial analysis indicated that the estimated cost to provide these services would be
higher than the prices offered by the recommended service provider. The estimated cost was based on
current and projected wage rates and other operating expenses based on RTD’s current experience
operating the RTD Call Center in the Customer Care Division.
Funds for the provision of the first year of service under this contract are included in the proposed 2019
budget. There are no proposed start-up costs, and therefore, there is no start-up cost impact on the
2018 or 2019 budgets. Funds will be requested in future budgets for the provision of service in future
years.
ALTERNATIVES:
1)
Award the contract to First Transit, Inc., as recommended
2)
Award the contract to Global Contact Services (GCS), the second ranked proposer. This is
not recommended as it does not reflect the outcome of the Evaluation Committee’s
evaluation process and RTD’s procurement process.

Packet Pg. 9

2.12.A

3)

Resolicit the RFP. This is not recommended as the proposal process has resulted in a
responsive and cost-efficient proposal and is less expensive than the RTD internal cost
estimate (ICE).

Prepared by:
Larry Buter, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 10

