Aug 16 2018 1200 PM Executive Committee
DOUG TISDALE: --committee for this date. The first item on our agenda is the review of the
August Board meeting agenda to be held next Tuesday, August 21 here at the RTD. And the
agenda is set out before you.
Let me advise you of one change of which I am aware, and then we can have some specific
discussion about details, and then I'll ask the General Manager his approval of the agenda.
Because in the first instance, the General Manager is the one actually, according to our charter,
who sets the agenda for the Board Meetings subject to this committee's addition or deletion.
All that having been said, I am aware that under IV, Special Recognitions, we're going to be
adding one special recognition to that, just so you're aware. And perhaps, our Executive Manager
can just give us a brief statement of what that additional special recognition will be.
BARBARA MCMANUS: It's a commendation to Terri Sims, one of our bus drivers, that came
externally, for going above and beyond the duty. And there is a beautiful letter that they're going
to present. They brought it down yesterday and asked if we could recognize it in the Board
meeting on Tuesday. That's why it's not on the agenda.
DOUG TISDALE: That's very exciting.
JUDY LUBOW: Who is they?
DOUG TISDALE: Can I just ask for-BARBARA MCMANUS: The transit police.
DOUG TISDALE: I'm just saying, who's the they?
BARBARA MCMANUS: The transit police.
DAVE GENOVA: And this is for a bus operator, Terri Sims?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Well, we appreciate that. That's very nice. But we have that, so there's
that addition. We'll come back in a moment to VII, the GMOC (General Manager Oversight
Committee) update, because I'll ask Director Walker to speak to that in some greater detail for
purposes of this committee.
The Unanimous Consent agenda has simply the one item on it relative to the committee
appointment. And it would appear that the packet will have the correct names of people going
forward and that our presentation pack at the Board Meeting will have that. And then there's just
the one recommended action item.

There is also the opportunity for, but no presently scheduled discussion of an executive session
for that meeting. And we might also, at that time-- actually, I think that's when we will have to
take special note, perhaps under new business, for the sake of the record. And here I bring to
your attention that we are talking about the advisability of scheduling a Special Board Meeting
on Friday, September 21 at 7:30 in the morning. I raise that now so you are aware and let me
know what prompted that.
And that is, as you do know, we have a structured mediation that will go on relative to current
litigation. We talk about this much in open session. If you want to get into details, we would
have to convene an executive session here in the executive meeting. But in open session, we can
advise that it is public record that there will be a structured mediation between DTP (Denver
Transit Partners) and the RTD, relative to the issues that the parties have identified and gone
through a dispute resolution process concerning. That mediation will occur September 17, 18,
and 19.
Should, God willing, the mediation result in some kind of agreement between and among the
parties, the desire is to have the Board in a position to ratify that, as we are similarly requesting
of DTP, at the earliest possible moment so as to avoid circumstances arising that might somehow
deter people from proceeding with what they did agreed to.
Therefore, in light of the fact that APTA (American Public Transportation Association) is
starting on Sunday of that weekend-- and we have one Director leaving Friday afternoon, and we
have a number of Directors leaving on Saturday for the APTA conference, we would lose all of
that time as well.
So the current anticipation-- and we will announce this formally at the Board meeting on
Tuesday night, is to schedule the special board meeting for Friday, September 21 at 7:30 AM to
deal with the DTP, RTD negotiations and any possible agreement, which Special Board Meeting
would, of necessity, as the statute requires, relative to litigation, and executive session for
purposes of discussion. And then, of course, an open meeting to discuss whatever to be discussed
in open meeting. And then an actual action whether that be approval or rejection of the
settlement proposal.
That's the outline. Now have I left anything out, Executive Manager?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No. But there could be information in an executive session regarding
RMR. If we have the Special Board Meeting, it will be to approve whatever agreement was
worked out between DTP and us. And Rolf doesn't feel that we would need an executive session
if we were going to only take that vote and not discuss RMR at that time.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for that clarification. That's very beneficial. Yes.
DAVE GENOVA: You mean RRP (Regional Rail Partners), the North Metro?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. I'm sorry.

DAVE GENOVA: Design-builder is RRP. So that same week-- and if I just might clarify one
thing, the mediation between RTD and DTP is a non-binding mediation that's scheduled for three
days. We're hoping to reach a resolution, but like I said, it's not binding. Hopefully, we'll be there
for the next couple of days that week. We also are doing mediation with RRP, who is the North
Metro design-build contractor.
Now, I'll remind you all, too, that we are scheduled to have binding arbitration with RRP later
this year, like in about a November time frame, but both sides have agreed to let's take another
run at mediation to see if we can resolve our issues. So those are the items that we might be
bringing forward to you if we have the meeting on the 21st.
DOUG TISDALE: So there could be two items on the agenda, there might just be one. And if it
is just the one, it might not require an executive session. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: It all sounds very interesting. How come we can't have a meeting Thursday
evening or Friday at 9 or 10 morning, a reasonable time.
DOUG TISDALE: And for that I will invite Executive Manager because we talked about the
timing and the issues of posting.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So we have to [INAUDIBLE] 24 hours. We're not going to get the
information. We'll need to build the packet, we'll need to post everything within the 24-hour time
span. There are some Directors that want to have this outside of 8-5 hours because the public is
invited.
So since we have to get it done and we can't have it done later in the day with the full population
of the Board, that seemed to be the only solution at the full 24 hours from the time we would be
posting.
DOUG TISDALE: So to put it in context, just if I can expand upon that and then go back to you.
Wednesday night is when the mediation is scheduled to end. Assuming that is the case, that it's a
productive mediation and that some agreement comes out of this, God willing, we wouldn't
know until Thursday morning what we're doing. And we need 24 hours. So that would allow us
to do it Friday morning.
If we were to do it later in the day on Friday, we lose at least Director Anderson, and I suppose
others who aren't thrilled about meeting here on a Friday evening.
JUDY LUBOW: Well, does it have to be 7:30 in the morning?
NATALIE MENTEN: Did you make a motion to do it Thursday PM? Because I will second you
on it if staff can make it work. We put the meeting up. If the meeting doesn't happen, meeting
canceled.
DOUG TISDALE: The problem, if I may, Director Menten, is it would be hard to get 24-hours’
notice for a Thursday night meeting.

NATALIE MENTEN: We put the notice up a week in advance. We already know the date here a
month in advance. There's no problem with noticing it, right?
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, I'm sorry. I understand your point better now. Thank you. Thank you for
clarifying that. Yeah. In other words, it takes a village.
[LAUGHTER]
The idea is if we were to do a placeholder meeting and identify it as discussion of pending
dispute resolution proceedings in the plural, and set that for Thursday evening, we would have
the opportunity of having that appropriately posted. And should nothing occur during the course
of the mediation requiring our attention, we could vacate the meeting. Should nothing occur
relative to RRP, we could similarly vacate the meeting.
It sounds like that is an excellent suggestion, that we go ahead and give the notice in any event of
Thursday, September 20 at 5:30 PM.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I would like to run it past Rolf before we decide on it definitively.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, again pursuant to the Special Board Meeting, we're not going to make
that decision here. I'm raising the issue. I want to bring it to the Board's attention. The bylaws
would give the charity authority to call such a meeting. I'm disinclined to do so on my own
authority.
I want to bring it to the full Board. We'll have an opportunity to talk about this Tuesday night.
But now we have a more clarified question to present to Rolf, and, I think, a more agreeable
solution to present to the Board.
JUDY LUBOW: And can I add, though, that if for whatever reason Rolf says legally, it can't
happen, I don't see why it has to be at 7:30 in the morning. It means I'm traveling from 6 o'clock
because the traffic sucks. So yeah.
NATALIE MENTEN: And there are other Board Directors who have jobs. And by having an
evening meeting that makes it easier for them. So I back your concerns.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And I don't see what legal issue it is to-- excuse me. I didn't raise my
hand. I'm sorry.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. Maybe you could help me understand what the legal
ramifications would be for noticing a meeting that if it does not fit, we cancel it.
DOUG TISDALE: None.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. So we don't need anybody's permission.

DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. Well, it's a question of, I think-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Just post it.
DOUG TISDALE: --of just simply speaking-- like all would suggest, when every occasion
arises, we should consult with counsel. I would never say don't consult with counsel. So I think
we just, at least, consult with counsel. But I think we understand that yes, the Thursday thing
would work.
Did you have something else? Because I'm going to recognize General Manager next.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, I think it's fine to consult with counsel. And then I would suggest
maybe counsel could join us at these meetings so we don't have to waste time chasing him down.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, no. Thank you for the observation. I think it's-- a waste of time? I think
it's a very productive discussion because I think the suggestion is to go to the Board meeting on
Tuesday night and advise that we're looking at a Special Board Meeting Thursday, September 20
at 5:30 PM, or such other time as the board may deem appropriate, in that evening. And that we
will, in the meanwhile, also at least alert General Counsel to that effect and ask for his input,
which he's welcome to share at the board meeting next Tuesday night.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah. I do believe there's outside counsel that's involved in this, too.
So there's other schedules that may be impacted.
DOUG TISDALE: No. Absolutely. And given what we have paid outside counsel, I am
absolutely convinced to a moral certainty they will be here.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I think so.
DOUG TISDALE: General Manager.
DAVE GENOVA: I just want to thank you, Chair. I just wanted to ask, Barbara, is there a time
limitation on publishing a packet at all, any information on packet, or is it just a notice on the
meeting?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Our legal notice is downstairs. So we have to do it downstairs, 24
hours. We will prepare a packet and post it. It probably won't hit the 24-hour mark.
DAVE GENOVA: Right. But it's just the meeting notice that requires the 24-hour notice. Can
the packet come later? I mean, you have to have the agenda, but if there's any packet, it doesn't
necessarily have to come within that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: No. And Rolf didn't think that there was going to be-DAVE GENOVA: A big packet.

BARBARA MCMANUS: --anything that was substantive that we would need to worry about. So
I'm not concerned about that. We'll figure that out.
DAVE GENOVA: OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: So may I?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes. Director Menten, please.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So let me be sure that I understand. This is potentially an
executive session and 50% chance that it's open?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Well said.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Based upon what General Counsel has advised the Executive Manager, I
assumed that it might have to be an executive session were there details to be shared with the
body. That said, we might have the opportunity individually, one-on-one, to speak with Directors
and alert them to what's going on. Thus, no need from executive session, but rather an open.
NATALIE MENTEN: So this would simply be some Board items that we have, where it says no
background it's-- meaning we're going to get when we get there, right?
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah.
NATALIE MENTEN: So then just a notice? OK. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: You're welcome. Other observations or thoughts about this Special Board
Meeting? It's a very good discussion. Director Walker, did you want to weigh in on?
JEFF WALKER: Yeah. One thing I didn't catch was when the mediation starts.
DOUG TISDALE: September 17. So it's scheduled for, relative to DTP, September 17, 18, and
19. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Not that this is a big point, but since we are paying these people so much,
that's one less day going into their schedule, being there. And if they fly in-- I don't know, are
these folks living here?
DOUG TISDALE: They are.

NATALIE MENTEN: I agree. They get paid a lot of money to do-DOUG TISDALE: Yes, which is why I said I'm not concerned at all about their attendance. All
right. So we've addressed that. Let me make a note here so-- under new business for next week's
agenda, I think that's where we could put the Special Board Meeting for Thursday September 20
at 5:30 PM.
And as I said, or at such other hours, the Board may designate the most reasonable discretion to
occur after that time. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair. At the Special Board Meeting, I'm assuming that the
Board is going to be approving something. Do we have a simple majority or super majority
needed?
DOUG TISDALE: We would probably want to confer with counsel to ensure my accuracy on
this. My belief is it is a simple majority. And I'm sorry, when I say that I really mean it would be
eight members. If, for example, we had 13 members show, we would still need eight votes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Right.
DOUG TISDALE: OK.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: General Manager.
DAVE GENOVA: No. I was just concurring with you. That's my understanding as well.
DOUG TISDALE: Good. Thank you. All right. So that's the first addition modification to the
agenda that we would propose before we asked the General Manager for his input regarding this
agenda.
Next, the other amplification that I think the committee would benefit from, is a discussion by
Director Walker in his capacity as chair of the General Manager Oversight Performance
Management Committee (GMOC). And that is under VII in your agenda.
You have before you the draft-- as the Committee has not met to approve these minutes yet, but
you have the draft of the minutes from the GMOC meeting. And Director Walker and I actually
both asked our Executive Manager please to accelerate the production of these minutes. And the
replication of the motion was adopted because there appeared to have been some lack of clarity
in some internal communications amongst Directors relative to what the motion said or intended
to accomplish.
So we wanted to make sure you have the benefit of that. And Director Folska, I'll recognize you
in a second if I can first get Director Walker to give us-- oh wait. Oh, you're saying someone was
on the line.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I would-- but [INAUDIBLE] might be there. I just went to.
DOUG TISDALE: Is there anyone on the line joining us? This is Doug Tisdale. Hearing none.
Thank you for bringing that to my attention. I actually did hear a beep or a tone or something.
All right. Let me turn it over to Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: All right. There are copies of the minutes?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes. I thought you picked one up.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. I had the e-copy that you sent to me. OK. So this is the same thing
you sent. OK. So we met the other day. We talked about the results of the survey. Most of the
conversation was about the structure of the question, getting the answers that we wanted with
information that's useful. So we'll try to make some modifications to the-- [INAUDIBLE]
repeating myself from Tuesday. So we'll try to make some modifications for the second survey
that comes in the second half of the year. If that's possible, we'll do that. But that's the goal.
The second half of the meeting, Mr. Genova joined us and we had a discussion about his
thoughts on the survey and any questions that he had for us or us for him on those. So that
discussion took its course.
The third item that we brought up was the contract, our contract with Mr. Genova. I expressed
what I gleaned from my conversations with many of you, or emails that I got. Tisdale did the
same. Tisdale and my feelings were that most Board members, if at all, were in favor of
extending his employment with RTD. There was some variation about whether that should just
roll over the existing contract, or we're creating a new contract and extending the length of that
with maybe different terms or possibly different terms in that.
So the motion that Mr. Tisdale made was that we would-- Mr. Tisdale and I would engage in
discussion with Mr. Genova about what that might look like, to see how far apart we are on
anything, or on everything that we can imagine in the course of that conversation. After that
discussion then we would come back to the Board. So that's what was reference as kicking the
tires. Just taking a quick summation of the lay of the land.
After that, we would come back to the Board and talk about what we discovered and what our
feelings are based on that conversation. The Board did give us an indication of what it wanted to
do, to proceed with the conversations for a three-year contract. Since that seemed to be the mean
point of the meeting of what Board members were feeling individually.
Go forward with that, maybe some high level type of talking points or terms that might want to
be changed or modified in some way. And then we can just continue to proceed in that we're told
to not proceed anymore with discussions. Did that accurately--

DOUG TISDALE: That captures it. And let me, if I may, supplement your excellent summary
with the observation that I shared with several Directors yesterday when the question arose. In
short, in my perception-- and I look at the motion, and I say, my God, who drafted this? A
lawyer?
NATALIE MENTEN: It's long.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. It Is. But you know my saying, I strive to be brief; I become obscure.
So I always seek to avoid that. The notion is to give the full Board three, count them, three
separate opportunities to hear, consider, discuss, and then ultimately decide what we shall do
with any modification, change, extension, exercise of option, termination, whatever relative to
the General Manager and the General Manager's contract.
To be specific, to have a presentation by Director Walker next Tuesday night at the full Board
Meeting in giving the update, which is why we talked about this here and why I have extended
this discussion. Then following the tire kicking that we will do to come back to the GMOC,
present information at the GMOC. And then have the GMOC present that information to the full
Board. That's the second time.
And then should there be indication that we are in the neighborhood of being able to work out an
extended contract, GMOC would then proceed with its function in appointing a committee for
purposes of negotiations. And then whatever resulted from that would come back to the Board
for final ratification and approval. That would be the third time. I just want to emphasize that
there will be three opportunities for the full Board to weigh in on this. Now, question about that?
Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Thank you both for putting a lot of thought into this. What I had
heard, and I think what you could perhaps distill from that-- it's not totally accurate, but could be
distilled is that there's the possibility of changing the contract. And not just doing a one-year
extension, but having a new contract.
That's the first I heard that. It's the first I've heard of that. And I feel it's out of line. It's like we
spent a lot of time on that contract. And I don't think it's appropriate to just have discussions
about, well, maybe we should change it. It's like, hello? I mean, I was very shocked and not
pleased.
And it seems to me that what it's doing is basically giving this particular Board-- which we could
do. But I mean, the chance to have a three-year extension instead of the next Board, which is
going to be coming in, having its time to weigh in on this pursuant to the contract as written, and
vetted, and what most of us, I think, were expecting. I was shocked. And I felt it was
inappropriate. But I don't doubt the good intentions, but I don't like the process.
DOUG TISDALE: I understand that and I appreciate that. I'm glad that you chose to share your
observations with me yesterday so I could start the process of dialogue, to confirm, and to have
expanded what the discussions have been that we have had with the individual Board.

So as my opinion, as one of 15, as Director Walker's opinion is one of 15, yours is one of 15. We
share them all. That's why there will be three opportunities for that discussion amongst the full
Board.
JUDY LUBOW: What if we vote that we don't want it?
DOUG TISDALE: That is irrelevant. No. The Executive Committee cannot make a
determination relative to the work that the GMOC does in presenting something to the Board.
We don't have a right to override them.
JUDY LUBOW: But you can go to the Board to say we approve the fact that you're going to be
talking to the Manager about changing his contract. We vetted that contract. It's been approved, I
don't think you guys have the authority. At least, I don't think so.
DOUG TISDALE: I understand the thought and I think there are responses, but I'll let Director
Walker-JEFF WALKER: Any contract can be extended, or amended, or terminated, right?
JUDY LUBOW: By the Board.
JEFF WALKER: Pardon?
JUDY LUBOW: By the Board.
DOUG TISDALE: Right.
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah.
JEFF WALKER: Well, in some cases yeah, some cases, no. But in this case, yes. But all we're
doing is having a discussion about that. So within the contract, it's the Chair of the Board's
responsibility and the Chair of the GMOC's responsibility to discuss matters of the contract with
the GM, with the other party, and that's what we're doing.
Either party can extend, withdraw, et cetera, but we have to have that discussion. We have to
have that discussion with the GM. And that's all we're doing. Things might stay the same as they
are. They might just roll over. So this might be it. December 31 might be the end of it.
Or if the Board chooses, then it extends for some period of time. But I think it's our obligation to
have that discussion to find out what the full Board wants.
DOUG TISDALE: And I just wanted to comment on your last comment. You say, yes, that's for
the full Board. I said, yeah, that's right. That's why the full Board, and not this Committee, the
full Board will have three-- and I have to tell you, I think that is more than probably any prior
Board has ever been afforded this opportunity. But I wanted to ensure that we had three separate
opportunities over the course of several months to address this.

JUDY LUBOW: What I think is out of line is the possibility of having a new contract in spite of
that, we have two more years of the old contract without getting the whole Board to say, good
idea. Go for it.
DOUG TISDALE: That's, I think, a substantive discussion relative to what you would like to see
happen. And I think that's appropriate to have with the full Board so that all 15 can weigh in on
that. I think that's an excellent thought. I'm sure it will be discussed.
JUDY LUBOW: I'm sure it will also.
NATALIE MENTEN: Are you seeking a vote on this next Tuesday on this action?
DOUG TISDALE: No. This is a report and an opportunity to discuss. Questions can be asked of
the Chair of the GMOC relative to the process. Because all we're talking about doing now is tire
kicking for the next two weeks.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So my question is, while the Governance Manual states-- as I'm
looking at here, that the Committee has an ongoing responsibility and accountability for
oversight and management of the contract. But it also states further down as authorization-describes the administrative powers and Board bylaws-- it provides further description. The
standing committee can take a vote on an action, to move it forward to the full board, but the
action's not official until approved at a formal Board Meeting.
DOUG TISDALE: Absolutely correct.
BARBARA MCMANUS: That's correct.
NATALIE MENTEN: So do you define that as opening up these discussions, which frankly
came out of the blue? And I also-- that was not part of the agenda the other day. It was not part
of the agenda, otherwise.
JUDY LUBOW: You would have been there.
NATALIE MENTEN: I am kicking myself in the a-[LAUGHTER]
--for not being there the other day. Because work got in the way and I regret that terribly.
DOUG TISDALE: It is not a formal action. A formal action is the termination of the General
Manager, the exercise of the option, or the extension of a new contract. That's a formal action.
To talk is not a formal action. Talk is always permitted.
NATALIE MENTEN: What I'm worried about is I see this governments a lot, that a plan starts
and it's only a minor thing, only a little thing. And somewhere along the line, it all of a sudden
becomes, you told us to do that.

JUDY LUBOW: Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for that clarification. That absolutely explains and thank you for
providing the justification for a 400-word motion. That is exactly correct.
NATALIE MENTEN: Is that 400 words?
DOUG TISDALE: I think it's probably about 400. That is exactly correct. That's why. Because
everyone always says that's a slippery slope. And the lawyer's answer is, you build hand rails on
a slippery slope. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. So can you explain why you needed a motion
in the first place just to have an exploratory conversation with our General Manager about a
completely new contract and starting with three years? And why would that even be a necessary
conversation when we just are looking at either, Mr. Genova, are you satisfied, are we satisfied,
are the terms good?
Now, we have a one-year option, which we do with many of the people that we work with and
we exercise that option. And why then would we suddenly go out of that whole parameter and
look at a completely new contract with three years and some new options. I don't know where
that came from. And I haven't heard that from anybody, so it was very shocking indeed.
And I think the expectation is that whatever the terms are-- and I'm not privy to those terms of
the contract, I'm sure they're perfectly fine. And as Director Lubow mentioned, we went through
a lot of time, effort, and investment to get that contract suitable for both parties, right? And now
we're looking at doing a completely new contract as a possibility.
And the General Manager might say no, no, no. Leave it as it is, and that's a possibility, or the
General Manager could say, no December 31, I'm out, or let's just leave it as it is. There are all
those possibilities, but where does the idea of putting in a brand new contract, rather than just
exercising that option, where does that come from?
DOUG TISDALE: Well, actually, I'll let Director Walker respond first. Please, Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: So the idea that comes from the conversations I've had between 8 and 10 of
you-- my notes are at home-- about what we should do with the contract. So some Board
members are fine with letting it roll over. Some members wanted a longer term contract, a new
contract with a longer term. Some mentioned three years. So three seemed to be about that
middle point of the people that I talked to. So that's why we opened that discussion.
There is some appetite among these board members to have a new contract with Mr. Genova. For
a long period than the two one-year options for various reasons. So that's where that came from.
So my experience is that there's an appetite for that. There's a desire for that. Whether it's Board
members that will be off soon, or Board members that will be on for a while. For another couple
of years. There's an appetite for that. So that's my experience in talking with them.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, thank you Director Walker for that. Can you give us an
understanding of the rationale behind that?
JEFF WALKER: Some people that I talk to like the certainty of having a longer term contract.
They're finding the performance-- I think we saw by the survey, that 11, at least 11, felt that Mr.
Genova was meeting or exceeding expectations for the position. So some like that certainty. A
lot of them do, especially as we're building out, we're finishing the N Line. We have the
Southeast Rail Line finishing up next year.
There was one other thing. And there was one point that I mentioned-- but there are some
elements of the contract that not everybody was happy with. So salary came up a few times,
more than once or twice. That came up a few times. There were some issues of communication
that came up. So there were some terms that not everybody was happy with, but in general,
almost everybody was was happy with the performance.
But I think what I walked away with is the certainty of having a longer term contract.
JUDY LUBOW: But I certainly didn't talk to you about that.
DOUG TISDALE: Excuse me.
JUDY LUBOW: I'm sorry. Sorry.
DOUG TISDALE: Just make sure that he's done and that she's done. And then I wanted to
answer her first question.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: When you were talking about salary and communications, that's not part
of the contract. That has to do with the performance, which that substantive part of the
conversation didn't happen at your meeting. So we're just going forward and talking about a new
contract and not addressing what is working and what needs improvement at all.
JEFF WALKER: Well, we did that in the survey. That was the opportunity to do that.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: But after you get the results of the survey, what do you do with the
findings that you get? Where does it go?
JEFF WALKER: Well, Tuesday we had the opportunity to discuss that. That's what that meeting
was. That was the only point in that meeting.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: But the talk was more about the structure of the questionnaire, not on-JEFF WALKER: It was about the survey a lot. The comments that were provided in the survey
didn't provide a whole lot of substance or a whole lot of direction for Mr. Genova or for me. So
you talk about how did we get that information, but nobody really talked about Mr. Genova's
performance. In my discussions, there are a couple of people who had bits and pieces of things,

this could be bad and this could be good. But the gist of the conversations I had were, yeah, he's
doing all right. You know, let's keep him around. At least for one year. Some wanted longer.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. Let's just keep you around for another year. I'm sorry. This sounds
terrible to me. This is a human being and he's doing a fine job here. So what I'm now just
troubled with is that Mr. Genova is a human and he's sitting right here and we're talking about
him in third person as if-- so I just want to acknowledge that you are here.
JEFF WALKER: I'm speaking about him in the third person because I'm speaking to you. But
the point is that-- maybe I was a little casual in my dialogue and my words, but the sentiment
was, everybody I talked to except maybe one who might have been the fence was fine with Mr.
Genova's performance. They appreciated his effort and they liked what they saw. And I think
that's reflected in the survey that we got.
Some of those people were really happy. Some were OK happy or satisfied. Some wanted a
longer term contract. Some were fine with the terms of contract as is exists now.
So this discussion isn't just on a whim, it's based on what I experienced and from my
conversations with Director Tisdale based on his experience also. So this is like-- most people
seemed OK with a longer term extension than just the two potential years, but they wanted
something more definite or at least enough to explore.
DOUG TISDALE: And if I may weigh in, the first thing I wanted to do is answer your first
question, why a motion? And Director Menten, far more articulately than I ever could, told you
why needed a motion. And that is the record upon which I rely. We needed to have an
articulation so that no one would say, wait a minute, this is a process that's running off without
any controls. You people are a renegade, rogue group. No ma'am.
This group, the GMOC, said we will tire kick-- that's the word used in the motion. We will tire
kick this idea for two weeks. We will report to the Board that we are doing that. Then we will
have a second report to the Board as to whether there is anything that looks like we could
proceed with an actual extension of the contract. Then the GMOC will come back to the Board a
third time to have a discussion relative to whether or not they want to extend that contract.
And I recognize you have not had a chance to review the motion, so bear with me. The contract
that would be tire kicked or the notion that would be tire kicked, is whether there would be an
extension under the same general terms, including economic as the current contract to respect
and give credence to the comments by Director Lubow that the contract that was worked on for
so long, was pretty much a good contract. That's why that motion specifically addresses that to
say that it would essentially be those same terms.
Now. Yes. Director Menten
NATALIE MENTEN: Do you have recorded notes of your verbal conversations that would
reflect these general responses?

JEFF WALKER: I wrote them down.
NATALIE MENTEN: Could you share those with the Executive Committee?
JEFF WALKER: I'm keeping those confidential. I think I told everybody that I'm keeping those
confidential.
DOUG TISDALE: There's no obligation for him to do that.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah. They weren't in the open session. I thought I made a summary and sent
it.
DOUG TISDALE: You shared, I know, with me some information because we, in our capacity,
as Board Chair and Committee Chair wanted to know whether, in fact, Board members would
have any interest in terminating Mr. Genova. That was the first question. There have always been
three options. Number one, do not exercise the option. Number two, exercise the option for one
year. Number three, extend the contract for the longer term.
Logically, those are the only three options or opportunities that exist in the world. So it is
appropriate to consider which out of the universe of possibilities would you like to address.
Everyone to a person rejected the first. Many people said one year is fine, but I could be good
with making it longer. A number people said I would just assume have certainty now given that
we have a CBA that we put in place and we don't want to be doing this in the middle of a CBA.
If we're going to get somebody new, let's go ahead and just have some certainty.
So those were-- again, just to state logically, what exists as the only options available there being
three as I have enumerated and giving people an opportunity to weigh in on that. Director Folska
first, then Director Lubow.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: To me-- and I am thinking just out loud now. Even if you gave General
Manager Genova a 25-year contract, this is an at-will state and the Board could dismiss him at
any time. So it's almost a moot point. Is that right?
DOUG TISDALE: Well said. I'm sorry. Within the constraints of the contract, of course.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Right. So I mean, so it doesn't really matter if it's extending it a year or
not. At the end of the day, the Board has the ultimate authority on a simple majority to terminate
Mr. Genova or the General Manager's contract at-will because they don't like the color of his tie.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes. Well said.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: That wouldn't be me because I can't see it, so.
[LAUGHTER]
Off the hook.

DOUG TISDALE: But we take your point. Yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Right so I mean, I'm wondering what are the long-term ramifications or
implications going into a new three-year contract if the elements of the contract remain the same
as it did in a previous contract excluding the two year, one year options?
DOUG TISDALE: And there are many reasons that actually makes sense. In terms of the
[INAUDIBLE] we talked about to avoid Mr. Genova being recruited by other agencies and taken
away because he knows he has a certain advantage. And I could go in at great length as you
know that I can.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: But he could also-DOUG TISDALE: My point being this simply-- and I apologize. We are way off field from our
discussion of the agenda. This discussion-- let me just tell you where we absolutely want this
discussion. This discussion, number one, can take place in front of all of our colleagues at the
full Board meeting on Tuesday night. That's number one. Number two, it can also take place at
the GMOC meeting that is to be scheduled sometime in early September. A date has not yet been
selected, but we're going to do that. It is not respectfully part of our orders of the day for the
Executive Committee meeting. But it is absolutely a discussion that should be had with the full
Board, with 15 members sitting around the table talking about this.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, one last comment if I may.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes. Of course.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And likewise, the General Manager can say goodbye to us. He's not our
slave.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes ma'am.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So the contract kind of-DOUG TISDALE: I think the word is a two-edged sword.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, it's a two way street, right? I mean, that is what is fair and
reasonable, that it goes both ways. So I don't really know that the three-year contract or
exercising the option, matters one way or the other. And that's all my-DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. That's a valid observation. And I hope you will feel free to share
that with the full Board. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: I would just like to suggest that, in my opinion, it would've been better to
discuss this with the Board first. I think that's what's upsetting me. Then we all would've had a
chance to weigh in. And I think this is another instance of, unfortunately, Mr. Genova being

dragged into discussions that it would've been better to not. Because there's no intent to humiliate
or anything.
But I think the process, in my opinion, left something to be desired and created more dissension
than had to be.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, and I appreciate that. And let's get Director Walker to respond and then
we'll go to Dr. Menten And then I am respectfully going to ask-- we've all spoken far more than
two times. So under the rules, we've all exhausted our debate right. We will move on. Director
Walker.
JEFF WALKER: So I think the process was-- the goal of the process was to get out those
feelings about what to do with the contract, which is why I called 8 to 10 Board members. We
had discussion. We didn't have it as a full body, but I don't think we wanted to have that as a full
body. So we called the members individually and everybody I called-- and I don't remember the
fullness now, but I said, what do you think about the contract? Extend, terminate, or let it
rollover? I did that with everybody. So that discussion was had. Not as a group, but individually,
which is-- the hope that discussion was to have a more candid conversation than what one might
have in a room full of 14 other people and possibly the audience. Of course, I'm not
[INAUDIBLE] strategy or-DOUG TISDALE: Last word. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Well, question. 8 to 10 only responded, or you contacted 8 to 10?
JEFF WALKER: I only contacted 8 to 10. Tisdale contacted some. I contacted some.
DOUG TISDALE: I contacted a number. He contacted a number.
NATALIE MENTEN: I would like to make a motion before you do take the step that was voted
on the other day even though not on the agenda that we discuss this matter on Tuesday. And I'm
making a motion.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I second it.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Fine. And with respect, I'll put it under where it already is because it is
going to be discussed on Tuesday, but you want a record that we're to discuss it and that will go
right where I said it was going to, which is agenda seven.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I'm amending that and vote on it.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah. We're voting right now, right?
NATALIE MENTEN: No, no, no. We're amending to take a vote on Tuesday. To open that up
discussion. That's what my amendment is to that motion.

DOUG TISDALE: Oh, I'm sorry. Let me hear your motion because I think I did miss that. OK.
Go on, please.
NATALIE MENTEN: So we are going to take a vote on this Tuesday whether we want to open
up the discussion about a three-year contract discussion.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, you want to take a vote on whether we should tire kick?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Put in the agenda that we will vote on whether the Board Chair and the
GMOC should tire kick discussions about possible contract changes with the General Manager.
That's your motion?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Do we have a second to the motion?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I second. Sorry.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Now we can discuss that, a motion to add that. And it would go under
General Manager Oversight because that's where it's appropriate. So it would go under agenda
VII for Tuesday's agenda. That's where it will go. Discussion.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Wait. So it needs to be voted on and come through this committee and
it either needs to be a unanimous consent or recommended action going to the Board. Not under
that title.
DOUG TISDALE: I think we can deal with it as a consensus item, as well as dealing with it as
recommend action. Because were it to come up under a recommended action, it would actually
have to go through GMOC first. And I didn't want to delay your motion. You want to have this
talked about Tuesday, as do I.
And if we go through what Executive Manager has pointed out, and we actually take a formal
recommended action, we have to delay your motion until the General Manager's Oversight
Committee has a chance to meet in September. I didn't want to hold it up.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So my thought is, then, if an alternative is the GMOC and we have
suggested in the past that there are voting members of the GMOC, that also the recommendations
of other Board Directors are considered at these meetings, that then we hold another-- the agenda
notes that is a discussion item for the GMOC.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: So I'm asking feedback then as an alternative to that where we are noticed
that that is the topic.

JUDY LUBOW: OK. I think that feels better because to me, this whole thing blown up the way
other things blow up that are embarrassing and it's unfortunate. It really is unfortunate. I think
will be better discussed in the GMOC with all the Board members who want come.
DOUG TISDALE: Right. So and the GMOC is going to meet sometime in the first or by the
10th or so of September. I think they're the dates you're looking at, are they not in terms of that
one? Because we had said it would be following-- the tire kicking will go on until August 31 and
then we will schedule a GMOC shortly thereafter.
My understanding is that we have GMOC available then either on the first Tuesday of
September, which is the day after Labor Day or the 11th. Am I missing that?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No. Well, there's no meeting on the day after Labor Day. So it wouldDOUG TISDALE: Or we could do the 7th, is it, or the-- I'm sorry, the 6th, or the 11th.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Or we could push up the 31st date with your-- you can push up the
31st-DOUG TISDALE: We've already adopted that. That was in the GMOC. So we're looking at
either the 6th or the 11th. And I thought that you might have already conferred with Director
Walker on that. And I could be mistaken, so please don't take it as anything other than a question
on my part.
JEFF WALKER: The 11th.
NATALIE MENTEN: So what we are doing then at this next Tuesday's meeting is under update,
saying to the whole Board on the 11th of September-DOUG TISDALE: For example.
NATALIE MENTEN: For example. We will have an agenda item
JUDY LUBOW: On the GMOC.
DOUG TISDALE: Right.
JUDY LUBOW: On the GMOC discussion of this point?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. All right.
DOUG TISDALE: Well said. Yes.

NATALIE MENTEN: So that's what opens up this closed-meeting discussion.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes. And can we do September 11?
JEFF WALKER: I can do September 11, yeah.
NATALIE MENTEN: An ominous date.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Life has to continue-DOUG TISDALE: It's always important to bring good things to that memory as well. September
11 for the GMOC. Can we announce that then-- because the Chair has a right to set those
meeting dates. Can we announce that then on Tuesday night?
JEFF WALKER: Sure. What time usually works for-DOUG TISDALE: Ordinarily, we do 3 o'clock.
JEFF WALKER: 3:00 to 3:30? Or 3:00 to 5:00?
DOUG TISDALE: 3:00 to 5:00.
JEFF WALKER: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: And really, because it's the only topic that needs to be addressed at that time,
we could give a full two hours to that discussion, for every board member to participate.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: When you open the box, no-JUDY LUBOW: If it's really only that.
DOUG TISDALE: A fourth opportunity for the full Board to discuss this issue. And I like the
sound of that because I want to be able to say that on Tuesday night. That there will be four
opportunities for the full Board to discuss this. So Tuesday, September 11, 3:00 PM. And that
will be announced under agenda VII.
Are you amending or withdrawing your motions so that this is now resolved?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. So this basically is putting this on hold?
JUDY LUBOW: No.
JEFF WALKER: No.
DOUG TISDALE: No. The tire kicking goes up. The tire kicking goes on. Talking is always
appropriate. The GMOC already authorized that.

JUDY LUBOW: Well, I think people are very aware now that there's a variety of opinions.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: So it's not as if that's a new idea now.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, and it's not like we going to have a lot of tire kicking done before
Tuesday night since it is, after all Thursday afternoon. So I think we're probably in good shape to
make sure that we bring this to full Board on Tuesday night and let 15 people weigh in on it.
JUDY LUBOW: So I'm a little confused. This Tuesday, are people going to be weighing in on
that September 11 that it's going to be discussed at the GMOC?
DOUG TISDALE: That's being scheduled. That's scheduled anyway.
JUDY LUBOW: But we're going to say it.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes. I'm sorry. The record will reflect. Thank God, it's all videoed and
captioned. The record will reflect I said, yes. We will announce under agenda item number VII
when Director Walker gives his report, the fact that there was a meeting, that there was a motion
passed, and this will be made available to all Directors, and that the next meeting of the GMOC
will be on Tuesday, September 11 at 3:00 PM in this room, which will constitute one of the four
opportunities for the full Board to discuss this topic. Any further questions on that?
JUDY LUBOW: I do. We're going to talk about this on September 11th. We're also going to talk
about it three other times?
DOUG TISDALE: That's what I said yesterday in my communications to you, and what I said in
motion here, and what I said at the beginning of the meeting. I can go over them again. I'd be
happy to.
NATALIE MENTEN: I would like you-- so Tuesday, all we're doing is saying announcement.
That's all we're doing, right?
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Mark this point in the record please in the minutes, I would like it
bold-faced for purposes of this meeting. This coming Tuesday the full Board will be given a
report by the GMOC relative to the discussions and the tentative draft proposed plan to
proceed with open tire kicking with the General Manager relative to the possibility of
maybe at least considering an extension of the General Manager's contract, or not. And
that the full Board on this Tuesday will be given all of the information relative to the
process that the GMOC has approved. Full stop.
That is the first opportunity for the full Board to weigh in.

The second opportunity for the full Board to weigh in will be on Tuesday, September 11 at
3:00 PM, in this room, for purposes of the GMOC meeting to discuss the results of the tire
kicking. Full stop.
The third opportunity for the full Board to participate in the discussions will be when the
GMOC reports back to the full Board as to the discussions with the General Manager
concerning specifics of going forward with an extended contract, which could be in
September or October. Full stop.
The fourth opportunity for the full Board to discuss this matter will be when the GMOC
presents to the full Board a recommendation for an extension of contract (or not). Paren,
emphasis on the phrase "or not", close paren. Full stop.
Those are the four opportunities.
I have inadvertently left out the fifth full opportunity, which will be at another GMOC
meeting-JUDY LUBOW: That's suicide.
DOUG TISDALE: --where further discussions are. But you asked a question. You said, I don't
know what the three opportunities are. I thought I had stated them. I apologize because I was not
clear that-- by the way we've ended the bold-faced in the minutes now. I say that for the record.
But the point is the question was asked, I don't know what those three opportunities are. I
thought I had clearly stated them. I did not. I failed. And so it is incumbent upon me to make
sure I make it clear because that's my job. My job is to make it clear for you. And if you have
any lack of clarity, it is my failing, not yours.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: What else can I pin on you?
DOUG TISDALE: I don't know. But it's good.
[LAUGHTER]
By the way, I will confess now. I shot John.
[LAUGHTER]
JUDY LUBOW: No.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Now having discussed the agenda, it is formally the obligation of the
General Manager to present the agenda to us. Do you have anything you want to add or change
to this agenda as we have clarified it now? We haven't amended. We clarified it relative to the
discussion under VII.

DAVE GENOVA: Chair, I have nothing to add.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Thank you. May I have a motion to approve the agenda?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion to approve the agenda. Is there a second?
NATALIE MENTEN: You know, I do want to ask one thing, and this came up with Barbara
Deadwyler. Just to make this clear is under the recommended action, she mentioned that in one
item it said addresses two goals and one is listed and she didn't get an answer-DOUG TISDALE: Oh, thank you. That's right. During the course of the discussion on that item,
the write up said this is to satisfy two core goals of General Manager or something to that effect.
And it listed one. Is that write-up attached hereto?
NATALIE MENTEN: It's in this document right here on-DOUG TISDALE: Yes ma'am. Packet page seven of this meeting's packet. Packet page seven,
first full paragraph.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Excuse me, Chair. Don't we get a second, and then a discussion, and then
approval?
DOUG TISDALE: Well, we have a question relative to the agenda. Still, I am looking for a
second.
JUDY LUBOW: Second.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: But doesn't that happen-DOUG TISDALE: I have a second to the motion to approve the agenda. Now we can have
discussion relative to the question that was raised concerning the recommended action item. I'm
sorry. Second full paragraph on page seven. This recommendation addresses two of the General
Manager's 2018 goals. Core goal number three, strong financial management. Everyone is
waiting for the word "and" following that.
DAVE GENOVA: I need to correct that.
DOUG TISDALE: Is it perhaps just singular goal rather than plural goals?
JUDY LUBOW: Usually it's one.
DOUG TISDALE: Sometimes it is two.
DAVE GENOVA: Mr. Chair?

DOUG TISDALE: Yeah.
DAVE GENOVA: I will double check with Michael Ford on that. He was the author of this and
see what his intent was. And I suppose Barbara after we correct it, we can send out a corrected
Board report.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: So ministerially, we can change that. Is that all right?
NATALIE MENTEN: I would suspect it's a successful delivery of transit services. The second-DAVE GENOVA: Probably Core Goal number one.
DOUG TISDALE: Probably well said, yeah. So if we can just clarify that. I think it's an
excellent comment because Chair Deadwyler, when she was running, really pointed that out. I
think we forgot to follow up. So, thank you. General Manager.
DAVE GENOVA: May I, Mr. Chair? So Barbara, would you prefer-- can we just clarify that
verbally at the, meeting or would you like it clarified in writing and-- Would we have to reissue
the whole packet or just this one in part?
BARBARA MCMANUS: We'll republish with that second one in it so that we're moving
forward with the correction-DAVE GENOVA: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: --after this meeting.
DAVE GENOVA: All right.
DOUG TISDALE: That is a ministerial step this committee need not bother itself with and we
look forward to staff to implement the same in collaboration with the General Manager. We have
a motion to approve the agenda, as amended, relative to adding the special recognition and also
the new business reciting the Special Board Meeting on Thursday, September 20. Is there any
discussion further on that motion? Hearing none. All those in favor, please indicate by saying
aye.
ALL: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed? There are none. That passes unanimously. We have
approved the agenda for the Board Meeting. Are there other matters that we have not already
discussed? Yes. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I have two questions or comments for General Manager Genova. This first
one is, sometime early in August, we had a Federal Management Oversight Committee (FMOC)

come in, I think, from the FTA (Federal Transit Administration). Can you talk a little bit about
that and get us up to date on what happened?
DAVE GENOVA: Mr. Chair, yes. Yes, I could. And I believe I put a brief summary in that
week's Friday memo, but I'll recap it a little bit. And I believe Director Menten and Chair Tisdale
were both at the closing conference. Were you able to stay until the very end and hear their final
remarks?
NATALIE MENTEN: I did. And you include that in the Friday report.
DAVE GENOVA: So just to summarize, it was very favorable and some of the remarks made by
the Regional Administrator, Cindy Terwilliger. And then also the contractor project manager that
did the audit said it was pretty remarkable and Cindy Terwilliger's words were-- I think there
was maybe three exceptions. And they were so minor they really amounted to nothing. And the
FTA contractor said it was probably the best audit he had seen. Something to that degree, where
there were so few exceptions that I don't think he had seen a report with so few exceptions
before.
So and then the one that was noted was one that we knew was coming because it came out in the
triennial. It was about FTA grant sub-recipient pass through. And we had already have a fix in
place for that because it came up during the triennial. I think as comprehensive as those things
go, It was really a good review for us.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Can you give an example of that sub contract-DAVE GENOVA: The example of that would be when we receive federal funds, there are
certain terms and conditions in how we have to manage the oversight and use those funds and the
tracking and reporting and everything. Sometimes, we get a grant that comes through us that
somebody else applied for, let's say through DRCOG (Denver Regional Council of
Governments). So let's say its a TMO (transportation management office) or a county or
somebody like that. And they applied for these grant funds, but they have to flow through us, but
then we give them to them and they manage it. And if they don't follow all the federal terms and
conditions, then that's where we had a finding in the triennial.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So then we have to put somebody in charge of making sure that they dot
the I's and cross the T's?
DAVE GENOVA: Either that or we can give them local money instead of federal money and
keep the federal money. So we can change the color of money. Yeah. So the options would be
either we have to then insert ourselves and administer that, which we don't want to do, or do
some other arrangement. So it's maybe that we exchange the money and they get the local money
and we the federal money. Something like that.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So it was a glowing, remarkable report.

DAVE GENOVA: And I would defer to the Chair and Director Menten. I thought it was-- based
on the remarks that they had at closing, I thought it was very good.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: That leads me to the next point, if I may continue?
DOUG TISDALE: Sure. Yeah. I was just going to footnote that if you wanted. I come back. Yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh, OK. There are so many wonderful things that go on in this agency
that are not talked and not remarked on. And then things that are challenging to us are remarked
on and put out there. So my hope is that you might be able to work with the Communications
Department somehow to really develop and highlight those golden nuggets that keep coming up
that they don't get in the press releases.
And so a week ago, tomorrow, there was a press release that came out about the North Line
being delayed to open until 2020 or something like that. And while it was in our packet, it didn't
necessarily get discussed with a full Board prior to. So the struggle that has been ongoing with
our Communications Department is a timely conversation with the full Board about things that
are coming up, even if it's in the packet, it still needs to be discussed, I think, before it gets put
out in a press release because the result of that was then Colorado Public Radio and other media
outlets going and interviewing people like mayors that say, oh well, we expected it because RTD
always lies to us. RTD never fulfills their promise.
And so those things could be, I think, better managed so that we don't get leadership in our
district saying such things about this agency, when we know very well what the challenges are
and why those challenges are there. And then the things that are excellent aren't even getting
pushed out there. Do you know what I'm saying?
DAVE GENOVA: Mr. Chairman, may I address that?
DOUG TISDALE: Please.
DAVE GENOVA: So first of all, we did not put out a press release on North Metro. There was
information to the Board in the packet as well as what information that comes out, obviously, in
advance several days before we had the opportunity to discuss it with the Board. So Colorado
Public Radio took the information out of the packet and then they did their own story on
information in the packet. RTD did not do any press release or anything else. We were just
following standard protocol of putting information in the Board packet as we always do.
On the FMOC, the reality of that, if we were to put out a press release, no one is going to pick
that up. It's just not a story of interest for the media and no one will pick that up. In the reality of
all practical terms, that's just our experience with that.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So there is the media that you can't control and there's media you can
control. And so for the media that you can control, whether it's social media or a website or
whatever, you can have that out there so that people can reference it. And when there is a
negative thing that comes in the packet, our Communications team-- and it's substantial, should

be able to get ahead of it beforehand and know that's coming up. And that, I think, has been
lacking. And that's concerning to me. That's all I wanted to say.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
DOUG TISDALE: If I can just-- I'll add my footnote now, if I may, Director Folska, and that is,
I think it wasn't sort of-- the lead of the audit said expressly, they had never seen an audit with as
few exceptions as this. And then when Cindy Terwilliger, as the Regional Director for FTA,
ratified and reaffirmed that remark and then spoke privately with me after the meeting repeating
the same. It was very fulfilling. And you're right. It would be nice, Director Folska. It would be
really nice if we can get media to pick up on things like that.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: But we own our own channels also and it should be stated out there. So if
there's ever a question about the integrity, and the ability, and what have you with this agency,
it's there for people to reference in public just like anything else. And so no, you can't control
those media outlets, but you can control the channels that you do own. So I would encourage
that.
DOUG TISDALE: Point well taken. Thank you. Other other matters? Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. First of all, I got a correction on the GMOC minutes in that the vote
on the motion right now indicates there were six in favor, zero opposed. Director Deadwyler was
absent. I'm just ashamed that I'm not shown as absent-- I mean, ashamed that I was absent. So
that needs to be correct, though. Don't we have a total of seven? That's what I'm counting. So
there would be then five in favor.
DOUG TISDALE: Correct. Because there was-NATALIE MENTEN: And zero opposed. Director Deadwyler and myself absent.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And I was going to point out, the most important change is at the
top. Where it reflects that you were in attendance and you were not.
NATALIE MENTEN: That's right.
DOUG TISDALE: And that's where I think the math got thrown off. Through inadvertent
oversight and excusable neglect. So that will be corrected.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So this is a learning opportunity for us. This was not on the agenda.
Therefore we had to rebuild everything manually. And so certain mechanisms just sort of take
over and we'll make the corrections.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: And a darn good job you did with it, too.

NATALIE MENTEN: All right. And then I cannot get to the Board videos. I'm getting a server
error on both my home desktop, the laptop here, mine. And I just went out to ask them, which
told Judy that she should be [INAUDIBLE].
DOUG TISDALE: Thank God you did.
[LAUGHTER]
So.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So the GM Oversight Committee meeting was recorded is that correct?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, ma'am. Every meeting.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So that's what Director Menten is talking about not having access to.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
DAVE GENOVA: It may not be posted yet.
BARBARA MCMANUS: No. She has a recording of that meeting. She requested it through
CORA (Colorado Open Records Act) earlier today, gave it to her at noon. But no, the video will
not be up for at least a week.
DOUG TISDALE: In short, it takes a while to do it, but Director Menten did request it. We did
specifically respond to that. And my understanding is that, apparently, there are some technical
issues associated with it. That said, I'll wait for her to come here. But I need to point out that's
not really within our purview of the Executive Committee and other matters other than, other
than to state that this committee, again, looks to staff and expects staff to assist in the full
implementation of all of the Board's policies related to making these meetings available to the
public, which public, of course, includes the Directors.
But this is a particular specific thing and that's not really-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I just didn't know if that meeting got recorded. So I was just-DOUG TISDALE: No. And thank you. That's an excellent question. Again to state, for the sake
of this record, every meeting is recorded and transcribed. Every meeting. So I was just saying,
relative to your concern, if it's a specific concern relative to your link, that's really beyond the
purview of the Executive Committee. But if it's a question of is there a general problem? Yeah.
We need to find out.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. The main thing is that's the only minutes that we have. We don't
have a full transcript up, and yet on Tuesday, we are supposed to approve minutes.
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah. Don't we? Don't we approve all the minutes?

NATALIE MENTEN: Because my view is, we really-DOUG TISDALE: Oh, I'm sorry. I apologize. Yes. In that sense, yes. Absolutely. I misspoke.
Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: And really what we're looking at-- and this is why I would really like us
to have at some point-- uploaded even to YouTube, is faster speed. Because almost every video I
watch I up to the 1.25 speed, if not 1.5 speed. So it goes faster. But our only task, really, is to
make sure that the captioning is right and it doesn't say, Judy Lubow.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. That's a good point. That's an excellent other matter to bring
before the Executive Committee to, again-- just as you stepped out, I said the goal here is for this
committee to ratify and reaffirm to staff that it is the duty of staff and our expectation of staff
that they will fully and competently implement any and all policies that we have relative to
posting of such information and let us know where there are problems so that we can help find
solutions, and if necessary find funding for such solutions so that we continue, unabated, our task
of making all information available to the public.
NATALIE MENTEN: Just a follow up. I can't tell you how many times I was contacted by
Amanda Chilton with her specific complaint was, where are minutes? And she had some
challenges seeing that it was in this section or this. But I'll just say for me looking at other
governments, that one matter of the record. So I don't know if it's my computer, but I thought it
was appropriate because it's part of our duties. That's it, really.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair. We got rid of the original mechanism we had for our
minutes and then went over to a new system without an overlay before we were sure that the new
one worked?
DOUG TISDALE: Well, if I may.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Is that what happened?
DOUG TISDALE: We did have rather extended-- and one would argue if you've been in other
governments and elected bodies, somewhat too extensive recitation of what occurred at
meetings. And the reason for that and the reason that Robert's Rules, for example, says it should
just be a recording of actions is to avoid the sense that somebody is editing out what they don't
like. That's what you do a verbatim transcript and you have that available.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Right. So we got rid of that mechanism?
DOUG TISDALE: As far as I am aware, that verbatim transcript works.
NATALIE MENTEN: It is actually there. There is one link that says full-text transcript. But like
right now, I wasn't able to get to that for-- not this last Tuesday's meeting, but the meeting

before. And I thought we were usually going to be trying for a schedule of where video would be
available the following Monday or Tuesday. So that tells me that very first one that-- August 7?
I would've thought our timeline meant that would've been this on Monday because I wanted to
watch it opposite FasTracks. But we do have this whole-- it's like not even polished. It's like raw.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah. OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And we do have the same meeting minutes that record all of the
action items that are still approved by the Board in the same way that we were. But the minutes
text is now transcript and not a part of those actions in those minutes.
DOUG TISDALE: So the summary of the actions is presented in paper copy, also electronic but
I make a point here. Paper copy of the minutes. But that's just a recitation of the actions. The
verbatim transcript of every word that is uttered, which is why-- and please bear with me, as I
sometimes will kind of hold you off to make sure another person speaks because they are trying
to transcribe what we are saying, and if people talk over each other that is not able to be
transcribed. That's the reason. It's not a personal predilection on my part. I would prefer a much
more open interchange between people, but we cannot due to the record.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And then that transcript comes back to his office. And his office
reviews everything to make sure names are correct, acronyms are filled in, but none of the
context of the conversation is changed.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Now, we've concluded all that. We have left open, however, the
part of the meeting that we usually say to the General Manager, now, what would you like to
add?
[LAUGHTER]
Well, ladies if I may say-- and I use the term advisably because the only members in the
Executive Committee other than me are ladies. So when I speak I say, ladies, and I don't mean to
leave out the gentlemen. But ladies, you were the ones who chose to address some of these topics
at some greater length, which is fine, which is what we do. So we did that.
But now we must take the time to listen to our General Manager as to any agenda items or points
that he wishes to share with us.
DAVE GENOVA: I don't have anything, I think, of real significance to bring up today.
DOUG TISDALE: Nicely played, General Manager.
[LAUGHTER]

Is there any other business to bring before the Executive Committee? Director Walker, anything
further from you? Executive Manager, anything further from you? The Chair has nothing further.
I thank you all for your patience, your cooperation, your communication, and your collaboration.
We stand adjourned at 1:28 PM.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

