Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 15, 2009 at 12:00
p.m.
Page 1 of 6
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

January 15, 2009

Subject:

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 15,
2009 at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room

Board Members Present:

***
Chair Kemp; Vice-Chair Martinez; 2nd Vice-Chair Busck;
Secretary Daly; Treasurer Tayer; Directors Chacon,
James and Bagley: Via phone: Directors Brohl,
McMullen, Tobiassen

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella; John Davis

Call to Order:

Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 12:00 p.m.

Chair Kemp introduced the recommended action items as part of the Board’s
attempt to be fiscally responsible during RTD’s difficult economic austerity plan.
While the Board’s budget is a miniscule number, the Board is committed to
doing its share to reduce expenses.

I.

Recommended Action
a. Resolution for Decrease in Director’s Local Budget
Motion:

Discussion:

Director Tayer made the motion to move
this item forward for the full Board
approval on January 20, 2009.
Director Martinez seconded this motion.
Several Directors were in favor of
supporting the cost cutting efforts but
had concerns about tying the hands and
effectiveness of the Board members in
their roles. Director Tayer proposed
combining the local and travel expenses
to allow one budget which the Board
member could manage according to the
needs. Chair Kemp acknowledged this
proposal but stated there are two

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 15, 2009 at 12:00
p.m.
Page 2 of 6
elements of this issue to be discussed:
First, a decision needs to be made to
move this resolution forward to reduce
the Board’s budget and the second issue
of accountability and revision of policy
could be addressed later.
Director Brohl pointed out that mileage
and IT expenses are non-discretionary
and Board members should be reimbursed
for these expenses.
Vote on
The Motion: Members of the Executive Committee
voted unanimously to move this
resolution forward for full Board approval.
Chair Kemp requested Paula Perdue to
provide a copy to all Board members of
the existing Board local and travel
expense policies.
Director Chacon
requested an updated copy of the Board
member expenditures.
b. Resolution for Decrease in Director’s Travel Budget
Motion:

Discussion:

Director Tayer made the motion to move
this item forward for the full Board
approval on January 20, 2009.
Director Martinez seconded this motion.
Some of the Directors felt the
recommended reduction was too steep
and suggested the reduction would go
from $6000 to $4000.
Board members felt in general it is
incumbent on each Board member to
make responsible decisions related to
their travel and to use prudence in their
spending habits.

Vote on
The Motion: Members of the Executive Committee
voted unanimously to change the
recommended reduction to $4000 and
move this resolution forward for full
Board approval.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 15, 2009 at 12:00
p.m.
Page 3 of 6
II.

New Item
Chair Kemp stated he had a new item that he needed the Executive
Committee to consider which had a time constraint and would need the
Board to move quickly. He then introduced John Davis, Senior
Operations Budget Analyst who presented this item:
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to purchase six ultra-low sulfur
diesel 45 foot intercity buses from Coachworks Holdings Inc for a price
of $250,000 each or $1,500,000. In addition it is recommended that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into a
contract with Complete Coachworks to complete the structural repairs to
the 1998 MCI fleet in an amount not to exceed $1,500,000 and to
authorize the transfer of $1,500,000 of capital from the intercity bus
project to the appropriate expense lien to fund the repairs to the MCI
fleet.
John Davis explained this was a last minute opportunity to get six near
new Bluebirds at approximately ½ their original price. With the
modifications recommended for the MCI units, this should take RTD to
2015 but that RTD must react quickly to this fire sale.
Several of the Directors present felt this was a good deal and the story
which needs to be told by RTD is we started off about a year ago with a
cost for replacement units of $29.6M. We had whittled it down to
$15M and now this opportunity allows us to reduce our cost to $3M
with a bonus of 6 new buses.
Motion:

Director Busck made the motion to
move this recommended action
forward to the full Board on
January 20, 2009.
Director Tayer seconded the
motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The Executive Committee voted
unanimously to move this item
forward to the full Board.
III.

January Board Meeting Agenda Review
Cal Marsella introduced this agenda. Seeing no questions, the Board
moved forward to accept this recommendation.
Motion:

Director Tayer made the motion to move
the January Board meeting agenda review
forward for the full Board approval.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 15, 2009 at 12:00
p.m.
Page 4 of 6

Director Busck seconded the motion.
Vote on
The Motion:

The Executive Committee Unanimously
approved this action.



District-wide Enclaves Annexations and Assignment of Newly
Annexed land to Appropriate Director Districts
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the resolution to annex to the District
nine enclaves as depicted in the attached maps and described in the
attached legal descriptions, receive any comments from the public at
the Board of Directors’ meeting regarding these annexations, and
assign the newly annexed lands to the Director districts F, G, and I,
as appropriate.



UNANIMOUS CONSENT



Selection of Location for Posting of Board Notice
The Board hereby designates the entry way of the RTD administrative
offices at 1600 Blake Street as its location of for posting of notices
of all public meetings in 2009 as required by C.R.S. 24-6-402(2)(c).
In addition, to the maximum extent feasible, notices of public
meetings will be posted on RTD’s website.



Recommendation for Passage of Resolution Authorizing the General
Manager to Execute a Purchase and Sale Agreement (PSA) for the
South Wing parcel at Denver Union Station (DUS)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors pass the attached resolution authorizing the
General Manager to execute a Purchase and Sale Agreement (PSA)
for the South Wing parcel at Denver Union Station (DUS) with the
Union Station Neighborhood Company (UNSC) or an affiliated
designee. The Board of Directors authorized the General Manager to
execute such an agreement in January 2008. The title company has
made a Board resolution authorizing the sale a requirement of closing.



East Corridor Draft Environmental Impact Statement
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors direct the General Manager to release the East
Corridor Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) for public and
agency review. This is the first of a series of steps in the National
Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) process and means that the
agencies are requesting official public and agency comment and
feedback on the No Action and the Preferred Alternative and their
impacts.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 15, 2009 at 12:00
p.m.
Page 5 of 6


Request for Approval to submit 2008 FasTracks Update Report to
DRCOG
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors approve preparation of a 2008 FasTracks
Update report for submittal to DRCOG in January 2009. DRCOG has
informed RTD that we may submit this report as an interim update on
the status of the FasTracks Plan to identify relatively minor project
changes that may necessitate amendments to the Regional
Transportation Plan (RTP). This report precedes the annual Senate
Bill 90-208 report that is required by Colorado Statute 32-9-107.7.



Senior Oracle Database Administrator
It is recommended by the Finance/Administration Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all
documents necessary to award a contract in the amount not to
exceed of $200,000 for services of a Senior IT Oracle Database
Administrator (DBA) (28DJ024). The contract is to be awarded to
SOl-IT, a small business, following a competitive review of twelve
submitted proposals. The contract runs for a period of one year with
two additional one-year options. The contract is being brought to the
Board because it is a Personal Services contract per RTD Resolution
No.27, Series of 1985.



Certification of Contribution Rate for the RTD Defined Contribution
Plan - 2009
It is recommended by the Finance and Administration Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors certify a 2009 contribution rate to RTD’s
Salaried Employees Defined Contribution Plan of 9% of each
participant’s eligible compensation.



May 2009 Service Changes to Public Hearing
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that the Board of Directors approve moving the proposed May 3,
2009 Service Changes (Attachment A) on to public review and
comment.



RESOLUTION NO._____, SERIES OF 2009, Decrease in Director’s
TRAVEL Expenses



RESOLUTION NO._____, SERIES OF 2009, Decrease in Director’s
LOCAL Expenses

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 15, 2009 at 12:00
p.m.
Page 6 of 6
IV.

Review of Existing Board Policies on Lifetime Passes for Spouses and
Payment for Spouse Attendance at Events
Board members agreed these two policies should be revised to extend
the board passes for spouses to lifetime and to amend the policy on
spouse attendance (and guest) at events. Director Tayer moved to have
these policies revised and Director Busck seconded the motion.

V.

Board Office Budget Cutting Efforts
Chair Kemp stated the Board office will also be looking to see ways to
cut costs. Discussions on the meals and the plan to reduce meals to
basic refreshments and sandwiches were not amicable to the Board
members who felt that for some Board members after a long work day
this was their only opportunity to have a meal. Board members
requested a meal that would be adequate but not elaborate.

VI.

2009 Committee Assignments
Chair Kemp is working on the assignment and will have a finalized list
shortly. All affected Chairs have been notified.

VII.

Metro Mayors’ Task Force Update
Chair Kemp provided an update that the Metro Mayors’ Task Force is
moving well and now focused on solutions. They have validated the
RTD numbers and are feeling more comfortable.
Director Bagley noted it appears they are willing to take more ownership
in the solution and this is a good thing.

VIII.

Other Matters
a. Director Daly indicated there were some legitimate concerns being
brought forth by a dispatcher and driver concerning Route-Match.
All of this was appropriately documented.
b. Director Daly expressed concern over the loss of some access-rRide routes as a result of the proposed cost saving efforts. He
requested if alternatives could be included in the letter sent to the
affected users.

IX.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 1:32 p.m. for the Executive Committee to be
trained on after-hours building access.

