Minutes of the DBE Committee Meeting held on February 7, 2012
Page 1 of 2

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

February 8, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the DBE Committee Meeting held February 7, 2012 in
Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Malpiede; Directors Anderson, Bagley, Cohen, Daly,
Deadwyler, James, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen and Walker.
Directors Hoy, Kemp, McMullen and Williams

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tom Barlow, Jeff Becker, Shirley Bennett, Michelle Boyd,
Jesse Carter, Rick Clarke, Carolyn Conover, Phuoc Dang, Eric
Farrington, Terry Friedrich, David Genova, Mike Gil, Bill Holmes, Terry
Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Scott Johnson, Marla Lien, Barbara
McManus, Carolyn Martin, Brian Matthews, Doug MacLeod, Tai-Shrae
Parish, Kevin Parker, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Scott Reed, Sue
Sandoval, Jannette Scarpino, Teresa Sedmak, Dean Shaklee, John
Shonsey, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Rob Timmerman, Judy
Vialpando, Percy Washington and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Homer Anderson, Chris Cruz – Celina Inc., Stan Gronek – ATU1001.
****

Call to Order:
I.

Committee Chair Malpiede called the meeting to order at 6:37 p.m.

WIN Update
Carla Perez explained that we are still in the pilot phase of the WIN program. The
benefit of this pilot is to ensure the process is set up the way that it needs to be and
that we are able to move people through the program in the way that we intended.
Currently, there are 26 participants that are part of the WIN pilot program. Eight have
been placed in full-time positions, five in permanent positions, two in temporary
positions and one has recently been employed by USPS but is still a WIN participant.
Twelve participants will begin work on February 23rd in either a permanent full-time
or temporary full-time position. The WIN program continues to work with the

Minutes of the DBE Committee Meeting held on February 7, 2012
Page 2 of 2

remaining six participants that have not been placed. Barriers to their placement
include recent felony or unresponsiveness of the participant.
Director O’Boyle asked if staff could expand on felonies and what they mean to the
individual that has one and the WIN program. Carla Perez noted that certain positions
that require a defined amount of time after a felony sentence is served before an
individual is eligible to apply, usually 5 to 7 years. Having a felony does not mean
that someone is completely ineligible for employment, but it could mean that their
range of options may be very limited until they get through a certain number of
years.
Carla Perez added that we are also in the process of solidifying an MOU with the
WorkLife Partnership. The WorkLife Partnership is a very important group for us and
we are very excited to be moving in this direction. They work with private employers,
government and non-profits to help employers increase their retention and
productivity and help employees progress to self-sufficiency. Trainings offered by the
WorkLife Partnership include: Budgeting and Financial Literacy, Soft Skills, GED
Attainment, Credit Repair and Foreclosure Prevention and basic computer
applications. These are the type of things that are helpful that deal with people in
their personal life that can really help make them more successful on the job.
Director Cohen asked for a definition of Soft skills. Carla Perez explained that Soft
Skills include interpersonal relationships, interviewing, conflict management,
leadership and speaking skills. This would also include English as a second language,
or learning another language such as Spanish.
II.

Other Matters
None

III.

Next Meeting Date – April 10, 2012

IV.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 6:52 p.m. to the Operations and Customer Service
Committee.

