Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, February
3, 2009
Page 1 of 2

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

February 10, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, February 3, 2009 at 8:20 p.m.
****
Board Members
Present:
Bill Christopher, Chair; Directors Bagley, Busck, Brohl, Cohen, Daly,
Kemp, Martinez, McMullen, O’Boyle, and Tobiassen.
Board Members
Absent:
Directors Chacon, James, Pulliam and Tayer
Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Marla Lien, Bill Sirois, Scott Reed, Stan Szabelak, Bill Van
Meter, Rick Clarke, Susan Wood, Paula Perdue, and Lisa Trujillo.

Others Present:

Rick McNeal and Larry Gallegos
****

Call to Order
I.

Director Christopher called to the meeting to order at 8:20 p.m.

Recommended Action
RTD Annexations of Land Recently Annexed By Local Municipalities and Revised RTD
Boundary Map and Description
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the revised boundary map of the District and authorize the Board
Secretary to certify the boundary map and description and that lands newly annexed to
RTD pursuant to the provisions of CRS 32-9-106 be designated as part of Director
Districts F, G, H, I, and K, as appropriate.
Construction Contract Award US-36 & 116th Ave. Bus Transit Facility/Broomfield
Events Center
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to execute all documents
necessary to award a construction contract to Jalisco International, Inc. in the amount
of $8,380,637.45 for the US-36 & 116th Ave. Bus Transit Facility in Broomfield at the
Broomfield Events Center. Funding for this contract is included in the 2009 Adopted
Budget for the FasTracks Program.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, February
3, 2009
Page 2 of 2

Intergovernmental Agreement with the Downtown Denver Business Improvement
District (DDBID) for the 16th Street Mall Paver Rehabilitation Plan – Phase I
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to negotiate and execute an Intergovernmental
Agreement (IGA) with the Downtown Denver Business Improvement District (DDBID)
up to and not-to-exceed $100,000 for the 16th Street Mall Paver Rehabilitation Program
– Phase I. Funding for this project is included in the 2009 Adopted Budget.
Permanent Easement and License for Construction to Denargo Market, L. P. for
Drainage Near District Shops at Approximately 3100 31st Street, Denver, Colorado
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to convey
a permanent easement containing 4,826 square feet (0.110 acres) and a license for
construction containing 12,048 square feet (0.276 acres) to Denargo Market, L. P. for
the construction, operation and maintenance of a storm water line and storm water
outfall to be placed upon RTD property bordering the South Platte River and located at
approximately 3100 31st Street, Denver, Colorado.

Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to forward
all 4 recommended action items to the full
Board at the February 17, 2009 Board
Meeting.

Second:

Director Kemp seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The Motion passed unanimously.

II.

Other Matters
No Other matters were discussed.

III.

Next Meeting Date
The next Planning and Development Committee will be held on Tuesday, March 3,
2009.

IV.

Adjourn - Hearing no objections, Chair Christopher declared the meeting adjourned
at 8:35 p.m.

