1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
Planning & Development Committee
Tuesday, October 8, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning and Development Committee
Chaired by Bill James

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair James called the meeting to order at 7:44 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
7:44 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Absent

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

7:44 PM
7:37 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

7:44 PM
7:42 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Chair
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

7:41 PM
7:43 PM
7:44 PM

Natalie Menten

Vice Chair

Present

7:44 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

7:37 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

7:43 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

7:43 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

7:44 PM
7:41 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Roy Asphaug, Frank Buczkowski, Rick Clarke, Jeff
Cluphf, Susan Cohen, Ignacio Correa-Ortiz, Lee Cryer, Kevin Diviness,
John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Kenn Hardin, Terry
Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Barbara
McManus, Doug MacLeod, Jerry Nery, Paula Perdue, Chris Quinn,
Scott Reed, Bill Sirois, Jim Starling, Henry Stopplecamp, Kirk Strand,
Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Brenda Tierney, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa
Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Brian Welch, Phil Washington

Other Present:

Greg Amparano, Dana Chaves, Trevor Clifford, ZJ Czupor, Jane
Donovan, Joni Goheen, Doug Gragg, Watkins Fulk-Gray, Stan Gronek,
David Lewis, Jim Martinez, Johanna Medina, Susan Monard, Daniel
Navarro, Mike Okinsky, Maxine Pryor, Liz Rao , Mei-Ling Rodriguez,
Darron Rolle, Roger Sherman, Larry Silva, Marta Sipeki, Joe Triplett,
Gary Van Dorn

B. Recommended Actions

• 16th Street Mall Reconstruction Project Funding Intergovernmental
Agreement with the City and County of Denver
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager, or designee, to
execute an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between the City and
County of Denver (CCD) and the Regional Transportation District. The
purpose of the IGA is to set forth the rights, duties and obligations of
CCD and RTD to mutually fund a portion of the project costs to design
and reconstruct up to 3.5 blocks of the 16 th Street Mall (Blocks 1, 2, 12
and 13) within the CCD Right of Way. This IGA commits both RTD and
CCD to provide matching local funds necessary to receive FTA Grant
Funding. Funding for this project is included in the 2013 Amended Budget
Motion:

Director Sisk made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the October
29th, 2013 Board Meeting.
Director Rivera Malpiede seconded the
Motion.

Discussion:

Committee Chair James asked Rick Clarke to introduce those
parties that would speak about the requested
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA). Rick Clarke introduced
Henry Stopplecamp - Chief Engineer, and Jeff Cluphf -

Construction Manager, to review the requested action for the
16th Street Mall IGA.
Henry Stopplecamp stated that RTD is looking for
approximately $660 thousand dollars to make improvements
to the 16th Street Mall.
Staff is recommending
improvements/reconstruction on three and one half blocks
(blocks 1, 2, 12 and 13). RTD has received a federal grant
to apply toward this project. RTD will come up with $660
thousand and the City and County of Denver will come up
with two-thirds of the, $1.2 million dollars, of the required
local match. This IGA is to cover costs associated with
rehabbing existing granite pavers, reducing overall mall
maintenance costs. Currently, RTD spends approximately
$1 million annually for maintenance of the 16 th Street mall.
This IGA effort should result in our annual maintenance
reducing drastically over the next few years.
Director Folska stated she does not fully understand what all
goes into the maintenance process for the 16h Street Mall;
however, she noted concern over what appears to be
missing curbs or corners. Director Folska would appreciate
having a conversation about the corners that have gone
missing as they seem to have been removed.
Mr. Stopplecamp asked Director Folska if she was referring to
the ADA curb cuts. Director Folska responded that there are
no curb cuts because there are no corners. She stated that
one has no sense of an edge, thereby there is no sidewalk,
creating more of a shared street and an urbanism kind of idea.
Director Folska and Mr. Stopplecamp will meet offline to
continue this conversation.
Director Daly inquired about the Bulb-outs, noting that the
Metro Circulator has the Bulb-outs on 18th and 19th. He
wondered how that would work on the 16th Street Mall. Henry
Stopplecamp explained that Bulb-outs for the circulator are a
totally different concept, though they have the same name.
The Bulb-outs for the circulator create an island about 60’ long
and 12’ wide; the bus would just pull up to the Bulb-outs
instead of pulling into parking lanes. For the Bulb-outs on the
sidewalk, if you look at Larimer, it has a sidewalk that
stretches out into the street. Director Folska stated that this
is what she was talking about with the missing curbs. Mr.

Stopplecamp shared that the Bulb-outs are a City and County
of Denver project.
Director Daly inquired if these Bulb-outs would be done on
each block in the future.
Mr. Stopplecamp responded that this matter was being
reviewed; there are no guarantees on this particular proposed
maintenance as it is outside the original scope.
Director Tobiassen questioned if there was a maintenance
portion of the IGA after the reconstruction was complete. Mr.
Stopplecamp advised that there will be a 2nd IGA coming later
in the year covering mall maintenance; RTD will continue
providing mall maintenance into the near future as there is a
cost savings associated to proper maintenance.
Rick Clarke commented that staff is targeting the December
FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting to bring the
additional maintenance IGA to the Board.
Director Rivera-Malpiede had a question regarding the 5th
noted maintenance item for wet/dry utility upgrade, noting
how slippery the pavement can be and wondered if staff is
looking to do something about the slippery pavers.
Mr. Stopplecamp replied that staff is reviewing the
slipperiness; There is a sample block between Court and
Tremont that uses a slightly different method of surface
treatment. Mr. Stopplecamp stated that staff is looking at a
few different things to address slipperiness. Director RiveraMalpiede commented that whatever compound was currently
used as a De-Icer seems to actually worsen the slipperiness.
Mr. Stopplecamp again stated there were no guarantees on
the type of De-Icer used; that is a City and County of Denver
responsibility. Mr. Stopplecamp explained that the wet/dry
utility upgrades are not for the surface; they are for the
utilities that are going to the tree grates and subsurface.
Committee Chair James noted that the pilot program RTD
currently has in play is nearing completion. He wonders if
staff has any lessons learned as to what methodology is best
for renovating the pavers. Mr. Stopplecamp introduced Jeff
Cluphf to address the paver renovation.

Mr. Cluphf greeted the Board and reported that staff learned a
lot of information from the pilot program. He reported that
staff just started a new 3-year maintenance program and has
incorporated some of the things learned from the pilot
program. An actual report will be generated in November with
more insight, but staff did try different methods that were
fairly expensive in an attempt to stabilize the pavers so that
they’d be less prone to moving around and requiring
maintenance. Staff did learn that the least expensive methods
tried worked as well as the most expensive methods. Mr.
Cluphf stated that based on this knowledge, staff has
incorporated the least expensive into RTD’s new maintenance
plan.
Director Folska wondered if concrete would be cheaper and
more durable than granite. Mr. Stopplecamp confirmed that
concrete is cheaper than granite. Mr. Cluphf informed the
Board that staff is dealing with the preservation of a historical
site and that RTD is obligated to maintain the site accordingly.
Committee Chair James added that there is a 16th Street Plan
Steering Committee which he represents and is one of the cochairs. That committee spent several years planning and
readying for the mall renovation. One of its extensive
processes was a large amount of stakeholder input into the
question of should the granite pavers be retained at
considerably more expense, or should they be replaced with
something like asphalt or concrete. The choice of granite was
made almost unanimously by the stakeholders.
Director Menten commented that stakeholders would be all the
taxpayers. Director Menten further stated that she has
significant concern on the matter because there will be a lot of
associated maintenance costs required. She questioned the
involvement of the Downtown Denver Partnership Business
Improvement District (DDP/BID) because she felt they do not
contribute anything to the project.
Mr. Stopplecamp reported that the DDP/BID is not part of the
IGA; they were part of the grant application. The City and
County of Denver took over their responsibility and is funding
DDP/BID’s part of the local match. Maintenance is done by
the bid for snow removal under contract by the City and
County of Denver.

Rick Clarke stated that when RTD went into this IGA, staff
understood that there were three parties involved. Staff feels
that it is fair for RTD to pay a third of the costs, and that is
what staff is recommending through the IGA.
Director Menten inquired to confirm that RTD has no IGAs
with the Downtown Denver Partnership. Mr. Stopplecamp
stated that was correct.
Director Daly reminded the Board and staff that granite can
indeed be very slick for the buses on the mall; concrete would
provide much better traction, although it would not be of any
historic value. Director Daly shared that he previously worked
with Mr. Cluphf, and also Mr. Cluphf’s father.
Director Folska wanted to add on to Director Menten’s
comments regarding paying a third of the 16th Street Mall
improvements She noted that RTD pays 100% of the cost to
operate the shuttle service.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 3]
MOVER:
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
SECONDER: Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
AYES: Anderson, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Barbara Deadwyler, Natalie Menten, Paul Solano
ABSENT:
Kent Bagley
Committee Chair James declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• NAMS Update
Bill Van Meter invited Chris Quinn, Project Manager, to provide a brief
PowerPoint presentation. Mr. Van Meter noted that the presentation being
made had some additional information compared to the presentation
contained that that which was previously submitted in the board packet,
which lacked some key numbers and information.
Chris Quinn greeted the Board and recapped that RTD selected a consultant
in April 2013 to perform the Northwest Area Mobility Study (NAMS) , and
that the study is governed by RTD policy and technical committees which
consist of the elected officials and staff members of local jurisdictions in the
northwest area. Mr. Quinn walked through the presentation highlighting

current NAMS' outcomes of the five key tasks, along with various options
and possible recommendations for each key task. Mr. Quinn opened the
floor to questions.
General Manager Washington informed the Board that he and Chair
Anderson briefed the Transportation Legislation Review Committee (TLRC)
earlier today at the Capital; one of the things they talked about was the
NAM Study. He noted that right now there is no action for the Board to
take at this time. The data will be analyzed and we will listen to the
stakeholders. The Study will not be complete until January or early
February. The stakeholders will need to reach consensus at the end of the
Study. General Manager Washington stressed that no recommendations are
being put forth at this time. RTD is not pitting rail again BRT. Staff is just
conveying and presenting another deliverable from the Study for
consideration.
Director Daly noted that on the map in the presentation there was a purple
section called chambering. He was curious what that meant.
Mr. Quinn responded that in order to segment the corridor, we have to make
accommodations for the freight rail to essentially park while the passenger
operations were executed. For example, if a passenger train was heading
south, the passenger train would have priority over a freight train; any
freight train on the track would be held-over until the passenger train
passed. For the chambering track, RTD needs approximately 10,000+ feet
to be able to store the freight train.
Director Lubow thanked Mr. Quinn for his presentation and shared that she
heard him provide the same presentation at 7:30 a.m. She noted that he
was presenting again at 8:30 p.m. so she thanked him for his hard work.
Director Lubow inquired about the data reflected on the slide for extending
the North Metro corridor to Longmont. She noted that it stated that with
CDOT’s right-of-way it would cost somewhere around $100 million to build
just the I-225 segment. She wondered if this cost had been included within
the total cost.
Mr. Quinn advised that this cost was included in the total cost; Staff broke
the cost out only for some possible cost sharing opportunities with CDOT,
should CDOT pursue their plans as well to serve the North Front Range area.
Director Lubow commented that transport time would be 71 minutes from
Longmont to Denver but it could go down to 61 minutes if a couple of the
optional stations are not built. She wanted to know where those optional
stations were located.

Mr. Quinn informed the Board that the optional stations included the Twin
Peaks Mall Station in Longmont, a station in east Boulder that would be
located at approximately 63rd and Arapahoe, a station at 116th avenue in
Broomfield, and then a station in Westminster at 88th Avenue, in the vicinity
of the now defunct Westminster Mall.
Director Lubow questioned which of those four stations would not be
pursued. Mr. Quinn advised that the decision had not been made. Director
Lubow inquired if two stations where taken out of the mix, would a rider
save 10 minutes from their ride. Mr. Quinn responded that the four stations
combined could add about 10 minutes of time, so 5 minutes of time could
potentially be saved by removing two of the optional four proposed stations.
Director Lubow stated that she knew that Burlington Northern was not
willing to present new information to RTD so the cost estimates were based
on information provided a few years ago and then Mr. Quinn extrapolated
from the previously submitted numbers. Director Lubow asked Mr. Quinn if
he could explain how he extrapolated from those prior numbers.
Mr. Quinn replied that when RTD received the BNSF cost estimate a couple
of years ago, it was a lump sum number; it did not include a breakdown of
what the actual capital costs would be to have passenger rail running in the
corridor, nor did it break out the actual costs for just occupying the corridor.
Based on cost estimates that had been previously provided to RTD on both
the number of trains and also backing into what the capital cost estimates
might be, staff came up with a rough idea of what they thought the
occupancy charge would be for the corridor.
Mr. Van Meter added that the specific process used was vetted by an expert
rail panel that was convened by the consultant team.
Director Lubow wondered if it would be correct to say that the segmenting
costs now being estimated would add up to the full costs that BNSF
previously provided. Mr. Quinn advised that it would actually cost more
now due to the cost of the chambering tracks.
Director Menten commented that she had heard during the presentation that
the state legislature would have to approve RTD doing an annexation.
Director Menten asked if that information was correct. She wonders if RTD
is different than a city.
Marla Lien advised that RTD is very different than a city. Staff doesn’t
really know how a shared line with CDOT would work. RTD has an
annexation statute where areas can vote themselves into the District or they

can petition into the District. If there were some sort of joint operation with
CDOT, the legislature in its discretion may make allowances for an IGA.
Who is in the district and gets service from RTD means a lot of different
things: bus service, taxation, ownership of assets, etc. If the legislature
chose to roll RTD into a project with CDOT, there would be a lot more
options.
Director Walker noted that some of the jurisdictions had problems with the
initial ridership numbers. He wondered if we knew what had been pointed
out as errors.
Mr. Quinn answered that the problems with the initial ridership numbers was
related to the Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG) land use
population and employment data sets. Some of the jurisdictions felt that
their anticipated growth was not being reflected in the DRCOG numbers.
We asked them to go back and figure out how to project the growth that
was to be expected. Staff then vetted the projections with DRCOG. They
are comfortable with the methodology but are not comfortable using
different data sets other than their own official data sets.
Director Walker wondered if there was any indication of overall transit
ridership once the rail is introduced. He wonders what happens with bus
ridership numbers when rail is introduced.
Mr. Quinn shared that when staff modeled the overall corridor with just the
Northwest rail staff found a net gain of 700 riders in that region.
Director Sisk noted that he wanted to be clear with the Board regarding the
importance of the NAMS continuing. He believes our staff and consultants
are doing a great job. He reiterated that it is important that RTD continues
working through the process. Director Sisk shared that the money spent on
NAMS is really validated and gives the Board and staff a chance to better
understand what really needs to occur, and in what manner, in the
Northwest area.
Director Hoy shared that he had read a study that indicated about half the
Longmont residents work in Longmont, a quarter of the residents work in
the Boulder area, and the remaining quarter work in Denver. Director Hoy
noted that Bruce Abel’s group is able to show that people move from point
A to point B, showing what Mr. Abel refers to as a traffic pattern of people
movement. Director Hoy wondered if the 50% Longmont, 25% Boulder,
25% Denver numbers are considered in terms of people movement. He
commented that it seems like an alignment through Boulder would cover the
Longmont – Boulder – Denver travel pattern whereas, an alignment which

would extend through the North Metro area would skip Boulder. He
wondered if people movement is considered as part of the study.
Mr. Quinn shared that in previous analysis performed during the Northwest
Environmental Evaluation, the model showed that the passengers getting on
in Longmont were not necessarily going to Denver, but were also going to
Boulder and some of the employment centers along US 36. Staff hasn’t
performed any current analysis to know if that data is still true, but he
expects that the travel patterns have not changed.
Director Walker inquired as to whether or not there were any big surprises or
changes in the data from the original plan. Mr. Quinn shared that he knew
there was some significant changes in the assumptions over the last ten
years, but did not have the data readily available.

D. Other Matters
General Manager Washington stated that the Board has probably seen the video of
the beating that occurred at 30th and Downing. He advised the Board that staff is
working with Denver police on the matter. General Manager Washington reported
that RTD has cameras at all of its light rail stations; the video being showed on the
news is actually RTD’s video which was turned over to Denver Police. Staff will
continue working with the Denver Police on this investigation.

E. Next Meeting Date - November 5, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair James adjourned the meeting at 8:34 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

