Sep 11 2018 0530 PM Operations & Customer Service
Committee Committee
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Director of the-- what am I director of?
[LAUGHTER]
Operations and Customer Service Committee. But before we begin, I'd like to go over our safety
message. If we have a medical emergency and 911 needs to be called, I will ask our RTD general
counsel to make that telephone call. Any medically trained individuals in the room are
respectfully requested to assist.
If needed, an automatic emergency defibrillator is in the glass case located just outside this room
on the wall to the right. In the event we must evacuate the building for fire or any other
emergency, please calmly exit out the door you came in at the back of the room. Go up the stairs
to the first floor around the security desk and exit through the front door. Police and security
officers will be there to direct you to a safe meet-ups area.
Anyone needing special assistance in the event of an evacuation will be assisted by RTD staff as
necessary. While RTD takes every precaution to ensure the security of its passengers, vehicles,
and facilities, the agency relies on both staff and the general public to be aware of and alert to
any suspicious or dangerous activity on buses and trains and around stations, stops, and
platforms.
As such, I would encourage all RTD employees and patrons to download the RTD transit watch
app, which allows users to report suspicious or dangerous activity and communicate directly with
RTD transit security personnel on a real time basis in the event of an emergency situation. The
transit watch app is available via Google Play and the Apple and Apple Store. Thank you.
OK, as I stated earlier, I am the chair of the Operations and Customer Service Committee. And
we do not have any recommended action. Well, wait a minute. OK. But we do have a
considerable amount of updates. So I'm going to turn this over to Michael Ford-- I see him sitting
there-- to lead us and talk about those updates. Michael? The floor is yours.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you. Thank you very much. There are quite a bit of reports in the
packet, so I was going to try to just hit the highlights for the second quarter. Some of this
information is going to probably be duplicated through the financial report, as well. So this is,
again, about the second quarter. And just to talk a little bit about the operations, overall bus and
rail operations had a very good second quarter.
Both bus and rail met their respective performance goals with regard to preventative accidents,
passenger accidents per 100,000 mile, preventative maintenance, on time performance, service
availability, miles between road calls, passenger complaints, and complaints per boarding,
response time to emergency dispatch calls.

There are two goals that were not met for the second quarter-- on time performance for regional
bus service and maintaining bus operator mechanic headcount. But we're continuing to work on
that with our HR department and our internal departments and our planning to try to stem that
tide. We've made some headways in that area. We specifically have been working to improve the
area of diesel mechanics. We've got four to eight new students in that area. We've got some other
people in the queue for graduation. And we can continue to see a steady increase in our driver
pool, as well.
On the contracted service side, we saw a marginal increase in customer comments on the second
quarter of 2018. The rise in customer comments is primarily related to driver shortages and many
new operators joining our contracted service operations. With regard to driver shortages, again,
we really are working with our contractors to try to remove barriers, help them. But with new
people coming on board, there's training and there are other issues that are new-- learning the
routes, other things that sometimes get in the way for them to move forward.
And then in the area of drug and alcohol compliance, we've been moving forward in a pretty
productive way as part of the performance audit in 2015. Staff reviewed the drug and alcohol test
compliance for the second quarter. We had about 1,088 drug and alcohol tests filed. 97% of the
records reviewed were in compliance with the testing standards.
And then finally, I got a few other things I can talk about, but the RTD Call-n-Ride service
provided 21 areas throughout the district during the second quarter. Call-n-Ride service
experienced about a 3% reduction in ridership during the same period last year. Call-n-Ride
service experienced a slight reduction in customer concerns as well as increased
accommodations for our service operators.
I know there are other reports in here, such as service availability and some areas of focus with
our rail service. But there's a lot of information. I know there's a busy night tonight and if there
are other questions, I'm happy to answer them at this time.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK, Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, chair. I just have a question about the on-time performance. It
appears that locally we met the standard, but not regionally. And is that because of the operator
shortage typically?
MICHAEL FORD: Typically we've had just some issues with drivers and not having to be able
to fulfill runs. And some runs were missed and the on-time performance slipped a little bit.
Again, that was the second quarter. We've made some headway since that time. And we're
continuing to see some better performance.
JUDY LUBOW: So does that mean, though, that the problem that we have with lost runs is
typically regional and not local?
MICHAEL FORD: I think for the second quarter, we had some issues. But regionally, I think
we're doing a little bit better. Obviously earlier this year we were having some problems because

we were really not getting the type of drivers that we needed to continue to fulfill the service. So
in answer to your question, I think since that time, we've made headway. And we are at a good
level with regional service. I think the second quarter, however, when we were going through
that process, we did slip a little bit.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. So as of now, both locally and regionally, we seem to be OK, you think?
MICHAEL FORD: We're doing good.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. That's wonderful to hear. Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Deadwyler. Mr. Ford, I have two questions, if I may.
The first one has to do with the unpreventable accidents, if you could speak to that. And
regarding the mechanics, we had a shortfall of mechanics some time ago. And we have eight in
training now, I think you said. Do we have a shortfall?
MICHAEL FORD: We still have a shortfall. We're making headway, but in areas like our body
shop, we're still down about, I think, 12 to 14, the last count. And we are bringing more people in
through the DTECH (RTD Diesel Technology Training) program. I can assure you that
maintenance, particularly the managers in that area, really got a good system down. They're
working with the different apprenticeship programs and schools to get more people out of those
areas, making sure that they know what our requirements are.
We also bring trainers into the maintenance arena to help facilitate better help and support for the
mechanics. Again, with the economy, it's still been a little bit tough. But we are making some
headways. I know that the maintenance folks have also gone out with working with HR to try to
encourage more people being there at the sites to talk about what the job is. And then we're doing
with the operators, as well.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So since you're relatively new here, I thought I would share with you that
Aurora Community College has approached RTD. I know that Director Broom and myself have
had meetings with them and senior staff here to build a pipeline of trained mechanics. And they
will design the program specifically to your needs. So I would like to recommend that you reach
out to the folks there.
MICHAEL FORD: Absolutely. We will make sure that we get on that right away.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And then about the unpreventable accidents, could you speak to that?
MICHAEL FORD: Unpreventable or preventable-- preventable accidents are accidents that we
should have been able to avoid. Unpreventable sometimes are just as a result of not our fault,
people are hitting us or colliding with us. Those are the type of things that we really, you know-or maybe sitting, parked, and were hit. Those are the type of things that would kind of fall into
that category.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So could you shed any details on those?
MICHAEL FORD: People are probably not watching out what they're doing.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, how many did we have, or what extent were they?
MICHAEL FORD: Oh. I can get that number for you. I don't have it in this rendition, unless
anybody else here wants to step up and help me out. No, I'll get that information.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No back up for you tonight.
MICHAEL FORD: I'm traveling solo right now.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you very much.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Folska. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: I just had an observation. In looking at the performance of the contracted
services, it seems that there's one contractor that is not meeting the targets. And I was just
curious what steps are being taken to improve that performance.
MICHAEL FORD: Absolutely. We've had some issues with one of our contractors on the
maintenance arena. They brought in new people because they were not fulfilling our
expectations. Our maintenance folks have been doing quality assurance checks. We've seen a
number of remarkable-- well, some advancement and some increase in productivity.
We still have some challenges, though. But we've had some slippage. But we are on it. Our staff
is working very diligently with our contractor, changing out new personnel, instituting more
checks. And we have seen some improvement there. But we've got more work to do.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Are there any other questions from the board? Thank you, Mr.
Ford.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Our next update is on service availability. Do you have someone
presenting that?
MICHAEL FORD: I was trying to cover it in all my remarks. I guess I was just looking for more
questions.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK. All right. If you did them all.
MICHAEL FORD: Yeah, there were quite a few. I was just trying to hit the highlights, unless
there was specific questions.

BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK. Well, there doesn't seem to be-- well, wait a minute. We do
have one. Director Archuleta.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: Thank you, Chair. Mr. Ford, how many bus drivers are we shy now?
MICHAEL FORD: We are down-- we have 137 budgeted for part time. We're down 36 in that
area. And then full time, there is 945 budgeted, and we are at 858. So we're about 87 down right
now.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: 87 down, so we had some new hires?
MICHAEL FORD: We've had some hires. We are actually retaining more people than we did a
year ago at this time. So the hire of 18 right now, we've got 200 hires and we have seen about
158 separated versus last year at 178 hired and 179 separating. So we are maintaining.
And when I say separating, some of these people are going to other jobs within the organization,
are getting promoted. So it's not necessarily an accurate reflection. They're leaving but they're
going to other places. Or sometimes they're just retiring. We do get an onslaught of folks that
retire, particularly in this time zone every year.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: All right, thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK. Well, thank you, Mr. Ford, for your informative report. I'd like
to turn it over to General Manager Genova. Did you have some extra updates you want to talk
about?
DAVID GENOVA: Thank you, Chair Deadwyler. I do have some other matter updates that we'll
be very brief on. But I wanted to just let the board know that there's a variety of different kinds
of-- couple of things are pilot related, and other things are kind of more of a short-term pilot. But
next month we'll be bringing a very comprehensive update to you on Call-n-Ride. So the Call-nRide services, we have a plan in place to look at changing the naming, the color of the vehicles,
introducing technology, and making other improvements in the Call-n-Ride services.
And we intend on bringing you that full package next month. But I wanted to let you know we're
working on that because I may mention a little bit of that on the Call-n-Ride updates at the T2
summit that we're doing on Thursday. So I wanted to make sure that you heard that you're going
to have a full update next month on our future Call-n-Ride package, which we're very excited
about.
We're also working with our mobile ticketing provider, Masabi, in combination with Uber. And
we're looking at the possibility of doing some interesting things on payment platforms where
we'll be able to work across modes and have one platform for payment. So that's a pilot that's
kind of-- or a proposed pilot that's in the works. Wanted to let you know we're working on that.
And we're also working with Lyft right now on an initiative that we may roll out with them in
October. And so we'll be providing more information on that as we solidify that. But I just

wanted to let the board know that there's a lot of things happening in the background in regards
to partnerships with various private sector entities around mobility, around technology, and
different kinds of options, to include autonomous vehicles.
And so I've had Bruce Abel in his role on special projects working towards a pilot on an
autonomous vehicle shuttle. And so I'm going to ask him to just give a very, very brief update on
where we are with that.
BRUCE ABEL: Thanks, Dave. And good evening. Good to see you all again.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
Well, hey, thanks.
DAVID GENOVA: He promised to be brief.
BRUCE ABEL: So I just wanted to bring you all up to date, as Dave said. RTD is currently
working with a group of stakeholders in an attempt to implement a demonstration or a pilot
project to demonstrate autonomous vehicle technology. And we want to demonstrate that in a
transit application. And it's anticipated that this project will take place up with 61st and Pena
station.
So the stakeholders that we are working with on this project include, obviously, RTD, Colorado's
Autonomous Mobility Task Force, which was created by the state legislature and includes
representatives from CDOT, from the Colorado State Patrol, and from Colorado Department of
Revenue Division of Motor Vehicles. It includes representatives from the city and county of
Denver, both from public works as well as Denver International Airport, involves representatives
from EasyMile, the manufacturer of the AV vehicle.
Some of you may have seen that. We had it demonstrated at Pepsi Center a year or so ago. And
then Panasonic and Fulenwider are the developers of Pena Station NEXT, up next is 61st and
Pena station. The objectives of the pilot are to-- we have articulated four objectives. One, safely
introduce AV technology on a public roadway in the Denver metro area. Two, we want to assess
the applicability of AV technology in a public transit application.
So I think it's important that we talk about what this is and what this isn't. We want a proof of
concept, what will an autonomous vehicle do and what won't it do as it relates to a transit
application? Lots of representations, we want to put it through the paces. Three, assess the
applicability of AV technology as a first and last mile solution to and from RTD bus and rail
stations. And four, demonstrate how stakeholders can align their interests in order to advance a
project such as this. You heard a pretty long list of stakeholders. And as you might imagine, that
group doesn't just happened to come together and work towards the implementation of a project.
And so we are all working together towards this implementation. The group's been working
together now for several months to navigate through the federal and state frameworks and

processes that have been established to implement AV demonstration projects in Colorado. We
continue to work through the processes.
We are not yet complete, but we are making progress. And it is our hope to begin the first phase
of a phased implementation of this project by the end of this year. The ultimate goal of this
demonstration is to provide AV service between 61st and Pena rail station and the 61st and
Tower Road bus stop.
So we wanted to provide that brief for you. You may begin to hear this pilot beginning to get
discussed more in public with a variety of RT2 event, the state's mobility summit. So as we begin
to work through the process, you may begin to hear more about this. As I say, it's our hope that
we will be in an implementation by the end of the year. If there any questions, I'd be glad to try
to answer.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK, thank you Director-- I'm sorry. Mr. Abel.
BRUCE ABEL: Thank you, Director Deadwyler.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Before I go to any of the directors that's listed on the board, I'd like
to acknowledge that Director Anderson has now joined us on the phone. And Director Anderson,
do you have any questions or comments?
LORRAINE ANDERSON: No, because I couldn't connect. So I just heard the very last part of
Mr. Abel's presentation. But sounds interesting. I will get with him at another time.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Anderson. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Mr. Abel, there was an interesting forum
recently-- Mobility Choice presented-- where Panasonic and EasyMile representatives were
there. And a lot of us saw the little red EasyMile vehicle when it was at the Pepsi Center. I was
just real interested to note that the woman from EasyMile said that although the vehicle is
accessible, it has a very nice lift and there's room for a wheelchair in there, that there weren't
any-- they couldn't get any Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) standards prior to very
recently, and that she had just found the right people federally, I believe, to talk to about it. So I
wanted to thank you all for including that as part of the project.
BRUCE ABEL: You're most welcome. We are reviewing that in depth as we speak. And
EasyMile folks are in conversations with the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) DC offices
regarding accessibility and ADA as it applies to autonomous vehicles.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Williams. Director Folska?

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Deadwyler. Mr. Abel, thank you. It's great to see you
again after so long. Regarding accessibility, wouldn't it be the access board that's informing the
FTA and building the guidelines and regulations?
BRUCE ABEL: We are going through the ADA guidelines and have created a checklist to
ensure that all of the applicable ADA requirements are met in this vehicle, yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: But are you working with the access board in Washington, DC?
BRUCE ABEL: I will have to check with the folks with EasyMile. They have been in touch with
the FTA office in charge of the ADA issues. Whether or not that has been moved onto the access
board, I can't answer at this point in time. I don't know.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, I think it would be really good for you to talk to the access board
because I think they are the ones that inform the FTA. I've met with them in DC. But relative to
safety, who is responsible for setting the safety standards in a comprehensive way, not just for
our local area or our state, but nationally? And how are you implementing them?
BRUCE ABEL: The National Highway Transportation Safety Administration is involved in the
implementation of autonomous vehicle demonstrations. And in Colorado, the state legislature
has appointed the Autonomous Vehicle Task Force, which, again, is representatives from
Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT), from Colorado State Patrol, and the
Department of Revenue Division of Motor Vehicles. So those are the groups that we're working
with. And National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) is responsible on the
federal level.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, so I mean, it seems to me that the big dilemma for safety is who are
we protecting, the people in the vehicle or the people outside of the vehicle? And in thinking like
that, I'm wondering, do you imagine having a separate, dedicated lane for these autonomous
vehicles?
BRUCE ABEL: Those are some of the things that we'll be testing. But I guess I would go back
to your opening comment. It is our objective to protect the safety of both those inside the vehicle
and those outside of the vehicle.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Folska. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: This is just directed at General Manager Genova. I read something in the
clips, I believe, today, regarding a community that was pairing up something akin to our B-cycle
program in Denver with transit so that you could use one payment system for both and reserve
the bicycle and your transit pass at the same time, just akin to your Lyft and Uber comments. I
just didn't know if we'd given any thought to that.

DAVID GENOVA: Well, yes, Director Catlin. We're actually even looking more globally at
trying to put everything together in one-- I mean, that's kind of what everyone in the industry is
trying to work on right now. And in fact, we just had an interesting meeting earlier in the week
with HNTB and Deutsche Bahn from Germany. And they have some interesting applications that
they're using over there that they showed us, I think it was just-- maybe it was last week. Was it
last week, Heather?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: It's all running together.
DAVID GENOVA: It's all right. But-HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, that was yesterday, because last week was Friday.
DAVID GENOVA: Last week, right. So we are looking not just at the smaller kinds of pilots
that we can do, but also universally at trying to pull as much together as we possibly can. And so
from the technology aspect, while that's challenging, the real challenge is the back office and
how do you share the revenue and who gets what part. And then of course, the other thing we
talked quite a bit about is what's the party that manages when you have a multimodal, multiorganizational trip, and you have an issue on one leg, who do you talk to as far as that goes?
So we had a really good exchange and good information. So I think that the technology piece is
coming along. The more challenging pieces are those agreements on revenue sharing and other
kinds of things. But it's moving along. And you know, we're looking forward to having
something in that area.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Anything else, Director Catlin? OK. Director Solano.
DANIEL SOLANO: Thank you, Chairwoman Deadwyler. In a follow up to Director Folska's
question about safety, it came to my mind who, when testing AV vehicles, provides liability
insurance?
BRUCE ABEL: In our model, it will be several layers. EasyMile will be leasing the vehicle to
Transdev and we will be having Transdev as the actual operator. And we have insurance
requirements in our existing contracts with them, so there will be EasyMile insurance. There will
be Transdev insurance. And there will be RTD insurance involved.
DANIEL SOLANO: Great, thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, director Solano. I'm going to go to Director Menten
before we go back to Director Folska.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. In regards to-- this is off the report of our special services with the
Call-n-Ride, since that was mentioned, been looking at the numbers that we're at right now, are
we in a typical period where we would be seeing a drop? Or do we think we're seeing an
extension of shared ride continue to take a bite?

BRUCE ABEL: It's not unusual that Call-n-Ride ridership would take a slight decline in the
summer months. Many of the Call-n-Ride service areas do have an element that involves getting
school kids to and from functions. So I would just say historically, we have seen downturns. So I
guess I can be the old timer speaking in response to that question as opposed to Michael being
the new timer. But it's not unusual to see a dip in the summer in Call-n-Ride.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. It seems like we've got some more dipping, more dipping below that
three boardings per hour that I'm wondering about if, when we address this next month, if we
could maybe have a little bit of a deeper conversation about that. That would be a perfect time
for me. It would give you time to perhaps look at that.
BRUCE ABEL: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. OK. And then, if you could just tell me, what's the most recent news
on the R-line? And what have we spent on doing outreach to bump ridership?
BRUCE ABEL: So we do have ridership reported in-- it's in the financial report, the last page of
the financial report. So I can get to that if you give me a moment. I know I just looked at it the
other day. So it looks like for July we've had, I think, a steady increase year to date from January
through July on the R-line. So it's a steady increase. Regarding the amount that we've spent on
outreach, we'll have to put that together and get back to the board.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I have seen a lot of advertising on social media and
wondering what we have invested in that. So you can get back with me later. That will be fine.
Thank you. That's all my questions.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you again, Chair Deadwyler. Mr. Abel, or even, actually, General
Manager Genova, I am so excited about this integrated pass. And I would imagine-- I have
imagined for some time-- that there could be this one pass. We might call it something like My
Colorado Passport that allows you to ride all of the multimodal options for transportation that we
have, but also get you into the theme parks, get you into libraries, museums, and to the ski
resorts. I know that's a tall order. But it's my imagination. Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Folska. Are there any other other matters?
Director Archuleta?
ERNEST ARCHULETA: Thank you. Here. I got this given to me-- maybe this is for you, Dave- for the income-based bus pass needs to be available monthly. Is that true?
DAVID GENOVA: The low income? If the board approves a low income? Is that what you
mean?
ERNEST ARCHULETA: Yeah.

DAVID GENOVA: We're going to take that item up in the next committee so I think we have
that discussion there.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: I'm ahead of the game here a little bit.
DAVID GENOVA: You're a committee ahead.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: All right. Sorry about that.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: All right, thank you, Director Archuleta. Our next meeting date is
October 9, 2018. And seeing nothing, no one else have a comment, I'm going to adjourn this
meeting. And five minute break.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

