RTD Operations & Customer Service Mtg Recording
04-14-20.wav
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. Welcome to the Operations and Customer Service
Committee meeting. Today is the 14th of April, 2020, and we are convened at 5:31 PM. This
committee will now come to order. I would respectfully ask that everyone connected to this call
please mute your phone and set your ringers to silent.
Please note that under current circumstances, the official meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. During this
time, meetings will be primarily audio recorded. The audio recordings along with the unofficial
minutes of the meetings will be posted as soon as practical on the board's website.
Visit RTD-Denver.com and scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to the Board of Directors
page. Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be
acknowledged during tonight's proceeding, I would ask you to please announce your name, and
then wait for me to call you before proceeding to speak.
We have a lot of people on the phone line with us tonight, and speaking out of turn will only add
confusion to the record and to the preceding. Please note that at the appropriate time during the
discussion and voting processes which will happen this evening, I will call on each director in
turn. So know that your time to speak will come, and if possible, please hold your comments
until that time.
At RTD, safety is our core value. I'd like to begin this meeting with a short safety briefing. Even
though we've all heard and heeded the health advice time and time again since the beginning of
the COVID-19 pandemic, this information bears repeating if we are to stay vigilant in the weeks
and months to come. We're not out of the woods yet.
Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands. Cover your cough or sneeze
with a tissue, and then throw the tissue in the trash. If you don't have a tissue, cough or sneeze
into your upper sleeve or your elbow, and not into your hands. Please stay home when you are
feeling sick. Self-monitor for flu-like symptoms and consult with your doctor's office via phone
if necessary.
Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces both at home and at work. When soap and water
are not available, use hand sanitizer with a concentration of at least 60% alcohol. Washing your
hands is still one of the most effective ways to prevent the spread of the virus. Be sure to lather
each and every part of your hands and scrub for at least 20 seconds. 30 seconds is better. There
are many recommendations that you sing Happy Birthday all the way through while you're doing
that.
And lastly, you can continue to flatten the curve by limiting close exposure to those outside of
your household as much as possible. RTD takes every precaution to ensure the safety of its
passengers, vehicles, and facilities. We also rely on both staff and the general public to be aware

of and alert to any suspicious or dangerous activity on buses and trains and around station stops
and platforms.
As such, I encourage all RTD employees and patrons to download the RTD Transit Watch app
which allows users to report suspicious or dangerous activity and communicate directly with
RTD transit personnel on a real-time basis in the event of an emergency situation. The Transit
Watch app is available via Google Play and the Apple App Store. Thank you.
We have one recommended action on the agenda this evening, and I'm going to read the
recommended action. It is-- somebody's unmuted. Hello? I hear a train in the background. It's
recommended that the Board of Directors adopt the attached revised code of conduct and
authorize the General Manager, or the CEO, to revise the code of conduct in the future.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager's. Core goal number two,
strong and ethical leadership, passcode number four, to strengthen safety and security. Do we
have a motion?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek.
KATE WILLIAMS: And a second?
TROY WHITMORE: Whitmore second.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you gentlemen for that. At this time, I would ask the staff to present
any pertinent information regarding the action, noting that this action was included in the packet,
and the Directors have had the time to ask questions of staff offline Directors and members of
staff, please state your name for the record each time you speak.
I am going to call on you in reverse alphabetical order to see if there is any discussion. Please
have your questions ready when I call on you. Once we've cycled through all the Directors on the
call to hear their thoughts on the subject, we will have a roll call vote. And again, I will call on
each director.
So now through discussion, I'm going to start at the back end. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
PAUL BALLARD: Madam Chairman, we have a staff presentation.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh let's do that first. OK, let's hear you have to say, and then we'll hear
what the Directors have to say. Thanks.
PAUL BALLARD: Thank you, ma'am. I will be relatively brief. This is Paul Ballard speaking,
General Manager and CEO. And I wanted to introduce this topic tonight because in the short
period of time that I have been here, this effort tonight is an attempt to address some ongoing
problems that have existed for a long time.

I have worked very closely with Mike Meader, with Chief Grado of our police department and
others to try to identify how we can deal with protecting our property with protecting our
customers. And Mike Meader put together a very good set of modifications to our code of
conduct that has been in effect for several years.
And I thought that one way that would be helpful to start this conversation, if I could just share
with you some of the issues that our frontline employees are dealing with, our supervisors, our
operators, and our police officers, and that they deal with on a regular basis. And these are some
of the reasons why we're trying to better control our property.
So the few days before and through Easter, I monitored carefully our police radios. I reviewed
the notifications that I received of incidents. And I just want to share a few of them so you can
understand why we're trying to deal with this issue.
And I'll start with this past Thursday, we had a situation at Union Station where a non-passenger
was shoving a security officer around, spit in his face. And the officer had to be taking to urgent
care to be checked out. The individual was arrested, but it was not a customer, not a passenger, to
the best of our information.
The same day, we had a situation where a person came onto our property. He was actually
wanted by the police for some other crime. Our officers had to get involved and arrested him. He
was trespassing on our property. He was not a customer. Unfortunately, he had paperwork with
him stating that he was infected with COVID-19.
Our frontline personnel had to then be checked out carefully after having dealt with him. The
next day, this past Friday on Good Friday, we had an assault by the airport. And one of our
security officers was assaulted by two suspects. They were trespassing on our property, and our
officer was not injured.
But then on the same day on Friday, we had a situation at the Chestnut Pavilion where a bus
operator was struck in the face by someone. Fortunately, our police officers were able to track
this person down and arrest him. Continuing on Friday, we had a report of a person with a
firearm on the bus. Our officers responded. It turned out not to be true. But it could have been a
very dangerous call.
Saturday, we had someone try to steal somebody's property. Our officers responded and took the
person into custody. That was actually our first incident with a passenger that we know. But even
on Easter Sunday, it was really rather depressing listening to the radio, because there were so
many issues that our frontline people were having to deal with.
We had a person assaulted in the lobby at Chestnut Street. There was another person assaulted in
the lobby in Boulder. And these are people who for the most part are not our passengers. They
just choose to come our properties for whatever reason, and we then have to deal with them.
That's why the recommendation we have made is common sense to try to control this thing.
Easter Sunday itself was really sad. We had a robbery in the station. Our officers responded.

They didn't catch the suspect, but we took a report. We had multiple calls on Easter Sunday for
EMS to deal with people, multiple people with alcohol-induced unconsciousness.
We had buses taken out of service on Easter Sunday for urination contamination, for vomit
contamination. And our people are having to deal with this. And we're just trying to put together
some common-sense recommendations as contained in the code of conduct to try to better
control these, to protect our employees, to protect our passengers.
So that's where we're coming from, and I thought it was important that I share some of the issues
and ask the Board's support in helping us to help our frontline employees to eliminate as many of
these potential problems as we can. Mike Meader has done a good job in putting this together,
and I will turn it over to Mike to continue our presentation.
MICHAEL MEADER: Thank you, General Manager Ballard. This is Mike Meader, Chief Safety
and Security Officer at RTD. And as Director Williams mentioned, you do have this information
in your packet. So it's kind of two parts. I'm going to go briefly through a couple of things that
are requested in the code of conduct revisions,
and then also talk about some specific changes we would like you to consider more for
informational here that would go hand in hand with enabling us to enforce some of these code
revisions, bearing in mind that the RTD facilities, including the Union Station, the bus
concourse, they were designed for and are specifically there to provide public transit services.
That is the sole reason they exist.
And so many of these things that are created in the code of conduct are put in place so that we
can satisfy the operational needs we have to provide those services. So from a code of conduct
perspective, there's about 53 provisions in the code of conduct. We're asking you to take a look at
clarifying some ambiguous language in about a dozen of those.
And this is language that we've identified as being somewhat ambiguous based upon the three
years of experience we've had as we've used this code of conduct for the passengers. Most of
them are, again, changes just to account for stories and things that have taken place where we see
that there might have been some gaps.
There's two other particular items in there that are listed. One is a prohibition of obstruction of
accessible features such as ramps and high blocks. It's a lot more general to cover basically what
the intent of those high blocks and ramps are without a lot of the specific things listed in there.
So that's in the number 23 that you saw in there. And basically, the new language is obstructing
disabled passengers from accessing features necessary to enable disabled passengers to use
transit services such as ramps, lifts, and high blocks. I think pretty self-explanatory there.
The second one is paragraph 35 or code of conduct line number 35, where previously, the
language said that occupying any facility for more than two hours in a 24-hour period, unless
such extended occupancy is due to delay in transit service.

And again, that's prohibited to do that. We saw the need to, again, make sure that we put some
language in there that would, again, focus on the facility being used for transit services.
And people who were in the facility without any intention to use those transit services would
clearly be stated that they would be asked to leave the premises based upon that lack of intent to
do that, subject to all the provisions of the code or any other particular rules that might be in
place at that particular point in time. So those are the two major changes to the code, that outside
of clarifying some of that ambiguous language that we're asking.
The other thing that it was specifically mentioned was that asking for authority be given to the
General Manager to make changes. Obviously, we need that flexibility to update as situations
and needs change. And right now, the General Manager has the authority to issue reasonable
rules and policies to manage RTD property. This would just be including those things specific to
the code of conduct in that same authority.
So that's just kind of breaking it down in two pieces. I thought you know we could talk about any
questions or anything you have on those specific changes to the code of conduct, and then move
into the PowerPoint presentation about some changes specific to Union Station that would allow
us to better enforce this code.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, I think that's reasonable that we can do that. Let's have the Directors
speak to this part. So we're going to consider the motion in two parts, the first part being related
to the code of conduct. And I will call everybody there first. So I think that I'm going to cue up
this committee meeting. I'm going to go forward and backward in calling the director, so that we
have some equity in terms of who's speaking when. So I'm going to call Chair Rivera-Malpiede
first this time. Let's see if she has any questions or comments.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have a question first, and then I
have some comments my question is in light of what's happening currently with COVID-19, are
you seeing it necessary to do these pieces, changing this whole thing-- these ones that you talked
about today, I'm sorry-- as a short term or are you seeing it as a long-term solution?
MICHAEL MEADER: These are long-term changes, so we need to make these changes. It just
so happens that the timing of this is occurring during COVID. So there are certainly some things
that, you know, the COVID pandemic has raised that would reinforce some of the need for some
of this change, but these are changes that we recognize need to take place whether there was a
pandemic or there was not a pandemic to enable us to better manage that space-- the RTD
spaces.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And thank you, Mr. Meader. And then I think you guys are
doing a PowerPoint presentation as well, but one of the things is under number 35, remaining at
the facility after being asked to leave, RTD, in their sole discretion, can regulate the movement
of individuals. One of my questions and concerns is we only have 13 transit police officers for
the entire district. How do you see enacting this and doing it in a manner of sensitivity for the
community because there could be a variety of reasons of why they're there? But have you done
any in-depth analysis about how that would take place or is there some protocol to it?

MICHAEL MEADER: Sure. So we've got our security forces, the Allied Universal security
forces there. We do have transit police, and then we have some off-duty contracted police from
the different municipalities that are on duty at any given time. You know, all of those people are
really well-trained on our code of conduct, so what are the expectations that we have for people
who are visiting our facilities and hopefully using our transit services.
So they can typically, you know, cite those particular parts of the code of conduct where we feel
somebody is violating or not behaving as we would expect them to behave, can then ask them to
leave the premises if they're not going to abide by the code of conduct. Our security officers
don't have the ability to arrest anybody, but if they do have some resistance, they typically would
call a police officer to come in and help us to get that person off of the premises or behave. And
that's typically how we do it right now.
One of the issues we're experiencing right now, particularly at Union Station, the bus concourse,
is just a tremendous number of people in the concourse that are not there with the intention of
riding or utilizing any of our transit services. So it has become a bit overwhelming-- you
mentioned the numbers that we have down there-- to manage such a large number of folks who
aren't going to be utilizing transit services.
But they certainly understand the reasons how people should be behaving, when they should be
there, the reasons they should not be there, and they're able to communicate that information
pretty well. It really is kind of a sheer number of people right now that makes this very difficult,
and not just that. As General Manager Ballard mentioned, a lot of the activities that are
happening down there obviously are more aggressive-type behaviors and that makes it all the
more difficult to manage in some of those areas.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Meader. Just one last thing, Madam Chair, if I
might?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, go ahead.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Mr. Meader, I know that you have been working
with the City of Denver and their police department, as well as the mayor's office to develop
strategies. Can you talk a little bit about how you guys are working collaboratively to work with
this community?
MICHAEL MEADER: Sure. You know, one of the things that Chief Grado and his team, and
Bill Sirois, and Kimberly Ford from the planning team have put together a homeless coalition
task force. And so we've been working with a lot of the homeless services groups, speaking with
them so far. We're inviting them to join that coalition and task force. Folks from the city are
engaged with that as well, as well as law enforcement. We've had conversations, and we're trying
to put together some plans. And you'll see that in the presentation as I go through that after we
have this discussion.
We do work pretty closely and collaboratively with the Denver Police Department, as well as the
other municipalities in our district. Right now, we're faced with a little bit greater challenge

because of the COVID-19 pandemic in that many of those organizations have changed their
protocols and procedures in terms of close contact with folks just trying to keep everybody safe
and maintain the social distancing to the extent they can.
So we're a little more challenged right now as a result of that, but we do work very
collaboratively with them to talk about how we can better manage the space. But of course, as I
said, under the circumstances, it's a little bit overwhelming with the numbers, and so we're trying
to create some guidelines by which we can control that better, and then that'll enable us with the
numbers that we have from the different law enforcement agencies, as well as our own, to
manage the space for transit purposes. Hopefully that answers your question.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It does. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. OK, we're going backwards now. That would be Director
Whitmore would be next.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I appreciate the efforts on this very important
topic. I don't have too much more to add-- perhaps, after the PowerPoint-- but I appreciate Mr.
Ballard, Mr. Grado, Mr. Meader's effort on this. It's very important to a number of my
constituents that we have a heightened sense of customer service and safety at DUS and a
number of other locations. Thank you, Madam Chair. That is all.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Nothing for me. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I appreciate the opportunity. Relative
to the proposed revisions, the General Manager's amendment power is not actually expressly
stated within the code of conduct, but the report obviously makes reference to the general
delegation of authority resolution that we have to the General Manager.
I just think that at some point, it's not critical now because obviously, this is proposed to be a
Board action. We should see that change in the General Manager delegation of authority
resolution to clarify that because I think it's an exceptional suggestion because there are times
when something might be appropriate to be addressed quickly or on the other hand, something to
be addressed administratively or ministerially that does not require Board action or that is not
possible to get done in a short time frame. So that's on the amendment power.
Secondly, I very much appreciate the revision to paragraph 23 regarding the high block. We've
had these discussions for a number of months concerning the inquiries by people saying, look, if
I'm on crutches because I broke a leg, I'm not disabled. I don't have that access ordinarily, but I
get yelled at if I use the high block or if I am age advantaged and I have luggage that I'm taking
to the airport, and I have to take the light rail to get there, and I use the high block, I get yelled at.

The point is there should not be obstruction of the high block or any handicapped access for
people who are disabled, but that does not mean that other people may not if they are aware of
and courteous to people who need that for disabilities that they may also use it. So I think it's
very special to have that and I appreciate it.
Paragraph 35 is, in fact, a very helpful and reasonable restatement that is extremely helpful. I
spent two different Saturday nights at 10:00 at night in the bus concourse at Denver Union
Station speaking with our guards, and talking to people who were there, and recognized that we
have a significant issue that we'll talk about during the PowerPoint that obviously needs to be
addressed. So I'm very happy to see that language as well, and I thank you very much for your
patience with me and my extended remarks, Madam Chair. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I do have a question regarding content in the
PowerPoint. Would I ask that now?
KATE WILLIAMS: Let's wait, and we'll have a separate discussion on the PowerPoint if you
don't mind, sir.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten, do you have anything on the code of conduct changes?
NATALIE MENTEN: There is one area. Most of our conversation tonight is going to be about
the PowerPoint, and so I'm not really clear on that just because there isn't two separate motions,
but it's implied that it's part of it. So I will wait to give most of my comments under that
PowerPoint discussion, but that is very gray to me now.
But going to the code of conduct, there is one area that in the past, I've wanted to address or
amend, and now is the time to ask a question about it. And this is under wheeled devices, which
is a page four of the document or attachment itself. And this is talking about using or riding a
skateboard, inline skates, bicycles. And I may need a staff member to be looking at the wording
before I ask this question.
MICHAEL MEADER: I'm looking at the wording.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, so what it says is using or riding a skateboard, inline or roller
skates, bicycle-- let's make that bold-- scooter, Segway, hoverboard, da-da-da, unless used as a
mobility aid on any RTD vehicle, facility, or property, and then in parentheses, strollers, nonridden and non-straddled bicycles are permitted. So what that is saying is that no bicycle is
allowed to be ridden on any of our properties. Am I reading that properly?
MICHAEL MEADER: It basically distinguishes riding it versus walking it. So in other words, if
you were to ride it down to Wewatta, and then get off and push it over to the train, and then put it

in the space on the train, that's the distinction. We don't want you to ride it all the way through,
across the platform, and onto the train, but you can walk it to the train.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And then this is just for curiosity, I noticed in all of our own RTD
bathrooms at Blake Street, we have needle disposal little wall things. And I assume that is for
somebody who's, I guess, taking shots for diabetes. I'm not sure what else it might be. I don't
know. I've gone into Union Station or down on the bus concourse restroom multiple times, have
never really noticed needles laying around there. Do we have one of those needle disposal wall
things there at bus concourse?
MICHAEL MEADER: You know, I'm not sure. Now, I know we would have things on the wall.
Oftentimes, they get torn off the walls. I'm not positive if we have that. A facilities person would
probably have to answer that or I don't know if Chief Grado, if you can answer that question. But
you know, we find a lot of needles they've flushed in the toilet and in other areas down there. I'm
not positive about the answer about whether there is an actual needle canister there at this
moment.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, those are actually called sharps containers.
MICHAEL MEADER: Sharps containers, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Go ahead, Bob.
BOB GRADO: Yes, I'm sorry. This is Bob Grado, Chief of Police. We do have-- they're not
hanging on the walls, but there are disposable devices, if you will, in those bathrooms as well.
It's just a different design because they were being tore off the wall.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Then as we've recently had discussions about Greyhound potentially- and I don't remember where we left that conversation, I think it's in negotiation-- but we're
looking at the time limit that's here and Greyhound having limited services through the day. It's
very, very possible that we are going to be having those customers sitting and trying to keep out
of the cold or whatever it may be with luggage. And I'm wondering how this policy will work
with Greyhound.
MICHAEL MEADER: You know, that is still being negotiated. The expectation is that if anyone
else came into the concourse, they would be required to abide by the guidelines and the rules of
the concourse itself, but I know that's still in negotiations, so I don't want to speak too much to
that.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, and then before we move right now, then how is, Chair Williams,
when you mentioned that we're going to be discussing these two parts, but yet we're asked for
one motion that implies General Manager authority of powers-- how is that separated?
KATE WILLIAMS: So the presentations are separate, and I just thought that people might like
to speak to them. It can be long when there are 15 of us and staff answering questions, so rather
than have any one director talk for 10 minutes, I thought I would break it up into two separate

discussions. I understand that it looks a little gray because there is only one vote, but that's how
we've got it.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: Sorry.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right then. No, no, that's fine. I'm glad to have the clarification. So I'm
done with my questions for this section. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. I wanted to thank Mike Meader, and our General Manager,
and the staff for working on this important issue. It seems incredibly unpleasant and unsafe to be
dealing with a lot of people swarming around, who may be aggressive, and dangerous, and not
even wanting transit. So it obviously has to be dealt with, but nonetheless, I'm coming at this
from a somewhat different point of view. My sense is that there is some what I would call
overreaching-- that there are very real problems and I'm not denying that, but I'm just-- hello?
OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: I don't know. But maybe somebody is not muted.
JUDY LUBOW: I'm just concerned that this goes farther than I'm comfortable with in terms of
giving too much discretion to kick people out. And what particularly concerns me-- and I talked
to Mike Meader about this and he was very kind to listen to my concerns and actually try to
address them-- but prohibited act 35, which the first sentence of which just by itself says,
remaining at a facility after being asked to leave.
And that, by itself, to me is so overly broad and so filled with too much discretion for abuse that
I'm not comfortable with it and I would not be comfortable passing something that said that. I
would prefer to see something that would give restrictions on that completely unrestricted use of
authority, such as being asked to leave because of violations of this code, or the criminal code, or
being not interested in using transit-- whatever we decide. But to me, it would have to have
reasonable changes to restrictions before I would feel comfortable with it. So that's one issue.
The other issue that I have has to do with granting authority to the General Manager to amend
this code of conduct. The code of conduct, it seems to me, is a creature of the Board, as well it
should be. It has to do with governmental interaction with its citizens. I think it's very important.
And except for ministerial changes, I would like to see that authority to have to deal with that
interaction left with the Board, and I would like to see more a discussion of what type of changes
folks would want the General Manager to make without Board authority. So I'm not comfortable
with that either, I have to say.
And there is a third issue that is more procedural, and that is that we are having that PowerPoint
about the DUS protocol-- the security model protocol. And I'm not against the idea of it at all,
but what I find somewhat confusing is that if you look at the recommended action that we'll be

voting on today, it talks about adopting the revised code of conduct and authorizing the General
Manager to revise the code of conduct. It doesn't mention the DUS security model protocol. And
I feel that that's a glaring absence. It's not included in our recommended action, and I just think
that should be addressed somehow, perhaps by saying it will be included in our vote. Anyway, so
I will be voting against this not because I think that it isn't an incredibly important issue, but I
just feel that there are problems with it. And if things could be changed, then I would be able to
vote for it. Thank you very much. That's it for me.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lubow. I'm going to call on Director Lewis next. I'm
just going to take some privileges of the Chair to state that we have all had this information since
last Thursday. And I believe that the Board Office sent out requests for changes, and I would
have been happy to entertain any amendments. So I think that we could have had these things
worked out before we came here tonight. So that's OK. Director Lewis, you're up.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I do have a few questions, and I echo a lot of
what Director Lubow has said, and I appreciate her saying it so succinctly. My first question is
on packet page seven, number 22 where it says occupancy. The third line, it begins with "animal
is proven to RTD satisfaction to be." And I'm just curious as to what that means-- proven to RTD
satisfaction to be.
MICHAEL MEADER: So this is around the claim about it being a service animal. And there are
certain stipulations in the law that are required of service animals. You know, one of them is to
make sure that their vaccinations are up to date, that they have something typically marking them
as some type of a service animal and the type of service that they provide.
So you know, there are instances where people will bring just about any animal onto a vehicle or
want to do that, and in some cases, say that it's a service animal. And there are certain, like I said,
requirements of an animal that would designate it as a service animal. So out of safety concerns,
so we don't have an animal come on board that may not seem well-trained, for example. A
service animal should not be barking, and growling, and those kinds of things.
That we put this in here just to make sure that the operator of a vehicle or a security person at a
facility or something can perhaps ask a question to feel satisfied that it's not an animal coming in
or on board that could create some harm to somebody and it is in fact a service animal.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, thank you for that clarity. That makes sense. So you mentioned
ambiguity quite a bit earlier in the presentation. And I feel like this is a point, I guess is more
ambiguous than it is clear. And so I wonder if there's just opportunity to change this wording to
say something similar to what you said because I don't disagree with what you explained there?
The second question I have is number 30. It's on packet page eight-- sleeping or dozing where
such activity may in RTD's opinion. I'm curious as to what RTD's opinion is.
MICHAEL MEADER: Let me get down to that real quick.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, thank you.

MICHAEL MEADER: So it would then be, again, kind of in line with what we were talking
about. Does it-- excuse me-- does it create a safety issue for the person or does it interfere with
our ability to operate the transit system? You know, there is obviously some judgment in that. I
don't know that I can speak to exactly what situation might raise that question. Chief Grado, I
don't know if you can have a good example there for that particular case.
BOB GRADO: Well, yeah, this was another clarification I think is why that is there, but what it's
addressing is we will have people board our vehicles and just they go to sleep with no destination
intended. They're just using the vehicle as a space to sleep in.
And we refer to it as checking the welfare too because in our CAD system when we dispatch
officers to these because they will have bus operators and train operators report them to us, we
look at it as a check of welfare because we have on occasion had people that have literally passed
away on a vehicle, or they've had a medical issue, or they're possibly overdosing.
So it's just a good rule of thumb to not allow it. And it just takes away, you know, any concern or
question that we might have. So on a regular basis, we do contact these folks just to make sure
they're OK. And if they're OK and they have a destination, we leave them there and we move on.
Hopefully, that answered your question.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It does. I guess the "in RTD's opinion" could just be a little more clear. And
that's what you'll hear from me throughout this is that around the clarity, I think one of the goals
that you all wanted to achieve is to remove some of the ambiguity. And I don't know what it
phrases like "in RTD's opinion" gets us closer to that. And then both 32 and 34 on packet page
eight talk about without a permit. And can you tell me what that permit is?
MICHAEL MEADER: They just mean any kind of a permit you might request to perform an
activity. Right now, camping is not an activity that would necessarily qualify for that in one of
RTD's transit facilities, nor would storing a personal property beyond something that you would
use to facilitate some kind of a transit purpose.
That language was added in there, and our Acting Chief Counsel Jenifer Ross-Amato might be
able to answer that just a little bit better as to why we put it in there, but currently, neither of
those activities is permitted and would have a permit granted to them.
SHONTEL LEWIS: If I'm understanding you correctly, and I'll let Jenifer speak, then there's not
necessarily a reason to have it in there if we wouldn't be able to give a permit anyway? Am I
confused in that understanding?
MICHAEL MEADER: Jennifer, can you respond to that?
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: Sure. This is Acting General Counsel Jenifer Ross-Amato. I added
that in there because the law on an outright ban of camping is a little bit in flux, and I wanted the
flexibility to be able to address it as a property management issue. If RTD were to consider these
activities as permittable, then it would address that through its use of facilities policy. But

currently, they aren't activities that we would give a use permit for. So it's just to allow us some
flexibility in the future if a law were to change.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So then we would have-- we currently have a process that individuals could
go through to apply for a use permit, is that what you're saying?
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: Yes, there is an RTD use of facilities policy on its website that
directs people to obtain a use permit for certain areas of RTD's property.
SHONTEL LEWIS: For storing personal property and camping or something separate than that?
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: For different things. I think that you can get a permit or a license to
license out a locker for a bicycle for example or there's other permittable activities in certain
areas.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. It's strange to be included, and so I'll leave it there. And then finally,
number 35, which says "in its sole discretion." It makes me really nervous to have that kind of
ambiguity around asking folks to leave. So as Director Lubow has said, I would feel much more
comfortable if it was just more explicit about reasons that one might be asked to leave.
I've heard from many folks about security, but I would just be more comfortable if there was
some specificity in this because the ambiguity makes me really nervous and it makes me quite
nervous for my constituents as well, particularly folks who are historically been overpoliced.
And I think this leaves way too much room for that to happen.
And I will say in general-- and this is for you, Director Williams-- I was confused about how the
code of conduct and the PowerPoint go together. I was having a hard time understanding that we
were voting on two things. We have one recommended action, but there are some changes within
the PowerPoint that we're going to adopt. And so I just would like some clarity in general around
that.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, I think that you're not the only person that wants to have that clarity.
I'll have to ask Jenifer Ross-Amato on this. I don't have a problem if we want to make them two
separate votes. I had two separate discussions on them to allow us to move the discussion along,
but they did come as one package item related to this. Counselor, do we need to split them and
take two votes on them?
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: So I don't think that staff is seeking any type of Board approval on
the PowerPoint recommendations for Union Station. The only approval that staff is seeking for is
specifically related to the Board recommended action that you previously read. Mr. Meader, is
that your understanding as well?
MICHAEL MEADER: Yes. So yes, the PowerPoint is basically kind of a reinforcement of some
of the reason for the change, particularly here on 35. I think it'll add some clarity to it. More for
information, we will be bringing this to the Board to actually as a recommended action at a
future time.

SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, so-KATE WILLIAMS: So why don't we remove the DUS PowerPoint from this portion? We'll have
our discussion here, we'll vote on this, and then we will go back and have the PowerPoint as an
update. Is that doable, Jenifer?
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: Yes, this is Jenifer. Yes, that's fine.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. OK, Director Lewis, you good with that so far?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I have no objections if no other Directors do.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, are you finished with your remarks?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. We'll go onto Director Guissinger.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I do have some questions. Thank you. I think that's a good
solution because I was confused by the DUS materials as well, if that was part of the code of
conduct. Thanks for all the work on this. I had a good conversation with Mike Meader about
some of these things. And I agree with Director Tisdale that paragraph 23 is a very good change.
I think there are some situations that come up.
I have a couple of concerns. Paragraph 35 says it's prohibited to remain at the facility after being
asked to leave and that the facilities are to be used only for travel-related purposes. I can see it
seems like the main focus of that is the bus concourse at DUS, but yeah, I'm wondering if there
are RTD facilities that have plazas. Would this apply to the plaza around DUS? Are there
facilities that are other areas? I'm thinking about some of the train stations and other places
where there might be street performers or community events. And that this definition of facility
might be pulling those things in without intending to.
MICHAEL MEADER: Director Guissinger, this is Mike Meader, Chief Safety and Security
Officer again. At the very beginning of the code of conduct, it specifies the areas that this code
applies to. So it does apply to any facility, civic center, station, any of our train platforms, rail
stations, parking facilities is what it speaks to here.
You know, there may be some instances where there are other agreements in place with the city
or something. I can't speak to that as being the case necessarily, where there may be some
exceptions to this rule, but generally speaking, any RTD facility that has been designed and is in
place for the specific purpose of providing those transit services, this would apply to.
Union Station is a tad bit unique. The bus concourse is obviously, which is why we're kind of
speaking to that as well. And perhaps as we talked about, it didn't quite line this up exactly as

perhaps I was hoping that I did because there are some things in the DUS PowerPoint that really
are important to putting in place in order to enforce some of these things on the code of conduct
that we're talking about here first. But it does apply to all RTD facilities as it's stated there in the
code of conduct in the very first section.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And are you saying that pulling that apart from the DUS, whether they
call it the DUS security model, that that doesn't work so well for you, Mike?
MICHAEL MEADER: Well, I think there are elements of that PowerPoint that are really, really
important from a timing standpoint. And we can talk about that. For example, when we're talking
about having people in the facility, basically they would be asked to leave subject to any kind of,
you know, thing in the code-- one of the things in the code that states that people would in a
paid-fare zone be expected to have fare. That would demonstrate their intent to use the transit
services versus just wanting to come in and hang out for some other purpose, right?
So even the code says that you must have fare in a fare-paid zone. One of the things that we're
looking in the Union Station presentation is that you would name our bus concourse a paid-fare
zone. So we would call it that. We would create a provision for people to get fare prior to going
into the transit concourse, and then we would be able to say, hey, obviously, the person's intent
was to ride our transit services and there wouldn't be any question as to whether the reason that
they were there and were they violating any kind of a code of conduct provision.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that's interesting. I wonder if that would solve some of the
concerns that I think are real valid that Director Lubow raised and I think Dr. Lewis raised them
too that is there a reason for asking people to leave. And what you're saying is if they're violating
some rule of that facility, that-- let me ask if that's what you're saying-- if they're violating some
rule of that facility, which might make this easier for me to accept too because I just have
concerns that RTD may have nice areas and families may want to hang out.
And you know, it does raise the question of uneven enforcement and things like that. So I'm
wondering if we could be a little more specific in this language about people being asked to
leave for violating rules or something along those lines, so it just doesn't broadly apply to any
kind of plaza or facility that we own.
MICHAEL MEADER: Yeah, and that's what the code would imply, that it would be a violation
of some element of this particular code of conduct. I know I had several discussions with
different Directors prior to this evening.
And one of the ways of potentially simplifying it-- I don't know if this is the place, Chair
Williams, or not to propose some clarification to that language-- but one of the things that we
discussed was amending the language just slightly to state that it would be remaining at a facility
after being asked to leave subject to this code or other rule that might be in force. And those
other rules could be something like we have now a state mandate around gatherings and those
kinds of things too. So that might simplify it and attach to that the understanding that it would be
subject to something in the code as a reinforcement.

LYNN GUISSINGER: You know, I like that and I'd be happy to propose an amendment, unless
you just did, that maybe our Council Jenifer Ross-Amato could help us perfect the language. Is
there a good system for doing that to move this forward? I don't know if that's a question for
Jenifer or what the best way to do that would be.
KATE WILLIAMS: I believe so. I think we would need to ask the Council. And the only issue
that I have is is that the only change that we want to make?
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I'd make one other one, but I guess looking at them one at a time-I'll just go on and-- go ahead. Were you going to say something, Jenifer?
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: This is Jenifer Ross-Amato. That was actually the language that I had
proposed. And so I think that that is a fair qualification to add at the end of that problematic
sentence-- subject to this code or other rules. And in order to effectuate that, you would have to
make an amendment. And if everybody agrees, then it would be passed unanimously. Does that
answer your question?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So would it be remaining at a facility after being asked to leave?
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: Comma subject to this code or other rules, yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Should it be for violation of this code or other rules?
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: So it could. The code already states that the remedy for violation of
the code is being asked to leave the property already. So that's already allowed under the code
already, but this just makes it a little bit clearer and states that there could be rules that are
specific to the facility and might be implied-- that might be enforced, excuse me.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And then does that-- I'm trying to think if that solves the other concern I
would have that people not just be asked to leave for not being there-- if people are somewhere
on a-- you know, without looking at every single property RTD owns, if people are somewhere
on a plaza and doing something else, or they're buskers there, or something that, they don't have
to be there just for travel purposes as long as they're not violating the code. Is that a fair reading?
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: Yes, this is Jenifer. Yes, that's correct. The intent here is to allow
management to adopt rules specific to a facility and the operational needs for that facility, so that
they're enforcing rules that are narrowly tailored to the business purpose at issue here. And so
when Mike says that he's referring to the PowerPoint and the presentation, what he's really doing
is trying to explain what are the operational needs of this facility from his professional opinion.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. I have one other suggestion, and it's also this gives the authority
to the General Manager to change the code of conduct. And Director Tisdale pointed out that that
can be a very good thing if something needs to be quickly or administratively addressed. And I
think I agree with all of that. I think it's always a little tricky what's ministerial or administrative.

And I guess I would propose also that the provision-- I was looking for the provision-- the
provision that gives the authority to the General Manager to make the changes, that he bring
those to the Executive Committee for approval or something along those lines. So I guess that's
two amendments-- to adopt the language that Mike Meader and Jenifer gave subject to this code
or other rule at the end of the first sentence in paragraph 35 and that authorize the General
Manager and CEO to revise the code of conduct in the future subject to approval or information
from the Executive Committee.
KATE WILLIAMS: So basically, that means that he could not make immediate choices unless
he got a hold of 5 of the 15 Directors, is that correct?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, I am flexible there. Just I think it's good for the Board to know
what changes are being made. I'm fine actually asking the GM just to do that, so that we're kept
up to speed and can express opinions if we think something different.
KATE WILLIAMS: I think the purpose of that originally was based on the emergency situations
that may arise in this state that we are now-- this unusual situation-- to allow those kind of
decisions if necessary on an immediate basis. So I understand that your request is that there be
accountability to the Board. I'm wondering if there would be some way to say that provided that- I mean, what if he has to do something within an hour?
KEN MIHALIK: Madam Chair, this is Director Mihalik. I'll second either or both of those
motions.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And we need discussion.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. We're going to have-JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: Madam Chair-KATE WILLIAMS: We're going to have-JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: --this is Jenifer.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, go ahead, Jenifer.
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: I just wanted to comment that I'm not sure that the Board can take
action through an action of the Executive Committee. The bylaws state that there needs to be an
affirmative vote of at least eight Directors present and voting. And my suggestion to amend or
instead would be to give prior notice to the Executive Committee, as opposed to the Board taking
action.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, a point of order relative to the bylaws, it requires 10 votes, not
8 votes. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome, Director Tisdale.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Do to what? Oh, to change the bylaws. OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: Right. So I think that Mrs. Ross-Amato's point was that we need to decide
what language we're going to put in if we're going to pass this tonight after all this work. I am
clear on the first amendment, Director Guissinger. I think everybody is clear on that. Do you
want to offer us some language on this amendment now?
LYNN GUISSINGER: You know, I totally get the need to do this. It's not limited by the
emergency situation. And maybe we say that authority is reviewed in six months or something. I
just I totally agree with giving the General Manager the authority to make certain changes, but to
just turn over the code of conduct decisions from the Board, it's a pretty broad authorization. So
you know, maybe we add to be reviewed in six months. I would be happy to entertain other
suggestions.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah, Madam Chair. This is Director Folska.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska, hi. There's five more people who need to speak, I get that.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, what I'm suggesting and if it's agreeable to Director Guissinger, if we
could let the rest of the Board members who haven't spoken yet speak, and then return to this
amendment that Director Guissinger is putting forth with regard to the code of conduct having
the authority to the General Manager or even both amendments, so that we could just listen to
everybody's thoughts first, and then go back amendment by amendment.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I would welcome that.
KATE WILLIAMS: I think, Director Folska, that's a brilliant idea. And on that note, you have
the floor. Director Guissinger, are you finished for the moment?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yep.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, Director Folska, thank you for that.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. First of all, I have to say that the purpose of
this Board of Directors, as elected people by the District, is to make policy and that is the code of
conduct. It is not the purview of anyone else but this elected Board. That's what people elected us
to do.
So with that, I would not be comfortable passing the authority of this Board to anyone but the
elected people of this Board under any circumstance. And I think when there is an emergency,
we can be called, we can come together, but this is our job, right?
I mean, we've gone through those retreats and had conversations where they've shown us Venn
diagrams of our job as policy makers and staff's job as getting into the weeds. And maybe there's
a little intersection of these two circles, but it's our job to make policy. And whether it's short
term or long term, I have to say I feel firm about that.

With that said, the next thing I wanted to ask about with regard to doing something at DUS in the
bus block other than transit. You know, for eight years, I've been taking nine and 10-year-old
Girl Scouts, anywhere from 95 to 120, and Director Tisdale joins me on one of the events. And I
can assure you they're very disruptive, especially when they're coming along with the WTS
ladies. So would we be thrown out by violating a code of conduct because you've got 100 9 and
10-year-old Girl Scouts? I mean, is that possible in the language that you have, Mike Meader?
MICHAEL MEADER: That they would be thrown out? I'm not sure I completely understand.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, we're out there riding the buses. I give tours to 100 or so Girl Scouts
every year with WTS women and occasionally a gentleman. And you know, we're not there
riding the buses, but we spend a lot of time and they're hellions.
MICHAEL MEADER: No, I mean, they're there for the-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: They're totally disturbing the peace.
MICHAEL MEADER: Right, no I understand. This is Mike Meader, Chief Safety and Security
Officer again. You know, they're for the intended purpose of transit-- the services. They're there
to learn how to ride the buses-- ride the buses, trains, whatever that is and understand how that
operation works. I think that's a different situation because that's the intended purpose that they
are there for versus just coming down to just kind of hang out and have a jamboree.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah. OK. That's good. I mean, but those are things that-- this code of
conduct, by the way, I think it would be very helpful that once it's finalized that you have it
available, printed, it's posted everywhere and every police on our team from the chief down, all
of our TSOs, allied service guys, that they have a copy. Because when they are going to execute
something and remove people from our facility, and I've seen it, those people want to see the
copy of that. And nobody is going to be able to memorize all of that. So whatever we wind up
with, that would be great.
About the service animals and the high blocks and the wheelchairs and the strollers, that has
been an ongoing issue since I've been on this Board. And it's an issue that USDOT struggles
with. Our drivers are not supposed to enforce that. They're supposed to drive people. People need
to behave. They need to learn. So you can't legislate good behavior.
But we certainly want to have a place that's safe and desirable for people to come to and to ride
our services. And so I applaud you all for the effort that you're doing. And it is very difficult.
One of the things that I would ask, and I don't know if this is an amendment, but I have asked
this of the Board and staff since I've been on the Board. The Colorado State legislature does this
and they have been for years, and that is using people first language. So for example, somewhere
in this code of conduct when you're saying, disabled passengers, right? So I would prefer to see
passengers with disabilities. So I think that's consistent with the Colorado State legislature. It
shouldn't be that big of a deal. But it is a big deal to folks with disabilities.

MICHAEL MEADER: Yeah. I think that's a good point.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. My other question is enforcement. You know, in the past, it
seems to me, and you've kind of gone through it already, you have our officers. They can't ticket.
There's this conflict with you guys and Denver police. And we have off duty police. I mean, God
bless you for trying to sort that out.
But what is this, our security TSOs versus DPD? I mean, what's wrong with our security calling
Denver police and having the Denver police taking care of it? Are they sick of us, or what's the
problem?
MICHAEL MEADER: No. Excuse me, this Mike Meader, Chief Safety and Security Officer.
We do. We've got a good relationship with them. The security, as I mentioned, they're effectively
armed citizens here. So they certainly don't have the authority that a law enforcement officer has.
So we have to bring law enforcement in.
We're actually in discussions again, trying to address what you just described in terms of the
Code Enforcement authority of our transit police in the city and county of Denver. And really
hopeful that we'll work that out.
But right now, right, we call the Denver police. They come down. We may not be the priority if
they're engaged and a lot of other things, so that sometimes creates some delays in their response
to take care of some of those things that we're calling them for. But we're constantly working on
that particular relationship and process that we use.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. Well, it seems to me, one of my concerns is perhaps an unintended
consequence in the future. You know, Denver Union Station is one of the most boring places I've
ever been to in the bus box. There's no action. Is so uninteresting. It's not fun to be there.
But in the future, we might start activating it through different commerce, like having little
kiosks. You know, there's a barista that in front of Nordstrom's in Seattle, the original
Nordstrom's. They make $500,000 a year. There's a barista at the Webb building, he's making six
figures. There's a hot dog vendor at Colfax and Auraria-- well, before all the pandemic, OK-making six figures.
Why aren't we enabling people? Because really what that speaks to is eyes on the prize. More
people that are down there, it pushes out the negative things. It's like the broken windows. If you
pick up a book written way back in 1960 called The Life and Death of a Great American City by
Jane Jacobs, I think it could help to inform how we decide to use our spaces and make them
available to the public.
But I don't want to see us being like a police state down there and moving, moving, moving
people. It should be a place where people can really enjoy their time before they're traveling,
whether they're going to be on Greyhound or Bustang or anything else. And that would mean
revenue for RTD. And so I hope that whatever you've got there in the code of conduct, that it
doesn't preclude future uses of commerce, should that become available.

And finally, the real problem that we're talking about here are really issues about people
experiencing homelessness. And this is a problem that unfortunately, I don't think we've done a
very good job of, in particular with the current pandemic, and that's from the governor on down.
My hope is that the chiefs of police could get together, they're on the front line, and work with
the governor's office and find a better solution.
This isn't working. And all the curtains are gone now. The truth be known, this is an
unacceptable situation. And we're experiencing it and so is everybody else. So something does
need to happen. But I do think-- I remember when Dan Oates was chief of police in Aurora. And
he wanted to solve some of the homeless issues that he was dealing with and asked RTD to give
him one of our retired Access-a-Ride buses so we could pick them up in the freezing weather.
And I mean, it it was like pulling teeth. I don't know. It was a very difficult situation.
So I know they're thinking about it. And they want to get something done. And everyone wants
to see people feel good and be safe regardless of their economic status and color or whatever. We
all need something. So with that, Madam Chair, I'm finished. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Folska. We appreciate that. Director Cook, you have
the floor.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair. So I'll try to be brief since we've talked for quite a while. I
agree with some of the concerns that have been raised and glad that we're working through some
possible amendments.
On paragraph 35, in addition to that first couple of sentences, the last part, the facilities are to be
used only for travel-related purposes except when a permit is otherwise granted. I'm worried also
that there may be unintended consequences. Director Guissinger referred to some places. And
I've already talked with Mike Meader and Jenifer Ross-Amato about this. But just to put a point
on it, places like the Wynkoop Plaza and potentially, we don't know this for sure yet, but it's
possible and even probable that it might affect the Olde Town Arvada Plaza, a transit plaza that
was built specifically as a public space, as the Wynkoop Plaza was, with its fountain and
everything.
So then it becomes a question of, whom do you approach to move on for non-travel related
purposes in those areas and how that's addressed. So I know some of this has been thought
through. I'm just worried that, partly because of the COVID situation, we are needing to act more
quickly than we might otherwise.
So I'd like the idea of a six month review for that purpose, both the changes and of the authority
on the part of the General Manager. Because as director co mentioned, and I think Chair RiveraMalpiede alluded to a little bit, there are other issues, pretty deep issues about homelessness and
so forth that are embedded in this action as well. So I'd like the idea of a review. If that's made as
a motion to amend, I'll support that. And also, the change offered by Mike Meader. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Cook. We will add that to the notes for amendments
when we get to the end of the discussion. I think Vice Chair Caitlin, you're up next.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. This has been a really good discussion. And I
appreciate some of the other directors weighing in. I looked at this as really, the code of conduct
had been approved previously and we were looking to the amendments or to the changes for
approval. So I really focused on that.
One of the things that struck me was Chief Grado's comment about checking the welfare. And
I've spoken to a lot of transit police as I've ridden mostly on the rail, or even at the plaza at
Denver Union Station. And what I've found is, most of them operate from a compassion first
standpoint.
And when I looked at it in RTD's opinion, I was coming at it from that perspective, that a lot of
times-- this code of conduct is pretty lengthy. And I confess, I had not read it in its entirety until
the packet came out. And I know that there's a lot of latitude that is given in enforcing some of
these. And a lot of it is based on compassion. That said, it could be abused with some of the
fairly broad language that was in it.
I agree with Director Whitmore. A number of my constituents have been concerned about some
of these issues and the lack of perceived enforcement. And not so much at Denver Union Station,
but with some of my constituents at the Civic Center Plaza. And I think that some of these
amendments would go a long way toward reassuring some of my constituents about their
security and safety.
Chair Rivera-Malpiede talked about the discussion with the city and county of Denver. And
actually, some of my constituents have said that they've received conflicting information about
who has jurisdiction for the enforcement of some of these issues. And so I think if we can
provide some clarity to that, that would be great.
I also appreciate Directors Guissinger, Lubow, and Cook and their suggested amendments. I
think that would go a long way toward reassuring us as to the police state or overpolicing of
these issues. So that's all I have. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Buzek, you are next.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. And the concerns raised by Directors Folska and
Cook are concerns that I had as well with regard to paragraph 35 of the code of conduct. I have
problems with the use of facilities and the broad definition of facilities, and especially in light of
the fact that we do have facilities that are designed for purposes other than travel-related use. So
I think this paragraph conflicts with itself and is unsustainable. So without any kind of change
there, I can't support it.
I also agree with Director Folska with regard to us eating or delegating our policymaking
authority to the General Manager to change this code of conduct without clarification and some
real severe restriction on when that happens and how it happens without prior Board approval.
That's all I have. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome, sir. Director Broom.

BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have one question. Are election activities prohibited
or permitted on RTD properties? For example, can people solicit signatures for nomination
petitions or set up card tables for Get Out the Votes and hand out donuts? I can remember seeing
that in the past year or so. Where is that regulated? And can you put up campaign signs inside
our facilities?
MICHAEL MEADER: Jenifer, can you can you answer that question?
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: Yes. So those are regulated under RTD's use of facilities policy,
which is on its website. So you can obtain a permit. Certain activities are allowed through a
permit. And certain areas, as set out in the use of facilities policy.
But there are certain things that are prohibited, such as set out in that policy. So public speaking,
demonstrations, picketing, campaigning, leaflet'ing, petitioning, or distribution of written, noncommercial or promotional materials.
BOB BROOM: Don't you run into first amendment problems with that?
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: Oh, excuse me. I'm sorry. Those are permitted with a use-- those are.
So there are three things that are-- why don't I just read it? So RTD shall not prohibit expressive
activity on or in RTD facilities subject to reasonable time, place, and manner restrictions that
protect the public health or safety or that concern the provision of transit service, the flow of
traffic, honor RTD facilities, or that interferes with the safe and efficient operations of RTD
facilities.
And then it lists, certain activities are permitted at RTD facilities. But it excludes certain interior
spaces, including Union Station, Civic Center Station, Boulder Junction, Depot Square Station,
Downtown Boulder Station, and train platform. And it's also subject to the requirements and
RTD-issued use permit or vendor license is required.
And then the policy goes into what a use permit-- when it's required to obtain at use permit. And
then there's also a long list of prohibited behavior on that policy as well. And one of our goals is
to reconcile the two policies at some point. The use of facilities policy was issued under the
general manager's authority, under his authority to manage RTD's property.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, well, thank you. I guess I would just request that our office send
something out pertaining to election protocols prior to the upcoming election. Just remind us of
all these restrictions and whatever thank you. And that's all I've got.
JENNIFER ROSS-AMATO: I'd be happy to do that. Thank you. I will do that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, councilor. Thank you, Director Broom-- So we have-- now
everybody has had a chance to speak. It looks to me like if my notes are correct, we have two
amendments from Director Guissinger, one from Director Cook, and one from Director Lubow.

And I am not sure how to go about this. Do we need to verbalize those and then have them added
and then vote on each of those individually? Councilor.
JENNIFER ROSS-AMATO: Oh, I think-- this is Jennifer Ross-Amato, acting general counsel. I
did not hear an official amendment. I think for some I would or I might. What I would suggest is
that somebody make an amendment that they think could be acceptable to their colleagues, and
then you vote on that with a second movement.
KATE WILLIAMS: So we'd need to do that for each of these, and I'm happy to do that. I guess
we'll go in alphabetical order, and hopefully, the directors have had some time to craft their
amendment while we have been having this discussion. So I think Director Lubow has had the
longest time. Yeah?
JENNIFER ROSS-AMATO: Yeah?
KATE WILLIAMS: Point of order?
JUDY LUBOW: I'm really sorry to say this. It must have been very brilliant. But I'm not sure
what my amendment was. I certainly know Director Guissinger, but I don't know the difference
between hers and whatever people think I have. So forgive me. I have to refresh my recollection.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, that's all right. We can withdraw your amendment if you think that
Director Guissinger is going to cover it. I'm fine with that.
JUDY LUBOW: All right, thank you.
JENNIFER ROSS-AMATO: Yes. Madam Chair, this is Jennifer Ross-Amato.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, ma'am.
JENNIFER ROSS-AMATO: I'm sorry. I think that we need to clarify what the amendment is
and then vote on each amendment in the order. But I'm not clear as to whether anyone has made
an official amendment with a-KATE WILLIAMS: They have not.
JENNIFER ROSS-AMATO: --a second. OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: They have not.
JENNIFER ROSS-AMATO: So that needs to be clearly executed to do this.
KATE WILLIAMS: I am asking the directors now to name their amendments, speak it clearly,
and then we will take a vote on that amendment. And then we will go to the next one, and we
will take a vote on that. I'd just like to point out to all of the directors that this information has
been available to everybody for four days. And I think that all of this probably could have been

done prior to tonight, and then we could have mentioned the amendments and voted on the
whole package.
But that's right. We're going to do it this way. That's OK.
Director Cook, do you have an amendment that you would like to make to the code of conduct at
this time? Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, sorry. The mute problem. I was actually voicing support for two
amendments that I had thought Director Guissinger had offered. But I'm happy to-- if you
wanted to proceed to something we could vote on it, I could echo what I heard her say as actual
motions.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's all right. I can go back to her. I'm fine with that. I'm just making sure
that everybody who discussed a potential amendment got called on.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: So I can move on, and I can move on. Director Guissinger, do you have an
amendment that's just this code of conduct in two places, I believe?
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right, I will make-- they're a little different from what I was originally
thinking. Paragraph 35, remaining at a facility after being asked to leave, comma, for violation of
this code or other rule, adding that language. And at the beginning, it's recommended that the
Board of Directors adopt the attached revised code of conduct and authorize the General
Manager CEO to revise the code of conduct.
Let's see. I'm trying to come up with language that this would last for six months and then come
back for a review by the Board. And authorize for six months the General Manager CEO to
revise the code of conduct in the future.
Let's see. But Jennifer Ross-Amato, do you have any suggestion there?
JENNIFER ROSS-AMATO: This is Jennifer Ross-Amato.
KATE WILLIAMS: I think it could very-- go, Jennifer.
JENNIFER ROSS-AMATO: I'm still trying to pull it up. One moment. Sorry.
KATE WILLIAMS: I have some-LYNN GUISSINGER: I guess I'm asking other Directors.
KATE WILLIAMS: The recommended Go ahead, Director Guissinger.

LYNN GUISSINGER: --other directors who raised concerns about the concern I had about the
facilities, if the language on paragraph 35 covers that concern.
KATE WILLIAMS: We're going to get to voted on it once we get the amendment worded. yes,
Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I just think for ease of discussion and
understanding, perhaps we could take the one amendment first and give Director Guissinger and
others a chance to consider a second amendment. But the one is very straightforward, and
perhaps we could have a very brief discussion on that and then a vote on the first amendment,
which is specifically the change to paragraph 35 with the insertion of just that one clause.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good idea. I'm game for that. I'm just going to ask everybody again in the
future that you have had days to have this information and to review this and to have suggested
wording that you could have brought to this meeting. And I'm OK right now, but I need to point
that out to you all that your position asks that you review this material before you come to the
meeting and that you come prepared.
So I'm a little surprised that there are these amendments that nobody knows how to verbalize.
OK, so what we're going to do now is we're going to add the verbiage to-- I guess it's number 35.
And the verbiage-JENNIFER ROSS-AMATO: needs a second.
KATE WILLIAMS: --stated as-SHELLEY COOK: Second.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm going to read this and then we'll --. OK, so Director Guissinger has
moved and Director Cook has seconded to add the word for the violation of this code remaining
at a facility after being asked to leave, comma, for a violation of this code. Is that correct?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Comma.
KATE WILLIAMS: RTD may, at its sole discretion, regulate movement, et cetera. Do I have
that on the record correctly, Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sorry. I think it's a period after rule. So remaining at a facility after being
asked to leave, comma, for violation of this code or other rule, period. And then RTD may-KATE WILLIAMS: OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I could--.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, and Director--

LYNN GUISSINGER: I was asked-- if you want to go ahead and hear both amendments, the
other one would be that after the first sentence and the recommended action that I'd make a
motion to add language that we would review-- the board would review these changes and this
authorization in six months.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook, do you want to second that as well?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, ma'am.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, so we have a motion to make two changes to this recommended action,
the first one being an additional sentence at the end of the recommended action itself and the
second one being a change to number 35 within the body. And I'm going to call on everybody to
vote on those. We have a mover-JENNIFER ROSS-AMATO: No, no, discussion.
KATE WILLIAMS: --and that's-- what?
JENNIFER ROSS-AMATO: We need discussion.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, OK, then we'll go through in the proper alphabetical order this time,
and we will have further discussion on the amendment. Director Broom, you would go first.
BOB BROOM: No further discussion.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you for your previous comments. The
problem with adding too many things to an amendment is some are good and some are not so
good. So as the amendment stands, I support half of it but not the other half. So I'd have to vote
no. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: That was my original purpose here in trying to keep them separate. Thank
you for that.
JENNIFER ROSS-AMATO: -- keep these separate motions.
KATE WILLIAMS: That was my original purpose is that you could vote. So let us go back a
step now, and now we are going to have-- I'm going to ask everybody to undo whatever they've
done previously. And we're going to start at the beginning, which in the original statement under
the recommended actions.
This is what we are going to have a discussion on we have a mover and the second. Director
Guissinger and Director Cook have moved on this change to the original recommended action
statement which includes a sentence that we will review this whole thing again in six months.
And that is now what we are discussing. And after we discuss it, then we will vote.

I think I'm OK with that. Now, Director Broom. Do you have any discussion?
JENNIFER ROSS-AMATO: Madam Chair?
KATE WILLIAMS: Point of order?
JENNIFER ROSS-AMATO: This is Jennifer.
KATE WILLIAMS: Point of order. Who's calling? Yes, ma'am.
JUDY LUBOW: Judy Lubow. And Jennifer is also asking for a tense.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, let's have Counselor first and then Director Lubow.
JENNIFER ROSS-AMATO: This is Jennifer Ross-Amato, Acting General Counsel. Because
there is a motion pending, it either needs to be voted on or withdrawn before so that there is a
pending motion that needs to be voted on or withdrawn.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger, would you withdraw your motion to include both of
them so that we can separate them, please?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I intended-- I intended those to be separate motions. So I do withdraw it
and make them as separate motion.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
JENNIFER ROSS-AMATO: Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: The point of order-KATE WILLIAMS: Ms. Ross-Amato, does that work? Director Lubow-- you are-- you have the
floor.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Thank you. I was just still confused about the wording of this
amendment, which was that the Board would review.
And this is what I thought I heard. The board would review these changes and this authorization
in six months. I don't know if I heard that correctly.
KATE WILLIAMS: That was what I heard, yes.
JUDY LUBOW: So these changes in my opinion I thought were whatever the changes were that
the General Manager made. I don't know if that was what was meant. I'm not sure any of us
know anything at this point. My understanding is that Director Guissinger has withdrawn-- let's
do that first-- Has withdrawn her original amendment which had two parts to it. Is that correct?

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, they were two separate amendments. This is Director Folska. So just
take them one by one. I agree.
KATE WILLIAMS: Counselor? Counselor, what is it that we need to have withdrawn?
JENNIFER ROSS-AMATO: I would suggest that you this is Jennifer Ross-Amato, acting
general counsel. I would suggest that Director Guissinger withdraws the motion and then restates
her motion and that you vote on each separate motion in turn.
KATE WILLIAMS: That is my understanding. We are trying to do that. I'm going to try again.
Director Guissinger, do you withdraw the motion that is on the floor at this time that was
seconded by Director Cook?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, I thought I did that. And I make the motions as separate motions.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, so let's just get one step at a time. Miss Ross-Amato, the motion is
withdrawn. So we're now clear. We're going to start again with amendments.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Doesn't it need to be seconded by-- Director Cook has to second the
withdrawal.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook, do you second the withdrawal?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, yeah. Yes. That's fine.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Cook. OK, so now we're clear. We're still working on
amendments to the code of conduct.
I am open to anybody who would like to state an amendment. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sorry. I couldn't get it to unmute. Would you-KATE WILLIAMS: Thought you chicken out. I thought you chickened out after all. Go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. I'm wondering if we should just pull this. but-NATALIE MENTEN: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: --amendment to paragraph 35 is to add, for violation of this code or other
rule after the first-- at the end of the first sentence.
KATE WILLIAMS: Do I have a second to this amendment?
JUDY LUBOW: Second.
KATE WILLIAMS: That would be who? That was who seconded?

JUDY LUBOW: Judy Lubow.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lubow seconds. I have to make a note, Mrs. Guissinger and
Lubow on the motion to amend sentence paragraph part 35. OK, so now we are going to have a
discussion on the amendment. And I'm going to go through alphabetically. Director Broom, do
you have any discussion on that?
BOB BROOM: No, I support.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Buzek, do you have discussion on this part of the
amendment?
VINCE BUZEK: No discussion. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No discussion. I support the amendment.
KATE WILLIAMS: I think we're going to take your vote separately, so you can hold on to that.
Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: No discussion. I support the amendment.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska.
DIRECTOR FOLSKA: No discussion.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No discussion.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: What would fall under other rules?
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm sorry. this is just if you have a discussion on the amendment on-JEFF LEWIS: Yeah.
KATE WILLIAMS: Number-SHONTEL LEWIS: The amendment is violation of this code or other rules. And so I'm just
getting clarity on the or other rules. It's part of the amendment.
KATE WILLIAMS: Got it. Got it.

JUDY LUBOW: I think that's a good question, actually, and I think Jennifer gave us the
language.
MIKE MEADER: Yeah, this is Mike Meader, chief safety officer. What we were discussing,
other rules, this could be something like a management protocol, let's say, of the complex that
might be something introduced. It could be like a mandate of the governor, like we see now,
where the governor comes out and says based upon the stay at home water or the state of
emergency, he mandates that gatherings of less than 10 people or something like that. So that
could temporarily change, you know, what we're asked to comply with.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it. Thank you.
MIKE MEADER: Yep.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No further discussions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Lubow, discussion?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, thank you. I also have a question about what the other rules mean, and I'm
just playing devil's advocate. Because we don't specify what they are, could it be HOA rules or
Girl Scout Organization rules? I mean, it doesn't say what they are, and that lack of clarity
concerns me. And I was just wondering if our council, who's actually suggested this language,
can deal with that issue, if she wouldn't mind.
JENNIFER ROSS-AMATO: Madam Chair?
KATE WILLIAMS: Please.
JENNIFER ROSS-AMATO: This is Jennifer Ross-Amato, acting general counsel. I believe it
would be other applicable rules. So-- but applicable is implied in that statement. There are also
rules that might apply related to property management, such as the use of facility rules or rules
that are adopted to administer the operational needs of the specific facility. But it wouldn't apply
to rules-KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lubow?
JENNIFER ROSS-AMATO: --that do not apply to this facility.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you. I just still have a little concern with the vagueness in terms of
it's not saying or other criminal violations or governor's-- it's somewhat vague to me, and that
concerns me. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So we're addressing just paragraph 35. Even though we are
adding in or completing a statement, remaining at a facility after being asked to leave, comma,

for violation of this code or rule, still does not solve the problem of the sentence within 35 that
says facilities are to be used only for travel-related purposes. And that in itself, to me, brings up a
constitutional violation.
And this has got to be a very confusing discussion. And while we were reprimanded to have
these amendments made beforehand, life has not fit that in. We should either be, one, tabling this
as a whole because we have now taken what is to address homeless camping downstairs at the
bus concourse and moved it into where we are giving wide open authority for a general manager,
as stated in the PowerPoint, to create free speech zones.
That is a wide reach, wide reach. I am extremely unhappy with the language that we've got. 35
should be just struck in its whole. I mean, we've created-- how much money we spent on art
projects at our RTD facilities?
Is that a transit related or travel related purpose? I wouldn't say so. So 35 should be just struck
because adding on the clause under the first sentence doesn't solve the real problem within that
paragraph.
And then we'll get into the discussion later on the First Amendment issues. And I'll just let you
know I've already reached out to David Lane and ACLU because this is a very dangerous
slippery slope that is being presented in this package. And I am not willing to give away the
board's responsibility to set policy such as this, especially when I see in a PowerPoint that we're
going to create free speech zones.
That is-- can't tell you how upset I am over that one. So I think we should be tabling this entire
package, come back, address the issue down in the bus concourse. I'm OK with things like
closing-- allowing more cleaning hours where everybody has to vacate it. But where we're
getting into some of these other violations of the Constitution, which are very first in height on
duty-- I mean, I got the oath right in front of me.
Support the Constitution of the United States and the state of Colorado. And this package, again,
has a slippery slope. I completely appreciate what our safety officers go through, and I've done
about 10 trips down to the bus concourse late at night just to see how it goes.
It's a very interesting show. But I haven't seen the violence. I'll take the word that it happens.
But this whole package should be just tabled. Director Broom, you asked about partitioning.
That's where I've been affected by other police agencies and threatened with ticket or arrest and
told to go over to a free speech crate cage to do circulation of a petition. That's what we're
opening up the door to here.
I'm not willing to go down it. So I don't see what the point is of even of this motion because it
isn't taking care of these other underlying, really serious problems. Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Menten. We appreciate your input. Director Mihalik.

KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm of a similar mind. At the very beginning, Mr.
Meader said that this was unrelated or at least planned in advance of the COVID-19 scenario,
that these were independent of that.
And I think we're bundling things that shouldn't be bundled, that a number of these items are
mutually exclusive and shouldn't the package the way they are. So I'm of a similar mind too.
There's much more discussion to be had after tonight on this. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. It is tempting given the far ranging
nature of the discussion that we have had for the last hour and a half or close to two hours to
conflate some of the issues. But I would remind us all the one thing we're talking about now and
the one thing we're voting on now is a modest adjustment to paragraph 35 to render it compliant
with the First Amendment, by the way, so as to make it effective and not void for vagueness,
specifically adding the clause relative to the violation of this code or other applicable rule.
And I will interrupt myself and just ask if there would be any objection to inserting the word
applicable before the word rule in the amendment as proposed by Director Guissinger. I think
that's the intent that was there. Obviously, it is not to address things such as homeowner's
association regulations, zoning laws, or whatever else it might be.
It's rules applicable to individuals in a transit station. And so I think that's something that at the
conclusion of my remarks, if the movement and the second would be agreeable to that, we could
just insert the word applicable. I think it is a good clarification, and I think that is the one issue
we're discussing now.
The other issues will come up, I'm sure at great length, for an extended period of time following
this. But that's the amendment, and I would support that amendment. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Guissinger, would you be willing to
amend your amendment? Can we add a word there? Do we have to start all over again?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm fine with that. I still-- I have the concerns that other people are
raising about the language of our rule and some of the other language. But for now, I'm fine with
that change.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, we're adding this for violation of this CODE or other applicable rules.
Director Cook, are you OK with that change?
JUDY LUBOW: I'm OK. It's Judy Lubow, the second.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, I'm sorry. Director Lubow-- that's right, it is you. Thank you so much
OK, we are still discussing. And ladies and gentlemen, I want to point out that you can vote no
on the whole thing and we will still have a vote of conduct. We do have a code of conduct.

We are only here discussing changes to the code of conduct. Right now at this moment, we are
discussing an amendment to add some words to number 35, and we have lots of time and things
to talk about afterwards. So I'm asking you now for your discussion on the amendment.
We will then vote on the amendment, and then we will return to the second amendment that
we're also going to discuss and that we're going to vote on. And then we're going to go back to
the original action-- recommended action. So let's move along with what we're trying to do here.
OK, I think Director Walker is next. Do you have comments on the amendment?
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, I'll be quick. I'm OK with the amendment, and I think it's pretty
narrowly defined about this code of conduct and other applicable now that the word applicable is
in there. I think it also takes into account the use for travel-related purposes so that passengers
can utilize the transit system in a safe and efficient manner without inconvenience or delay.
So whatever other activity somebody might be doing, as long as they're not impeding
somebody's use of the transit facilities for that purpose, I think that some of those uses are
permitted by right. So I'm comfortable with the additional language. I think it covers-- I think it's
narrow enough so that somebody taking a picture in front of Union Station won't be asked to
move along, because they wouldn't be-- not necessarily impeding the use of the transit-- of
access to transit by anybody else in there. So I'm good with it. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: I approve of the proposed amendment. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. We're not voting. We're just disgusting. OK, Chair RiveraMalpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Boy, this has been quite an evening of information back and
forth. I really don't have anything additional to. Add. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. OK, now we are going to vote. I have nothing to say
myself. We are now going to vote on the amendment.
I will call your name. Just say yes or no and I'll make a note of it. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yep.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.

KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yep.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes for this one.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: To no one's surprise, yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Williams votes yes. So there are 14 yeses, 1 no, the one no being
Director Folska. The amendment will be added to my original recommended action.

We are now going to move forward. I believe that Director Guissinger has a second amendment.
Is that true, Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: It's true. I stated it earlier. Let's see.
At the end of the first sentence, it would say the board will review these changes and this
authorization at the end of six months.
KATE WILLIAMS: Do we have a second to that movement to make-DOUG TISDALE: Second.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Tisdale is the second. Thank you. I probably won't remember, but
that's all right.
I'm writing it down. OK, we will now have discussion on this amendment. I'm going to go in
reverse order this time. So Chair Rivera-Malpiede, do you have any discussion on this statement?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: The only thing is it sounds kind of vague to me, and I'm
wondering if instead we could be more definite. Like, this will be in effect beginning on, I don't
know, April 15 ending in six months with the actual date that it would end so we would have a
finite time when we would have to come back and re-evaluate. Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I would accept that amendment.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook, do you accept that?
KATE WILLIAMS: Sorry, Tisdale, Director Tisdale. I'm sorry.
DOUG TISDALE: Actually, respectfully, Madam Chair, Director Tisdale was the second on this
particular motion. And with the greatest respect and deference, no, I would not accept that
because I think it creates an automatic time that takes away these changes. I would rather impose
the burden on the Board to come back and look at it to see are we satisfied with the General
Manager having this authority.
I think that's the specific intent it's not these specific changes. It's the specific intent to say, are
we happy with the General Manager having this authority? So respectfully, I decline that change.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Chair Rivera-Malpiede I should point down that it will go
into effect if we vote on the recommended action and it passes tonight. It will go into effect
immediately. And if we add six months, that kind of takes care of itself. So-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, I rescind my piece. Thank you, ma'am.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger? Are you all right with going back to the original
wording?

LYNN GUISSINGER: Yep.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Tisdale, are you OK with going back to the original wording?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, ma'am. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, we're still going discussion on this. So we're going in reverse order. I
would be next. I have nothing to say. Director Whitmore.
DIRECTOR Whitmore: I have nothing to add. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Nothing from me.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Tisdale? Any comments?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, ma'am-- merely to reiterate it is simply the authority
of the General Manager that we are looking at in six months to see if we're satisfied with that and
not any specific changes. Thank you very much, ma'am.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome, sir. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Nothing from me.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: The language said these changes-KATE WILLIAMS: Dr. Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --the authority.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, we know that. He was just expressing this discussion on it, I believe,
not changing the language. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: With this back and forth, could I have the motion restated again, please?
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: The Board would review these changes and this authorization after six
months-- at the end of six months.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am.
KEN MIHALIK: Can you read the whole thing, the whole recommended action?

KATE WILLIAMS: I can do that. It is recommended that the Board of Directors adopt the
attached revised code of conduct and authorize the General Manager slash CEO to revise the
code of conduct in the future. The Board of Directors will review these changes and this
authorization at the end of six months. Anybody have comments? OK, we are going to go down
the line. Director Menten, you have the floor.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, so-- thank you. So with us reviewing it, then it would take a whole
separate resolution with notice to change what we have granted. So it's not really a sunset is what
I see here.
KATE WILLIAMS: I believe that's correct.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Correct.
KATE WILLIAMS: I would believe that is correct.
JUDY LUBOW: All right. Since we're in the question stage, I'll end-- it was a Board of
Directors-- the wording was Board of Directors, not just executive committee, correct?
KATE WILLIAMS: That is correct.
JUDY LUBOW: All right. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Lubow.
NATALIE MENTEN: That's my only question.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: You know-KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, I personally think six months is too long. But I think it's a restriction, so
I'm in favor of it. I might vote against the whole thing, however. Letting you all know.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm OK with that. Thank you, Ma'am. Director Lewis?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No discussion.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger? Discussion? Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No. No discussion. Can you hear me?

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Folska. Yes, I know. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Hi. Thank you, Madam Chair. The only thing I have to remark about is
I'm unwilling to cede the Board elected authority to anyone other than the elected people who are
asked to design our policy and our code of conduct. So there are no circumstances when I would
give that power away or the authority. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Cook, discussion?
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I would have preferred Chair Rivera-Malpiede's
more definitive wording, but to allow things to move forward an understanding that will
explicitly come back to us for review, I'm going to support this. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No comment.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. So the recommended action really has two parts-one of the things I complained about the other motion. So we're adopting some changes. There's
been some recommended amendments to that.
And we're authorizing the General Manager to revise the code of conduct in the future. But it's
going to come back to us six months after any such revision. And I don't know to do what.
And again, I guess I have to agree with Director Folska. This is a policy decision. And unless we
put in some really limited situations in which the General Manager can revise the code of
conduct, whether it's a state or national emergency, whether the changes have to be ratified by
the Board within 14 days, something like that, I can't support this way unless we have some
really significant restrictions and limitations such as those. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, director Buzek. For the record, I am inclined to agree with your
statement completely. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No comments.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, so we have now had discussion on the amendment. We are voting on
the amendment to the statement of the recommended action. I'm going to go through.
I guess I'll go from the front to the back this time and ask for your vote only on the amendment.
We are not voting on the recommended action. We're voting on the amendment to the
recommended action
Everybody is OK? We're going to go. Director Broom.

BOB BROOM: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska.
DIRECTOR FOLSKA: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: With a great hope that this thing gets tabled at the end of our night, no.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Yes.

KATE WILLIAMS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Williams. No.
I count 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 yeses and 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 no's. So I can name the no's for the record- would be Buzek, Lewis, Catlin, Menten, Williams, Mihalik, Folska, and Rivera-Malpiede. This
amendment does not pass.
VINCE BUZEK: Madam Chair, Buzek.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, sir.
VINCE BUZEK: I'd like to make a proposed amendment.
KATE WILLIAMS: Have at it, young man.
VINCE BUZEK: I'd like to amend the recommended action to read that it is recommended that
the Board of Directors adopt the attached revised code of conduct as amended and authorize the
General Manager CEO to revise the code of conduct in the future but only in the event of a
declared state or national emergency and such revision by the General Manager CEO to be
ratified by the Board of Directors within 14 days.
PEGGY CATLIN: I second.
KATE WILLIAMS: Wow, hopefully you can-PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
KATE WILLIAMS: --say that again. Who seconded?
VINCE BUZEK: I can't.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Rivera-Malpiede.
JUDY LUBOW: Catlin seconded. No, Catlin seconded.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm taking Rivera-Malpiede. OK. Now we are going to have a discussion on
this amendment which I'm not going to read again. But if you have problems, Director Buzek
can read it again.

And I'm going to go in reverse order this time. So that would be Chair Rivera-Malpiede, can I
have your vote?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh no. Discussion, discussion-- we're not voting. We're just discussing.
Sorry. Do you have discussion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair, thank you. I think that the amendment that was
just proposed is pretty succinct and clear. I like that it has jurisdiction with the Board making the
final decision. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Whitmore, you would be next.
TROY WHITMORE: No comment.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Walker, do you have comments?
JEFF WALKER: No. No, not really, no. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Tisdale, discussion?
DOUG TISDALE: I am fine with the amendment as proposed. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: No discussion.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: So with this new amendment and how that would relate then to the
PowerPoint which refers to free speech zones, limiting free speech, which is not in this
document, how do those two interact?
MIKE MEADER: Madam Chair, this is Mike Meader, if I could.
KATE WILLIAMS: Please, sir.
MIKE MEADER: Director Menten, I think one of the things when we're looking at the
PowerPoint here, it was referencing some changes we wanted to make to Union Station. Really,
the language in here as it's stated is to identify areas designated for free speech activities.
The intent was to really define what areas are public spaces and what areas are not public spaces.
And because the transit facilities are designated as non-public forums then that free speech
would not necessarily be something that would be permitted in those particular areas for the
reasons we talked about before-- making sure nothing's interfering with the ability to provide the

operational needs for transit. So it wasn't in there specifically for that but more to define what is
considered a public forum and what is considered a non-public forum in the DUS space.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, so I'm having a problem with-- you and I had talked before this
meeting, and somebody-- it sounded like a prosecutor, perhaps, out of Denver. I'm not sure if I
got that right in our conversation-- has created this definition of what is a non-public forum. And
what I know is my understanding is this is public ground. And I don't know anywhere where this
non-public forum and public forum has come up.
So I am still not clear about whether the-- if we were to add this in where under a state of
emergency-- I'm not even sure. And where did that non-public forum definition come from?
Because it is taxpayer land.
MIKE MEADER: Right, and again, I'll let our acting general counsel, Jennifer Ross-Amato,
answer that specifically. But the idea here is not to designate areas in a public space that you can
exercise your right to free speech. It's to define what's public and what is considered non-public
space. So I just want to clarify that, and I'll let general counsel answer that other part of that
question.
JENNIFER ROSS-AMATO: This is Jennifer Ross-Amato, acting general counsel. So the US
Supreme Court has outlined three different types of public forums-- a traditional public forum, a
designated public forum, and then I think it's a non-forum. And in order to open up a transit
facility, you'd have to specifically designate it as a public forum. A public forum is defined by
the Supreme Court as a traditional public forum that has its principal purpose in the free
exchange of ideas.
And so the bus concourse, its principal purpose is not the free exchange of ideas. And so it would
not be considered a public forum. A designated public forum under the Supreme Court is public
property opened up for use by the public as a place for expressive activity.
And RTD has not opened up its bus concourses as a place of expressive activity because that
would impede the ability to provide transit service and the free flow of pedestrians and riders
onto board transit service. And there's no discussion about a public forum in the code of conduct.
The code of conduct is not intended to regulate or manage RTD's property. That's managed
through its use of facility's policy.
MIKE MEADER: So this is Mike Meader. One thing I would add to hopefully answer your
question, Director Menten, is again, the intention was to kind of clarify those areas that would be
considered for transit-specific purposes and show where RTD has the authority to regulate those
behaviors, some of those behaviors of which are defined in the code of conduct.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, and this goes beyond the bus concourse. I think I've heard
words of mention of the platforms as Director Cook mentioned. There's the platform at Old
Town Arvada, where there's expression of-- you know, it's weird that we're getting into all these
details, but there is expression of thought.

I mean, that's why hundreds of thousands of dollars, maybe millions, went into art projects. So
my concern I'm still not clear about is with allowing-- I'm going to side with Director Folska,
that giving away the authority in itself is a concern. I appreciate Director Buzek's narrowing it
very much. So I'll leave my comments there and figure out whether I vote yes on this one, again,
ultimately hoping that this thing gets tabled for some more serious discussion, as constitutional
rights are quite valuable. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, director Menten. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: No comment. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Lewis, do you have discussion?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I echo Director Menten and Director Folska, and I do appreciate your
amendment, Director Buzek. Nothing further.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No further comment. Thank. You
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Folska?
DIRECTOR FOLSKA: No comment. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook, do you have comment or discussion?
DIRECTOR COOKER: Just basically, it addresses one big piece but leaves the other part open
or unaddressed in terms of the broader applicability or inability to review that over time. So no
other comment in that, ma'am.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Direc-- Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No comment, Madam Chair. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No further comment. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No comment.
KATE WILLIAMS: I have no comment myself. OK, now we are going to vote on the
amendment that was-JUDY LUBOW: Please read it.

KATE WILLIAMS: --Buzek, was-- read it again?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Buzek will read it. He is the mover and Rivera-Malpiede is the
second. Director Buzek, would you read us your amendment please?
VINCE BUZEK: Who asked me to do that?
JUDY LUBOW: Judy Lubow. I'm proud of it.
VINCE BUZEK: I'll remember that, Judy. It is recommended that the Board of Directors adopt
the attached revised code of conduct and authorize the General Manager slash CEO to revise the
code of conduct in the future but only in the event of a declared state or national emergency. Any
such revisions made by the General Manager must be ratified by the Board within 14 days,
period.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Thank you, sir. OK, ladies and gentlemen.
We are now going to vote on that amendment. All we're voting on right now is the amendment.
Director Broom.
BOB BROOME: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: The mover. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes. Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Catlin, Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: This is not a substitute motion. This is actually an amendment that main
motion. Correct?
KATE WILLIAMS: That is correct.
SHELLEY COOK: It sounded more like a complete motion. Yes. I'll vote yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]. Of course, yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: I will vote yes myself, and that makes this amendment unanimous.
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
JUDY LUBOW: So we will-- I called you. You said yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: I know, but I have I have an amendment.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, you have an amendment. OK. Thank you, Madam. You may state your
amendment.
NATALIE MENTEN: Strike section 35, which states--

KATE WILLIAMS: Men-NATALIE MENTEN: So that everybody can keep in line with what this is, and I hope I'm
quoting it all appropriately, 35 was a whole new paragraph which states remaining at a facility
after being asked to leave, comma, onto my Word Doc here, for violation of this code or rule-KATE WILLIAMS: Applicable.
NATALIE MENTEN: Period-- applicable, OK. And then so-- and then says RTD may in its sole
discretion regulate the movement of individuals to enable the provision of transit services.
Facilities are to be used only for travel-related purposes except when a permit is otherwise
granted so that passengers can utilize a transit system in a safe and efficient manner without
inconvenience or delay.
And the motion is to strike this vague paragraph as Miss Ross-Amato-- go ahead.
KEN MIHALIK: I was just going to second that. This is Mihalik.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. The motion to strike the entire paragraph on number 35. And the
amendment put forth by Director Melton and seconded by Director Mihalik.
OK, we will now have-- this is you guys. This is like the test. I'm going to get brownie points at
the end of this meeting. We will now have discussion on this amendment. And I will go in
reverse order this time. Chair Rivera-Malpiede, do you have a discussion on this amendment?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair, I'd like to reserve after everybody talks. Like, this
a lot of information here I need to really kind of looked at. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: If you'll remind me, after I call on Director Broom, I will come back to you.
Director Whitmore, do you have discussion on the amendment to strike number 35 in its
entirety?
BOB BROOM: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. I reluctantly oppose the amendment.
I think the amendment would take apart the chief component that I'm looking for in helping
constituents that call in that have to dodge sleeping inhabitants as they find their way to their
next bus or their next train and a lot of nuisance factors that I find are inappropriate and are
happening on a regular basis. So I understand where the mover is coming from, but I think 35 is
necessary to move this to a higher level of effectiveness. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Dr. Walker, discussion on the amendment.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, I was looking to see if there, excuse me. I was going through it quickly
to see if there was any other recourse that an RTD employee or security officer could use to
move somebody along if they are creating an unsafe situation. So I guess I'll be opposing that
because I think that it gives whoever is asking someone to move along because they're creating

an unsafe situation, impeding the flow of traffic to and from our transit system. So I'll be
opposing. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I am opposed to the amendment because I believe
it is important that we have a clear articulation of the opportunity to control the nature and
quality of our transit facilities. So I stand opposed. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Ladies and gentlemen, we are not voting. This is discussion. I'm happy to
know how you feel, but we are not voting now. We are discussing the amendment to strike
paragraph 35. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: No additional discussion.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, Miss Ross-Amato, you had mentioned that the ability-- please let me
know if I have this right. The ability to remove somebody is more, as an example, carrying a
switchblade or carrying flammable liquid or threats-- those protections are in this document
already, and 35 was meant to clarify. Could you speak to a statement-- that statement you had
made earlier?
JENNIFER ROSS-AMATO: So if there is an enforcement section already in the code of conduct
that talks about how the code will be enforced-- and basically, it is not a criminal remedy. It's a
civil one, and the remedy is asking a person to leave the property. And I believe Chief Grado or
Mr. Meader talked earlier about the way that's handled is that they would call police to ask
somebody to leave for trespass.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, so that's in there currently.
JENNIFER ROSS-AMATO: Correct.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, so the way I'm looking at it is 35 is not needed with this gray area
that we've now said unless you've got a ticket-- and at this point in time, you don't even need a
ticket-- that 35 is not needed. And the way I'm viewing also part of this is simply in the way
where we're shifting a population to 200 feet away. These things don't go away when you're
walking to Denver Union Station. It's simply, if you have somebody who's disruptive, you
simply moved him from one place to the other end, whether it's 16th Street Mall.
So those are my comments. It seems to me that we already have these protections in here. And
with the fact that 35 right now-- perhaps I should have made the motion to just simply strike that
facilities are to be used only for travel-related purposes.
But as it stands right now, I've made the motion for all of 35 to be struck. I don't see that what it's
solving that's not already in the code of conduct. Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I do have a comment. When Director Menten first made the
motion, I thought, oh God, you know? Too much.
But the longer I'm thinking about it, the more I'm realizing that it's raising for me this concern
that I do have about this whole document-- not that it's not necessary. It's really necessary to deal
with this problem. But it has a tendency to overreach.
Facilities are to be used only for travel-related purposes. Well, you know, I mean, that's, to me, a
pretty extreme thing to say. Basically, what we want is to protect our property, our travelers, et
cetera, but not, in my opinion, by necessarily saying you can only do this.
That is an overreach, in my opinion. Anyway, so I just find this an interesting idea. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No comment.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I share some of the concerns about that last sentence-- facilities are to be
used only for travel-related purposes. I'm still thinking about this one. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. It is a concerning thing. We already do have it.
We went through the conversation with Mr. Meader this evening about what happens.
I've seen it. Many other board members have testified that they have seen how it works down
there. And you know, to me it's redundant, and it strikes me as overreach and over-restrictive.
And if it was another group of people trying to execute it, we don't down the line in the future.
So it is concerning to me. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Folska. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, thank you. Director Menten, would you be willing to modify your
amendment to include that first sentence as it was amended by Director Guissinger? I'm
suggesting the same way that Director Tisdale earlier suggested the addition of the word
applicable since, as you noted, it's been modified so that it clarifies and allows them to create the
fare paid zone. That gives them a bit more ability to manage the area. But it takes out that very
broad-- that overly broad sentence that several of us have expressed concern about. Would you
entertain that as you thought?
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten?

NATALIE MENTEN: Madam Chair, I would be open to that with leaving the first sentence that
we had cleared up before to amend it to strike from RTD may all the way through the rest of 35.
DIRECTOR: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Statement would now read remaining at a facility after being to leave,
comma, for violation of this code or other applicable rules period. Is that correct?
NATALIE MENTEN: Correct. And I would need Director Mihalik to back me up on that.
KEN MIHALIK: Yep, I'm fine with that.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, so we are now getting rid of RTD may at its sole discretion regulate the
movement of individuals to enable the provision of transit services. Facilities are to be used only
for travel related purposes except when a permit is otherwise granted so that passengers can
utilize the transit system in a safe and efficient manner without inconvenience or delay. All of
that would go away.
NATALIE MENTEN: Correct. Menten-- correct.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, so now we have an amended amendment. Hoo!
BOB BROOM: Point of order?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes. Point of order , yes?
BOB BROOM: Is this a substitute motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: No, it's an amended amendment. Yeah. Well said, Director Broom.
OK, so we have an amended amendment. We are still allowing discussion on this. And Director
Catlin, you are up.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair, and I'm actually not speaking to the amended
amendment. I'm speaking-- or actually asking a question. We have certain restrictions and
provisions in our FTA funding for certain facilities. And I think it-- I mean, CFO McKillop could
probably answer this, but I think we are restricted to transit-related purposes.
And so I'm just asking for some clarification on what some of our federal funding restrictions
would allow. So I am still kind of undecided on the amendment and not really sure about the
amendment to the amendment. But I think that we do have some inherent restrictions as to the
use of our facilities based on the funding that we receive. That's all.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Catlin-- Director Catlin, this is Director Williams. I think that we
have an existing code of conduct right now and these are additions. So my assumption would be

that the existing code of conduct has been approved in some form or is within the criteria of the
FTA. And-PEGGY CATLIN: Director Williams, thank you. Yes, thank you, and that was my point about
an hour ago-- that we are only talking about the amendment. So I just wanted to make that
statement. But you're right, in my opinion. OK, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Appreciate it. OK, Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think we need all of 35 not just bits and pieces.
And I understand some of it may be a bit cumbersome. But you know, our transit police officers
exercise discretion every single day.
Mike Meader and Chief Grado are consummate professionals here and monitor and take care of
the security personnel. I have no idea-- I have no concern that if you're in the Union Station plaza
there and you've got a kid playing in the fountain that a security guy is going to come by and
lock you up because it's not travel related. So I think if you want to put every possible exception
in there, you're going to have a 10,000 page document that still won't do the job.
So I think we need all 35. I think it makes sense, and I think it's very well workable. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Broom? Comment or-BOB BROOM: No comment.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, so-- well, I'll have this down by the end, won't I? And now we are
going to vote on an amendment that was made and amended by director Menten and seconded by
Director Mihalik. And Director Menten, would you read what it is that you are amending in this
document to us please?
NATALIE MENTEN: I would be happy to do that. In section 35, it would now read remaining at
a facility after being asked to leave, comma, for violation of this code or rules-- I think it says as
applicable. Applicable before the word.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, before rules.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, and then it is striking RTD may in its sole discretion regulate the
movement of individuals to enable the provision of transit services. Facilities are to be used only
for travel related purposes except when a permit is otherwise granted so the passengers can
utilize the transit service in a safe and efficient manner without inconvenience or delay.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. OK, chair's privilege for a moment-- I'd like to remind
us all that we do have a code of conduct now, that we also have what Jennifer Ross-Amato
notified us is a use of facilities documents, and that most of those things have been effective. We
are working on modifications, and so now we are going to vote on the amendment to restate

number 35 as Director Menten read and Director Mihalik seconded. I'm going to ask you to vote
now. Oh, Chair Rivera-Malpiede did you want to participate in the discussion at this point?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I just want to say one thing, and that is out of direct experience,
being in the bus barn on a Sunday afternoon with my year old granddaughter and having
someone acting out to the point where I had to shield Savannah because I was afraid she was
going to get hit by this person, I understand the need for paragraph number 35 in terms of
wanting to get on our services without fear of something that could happen to you or someone
that you love. So I will be voting no on this amendment. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. OK. Director Broom, I'm going to ask you to
vote on the amended amendment.
BOB BROOM: I vote no.
KATE WILLIAMS: And then we'll go down the line.
BOB BROOM: I vote no.
KATE WILLIAMS: --no. Thank you, sir. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska.
DIRECTOR FOLSKA: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: No.

KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Whitmore. Got to find the mute button.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: I'm sorry. I'm sorry, no.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Director Williams is voting yes. So I count 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 yeses and
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 no's. For the record, the nos are Director Broom, Director Buzek, Director
Catlin, Director Lubow, Director Tisdale, Director Walker, Director Whitmore, and Chair
Rivera-Malpiede. So the amendment-DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, I call the question. Madam Chair, I call the question.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm down.
VINCE BUZEK: Second by Buzek.
KATE WILLIAMS: And now. OK. I have a point of order to ask.
We have had all these amendments and we've had a discussion on all the amendments. I want to
make sure that everybody has had all the discussion that they want to have on the actual
recommended action. So I'm not accepting any more amendments, but I'm going to go around
one more time and ask if there is any discussion.

And then we will vote. Everybody still on board with that? OK, we'll go reverse order this time.
This is not a vote. This is that if you want to speak. Speak now or forever hold your peace. Chair
Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No discussion.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: No further input.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: No discussion.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Nothing further, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Nothing for me.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I will look forward to being the plaintiff to sue RTD for First Amendment
violation. And I do not joke. So onto this-KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: We are completely ignoring the First Amendment of the US Constitution.
I am a no.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. We are not voting. We're discussing I'm going to come back to
you in just a minute hopefully. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: I have a question. So what we're voting on is the code of conduct and the
recommended action related to it, and it does not relate to the DUS security model protocol. Is
that accurate?
KATE WILLIAMS: That is not an item that we are voting on. That is correct. We are voting on
the recommended action-JUDY LUBOW: OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: --which states that we adopt the revised code of conduct.

JUDY LUBOW: OK. Yes, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No comment.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No comment.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska.
DIRECTOR FOLSKA: No comment.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: No comment. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. To be clear, we are voting on the revisions to the existing
code of conduct. And so if this goes down, the existing code of conduct still stands. Is that
correct?
KATE WILLIAMS: That's absolutely correct, Madam Vice Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, I just wanted to be clear because we're just voting on the revision. Thank
you.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's correct. Thank you, ma'am. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No comment. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No comment.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for that. We are now going to vote on
the recommended action with amendments as made to modify the attached revised code of
conduct. I'm going to now go back the other way. Director Broom, may I have your vote, sir?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.

KATE WILLIAMS: Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: N-O.
KATE WILLIAMS: I promised I'd come back to you. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Williams votes yes. I have 11 yeses-- 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10.
Let me do that again-- 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 10, 11 yeses and four no's.
For the record, the no's are Folska, Lewis, Menten, and Mihalik. This recommended action
passes. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
OK, I think that we're going to take just a five-minute nature break here for the Chair, in
particular, and we will be back-- it is 8:21. We're going to resume in exactly five minutes, at
8:26. And we will continue the rest of this committee meeting.
Reconvening the Operations and Customer Service Committee meeting today. Thank you for
that break for everybody. That was our only recommended action for the night.
We do have a number of updates. I would like to ask Mr. Meader if he wants me to add the
Denver Union Station presentation to the updates. And if so, I'll add it to the end of the other five
updates that we have. Mr. Meader, are you here?
MIKE MEADER: Yes, I am, and that's fine.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, we'll do it at the end of these other updates.
MIKE MEADER: OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Our first update is a pandemic service change question and
answer session, which is verbal. So I'm going to ask the staff to give us their presentation on that
now. And I will call on the directors to talk about it.
MICHAEL FORD: Madam Chair, this is Michael Ford, COO, and I just want to give a brief
update on the pandemic service change that's due to start April 19, this coming Sunday. This
pandemic equates to about a 40% reduction in our services. So that's the current levels of service,
or more aligned the current levels of service that we've been experiencing. So I just wanted to
bring that up and answer any questions.
So leading up to this, we've taken the following actions-- suspended the fare on our service. Rear
door boardings have been implemented. We've created a social distancing barrier on our
vehicles. We are limiting 15 passengers on our 40 foot coaches, 20 on our larger coaches such as
our X and our regional services when practicable.
30 passengers per rail car is our go and target on that as well. Security is stepping up their
visibility on known routes that have been problematic such as the route 15, 16, the 0, and the 48.
And we're utilizing data from operations supervisors, operators, police reports, and overall
observations to utilize our resources more effectively.

We are also using extra service to back up some of the heavily traveled routes so we can help
with the social distancing on those issues. We've also been working with our contractors to
ensure continuity of service for our contracted services as well as our para transit services. We've
continued to pass out masks to help with the continued protection of our operators in conjunction
with the wipes, the disinfectant Lysol sprays, and continuing to wash our hands for the 20
seconds or beyond.
We're also involved in a high level of cleaning, continuing that on our vehicles and our facilities
to ensure added protection as well. So I just wanted to kind of recap some of the highlights.
You'll probably heard this in some of the other communications that have out lately, but I just
want to emphasize that. And if there are any other questions regarding the pandemic service
change that will start this coming Sunday, I'm happy to take questions at this time.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Ford. I'm going to call on the directors one and the time. I
think it's time to go in reverse order here. So we're-FRED WORTHEN: Director Williams-KATE WILLIAMS: --ask Chair Rivera-Malpiede. Yeah.
FRED WORTHEN: Director Williams, this is AGM Fred Worthen. If I may, is it OK if I get an
update on what we're doing with our contracted services contract as part of this before we go to
questions?
KATE WILLIAMS: I think that would be fine.
FRED WORTHEN: OK. So-KATE WILLIAMS: Go ahead.
FRED WORTHEN: So during the past few weeks since we have adopted the COVID plan for
service reductions, we've been working with our contractors to try to come together to support
our frontline workers but also remain fluid in our ability to respond to the changing
circumstances and also to be able to ramp up services whenever it is time to return to full service
operations. As an order of magnitude, our contractors typically staff based upon scheduled
revenue hours. The COVID reduction plan will result in about a 50% reduction in our service
hours for our contractors.
This equates to about 194 contracted plus operators. So we've been working with them not only
to preserve our ability to support the service needs but again to be fluid in supporting things like
supporting social distancing on our buses, to have greater responsibility in responding to service
restoration needs when they arise. So we have actually been working with our contractors to
negotiate a reduced rates to help them.
The reduced rate will include only operator wages and benefits. There are no overhead costs or
profit margins in this wage. And we are also working to develop basically ways to control and

monitor the operations on a daily and weekly basis to ensure our contractual requirements are
carried out and the extra work force is fully incorporated into our procedures and eventual
service restorations.
This will also result in a reduced operating costs. Dependent upon how long the COVID-19
service reductions are in place and how we manage this contract, we could have a savings in
upwards of close to $2.7 million. So this will be will require some and some of our existing
contracts to address some of the changes that are occurring. But it will again give us greater
flexibility in responding to a rapidly evolving situation and also save us some money over our
current contract requirements.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Worthen. That's good information to have. OK, now we're
going to allow the directors to question and comment. And like I said, I'm going to go
backwards. So Chair Rivera-Malpiede, do you have any comments or any questions at this time?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. First, I would like to take this
opportunity to thank our staff for just doing an amazing job of really working really around the
clock to get the pandemic plan moving forward. And I would also like to thank the ATU1001 for
their willingness to be flexible and to work with us.
I do have a question, and it's probably for Mr. Ballard. And it is a couple of things. The first one
is the route 48.
As we know, the route 48 is in my district by the National Western Stock Show, which actually
has been deemed as the facility to house our houseless community members, our most vulnerable
community members. I note that last night, they had about over 700 residents, guests that
stopped in in the middle of the Globeville Swansea Elyria community, which has been deemed
has one of the highest presumptive and positive COVID populations. And so this is my first
question. What extra precautions are you taking in terms of our bus drivers and our patrons who
will be utilizing those buses to get back and forth?
PAUL BALLARD: Yes, this is Paul Ballard, General Manager CEO.
KATE WILLIAMS: Go ahead, Mr. Ballard. Go ahead.
PAUL BALLARD: Yes, Madam Chair. We're taking several provisions. Number one, that route
will be monitored very closely for any crowding issues. And that will be a-- where we have the
buses that we can plug in as necessary.
Number two, our cleaning crews have been advised that they will need to give extra attention to
the buses used on that particular route. And they are doing so. and thirdly, to try to work with the
community surrounding the facility, we're looking at the signage and the wayfinding because a
number of the people who will be served by that facility may not know the area and may not
know how to get to the bus stop, may not know how to get to downtown. So we're working with
city and the county of Denver and the center to identify wayfinding and signage to help those

people who'll be staying there to find those locations. So those are the three things that we're
looking at a right now and that we are implementing.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Madam Chair, may I ask one more question?
KATE WILLIAMS: Certainly. Go ahead.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: My second one is I know that you know that Homeland Security
has now deemed transit as being essential workers, both rail operators and bus drivers. I'm
wondering what other mechanisms you are using to go out and secure additional PPEs for our
frontline workers.
MICHAEL FORD: This is Michael Ford, COO. We've been working-- our procurement folks
have been working very hard to secure more equipment and I have to give a shout out to ATU.
They're also coping with securing masks as well. They've been able to help that last week. And
actually, they have some additional masks that we're going to be securing tomorrow and maybe
some the following days as well.
So on that front, I know that we've got plenty of gloves right now. I still think we're maybe short
a little bit on some Lysol, but I think that's coming. But we've been continuing to make sure we
have adequate supplies of wipes and other disinfectants. The cleaning crew has been doing a
yeoman's job, and we've been able to repurpose some of our resources that help with extra
cleaning on the rail side and on the bus side as well. So we're continuing to work through that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. And Madam Chair, if I could just end with-- I would
like to request that perhaps we put something together to ask the governor to help us secure an
additional 10,000 masks for our front folks who are on the street. So thank you so very much.
That's all.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Director Whitmore, questions, comments?
DIRECTOR Whitmore: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. And I apologize in advance that this is
something that's been shared with us, but I just don't recall.
What type of a timeline do we have on restoration of more robust service once some of the
restrictions are lifted?
And I know that's not deemed to happen quickly. But I've had a couple of questions about, hey, if
I need to get back to work in Denver, how long is it going to be before I have a bit more robust
service even if it's not up to the May service standards? Do we have any idea how quickly we
can move on some type of a hybrid restoration? Thank you.
FRED WORTHEN: Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Fred Worthen, AGM of bus operations.
KATE WILLIAMS: Certainly, Mr. Worthen.

FRED WORTHEN: Director Whitmore, we have set up actually some tracking mechanisms to
be able to help us with directing our service needs. Right now, our operators are reporting
whenever they're hitting social justice system protocols, and we're tracking that actively so we
know exactly where our demands are so that we can respond as quickly as possible. We have the
ability to also incrementally restore service.
So as demand rises, you will have a larger than normal extra boards. We can create what's called
a special services order where it can be loaded into our system by our special services staff. And
then those trips would be filled through the extra board.
So we had the ability to basically increase service incrementally based upon demand. And then
when we get to a point of where we actually will want to go to full May run board, we will have
conducted our May run board at the end of this month. We will have drivers we will have loaded.
So all we'll have to do is load it into the system and then have adequate time for the IT systems
that support us to load the data downstream. So hopefully, that answers your questions.
TROY WHITMORE: Very good, Fred. Thank you very much, and that's all I have.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Worthen and Mr. Whitmore. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: No questions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I simply want to join in the comments
of the Chair relative to our congratulations and thanks to everyone on the front line. And we truly
appreciate all your hard work. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: I spoke with Mr. Iacono this morning, And I know that he has probably been to
every website and called every number that you could think of where this applies.
So I know they're all working really hard, and they're just-- my thanks to the people that are
doing that. That's it. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: No comment.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I have two comments, actually. One is a question.
When Fred Worthen was talking about contractors and wages, I couldn't hear him. And it
sounded like to me, he was talking about lower wages.

And I thought, I don't think so. So could I ask Fred if he could kind of repeat or summarize what
he was talking about with contract workers? Contractors?
FRED WORTHEN: So no. Yes, ma'am-- Fred Worthen, AGM of bus operations. Hopefully, you
can hear me OK. And if you can't, please stop me.
We are actually negotiating a lower hourly wage for our contractors. And I'm not talking about
salaries. What I'm talking about is the wage that we pay our contractors for operating service.
So typically, our contractors are only paid for revenue operations, and they have a contract rate.
What we are doing is paying a wage for them that is an hourly wage that helps them support their
work but is at a lower wage. So basically, what we're doing is paying for the extra board just the
salary and wages so that they may maintain full staffing with the coach operator ranks. It has
nothing to do with the hourly wage the employees are paid, just how they pay our contractors.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much. That makes them a lot more sense. I couldn't understand
it.
Thank you. And one question that I do have is about when we go to the pandemic schedule, the
routes that are very crowded or have been very crowded-- what do we envision will be
happening then? Will we be able to handle that in terms of keeping the social distancing
appropriate?
FRED WORTHEN: Fred Worthen, AGM, bus operations. With the reduction in the pandemic
plan, we will have a lot more flexibility than we have right now in managing our services. Our
services are put together very much like a jigsaw right. Now
We have some pieces of the service that are operated by contractors, some that are operated by
us. We have a lot of inner lining and through lining where an operator may actually start on one
route, complete a trip, then move to another route. By going to the pandemic schedule, we'll have
services that are more simple, and we'll have much larger extra board.
So we'll have a lot more flexibility. In fact, the extra board will be, in most cases at most of our
bases, more than double the size that we have right now. So it will allow us to really manage our
services at a much greater level than we have now with more resources.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you. That's it for me.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lubow. Thank you, Ma'am. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Hi. I just have a few questions. Thank you, Madam Chair.
With the-- you work with the contractors. Would the contractors do-- are we also making sure
that our contractors have access to PPE?

FRED WORTHEN: Ma'am, Fred Worthen, AGM of bus operations. So we have been sharing
information with contractors, but we have to remember that our contractors are an independent
company. We don't buy their product.
We don't buy their stock. We don't manage their resources. They have a contract to actually
operate services. We have been sharing information with regard to how we're operating our
services to try and ensure consistency. But we don't purchase products for our contractors and
anything. They purchase their own supplies for everything. So it's part of the contract operation.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So we-- so when you send out a message to us all saying that we have 1,095
masks, those are only delivered to direct hires for RTD? Is that correct?
FRED WORTHEN: That is correct, ma'am.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, that's very disappointing, and I understand that they're our
contractors. But I mean, they're our people. They move people. And-- yeah, I'm just really
surprised by that.
MICHAEL FORD: This is Michael Ford, COO. I know that that's been an issue, but ATU has
also been able to help equip the contractors with additional masks. We have a resource or have
had a resource, and they've been able to deliver mass to the contract service group.
So they've been helping out, and they've continued to do that. So I know that they're getting
some support there. And obviously, through their own mechanisms, they're looking at the same
purchasing opportunities that we're looking at as well.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, it just seems like a great opportunity to be more collective than
individualistic. And they-- I don't think people, our riders, know, right, that some routes are
contractors and some routers are RTD direct hires. And I'd really like to see all of them taken
care of. And I wonder if we might explore through the CARES Act how-- because they wouldn't
have access to that funding. If we could figure out how to make sure they're taking care of
because we are going to be-- RTD as an entity is going to be receiving funding.
PAUL BALLARD: Madam Chair, this is Paul Ballard, General Manager and CEO.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Mr. Ballard.
PAUL BALLARD: Yes, ma'am. I'd like to point out that the companies we're talking about are
worldwide private companies that have purchasing abilities far beyond the RTD. They're buying
for multiple, 100 plus bus companies. And they probably get in line ahead of us just because of
their purchasing power. So they're able to purchase all of their supplies.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Ballard. I'd also like to point out that if we are helping to
supply product to other companies, we could give to all of the companies that do para transit for
us like Seniors Resource Center and VIA Mobility and, you know, who are smaller companies

than probably TransDev our contractors. So yeah, anyhow, I'm sorry. Director Lewis, you have
the floor. I apologize.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's all good. I won't respond to Mr. Ballard's comment because I have a
hard time with it, but I do appreciate you sharing it. I know on a conversation I had with you all
yesterday about the social distancing and the 20% versus the 50%-- and I appreciate the answer
you've provided. But I think for our listeners, because many people have had conversations about
why we would not implement the 20% and instead go with 50%, if you all could just talk about
that and your reasoning behind it.
MIKE MEADER: Sure, this is Mike Meader, chief safety officer. So-KATE WILLIAMS: I'm sorry. Go ahead, Mr. Meader.
MIKE MEADER: OK, thank you. Thank you. Yes, the guidance you're talking about, Director
Lewis, came from the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment.
And I actually had an opportunity to chat with them today, and I'll kind of fill you in on what that
conversation was. But the reasoning behind our decision was based on a number of things. There
was some guidance from the CDPHE.
There's also guidance from a lot of the safety consultant experts out there. And those numbers
vary. 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%. We also looked at what predominant number of agencies around the
country are doing and kind of what their thought process was.
So we looked at all of those things together, and we came up with basically numbers that are
similar to what the majority of the agencies around the country are doing for similar vehicles.
And the reason being is we believe that based upon the habits, behaviors of our riders, there is an
opportunity that they still have to do some social distancing up to some of these numbers-- the 15
on a 40 foot bus, 20 on an articulated bus, and 30 on rail cars. So we've kind of followed the
guidance of what the majority of people were doing, middle of the road kind of guidance, what
we see about from consultants is some of those other people around the country.
I did reach out to the Colorado Department of Health, and the other day we had a conference
call. Couldn't really get an understanding about how they arrived on that number. So I did have a
good, long conversation with them this morning.
And they explained that, first of all, this was guidance. It's not a mandate or an order. They're
trying to come up with some kind of a process or explanation that will explain the important
thing is that we provide social distancing or the opportunity for people to exercise social
distancing. There really wasn't any kind of an explanation or an input from any kind of a
transnational organization.
The number came down from their epidemiology group, and it was a very conservative number,
kind of a guesstimate to say. Jeez, if we took these big buses and we kind of really reduced the
load on the bus, it should give an opportunity to exercise social distancing. And so when I

explained kind of what our logic was to them about how we came up with our decision, they
were actually pretty impressed with that. They said they actually like the idea of coming up with
a number, number one.
They said that it sounds like a lot of thought went into it if most of the transit agencies are kind
of doing the same thing. And they felt that based upon that those explanations, we were probably
providing an opportunity for people should they exercise their own responsibility, which is
exactly what their comment was, to practice social distancing. Furthermore, he said-- he went on.
That guidance was really directed towards transit employees. So what are the things we think
you should do to make sure you're giving the opportunity for your employees to exercise and be
protected in that social distancing space? So that was their main goal in trying to issue some of
that guidance.
But they said there really wasn't any kind of specific information that we gathered from any kind
of a transit agency. It was kind of a, hey, this sounds like this would give the opportunity. But
they felt like the things we were doing, the changes, the numbers along with the changes
authorizing operators to bypass stops, and putting the opportunity for additional resources to pick
up additional people, they thought those were excellent.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Two follow-up question-- can you tell me the person that you
talked to at CDPHE?
MIKE MEADER: He was a-- I'd have to look up the name. He was one of their-- on their board
of policy making. I think he specifically said he was in the-- for nursing homes, child care, some
of those groups. But they all kind of had a conversation together. But I'll look up the name here,
and I can certainly provide that to you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, and then yous said that you all looked at what other transit agencies
were doing as well. Can you tell me the other transit agency that you can compared-MIKE MEADER: Sure.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I think were able to-MIKE MEADER: Yeah, we looked at TriMet, dart, San Antonio, Grand Rapids. I think
WMATA was in there, MARTA. Now they had a slightly different take on it.
MARTA and WMATA said that they would monitor the capacity of buses and basically, when
they felt social distancing couldn't be maintained, that they would bypass stops, similar to what
we said today where we would authorize operators to make the call on making sure social
distancing could probably be maintained. There was another handful. I can look that up for you
too and certainly send you the name of those. But there were about a dozen transit agencies that
specifically called out the numbers.

And those were 15 typically for a standard 40 foot bus. Many of those other agencies don't
operate articulated buses, so they just had a number of 15 on all buses. Some did. SEPTA was
another one, as a matter of fact, that we talked to that's out in Philadelphia or that stated that
number of 20 on a regular bus actually they used and 25 on a larger bus.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Great, thank you so much. If you could get that info-- or not that, but if you
could get that name to me-MIKE MEADER: Sure.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'd really, really appreciate it. And then the final question to Director
Rivera-Malpiede's point-- actually, I have a few more. To Director Rivera-Malpiede's point
about some of the buses may be seeing much higher ridership-- and you mentioned that you were
having buses, that operators were encouraged to call and let you all know that they were not able
to-- sorry, is I'm getting some feedback. So I don't know what's going on with the system.
If operators had too many folks on their bus that they were encouraged to call you all. Is that
what you were saying? I just want to be clear about that.
MIKE MEADER: Right. If the operators were out there and they see that there are gatherings of
people, certainly numbers of people that would basically, you know, put them over a number
they were comfortable from a social distancing standpoint, they would call dispatch and let
dispatch know that where those groups of people were and where there might be the need for
additional resources to ensure us-- give us the best chance to give their social distancing
opportunity to people.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So have you all had any discussion-- so I think Fred mentioned the
contractors and the wages. And I wondered if you all had any conversation about potentially
moving up-- and maybe I'm misinterpreting this. It sounds like that our contractors would need
to be-- would be responsible for reducing their workforce because they wouldn't necessarily have
the work to be able to justify that workforce. And I wonder if there's been any discussion to
move operators into service and planning so we can really make sure that our spaces are actually
being cleaned pretty well. Have you all had any discussions of that degree?
FRED WORTHEN: Fred Worthen, AGM of bus operations. So we aren't talking about reducing
the staffing levels with our contractors. We're actually trying to subsidize their ability, for lack of
a better term, to maintain full staffing levels. So they will have employees that are available to
work as what we call loop extras.
They'll put buses out in the field. They'll be on standby. If they go into revenue service, then we
pay the typical revenue service hours. But if not, we're basically paying for standby services.
This is different than we normally operate with our contractors. We normally only pay for
revenue hour service. So this is something that we're doing especially just for COVID.

With regard to other sections that are directly operated, we already have individuals that are
assisting. So like you are saying, enhanced cleaning-- we have some folks and other decorations
that we have not had work for them. So we transferred them over to service and cleaning.
Before we had those individuals, we only had the ability to do cleanings once a day. Now with
those individuals, we had the ability, when buses come in and between shifts, to actually be able
to clean them and also do a better job beating them before they go into our repair facility. So yes,
we have been discussing how we can use folks that there may be less work for them and keep
everybody productive employed and actually working productively for the agency.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Right. Thank you so much for that clarity.
MICHAEL FORD: This is Michael Ford also, COO. And also on the rail side, we're able to
utilize additional resources from the training that we've been doing. And they're actually doing
additional cleaning on the rail side too. So just want to couple that with what Mr. Worthen said.
So we're utilizing additional resources on the rail side to help with some deep cleaning, more
frequency, as well as repurposing other resources of the Treasury and some other areas to help
with maintaining a higher level of cleaning.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it. I appreciate you saying that. Are we seeing a percentage of operators
out for COVID? Are these just in general since March?
MICHAEL FORD: Mike, do you want to answer that?
MIKE MEADER: I'm sorry. Was your question are we seeing a large number of operators out
for COVID? That was the question?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah or just leave in general. I'm just-- yeah, go ahead.
MIKE MEADER: Yeah, no. I mean, we are seeing-- it hovers around about the 200 mark right
now. Now this is a combination of people who might be out-- for a number of reasons. Might be
out because they have some symptoms or feeling bad.
And so we've asked them to kind of self-quarantine themselves for 14 days. They could be out
because they're caring for someone who is experiencing some symptoms or is sick. So again,
they're out for that.
It could be because they have a child who they have to care for because of the schools being
closed and whatnot. We also have a good large number of people out who are on FMLA or what
they say emergency FMLA. Those are people who feel like they just don't want to be in the mix
of it right now.
They may have some health problems or something like that. They just want to be super cautious
about. So those numbers equal all of those together.

I don't have it broken down exactly what those symptoms are. I could probably get that
information to you. I can tell you that we have had only four people test positive for COVID-19.
The majority of them are-- in fact, three of them are back at work already because it happened
sometime back, and a couple of them weren't even in the workplace at all when that occurred.
So they were either out vacationing, or they were out-- came down with the symptoms. They
stayed out. They tested positive.
So those are the numbers as we have it right now. And of course, we continually have people
returning to work as well after they've basically served their 14-day quarantine.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. So I appreciate you bringing that up because it made me think
about the number of operators that may have been tested. And so I'm curious is do-- I know that
you said you've seen four positive test, but how many operators that maybe had symptoms or not
have-- maybe had symptoms but not been able to access testing?
MIKE MEADER: Right, so that is a big issue. The testing is a big issue. My understanding is so
far, we've actually had 15 negatives and the four positives so that we know of 19 people who
have actually been given the test.
Most of the time, unless there's some kind of a high risk category, the doctors aren't
recommending a test. There's limited tests. And they just have people quarantine and monitor
themselves. So that's kind of what we're seeing still out there.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And do you anticipate that you all will have discussions about having masks
or scarves or bandanas for folks who are utilizing our transit services at this time?
MIKE MEADER: You know, the masks in particular are just such a difficult supply line problem
right now for a number of reasons. You know, we still have 30,000 on order, and they're still
telling us we're going to start to receive some of those next week.
But again, it's the supply lines. I'm turning over about every rock we can find. We have seen
some opportunities with some of our partner agencies where we've been able to actually kind of
swap PPE, get some masks for gloves, also an opportunity to get some additional masks. And so
we're trying to do that.
I'm not sure that we'll ever get to the point where we can provide masks to just the general
public. We're still struggling just to get masks obviously now. As far as some of the other PPE
goes, we may get to that point. We're starting to see, as Michael said earlier, the hand sanitizer
kind of solutions are becoming much more readily available. We're going to start seeing some of
the wipes here coming pretty much available, those kinds of things. And of course, once we see
what those are, we can certainly make decisions about whether or not we're going to try to do
that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. I would like--.

KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis? Director Lewis? We can come-- I'd be happy to come back
to you, but there's a whole bunch of people that are waiting.
And we could come back. I promise you I'll come back. I'd just like-SHONTEL LEWIS: We literally spent three hours talking about amendments, and not one single
person was cut off.
KATE WILLIAMS: I also know that all the rest of these people did not get a chance yesterday
afternoon to ask all these questions. You were in a meeting with these people yesterday
afternoon, and you could have asked. And I appreciate that-SHONTEL LEWIS: I have-KATE WILLIAMS: --you're making sure that our riders and our staff-SHONTEL LEWIS: I have additional questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: --who are listening-SHONTEL LEWIS: I have additional questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: I will come back to you. I will come back to you after the rest of the
directors.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Williams, I just-- I hope this is not a habit of the board to feel that
it it's OK to cut off Director Lewis when she has questions and not to cut off anyone else. I'm
really just advocating for our operators and our riders, and I'm asking questions and asking about
consideration. And I don't think I should be silenced for asking me about those questions or those
considerations.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Director Lewis, I'm going to come back to you. I'm just going to let the
other-- there's 1, 2, 3, 4 5, 6 other Directors. And you're asking great questions.
It's good information. I'm not objecting. I'm just going to let the others have their minute and
then I come back to you. Could you be OK with that?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I told you I wasn't OK with it. Proceed.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Are you back with us?
LYNN GUISSINGER: [AUDIO OUT]

KATE WILLIAMS: There you go.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I'm here. I'm here. I guess I got a couple of questions.
Mike Meader, I keep forgetting to ask you this. In the masks that we want, I know Director
Menten is knocking herself out making masks and doing a great job and there's these KN95s and
the N95s. Are we still directing the N95s and it's the governor and others-- are the governor and
others directing N95s to the health care workers?
MIKE MEADER: They are, yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. So what we're doing is looking for other sorts of masks for our
drivers, right?
MIKE MEADER: Correct.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. And you know, I've shared-- I've been talking with you all week and
shared some of Director Lewis's concerns about the CDPHE. So I'm glad to hear you had that
good conversation today. And I will just say that the thing that gave me the sense of comfort that
what we were doing was the right thing was even though I was concerned about the numbers
initially-- the 15, 20, and all-- the fact that our drivers can skip a stop, put up a sign, and call for
backup if they feel like they're not maintaining or are in danger and not maintaining social
distancing I think is a really important fact, and I appreciate that we have gone to that. Do our
contractors follow those same rules? If we say 15, 20, 30, drivers can-- do our contractors-- do
those apply to them or is it all different?
FRED WORTHEN: You're talking about the IGM bus operation. So yes, they are following the
same protocols as we are.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. So they're getting their own supplies? When we put something in
places like rear boarding, free fares, all of those different things, they'll follow those same rules?
MIKE MEADER: Yes, ma'am. They follow underneath of the work COVID-19 plan. So
anything that we dictate with regard to specific operational components like this, they do fall
underneath of our protocol plans. So they do follow it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I think that's all I have right now. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, directer Guissinger. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have one question for Mr. Ford and Mr.
Meader, and that is I appreciate how you can-- the bus drivers have the authority to not pick
people up so they don't exceed their number and have to back up. How do you manage the folks
on the trains? You know, I mean, how do you enforce that, and how does the driver know when
they've reached that 30 number capacity in each car?

And then who manages and enforces that?
DAVE JENSEN: Dave Jensen, AGM of Rail Operations.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Uh huh.
DAVE JENSEN: So Director Folska, on the trains, that is very difficult for the operators to
know, actually, how many people are on the entire train.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Right.
DAVE JENSEN: We do have field personnel doing counts. That gives us a really good idea of
where the ridership is on the system. And right now, what we're saying is incredibly low
ridership. In fact, I was looking at similar dashboards that Mr. Worthen mentioned on rail, and
the largest load of any train that I saw this last month was in the neighborhood of 40 on a three
car train. So right now-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: For the whole train?
DAVE JENSEN: For the whole train. Generally speaking the loads are even lower than that.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Does that include the A Line?
DAVE JENSEN: The A-- no. No, ma'am. That's light rail loads.
A line loads are heavier. I don't have those numbers in front of me. The commuter rail system,
we're in a much better position to handle that because they've got TSOs on every single train.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Right. So what's the number on those trains? Because those cars have a
larger capacity, don't they?
DAVE JENSEN: They do, and the A line still-- we have not cut down those trains. So they're
still running as two married pairs. And so there is a lot of capacity on those trains. We're not
approaching capacity on any rail line right now.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. That's all I have. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Folska. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Madam Chair-- a couple of things quickly. So the B line and G
line were added later to the pandemic plan. I just want to verify how they'll be handled as we
wind the pandemic plan down. Is it similar-- in other words, if crowding starts to warrant, you
add back in service. But in any case, the pandemic plan ends unless some subsequent action is
taken in September. And I'm just verifying that for those two lines that were added later, Mr.
Jensen.

DAVE JENSEN: So I might have you restate the question. If I understand what you're asking
me, the B line and the G line, they will be reducing service on the 19th, and we will be prepared
to pick service back up when the pandemic is over. We should build that back up to our current
service pretty quickly.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, so just restating that, they are now part of the pandemic plan and are
going to be treated in the same fashion as the other routes and lines and bus routes and so forth.
Correct?
DAVE JENSEN: That's correct.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. And then the second thing is the TSOs that we have aboard
those commuter rail trains and otherwise at all of our facilities-- they are also, I think, a
contractor except for this small force that we have as our own police force. And I don't think
they're represented by the ATU.
So I just wanted to urge to the extent we can influence a contractor and/or urge their provision of
face masks and other PPE because in some ways, they by the nature of their job have to come in
closer contact. And so from what I understand, I don't think they've currently been provided
masks. Can you all try to follow up on that to the extent we can understanding that they're
contractors?
MICHAEL FORD: This is Michael Ford, COO. We can definitely follow up on that. I'll let Mike
speak to that, but we'll definitely follow up.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you very much. That's all I have, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Cook. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair, and I apologize. It's three hours and 45 minutes
into this meeting and we're not even done with the agenda. But nevertheless, I do have a couple
comments.
I did see an article this morning about transit that across the country and what they are doing and
that even MTA has not mandated or reduction in service to the extent that we have. And it really
discussed a lot of transit agencies across the country and what they're doing, and they said that
New Jersey is one of the most restrictive in that they are limiting capacity to 50% to ensure
social distancing. So I would actually like to say that I want to applaud what RTD has done to
institute capacity guidelines and to try and get ahead of this situation because much larger transit
agencies than RTD have not been as aggressive as we have.
So I know that we can do more, and I'm very concerned about our transit agencies. But even
MTA does not even require that their operators wear masks. So I just wanted to make that
comment. And then I do have a comment about the COVID-19 service changes on the 19th and I
can probably take this offline.

But I have up online presentation to the Conifer Chamber tomorrow night, and I wanted to make
sure I had my data correct. So Fred, if you could get back to me on those regional routes that are
being preserved for the COVID-19 plan, I'd sure appreciate it. Thank you.
FRED WORTHEN: Ma'am, Fred Worthen AGM of bus operations. I apologize, but while you
were talking, I heard music. So I didn't hear most of what you were asking for. So you're asking
for what regional routes will continue to operate after the COVID-19 starts?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, I can call you tomorrow. It's not a big deal. Thanks.
FRED WORTHEN: OK, all right. Yes, ma'am.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Worthen. Thank you, Dr. Catlin. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. And Mr. Worthen, I think the point you make about
getting masks for contractors is an important one, and it's not because we're cheap and want to
save money on 1,000 masks. It's that when you blur the line between contractor and employee,
the legal ramifications can be staggering.
So I fully understand why we're our hands are tied, actually, there. So getting them that
information and doing that stuff I think is the best. And as General Manager Ballard said, boy,
those companies, boy, they have buying power beyond anything we've ever seen. So they should
be getting those for their employees.
When it comes to the COVID response, I just want to say thanks to Mr. Ballard and the senior
leadership team because you have really stayed ahead of the curve on all of this. And I think the
numbers really bear it out, fortunately. You are miles ahead of us board members, that's for sure,
because you're taking action based on science, health policy, even though that's changing
constantly, and not just on emotional or anecdotal information. And because you're doing that,
that's really keeping us in a really good position compared to other transit agencies in the
country. So thanks very much for that, and that's all I have.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. While ridership is way off in the system, we still have
an awful lot of people that rely on RTD to get to work. And I'm just curious as somebody could
recap what we've done to notify the riders that are still using RTD that this big change is coming
up on the 19th and so that our phones don't ring off the hook saying, you know, what happened
to our bus or what happened to our whatever.
KATE WILLIAMS: I don't know who want to address that. I can speak to that a little bit,
Director Broom. This is Director Williams.
I know that I have been sharing all the notifications that I have gotten with all of the elected
officials in my part of town. I think Director Lewis has been doing that. I think Director Rivera-

Malpiede is in a group. So I think that it's pretty much going out on a lot of channels. But I don't
know if Pauletta is here or if there's anybody who can speak to-PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: --what we're doing.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes. Madam Chair-KATE WILLIAMS: Pauletta?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Sorry, I was charging-- yes, thank you, Madam Chair. I was charging
my phone, so I had to switch to my earbuds.
So yes, there's a number of things that we have already done and several things we're doing this
week.
Some of those things include sending out emails and rider alerts to the database that we have of
customers who have given us their emails, and it's in the neighborhood of something like 30,000
to 35,000. We also have sent out periodic email updates to our other large stakeholder lists,
which include all elected officials in all the cities, counties, and the TMOs, TMAs, chambers so
we have various lists that include thousands of people, that we've been sending information out
over the last-- well, especially with all the COVID information that's changed. We've been
sending those out.
In addition, we have had a substantial amount of exposure through earned media, through
various media stories over the last month. And that will continue. We've had some media
inquiries this week just checking up on things as we get ready to implement this service change
Sunday, social media.
We also have details out on all the vehicles and at stations. And so we have layered the system
and layered our electronic communications substantially and are doing much of it digitally
because of the compressed time frame where we don't have the ability to do some of the things
that we do during a usual service change. So I hope that answers some of your questions.
I think we have people quite aware that this is happening because we just are not getting
confusion or questions through our call center or through social media about it. And that's an
indicator for us of where information needs will be. So again, we'll continue this week.
BOB BROOM: OK, well, thank you very much.
PAULETTA TONILAS: You're welcome.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Pauletta. Are you finished, Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes, I am.

KATE WILLIAMS: OK, so I am going to come back to Director Lewis in just a moment, But. I
have a couple of things that I want to point out. I think that I'm with Director Buzek that I think
everybody on the RTD staff has been working long and hard hours and is doing a really great job
about trying to help with our subcontractors, with our union, with our drivers, with our riders,
with our situation. This is a brand new experience for everybody involved.
And I think that everybody at RTD is trying their best. I'm really glad to know that we are
cooperating with our employees and that anybody who needs to be off for caregiving or child
care or for self care, that we are helping them to do that. And I am glad to know that we are
working really well with our union to get through this all of us together.
So I wanted to say thank you for that. I know that I have been talking to a number of people
about getting masks and sharing that information with our staff whenever I find somebody that
says so they have any options. So I think we're all working really hard on it.
OK, we have-- I just want to point out that we have still to do the Denver Union Station thing,
and we have a bunch more updates. But I'm going to go back in and let Director Lewis, who
didn't get her questions answered yesterday and hasn't got the rest of them answered tonight,
have some more time. So Director Lewis, you're up.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Williams, I do not appreciate your disrespect. Our call yesterday
was 30 minutes. That's how much time we allocated. If you'd like to have this conversation-KATE WILLIAMS: No, actually-- actually, Director Lewis, that's not true. It was not 30
minutes. And you had every opportunity to ask all these questions. And if you need to ask them
in public, I understand that.
I get that. You need to ask these questions. Yes, absolutely.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director-- or Mr. Meader
KATE WILLIAMS: You can finish.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I don't think you understood my question. My question wasn't about getting
asks for operators. My question was, did you all have any discussion about potentially asking the
general public to wear a mask while using the RTD services.
MIKE MEADER: OK. Oh, I'm sorry, so I misunderstood your question.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's OK.
MIKE MEADER: Yeah, no, we have communicated to people, you know, about essentially
using obviously for essential rides, services, those kinds of things to practice the guidelines, the
social distancing, wearing a mask when in public, all of the things that are publicly out there. So
yeah, absolutely, absolutely. We're continuing to try to make sure we spread that message to the
public.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. And Mr. Carter, I had a question about the 137.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis, we had this discussion the other day I can-SHONTEL LEWIS: And he did not send me the information-KATE WILLIAMS: --the route-SHONTEL LEWIS: And I did not received the information.
KATE WILLIAMS: I thought he did. I thought-SHONTEL LEWIS: No, he did not.
KATE WILLIAMS: --individuals who had reached out to you were essential workers-- wait, I
notes here for our discussion yesterday. Mr. Carter said-SHONTEL LEWIS: --to clarify for Director Lewis or for Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Again, Jesse, if you're on, you can answer this again.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's not again. He did not give me the information.
JESSE CARTER: I'm sorry. Can you-KATE WILLIAMS: Well, I have notes on it. I got the answers. So I'm sorry you missed it
because I was on the same call.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I didn't miss it.
KATE WILLIAMS: But if you need to have this, if you need to have this done publicly, we're
down with that. Go ahead.
JESSE CARTER: OK, I'm sorry.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I did not miss it.
JESSE CARTER: Can you repeat the question?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I did not miss it. The question was about the route 37 to which Mr. Carter
said he would pull the ridership numbers because there was an individual who would no longer
have access-- number of individuals who would not have access to their essential trips. Mr.
Carter said he would follow up.

JESSE CARTER: Thank you. This is Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning and
Scheduling. We did follow up with a survey of our ATC data, and it showed quite a bit of
ridership, which is kind of puzzling to us at this point.
So we're going to double check that by asking our street operations to take a look at that route in
a couple of different places, one being Central Park Boulevard station and the other being Peoria
station. So I am following up with that. And we'll be in contact with you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Was that single digit ridership, or was it higher than that?
KATE WILLIAMS: It was higher than I expected. There were a couple trips that had 10 and 11
passengers on board.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, that's helpful. I just want to make sure that the folks who utilize that
service were essential-- that are deemed essential had that access, if that makes sense.
JESSE CARTER: Absolutely, and we'll-- we will follow that up with additional checks, and I
will be in contact with you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Cool. Thank you so much. That is my questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm sorry. Are you finished, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I am finished.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you so much for waiting. Thank you. I appreciate you letting some
of the other directors speak for a few minutes. OK, so we are through with questions and answers
on that part of the update. Let me see where we're going next.
The next update, we have-- sorry, I have papers everywhere. I'd like to be able to read it
properly. We can go to service availability March of 2020. We have an update on that.
FRED WORTHEN: Yes, ma'am. Fred Worthen, AGM of bus operations. There is a complete
report in your board packet, and for the sake of time, I'll be happy to answer questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I will run through and see if there is anybody who wants to ask
questions. And this time, I will go backwards. Starting with Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
I don't hear anything. Is it me? OK, I don't hear anything from Chair Rivera-Malpiede. I'll go to
Director Whitmore.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, I'm sorry. No, I do not. I do have an announcement, but I
can do it under other matters. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, you are welcome. Director Whitmore? Questions, comments on service
availability update?
TROY WHITMORE: No, ma'am. Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you sir. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Excuse me, nothing from me.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Nothing for me. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Nothing for me. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Menten, service availability?
NATALIE MENTEN: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: No, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, ma'am. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: No, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Catlin.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Fred, for the report. It's certainly expected and circumstantial, but
I appreciate the information. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No comments. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Nothing. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome, sir. OK, our next update is on rail operations. That is with
Mr. Jensen.
DAVE JENSEN: Good evening-KATE WILLIAMS: --have the information in our packet. Mr. Jensen, is there anything you need
to add to what we have already received?
DAVE JENSEN: This is Dave Jensen, AGM of Rail Operations. I have nothing to add, and I'm
willing to take questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. We'll go through the alphabet again. Director Broom, do you have
questions on this update?
BOB BROOM: No questions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No questions. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No questions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook. I know. We all have trouble finding the mute and unmute
button. I'm going to go down the line. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Hi, My phone was disconnected, and that probably is what happened to
Director Cook. So which item are you referencing?
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, we're on the rail operations update.
SHELLEY COOK: No. No questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Questions or comments. Ah, thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: No, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Nothing for me. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: No comment. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: No comments. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: No comment thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No comment. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: I have no comment myself. Thank you, Mr. Jensen. Our next update-- and
I'm not forgetting, Mr. Meader, that we're going to do the BUS.
We're going to go through that. But first, we're going to talk about the APAC meeting summary
that was included in the packet. And Who wants to talk about it? Anybody have any information
beyond that report from staff?
MICHAEL FORD: This is Michael Ford, COO. We included that into the packet because of a
request, and we just want to make sure that it was there as part of our normal course of business.
So I can have Mr. Hamilton speak to anything in the report. But it was put in there because of a
request from the Board.

KATE WILLIAMS: OK, thank you on that. I'll let-- you know, in the interests of trying to move
along. I also have a summary on Access-a-Ride food delivery update. So what I'm going to do is
I'm going to go call the directors, and you can ask questions on either one of those two updates. I
think that will help us a little bit. So we will be talking about the APAC meeting summary and
the Access-a-Ride food delivery update, both of which are available to the public as well as to all
of us since last Thursday on the meeting agenda website. So Director Broom, do you have any
questions or comment?
BOB BROOM: No questions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You are welcome, sir. Director Buzek, questions or comments on those two
items?
VINCE BUZEK: Nothing, Madam Chair. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome, sir. Director Ca-- Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, titles are cheap, but thank you, Madam Chair. I appreciated the
information from the APAC, and I think that the Access-a-Ride food delivery service is
phenomenal. So thank you to the staff. Bye.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I echo some of the earlier thanks to staff for all
they've done in a very short period of time. I really feel good about the progress we're making.
And then secondly, I would echo what Director Catlin said about the Access-a-Ride. I just think
that is fabulous and glad to see that there's some use and expect to see it pick up. Thank you
much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes. You are welcome, ma'am. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, thank you. Thanks for including the APAC materials. I think that's a
good thing for us to see, and good job on the Access-a-Ride. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No comment.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, I just wanted to say that I'm also very glad to see the APAC material.
Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: You are welcome. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: This is just about the Access-a-Ride grocery delivery service.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, go ahead.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, so my question is, while this is a feel-good thing, it is-- for me, there
are King Soopers. There are services like similar to Grubhub, private sector, that do deliveries
for a somewhat reasonable price. And compare that to Access-a-Ride where our subsidy is nearly
$50 per trip-- that, to mean, makes me think that we're doing a grocery delivery for nearly $100.
And I wonder about what we are doing to be responsible with taxpayers' money.
I don't know if there are any sorts of boundaries to-- I had a gentleman in my own neighborhood
who was upset when the Call-n-Ride went away because he went to the grocery store everyday.
So I don't know where we are going to end up with a fiscal note on this and where we move
forward, if this will be something where we will be using RTD to compete against private sector
companies that provide a service and for a lot less money. Those are the questions I have about
that service.
MICHAEL FORD: This is Michael Ford, COO. I was going to have Mr. Hamilton speak to that.
But again, this was under the auspices of the pandemic situation that we find ourselves in and
was to help folks secure food through this method. I know there was some funding for this
specifically, but I can have Mr. Hamilton speak to this more intently if he's on.
KATE WILLIAMS: Paul, you still with us?
MICHAEL FORD: I can-KATE WILLIAMS: He may be gone also.
MICHAEL FORD: I can take that concern up and get back to you and the other board members.
NATALIE MENTEN: That would be fine. There were words that-- yes, there were words in
there that I saw that-- marketing. And it may seem like- here's where it becomes a concern for
me as we move forward and move out of the pandemic, because frankly, the numbers start to
make one wonder in many ways how soon we can make a change getting back to normal life,
that this potentially gets into mission creep. And we have enough problems in our agency
without doing that. So I would love to get some more information, especially related in the
financials-MICHAEL FORD: I will-NATALIE MENTEN: --and my concerns about competing with the private sector.
MICHAEL FORD: Michael Ford, COO. I definitely will get back to you. Again, I know there
was some money that was set aside, available, just for this type of service. I will need to get more

details on the duration of this, but it was really to address issues around the pandemic. But I can
try to get your questions answered and get back with you and other board members.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you.
PAUL BALLARD: Hey, Madam Chair. This is Paul Ballard, General Manager and CEO.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, sir.
PAUL BALLARD: Yes, I'd like to add that we're currently serving about 60 families with this
program. And the theory was that first of all, everyone has to be certified as a user of the Accessa-Ride service. And this was established so that people with immune deficiency issues who it
was too dangerous for them to go out, we could get their groceries for them.
Otherwise, these would be actual Access-a-Ride trips. We're just trying to protect some of the
most fragile people and actually get their groceries for them so that they don't have to make the
trip. And so that's really a big part of the theory behind this. We'll certainly provide the numbers,
but if we weren't doing this, the people who were getting the groceries for would have to make
the decision if they should go to the supermarket and put themselves at risk. So that's really why
we stepped in to do that.
NATALIE MENTEN: I understand, but there are community groups. You'll see people-- how
can I help? How can I bring food to the senior in my neighborhood?
And when we have the good-hearted people out there willing to do those things and stores that
provide these services, that's where it gets to be a question for me. So I don't know that I
necessarily believe that the only choice was the person with immune deficiency going to the
store when there are other alternatives. I don't know that I believe that.
As so many are-- and I experienced this in this little mask project here-- so many people just
wanting to help. But I will appreciate getting the information. And thank you very much.
MICHAEL FORD: Michael Ford, COO again. I just texted Mr. Hamilton. He indicated it's a one
way trip, but we'll get more information to you. And again, we'll make sure the full board gets
that information as well.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Menten. I'd like to speak to that for just a minute I
know that last Friday, DPS in the public schools, their schools, they did 35,000 meals last Friday.
And there are a lot of people who are bending over backwards to help in this, and I think that we
are serving 60 families who are Access-a-Ride users normally that I don't think it's out of line. I
also have heard that many other agencies have looked at us for this as a national model, and
other agencies are starting it.

So I think that it's the way that RTD is ahead of the game. And so I understand Director Menten's
concern. But I personally-- somebody who works in the disability community really would like
to commend them for doing that.
So that's my comment. I haven't made many tonight, but there is one. Director Mihalik, you're
up.
DOUG TISDALE: I have nothing to add. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: No questions, no comments. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Just one. I'm excited about the food delivery service. I think that's a great
service that we provide, seeing as how we are a public service agency. That's it.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: No comments. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, sir. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Just a couple of things-- the first one
is that I, like other Board Directors, have been involved in a series of elected official briefings
every morning. And in my community in Northwest Denver, the need for food is astronomical in
our communities and in fact in my community, we have a higher propensity of being
presumptive positive or positive for COVID. And I want to share with you my thanks to the
Denver Public schools for having meals for 35,000 people.
But I think that RTD led the charge by providing the ability for our most vulnerable population
to be able to access food without having to worry about exposing themselves to the danger of
COVID. And for that, I'm internally grateful. I'm also very glad about the APAC, that we've been
able to see them in our packets and stuff.
But I do think-- I'd like to go back to groceries for a minute. If anybody goes for groceries, for
instance, to King Soopers, it's a $9.95 charge plus a $4.95 shopper charge for $14.99. And you're
talking about folks who live under poverty level. That is an astronomical cost.
And for us in terms of serving community, this really is our way of expressing our commitment
to a community. And at least where my community is involved, I learned a long time ago if we
take care of our most vulnerable populations, then we will have taken care of everybody. But
unfortunately, not everybody's in the position to help out on the level that we need them to help
out. So I just want to say thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. OK, that is-- we're going to come back to the
BUF, I think, that I promised Mike Meader we would get back to. So we're going to do, then
we're going to do other matters.
So Mr. Meader, we received a very nice presentation in our packet. It's also available on the
broad agenda that is available online. What would you like to speak to us about that
presentation?
MIKE MEADER: Sure. I would say that, yeah, it is in the packet there. And hopefully, you've
had a chance to kind of look through it real quick. The presentation really just kind of goes
through a very well-thought out process, some steps over time to create some changes to Union
Station that would enable us to better manage, again, that facility for its intended purposes of
providing transit services. I'm happy to take any questions you have on that right now if there are
any, and you can expect that this will come back here in the very near future as a recommended
action. But I'm happy to take questions now.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, I will go through the directors, go reverse order this time, see if
anybody has questions or comments on this presentation. Chair Rivera-Malpiede, would you like
to speak to this item?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I do not. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Mr. Meader, could you just talk a little bit
about the formation and function of the homeless coalition task force very briefly please?
Thanks.
MIKE MEADER: Sure. Sure, this was, like I said, really kind of put together by our Police Chief
Grado, along with Bill Sirois, Kimberly Ford from our planning group. What we've done is we
put together-- you can see there's a lot of people or different divisions within RTD that are
represented as well as members of the homeless services community. And we're sitting down
talking about what are some of the challenges, some of the issues that this community faces,
particularly as they interface with public transportation and RTD, and really trying to come up
with some goals and a plan for us to better help address how we can provide education and
delivery of services that are required working together.
I think it's fairly well agreed-upon that some of the Union Station certainly wasn't set up to be a
homeless shelter. It doesn't provide services that shelters typically provide. It wasn't designed to
have very frequent emergency medical folks and those kinds of things coming in. The bathroom
facilities aren't there. Aren't any medical services available, food services, or any of those kinds
of things. So really working together so that we can figure out how we can best provide those
services, provide information on those services to people, and help them get the services that
they need in the homeless community.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Whitmore, you good?

TROY WHITMORE: Yeah, in the essence of time, I'll pass.
KATE WILLIAMS: You are welcome. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I heard the person who runs SEPTA give a couple of talks about a
similar situation that they had there a few years ago looks. Like it's caught it to Denver, so I'm
glad that you guys are taking steps to address this.
I've talked to some of the officers down there, and what they've given me is that a lot of people
feel safe down there because there is such a strong security presence. But that leads to other
problems. So I'm glad to see that we're addressing those. That's it. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Nothing at this time. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: You are welcome. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Mr. Meader, you mentioned it earlier, or at least you were trying to
clarify earlier the line in there talks about free speech zones and that that may not be the accurate
description of what we're trying to accomplish. So I guess at a minimum, I'd like to see that
reflect what you're trying to accurately-- public versus non-public areas. I get it, office spaces
that are to be aren't meant to be public places and sensitive areas like that. So I just think the idea
of that phrase, free speech zone, is just an oxymoron to me. I'd rather it just not be in that
presentation if it's not meant to be not accurately describing what you're trying to do.
MIKE MEADER: Absolutely. We'll definitely clarify that.
VINCE BUZEK: That's all, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: So once again, go on the record that I'm also opposed limiting the First
Amendment of the United States Constitution by designating it what I call free speech cages to
these areas. Completely opposed to that. Beyond that-- and I am quite serious that if David Lane
or ACLU will take on the job, I will be happy to push this.
That's how strongly I feel about it. As I say, I closed my document, but for the sake of safety to
give up a constitutional right is just not a good deal. And that is what is defined as Denver
Unions-- these are questions you can come back with because I don't know that you have the
answers right now exactly.
But I would like to see a map that would show exactly what is designated as this area or another.
When it speaks to Denver Union Station, does that mean the bridge that goes across where
there's the big swirling hand part-- is it the light rail station included in the US, the merchants
that are trained to do business.

So when this comes back, I'm interested in seeing the map and what is the actual description of
the US. Those are my comments. And the Greyhound-- as we move into that deal-- and as far as
I know, the board has basically got to give a hand wave on that.
And that was up to management to move forward with the deal. But I don't know that I heard
answers on how this is going to affect travelers that again don't have something coming by every
20 minutes or half hour. And they're sitting there with their luggage and potentially a family.
What are they supposed to do in a snowstorm? And does Greyhound know about this? So those
are questions I have.
MIKE MEADER: Sure. We're putting together a public facing document that should spell that
out pretty clearly in terms of property management protocols at Union Station, and it shows
basically what is DUS, who's responsible for each of those things. So that will be clarified next
time you see this. And we'll get you some answers on the Greyhound as well. That'll be cleared
up.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Menten. I understand and respect your feelings about
this. I just want to make sure that you are speaking for the people that you were elected to
represent and not just for yourself.
NATALIE MENTEN: Oh, let me respond. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Let's be reminded of the
oath that we all took our first night on the job.
The oath we took was to defend the Constitution. So Madam Chair, please no. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: I was just-- I was just-- just-- not everybody's been making comments. That
was my comment. It wasn't intended to be anything. OK, thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. You know, I feel like we've been sitting here a very long time. And
I just want to say that how long we spent on these issues indicates to me how important they are.
And I would just urge staff to be sensitive to overreach. It's obviously a very important issue to a
lot of people on this board And I think a lot of people in our area. And that's all I want to say is
just be sensitive to it and thank you all for your work. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. It has been a long time. We've been here for a long time. It's
already 10 o'clock at night, and we have a ways to go yet. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I have a question about packet page 17. You said in this
presentation that these were not recommendations, but it says recommended changes to DUS.
And so I guess I'm trying to wrap my head around this process. So if you could talk about what
that process is, it would be helpful to me.

MIKE MEADER: Sure. So this is again kind of hand in hand in that what we talked about was in
the code of conduct, one of the aspects is a paid fare zone and how this works. So this is
something that will go hand in hand with ensuring that we're putting the proper communication
out and signage out and everyone to just, you know, what is that paid fare zone within the bus
concourse.
These are changes that we would recommend eventually. Perhaps the language here,
recommended changes, these are things that we're going to bring to the Board as a recommended
action. These would be things that we would expect that if we did this, that would enable us to
better manage that space.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got you. Thank you for that clarity.
MIKE MEADER: Sure.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's very, very helpful.
MIKE MEADER: Yep
SHONTEL LEWIS: And then on packet page 22, it says expand closure time midnight to 4:30. I
didn't get a chance to look at that, but there wouldn't be any service that would be happening
before 4:30. Is that fair to say?
MIKE MEADER: There are a small number of buses that actually do run before that time-- very,
very little ridership. And we would have to make some accommodations, as we already do have,
upstairs for people to board those buses if they needed to ride those buses. It's a handful of buses.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. So they would be accommodated, say, on a snowy or a rainy
day if it's not yet open, that we would find something a different place for them to shelter? Is
that-MIKE MEADER: Correct.
SHONTEL LEWIS: --fair?
MIKE MEADER: Correct.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it. All right, thank you. And then the final question-- you all included in
this document-- and I'm sorry there are no page numbers on here-- what the homeless coalition-MIKE MEADER: Sure.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And I don't even know what question I have. But I guess I was trying to
understand what was the purpose of including the homeless coalition.
MIKE MEADER: Some of the recommend--

SHONTEL LEWIS: --as an agency-MIKE MEADER: I'm sorry. Some of the recommendations-- this is Mike Meader. If you go
back here, you can see that there are some creation of a homeless outreach plan. And that's being
developed by that coalition to how can we better provide those services.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it. OK. I just wanted to make sure I understood that correctly.
MIKE MEADER: Sure.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Right, thank you. I don't have any other questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thanks. Thank you, ma'am. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is the expanded closure time-- is that to keep people from sleeping there,
or are there are other reasons?
MIKE MEADER: It's a couple of things. One, it's going to allow us to have more time for
maintenance. Right now, we close it for about an hour and 15 minutes. And so it really isn't in
sufficient time to do some of the standard maintenance and those kinds of things. It also will
obviously give us more time to clean. It will certainly provide less time, I guess, for-- or less
hours for people to just hang out there if they're so inclined to do that without exercising of the
transit services.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, thanks. I'll look forward to seeing this when it comes back. I have
some other questions then. Thanks.
MIKE MEADER: Sure.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No questions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome, ma'am. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: No questions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You are welcome. Director Caitlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for the presentation. I have no questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No questions, Madam Chair. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome, sir. Director Broom?

BOB BROOME: No questions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Meader. We appreciate your patience in
waiting, and we appreciate the work that went into this.
MIKE MEADER: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: We are now going to come to the other matters section of this evening, and
I believe I have one item under other matters I'll go around to see if any of the directors do. But
first, I believe that Ms. McManus has something to present under other matters.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Hi, and thank you. This is Barbara McManus, Executive Manager,
Board of Directors. I just want to let you know that the system does reset itself after a certain
period of time.
And when that happens, you're going to hear a very brief period of music that will cut you off
from listening to the rest of the meeting. I think that Fred Worthen, as well as Jennifer RossAmato, alerted me that that happened. And I just wanted to let you know if you do hear some
music, It will just be for a short period of time while the system resets itself because of the length
of the meeting. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, that did happen to us. So thank you for that update. Directors, if
anybody has any items, I'll go through the roll call.
It's so much nicer, isn't it, when we can push a button and have our picture come up on the
screen. I'm going to go through in alphabetical order to see if you have anything under other
matters. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No other matters. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Nothing. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: I just wanted to say to Director Menten that I think her effort to produce
masks are just very laudable. I have been in a one on one battle with my sewing machine for
three days now, and the sewing machine is winning, but it's not for lack of effort. But I just
wanted to thank her for her wanting to help out in a very meaningful way.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's great. Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, agree. And nothing for me. Thank.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Job well done, Natalie Menten, Director
Menten. And that's all for me. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Nothing from me. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I appreciate Director Menten's efforts as well, and I
would encourage it if we can purchase masks but particularly for contractors. As directors, I
personally would be appreciated of that to make sure that all of the folks who are transporting
our folks during this time have the protection that they need.
And I would also encourage our board as policymakers to think about policies that we can put
forward that protect our operators and protect our riders such as hazard pay, such as testing and
making sure operators have testing. I mean, I know I sent this out to a number of you all, and I
have a laundry list of things that I think would be beneficial to our operators. But I would just
like to say that on their record again the importance of being proactive in this conversation.
Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: I'm sorry. I was stuck on the mute. Nothing for me. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Just to respond to the mask , issue we've made first delivery
to one of the divisions. We'll be going back again tomorrow.
I'll be going to Platte, potentially Boulder, if that gets worked out. We have a long list of
volunteers in the metro area, and they stretch all the way from Fort Collins down to Rocky Ford.
It's just amazing.
The email just keeps dinging away, and the calls keep coming in. So I wanted to share my
appreciation for the community because they're the ones that are taking on making 25 masks
here, 50 here.
Today, 200 from one lady, 100 from another lady-- the list just goes on and on. So that's my
comment for the record. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Menten, and thank you for your work. It's very
inspiring that you and your family inspired me to get out and make some. I don't make very fast,
but i need masks for my church. There's a bunch of my family, and you inspired us to do that.
Director Mihalik.

KEN MIHALIK: With all those masks being made, I just hope that you've got at least one left
over. I want a Menten mask for myself.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Mihalik. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. No, I have no further comments at this
time.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Nothing. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Just special thanks to the masked Mentens. Nothing else-- thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Two things-- I also would like to
express my sincere thanks to Director Menten for her leadership in really moving forward what
I'd like to call the mask collaboration because it really has brought everybody together. But I
would also like to take this opportunity to acknowledge my fellow board members, because there
are 15 of us who really care about our communities, and that's why we ran for this position, and
that's why we're working in our districts. And I think that we all share in our commitment to this
community and to make sure everybody's safe and that we're working towards the goal of getting
everybody fitted with masks and whatever it is that they need to be safe and to provide this
viable service to our community. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. I think that wraps up this meeting. We will meet again
at the same location on May 12 at the same time. And I am thereby calling the Operations and
Customer Service Committee meeting adjourned.

