2020-06-02
Communications & Government Relations
LYNN GUISSINGER: This is Lynn Guissinger. I'm chairing the Communications and
Government Relations Committee. The committee will now come to order. We're convened as of
6:19 PM MDT. I would respectfully ask everyone connected to the call to please mute your
phones and set your ringers to silent.
Under the current circumstances, I'll just go through a little of this quickly. Again, the official
meetings of the Board of Directors are held remotely. During this time, the meetings are
primarily audio recorded, and the audio recordings with the unofficial minutes of the meetings
will be posted as soon as practical on the Board's website. You can visit rtd-denver.com and
scroll to the bottom of the page to the link of the Board of Directors page.
Same rules apply as before, Directors. If you would like to be acknowledged, please announce
your name and wait for me to call you. And we'll go through the lineup tonight in alphabetical
order after each update item to let everyone speak.
Tonight we have no recommended actions. We have several updates. Our first one, we have a
guest speaker tonight. If you remember several weeks ago, two or three weeks ago, Director
Lubow and Ms. McManus sent us an article about two studies that were looking at the possible
future course of COVID-19. That article, one of the lead authors on that study was Dr. Kristine
Moore. And Dr. Moore is the Medical Director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and
Policy, or CIDRAP. The study that she and other scientists did was written up in The New York
Times, CNN, USA Today, and we're very pleased to have her with us tonight.
Dr. Moore formerly worked for the CDC. She's recognized as a national expert in the prevention
and control of communicable diseases. And she has consulted for many years on pandemics and
infectious diseases, including with first responders in New York City and elsewhere. She's
written or co-authored over 60 reports in peer-review medical journals. And I'm lucky to call her
a close friend. So she is joining us tonight. Dr. Moore, will you speak to us for a few minutes,
and then we'll go through the list and see if people have some questions for you?
DR. KRISTINE MOORE: I'd be happy to, Lynn. And thank you so much for giving me this
opportunity. It's great to be here with all of you this evening.
So as Lynn said, we did a-- really, it wasn't a modeling study or a formal study. It was simply an
analysis of trying to look at what can we expect with this pandemic. Where are we going, and
what does the future hold for us? And part of the problem, I think, as all of you know is that this
is a new virus that we really have no previous experience with. There are a couple of other
coronaviruses that have caused significant disease, and you've probably heard about those. One
is MERS, the MERS virus, which has occurred mostly in the Middle East, and then the original
SARS virus, which occurred in the early 2000s.

Those viruses have a lot of epidemiologic differences, meaning the viruses are very different in
how they present in humans compared to this virus. So we're trying to look at, well, what is a
good model for possibly looking at this particular virus? And one of the best models that we
have, just looking at past experience, is looking at pandemic influenza. And as Lynn said, I've
done a lot of work with pandemic influenza preparedness over the years and have studied past
pandemics pretty extensively.
So, again, it's not a perfect comparison because the viruses are quite different. And actually, in a
number of ways, this virus is more transmissible. It's a more difficult virus. It's more easily
spread than influenza, but influenza is probably the best comparison that we have available to us.
So a couple of similarities between these viruses are, first, both viruses-- the SARS-CoV-2,
which is the virus that causes COVID, I'll just call it the COVID virus from here on out for
simplicity-- but that virus and pandemic influenza viruses are both novel viral pathogens to
which the global population has little or no pre-existing immunity. And as we saw very
dramatically with this virus, they are capable of incredibly rapid worldwide spread and
susceptibility.
And, you know, we think about how global our world is now, but even back in the 1918, 1919
flu pandemic, influenza spread around the world at that time in probably just a few months as
well. So they're similar in that sense, that they're novel pathogens, very little pre-existing
immunity, ability to spread rapidly.
Secondly, these viruses are spread predominantly via the respiratory route. And both influenza
and the COVID virus are spread by what we call large droplets. And that's where you hear-- I'm
sure you've all heard and we all know about what CDC is saying-- you know, six feet. If you're
six feet away from somebody that that's probably good. So those are large droplets, and that is
the predominant mechanism of spread.
And large droplets are droplets that come out of our mouths or noses with coughing, sneezing,
and they usually only spread a few feet. And they also fall to the ground. Because they're larger
and they're a bit heavier, they fall to the ground very quickly. So both of these viruses, that is the
predominant mode of spread.
However both of the viruses also have a component of what we call aerosol spread. And aerosol
spread is somewhat different in the sense that it's smaller droplets. And these are droplets that
can be released by talking, singing, simply by breathing. They're smaller, and they can float in
the ear for 30 minutes to an hour. The studies vary in terms of the duration of time. But they can
float in the air for a bit longer. And they can travel a little bit further away than the six feet. So
that's another commonality between the COVID virus and influenza viruses.
Another commonality is that for both viruses, asymptomatic transmission can occur. And that
really complicates everything, because, you know, if you have a virus where people do not share
or spread the virus until they're symptomatic, it's much more easy to curtail the spread of that
virus. When you have a virus where people can transmit asymptomatically, obviously that
complicates the picture, and I'm sure all of you are aware of this with the COVID virus.

One of the things we have noted is that the COVID virus is actually quite a bit more likely to
result from asymptomatic transmission, the spread is more likely to result that way, than with
influenza virus, which is another concern with the COVID virus in particular. And then the third
thing that we've seen repeatedly with influenza and now with this virus is that both viruses are
capable of infecting millions of people and moving rapidly around the globe.
So given those similarities-- granted, the viruses have different structure, they're innately
different. But given those similarities, then what we did was we decided to just look at, what are
some of the key lessons that we've learned from past influenza pandemics? And there have been
a number of influenza pandemics that have occurred in the past. And since about mid, early
1700s, there have been about eight major pandemics that have been recognized. A couple of
those started in the winter and three in the spring and one in the summer and two in the fall. So
they didn't have a clear seasonal pattern to them.
But what was interesting when we looked at these was that seven of them had an early peak-you know, whenever they occurred-- that disappeared over the course of a few months. And
that's over the course of a few months without significant human intervention, because obviously
back in the day we didn't have vaccines, we didn't have treatments, we didn't have anything but
the same mechanisms that we have now, which are the mitigation strategies of social distancing
and lockdowns and those kinds of things.
So seven of them had an early peak without intervention. And then subsequently, each of those
had a second relatively substantial peak approximately six months after the first peak. And as I
said, the onsets for these pandemics were not necessarily always in the spring, where that lull
over those six months occurred in the summer, when we might expect to see less influenza. That
lull seemed to occur regardless of when the pandemic had its initial start.
So I think that that's a really important lesson here, that only one of those pandemics had a
different course. And the outlier followed a normal-- started in the winter one year, had a second
peak in the winter the following year. So I think that's a really important lesson, and that's one of
the things that Lynn and I have talked a little bit about, is the potential for another peak. And if
we look at the occurrence of this virus, that peak would be coming in the fall. And again, as in
the past, that peak is regardless of human intervention, basically. That's just kind of the natural
course of the way that the pandemic unfolded.
So some of these pandemics also had smaller waves. Like, they had their initial wave and then
the big peak six months later, and then a series of smaller waves over the course of roughly a
two-year period. And I will say that none of these pandemics was really influenced by treatment
or vaccination. Even in 2009-- that was the last influenza pandemic we had, and that was a
relatively mild pandemic. But even there, the pandemic started in the spring, the vaccine came
out late in the fall, and the vaccine came out after the big second wave of the pandemic. And
really, the vaccine was only used pretty much in parts of North America and in Europe, and it
really didn't have much of an impact on the course of the pandemic.
So when we kind of look at that information and just-- OK, how do we translate that into what
we're seeing now? So a couple of points that we made in this publication that we put together

was that if we follow the same model-- now, there's a really big caveat there. And the caveat is,
we may not follow a same model, because again, these viruses are different, and we really don't
know-- nobody has the crystal ball to know what this virus is absolutely going to do.
But given the comparison and kind of looking at what seems likely, we are really suggesting that
this pandemic would go on for somewhere between 18 months and two years, assuming that a
start at the beginning of 2020, this takes us through 2020 and at least into spring, summer of the
following year, 2021.
And part of the reason that these pandemics would stretch out like that, particularly in the
absence of an effective vaccine, is it takes a while to build up herd immunity. And again, these
are probably all things that you've heard so many times on the news. But herd immunity is the
proportion of the population that needs to be essentially immune to the virus, or whatever
pathogen you're talking about, in order for spread to go down.
And most of the modeling and most of the data right now suggests that we need 60% to 70% of
the population to be immune in order to reach that sort of critical threshold of herd immunity to
halt the pandemic. And if we look at some of the studies that have been conducted to date that
have looked at antibody-- seroprevalent studies is what we call them-- where they've looked at
how many people in the community have had past infection, there have been some flaws in some
of the studies that have been done.
But in communities that have had pretty robust COVID outbreaks, we're looking at maybe 15%
of the population has been immune. And again, it is very difficult to know for sure, because there
are issues with the test. There are issues in terms of just looking at case data and how many cases
we've had and where has the virus really gone. There are just a lot of unknowns with that.
But if we assume that even in areas with relatively high rates of transmission, like in Italy, for
example, or relatively high numbers of cases, we're looking at probably about 15 and maybe on
the high side, 20% to 25% in those high-risk areas. Have we achieved that level of herd
immunity? And so even after this big peak that we've seen in some of these places, we've got a
long way to go to reach that 60%, 70% timeline. So that's a really important point, I think, that
we need to note, that we need to get to that place.
And then it's possible that we'll get a vaccine at some point. I mean, I think you all are aware of
Operation Warp Speed by the federal government to try to get a vaccine developed by the end of
2020. The Chinese are also looking at developing a vaccine by the end of 2020. We do have
some very promising vaccines that have just entered clinical trials. I think 2020, by the end of
2020, is very, very optimistic-- and honestly, probably somewhat unlikely. I think more realistic
is sometime in 2021, and that is if everything goes well, according to plan, and we don't see
some unexpected side effects or some problems or issues with the vaccine. So the course of the
pandemic could be influenced by a vaccine, but I doubt if a vaccine will come soon enough to
really have a huge impact on these initial waves.
So what we came up with is that there's really sort of three scenarios. The first is that we don't
see-- the first one is basically that we see that big-- a peak in the spring and then a bigger peak in

the fall. The second possible scenario is that we just see repetitive smaller waves. And some
modeling data suggests that this may be the pattern that we see. And those just kind of go on
through the summer and then continuously over a one to two-year period, gradually diminishing
in 2021. And those waves may be variable geographically, and they may also be dependent on
what mitigation measures are in place if we go back to social distancing or staying at home
orders or that kind of thing. So that's a second scenario, is kind of a series of smaller waves.
And then the third scenario is that we've had our big wave and then we just see kind of a
dwindling and kind of what we call a slow burn of ongoing transmission over the course of the
next year or two. And that's the most optimistic pattern, because that's the lowest number of
cases that we may see. So these are all speculations, and we don't really know where the virus is
going to go. But that was sort of the message that we put out. Because part of our concern was
when we wrote this report was that people were saying, OK, states are going to ease up their
stay-at-home orders, and then everything is going to go back to normal and everything's going to
be fine. And our point was to say, well, you know, we may be looking at a little longer tail on
this whole situation than many people were anticipating.
So I'll stop with that. And I'm happy to entertain any questions that you have about what I said or
any other questions about COVID. I will do my best to try to answer them. So I'll turn it back to
Lynn.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks so much, Kris. I think that here at RTD, we have a lot of ongoing
decisions about safety of our employees and our riders and about predicting economic models.
And so I think that the information is really helpful. I'm going to turn it over and call the Board
alphabetically now and see if anyone has questions. Director Broom. Director Broom, you might
be muted.
BOB BROOM: I am muted.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
BOB BROOM: I have no questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Do you have a question?
BOB BROOM: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Dr. Moore. It's fascinating and
devastating at the same time. It sounds like we're a long way off from really being safe. But
thanks for the update.
DR. KRISTINE MOORE: You're welcome.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I appreciated the very informative presentation. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you, Doctor, for being here. I
think we're very lucky. Quickly, just trying to apply what you said to transit, I was going to see if
you had any general recommendations for us. But then I had a question, too. So I'll start with
that, and then see if you could also extend into what your general recommendations would be for
us with regard to, for example, PPE purchases, distancing, ventilation, and that kind of thing,
masks.
But the one question is transfers. A lot of people complete their trips with not just one segment
but two. And I read that the duration of exposure is an important piece of transmission. If that's
true, does it have any implications for someone who's considering a transfer? I've read where one
person, I think Sidney Lapp, said, I'm going to avoid that first track, even if it's a short one, so as
to avoid or to try to minimize the total exposure. Does total exposure-- is that the problem? Or if
I break it up into chunks that are less than 15 minutes, is that better? Thank you.
DR. KRISTINE MOORE: That's a really good question. And so in order to answer that question,
I think we need to think about the likelihood of exposure on any given part of that route. So for
example, if somebody is on one bus for 15 minutes and then changes to another bus for 15
minutes, that's a whole different-- well, I guess we can look at it two ways.
So for the person-- say if I'm the person who wants to transfer and I'm going to go from bus A to
bus B, and I'm trying to minimize my risk, it's probably better for me to move around a bit,
because if I'm with one group-- and again, it's a little bit of playing Russian roulette. You don't
know if there's a person on that bus who's infected. We don't have that information because, as I
said, such a high proportion-- one of the things that's so unique about this virus is the very, very
high proportion of people who can be either completely asymptomatic for the duration of their
illness or who are capable of spreading the virus a couple days before they become ill.
So if you have a smaller increment of time and I'm trying to protect myself, I would probably
want to move from bus to bus to bus to sort of minimize-- and I'm just making this up, I mean,
honestly, I don't know if there's any recommendations out there-- but just to minimize my chance
of coming into contact for a longer period of time with somebody who is infected. Because
you're absolutely right, the duration of exposure-- and again, we're still sorting out this
information. And so we can't really offer absolutes. But there's pretty clear evidence that duration
of exposure is a very important factor in the likelihood of acquiring the infection.
So we see that obviously people who live in the same household have a greater likelihood of
acquiring infection from the other people that they live with. And also, there have been a couple
of reports that have come out pretty recently trying to quantify that duration of exposure. And
CDC does look at that 15-minute limit.
So if you pass somebody and you're walking and you're outdoors and you're on a bike path and
you pass them, your likelihood of getting a significant enough of an infectious dose is really

minimal. I will just honestly say, I think that's unlikely. If you're sitting in a closed space,
however, the likelihood goes up. And the longer you're in that closed space with somebody who's
releasing the virus, the greater likelihood that you are going to become infected.
So that's one piece, is limiting time. But the other piece is also limiting your number of contacts,
all total. So you can also look at it kind of like, well, maybe you don't want too many exposures.
But again, I think my view would be if the exposures are for shorter duration, that's probably
better. There's some evidence coming out really just recently-- I just read something today about
superspreaders and superspreading events in particular, that when you bring crowds of people
together, that's a big problem-- like, weddings or funerals or big social gatherings or you have
people in very closed spaces and tightly crammed in, like in a bar or nightclub, those seem to be- there was a study just out of Hong Kong that I think was just pre-released today that looked at
those superspreader events as really some of the biggest likely sources of exposure. So I don't
know if that answers your question. I hope that that kind of gets at some of it.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, it does, in terms of our transit signing. Thank you very much. And then
do you have any general recommendations? Thank you.
DR. KRISTINE MOORE: Well, Lynn and I did talk a little bit about that. And I think that you
guys are already thinking about what your options are. I mean, when you look at what your
options are, obviously you want to create the safest possible environment that you can for your
riders, and that's really critical. On the other hand, you probably can't get that down to zero. I
mean, I think as long as the virus is out there, there is the possibility of some level of
transmission. So I think we have to look at-- we have to be practical or pragmatic and do what
can be done at a cost that's relatively reasonable.
So I was reading an article the other day, looking at ventilation. And some of their
recommendations were-- you know, any way that you can improve ventilation is good, and not
recirculating air. So I don't know if your buses recirculate air or have that option. But I would
say, if air recirculation is going on, that is not good, because that allows the virus to be somewhat
concentrated.
So improving ventilation by access to outdoor air, any way that you can do that, I think that's a
really helpful thing. And I don't know what your rules are around open windows or anything like
that, but not recirculating air and improving ventilation in any way that you can. I think that
that's kind of what we call an engineering control that can be very, very helpful and actually can
have a pretty significant impact. So you have that option, to change the environment.
Another option you have is to minimize the density of people riding the buses that are using the
transit system. And I think that's a really also very, very critical-- as I was saying just about these
superspreader events-- I mean, avoiding overcrowding is a second step that is really, really
important. And ideally, you want people-- you know, that six feet, while it's not a magic-- you
know, six feet, one inch is good, and five feet, nine isn't good-- you know, if you can kind of
keep things spread out a little bit and give people some space between-- especially for those large
droplets that aren't going to float very far. So that second thing is just minimizing the number of
people and avoiding overcrowding.

And then the third thing is to require mask use, or strongly encourage-- I mean, I think getting
into the issue of requiring is very difficult because then who enforces it and how do you do that?
And I think you're already doing this-- you know, encouraging masks. And a number of the
communities like Boulder and other places require masks. So having people follow those rules
and really encouraging mask use. I mean, masks are not a panacea. It's not going to prevent
transmission, particularly some of the cloth masks that people are wearing. But it will have an
impact on transmission. And again, if you can do a little impact here, a little impact there, you
can try to curtail any kind of spread within the transit system. So I think that's not an
unreasonable suggestion.
And then the last thin and Lynn and I were talking about this a little bit earlier I don't think-- and
the CDC says and other sources have said that transmission from surfaces is not a big source of
transmission. And that's probably true. But it probably contributes some. And so, you know, if
you can offer hand sanitizer-- I mean, obviously cleaning your equipment, cleaning the buses
daily is really critical. And then if you could offer hand sanitizer when people come in and really
encourage them to use it, if people clean their hands, at least that will keep some of the virus off
of the surfaces. So even if that's not a big factor, again, it's something that you have a little bit of
control over.
So those are-- I mean, I really think that those are your options. And I think a combination of
those or all of those is probably the best thing that you can do to ensure safety, or minimize the
likelihood of transmission. I don't know if there's anything else you can think of, or do you have
any specific questions about anything else?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm just going to move this along, but that's great. Director Folska, did
you have any questions?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I do. I do. Thank you very much, Chair. This was such a wonderful
presentation. I really appreciate it. I think it's very helpful for us to get facts and then address
them. And one of the things that's been going around in the news and among lots of social
groups, social media, that this virus is a man-made virus from China. And I wonder if you could
talk about that. Discuss how you know if it is or is not a man-made virus.
DR. KRISTINE MOORE: Yeah. And that is a good question, and that has come up a lot. So the
short answer is, no, it's not a man-made virus from China, and there's really pretty good evidence
for that. And the evidence is in really looking at the genetic tree. The whole genome has been
sequenced, and you can really look at this virus and compare it to viruses that occur in nature.
So I know that that's been something that has come out, that is really a big, big thought, that this
was actually an engineered virus. But the truth is that there are probably hundreds of
coronaviruses-- this particular type of virus-- that exists in nature. And the reservoir-- and
probably most of you have heard this, but the most common reservoir for coronavirus viruses is
bats. And bats do not become ill with coronaviruses, but they can carry many, many different
types of coronaviruses. And these have been studied very extensively in China and elsewhere.

So there are viruses that have been collected from the bat reservoir and compared to this virus.
And there's really pretty good evidence that this virus came from a bat reservoir. Now, the
question is, how did it enter the human reservoir from the bat reservoir? And that isn't really
clear. It could be that there's an intermediary host, and we see that with some of the other viruses.
And I just will say also, when you think of some of these really highly pathogenic viruses-Ebola, Nipah Virus-- there are a number of these viruses that are transmitted by bats.
So this really probably came out of the bat reservoir. And where this whole thing started, with
the virus coming out of a lab in China, is that there is a lab in Wuhan that does do research on bat
coronaviruses. That's part of their work, and they look at the human-animal interface and trying
to identify these viruses and look at their pathogenicity. So there is some work that's been done
in Wuhan with coronaviruses from the bat reservoir.
But assuming that that lab has been transparent, they've shared the isolates that they've had, and
they've shared all the information that they have on the viruses that they've collected, and there's
no match. And so I think it's extremely, extremely unlikely that this was man-made. And it's very
unlikely that it even was accidentally released from the lab in Wuhan, and it's much more likely
that it came to the human reservoir either from direct contact between humans and bats or
through an intermediary animal host. And there's really pretty good evidence for that.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Can I have one more question?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, boy. Let me come back to you.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Folska can have my time.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, I'll come back to Director Folska. I want to just run through the crew
here. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. Thank you very much. I was wondering, given that there is expected to be
a second peak, there's a probability that that might happen, are people envisioning things like
New York all over again or Italy all over again, where it overwhelms the system and there has to
be lockdowns, et cetera? Is that a possibility, or what is thought will happen?
DR. KRISTINE MOORE: Yeah. I mean, I think that certainly is a possibility. And again, I
certainly don't want to raise fear in people and create concern or anxiety. So there is a possibility
of a second peak. I think that's the important point.
But I think part of the good news is that when this happened in New York, the virus was there, it
was circulating, it took a while for the virus to take hold and for us to have the markers to kind of

say, oh, wow, we have a problem. I mean, it took longer because it came out of the blue and
people weren't expecting it.
I think one of the things now is that we are really much more tuned in to looking at even slight
increases in case numbers. There's also systems that are called syndromic surveillance that are
not-- surveillance, I mean in the public health sense of the word, where there's surveillance, for
example, for influenza-like illness, that a number of clinics throughout the country report
illnesses similar to influenza, similar respiratory diseases to this, to the CDC. And you can look
at what we call syndromic surveillance and try to see trends before they're apparent, before
they're actually picked up. That will help alert people.
And then the other thing is now, anybody who comes in with any kind of respiratory illness over
the next year or so or whenever is going to be tested right away for COVID. So we're going to be
much more on top of things. And I think what will happen is that if a second peak starts to occur,
obviously if we did absolutely nothing, that peak might become quite high. But now we know
much earlier, I think public health agencies will take a much more aggressive stance, will
institute greater social distancing much earlier. We won't let things get to that place.
So I think even if there is a peak in the fall, at least I'm optimistic that our public health system,
our government officials will be much more on top of it than they were when this just snuck up
on everybody and nobody was really expecting it. So hopefully that would damp it down. But
again, it might require reinstituting stay-at-home measures or other social distancing measures in
order to flatten the curve, so to speak.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, thanks. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: No questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: No. Just a thank you for this presentation and your time this evening.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Dr. Moore, thank you for your
presentation. I think that's terrific. And you may have already answered this to some extent in the
response you gave to Director Folska's question, because I was wondering if prior pandemics
occurred-- and without the benefit of any significant human intervention they had a second and
even third waves, and it appears as though you're saying that we're likely to repeat the same
cycle-- then the question I have is, what is the benefit of human intervention? Setting aside, of
course, the creation of a vaccine.
DR. KRISTINE MOORE: Yeah. Yeah, I think the important point is that, like I said, I think
we'll be much better on top of it. And I won't say that there was no human intervention. If you
look back at the 1918 pandemic, for example, there was a lot of social distancing that went on. I

think schools were closed, a lot of events were closed, sporting events were closed, people were
wearing masks. There were things that happened, and even in 1918, to try to limit the spread.
So here now we have the benefit of testing. We have the benefit of surveillance systems much
better in place. We have the benefit of information sharing. So I do think if we start to see an
increase, again, in the fall or whenever that might occur, I think our elected officials are going to
be much-- and our public health officials are going to be much more willing to say, OK, we're
starting to see things climb up, we're getting more admissions, we need to take the social
distancing actions again to bring it back down.
And that's a dance that could go on for a while. Because again, as I said, we're trying to get to
that 70% herd immunity. So, you know, you get cases, but you don't want to overwhelm the
health care system. You want to limit the number of deaths. So you increase your social
distancing or your mitigation measures. And then as things go down, you ease them up like we're
doing right now. I mean, we could go through several cycles of that.
And I do think those cycles-- I mean, there's pretty good evidence that the social distancing that
has happened has had an impact. And whether it's voluntary, people doing it voluntary or people
doing it under a stay-at-home order-- it probably doesn't matter as long as people are engaging in
social distancing that that's the most important thing.
I think one of the things that's going to be a big issue in the fall potentially is schools. I mean, if
we do start to see increases, what are we going to do in education? And I think that's a big
concern. But I do think human intervention-- and when I meant human invention, I meant really
in the absence of a vaccine or treatment. Does that answer your question?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Yes, it does. Thank you very much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I just want to say thanks for the presentation, a ton of information
there, and all of it helpful to me. That's it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Dr. Moore and Lynn, for your connection. I appreciate the
presentation. Nothing more for me.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Dr. Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Dr. Moore, I'm just wondering what your take is
on antibody testing.
DR. KRISTINE MOORE: That's a complicated-- that's a very complicated issue, I think. And I
don't know how much time you have or how much you want to talk about it. I'll try to be really

brief. Antibody testing certainly has a role. It's very important, and we do that for a lot of other
diseases.
The problem with antibody testing-- first of all, there's been a whole lot of tests just kind of
flooding the market, and some of them the quality is very poor. The FDA kind of loosened a lot
of its normal regulations and normal requirements for emergency use authorization, is what we
call it. So there's a lot of tests out there that really aren't very good. That's one thing.
And the other big thing-- in terms of the sensitivity and the specificity, just the performance of
the test isn't good. The second thing is, the performance of the test is dependent upon the
prevalence of infection in the population. So even if you have a really good test, if the
prevalence, meaning the number of people with antibody in the population is low, your rate of
false positives goes up. And that's just a function of the test. It's a combination of prevalence and
performance of the test.
So if the false positive rate goes up, you get an antibody test and it's positive, you don't really
know how to interpret that in a low-risk population. Now, if you're testing somebody who's very
high risk-- let's say they had symptoms consistent with COVID three weeks ago and they've
recovered-- their likelihood of having had an infection is high. And so the test is going to
perform better in that situation.
But if people are talking about using antibody testing either for health care workers to go back to
work or for anybody to go back to work, you really don't know how to interpret that test. Is that
person protected? And the other thing that's a big concern, particularly in the environment of
health care workers, is we don't know if an antibody test means that they're protected, because
we don't know enough about the immunology of this virus and the human immune response.
So even if somebody has antibody, we don't know if that's protective antibody. So we don't know
if that person is at risk of getting infected again, even if they truly had an infection. Or we don't
know how long that antibody persists. So there's just a lot of unknowns right now.
So right now I think antibody testing should be reserved for very specific situations, and
probably definitely not for work sites, definitely not for schools. It really needs to be used very
judiciously. And I would not recommend it in a lot of different settings. I don't know if that's
helpful to you, if that's what you're looking for.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super. That was great. Thank you very much, and thank you for taking the
time to come in and help us make our transit system better.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And Chair Malpiede, do you have any questions?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Dr. Moore. Boy, it's sobering information for sure. I
just would like to say thank you for coming and spending your time and your presentation. It was
really invaluable, and I learned so much. So just thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. We're running over. Dr. Folska-- Director Folska, did you have
another quick question you wanted to sneak in here?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: You know what, I did, but it was asked and answered. And it was about
the antibodies. So Dr. Moore, thank you so much for your time. I really appreciate it. That's all,
Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. This is hugely helpful. I appreciate you coming. It sounds like
everybody appreciates it. I think it would be great to open this up to staff, but, Kris, if I may ask
you if our staff have some questions as we move forward, could we get back in touch?
DR. KRISTINE MOORE: Yeah, absolutely. If any of you have questions or anything-- and if I
don't know the information, I can certainly try to find it for you. And I'm happy to be a resource
in any way that I can. I appreciate what you all are doing and really appreciate your work. So
happy to help in any way I can.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, thank you very much. It is sobering to think about the future, but I
think it really helps us in our planning as we go ahead. And it also helps us-- a lot of what we've
been doing is focusing on cleaning our buses and avoiding overcrowding and that they're able to
wear a mask. So thanks so much for doing this.
DR. KRISTINE MOORE: My pleasure. My pleasure, Lynn.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
DR. KRISTINE MOORE: Take care, everybody.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks.
DR. KRISTINE MOORE: OK. I'm going to sign off.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
DR. KRISTINE MOORE: Bye.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Our next report is our Communications Update. Pauletta Tonilas, do you
have an update for us?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes. Thank you so much, Madam Chair. Appreciate that, and really
very fascinating to hear Dr. Moore. Really great information for all of us. You have a
presentation in your packet related to much of what the communications department has been
achieving and where we're going from here. So I won't go through all the slides.
There are just a couple of points that I would like to make. Rounding up the information from
our round of telephone town hall meetings, through the 16 telephone town halls that we had, we
had over 17,000 participants. One of those meetings was a Spanish-speaking telephone town

hall. And for the first time with that particular town hall meeting, we livestreamed it through
Facebook Live. And we had about 90 people who viewed it from Facebook Live, altogether 400
participants on the Spanish-speaking telephone town hall. And 90 of those through Facebook
Live. We wanted to try it out. It worked really well. So in future telephone town halls, we are
going to look to use that tool. And that's another way for us to engage with people in a way that's
convenient for them.
I also just wanted to touch on the online COVID-19 survey of May 20. I did send you the results
of our survey that we held in early May. And just a couple of comments that I would make about
that is we had pretty good participation, almost 2,700 people. One of the things we learned was
that many people who reported that they had ridden RTD in the past 30 days before the survey
used it to commute to and from work-- I think as we would expect.
When compared with some other activities like visiting family and friends, going to the grocery
store, pharmacy, exercising outside, people said that they felt less safe riding RTD than those
other activities. That is good information. One of the most helpful things we heard, though, is
what it is from people that will make them feel safer riding RTD. And Dr. Moore mentioned
some of these things just previously. And a lot of it we heard from the telephone town hall
meetings and also through our customer care center. And it's things like making sure people are
wearing protective equipment, masks and face coverings, that we're cleaning and sanitizing our
vehicles, that we are implementing social distancing across our system and that we're addressing
the homeless issue that we've had on our system.
Things outside of RTD that people want to see is a drop in new COVID cases, also a vaccine and
how more widespread testing is able to happen. And this has really been important for us
because the results that we got and the feedback through the online survey is informing our
whole pandemic recovery plan as an agency. And it also is helping us with our communications
plan as we move forward.
On May 21, I sent the Board our document, our communications plan, Let's Get Our Region
Moving Again. And we won't go through that. But much of what we have heard from the public
and from professionals is informing our communications plan as we move forward. This plan is
really devised in three different campaign phases-- the first one being, "We're All In This
Together," and this being more of a way to connect with people through people and to show
what we're doing as an agency to help give people and instill that confidence for people to want
to hop back on board transit.
And we were going to start launching that campaign with that first phase this week. However
with everything that's going on with the protests and just the emotions and everybody being
really focused on other things, we didn't think it was a good time to start that. So we're going to
be pushing off our launch to this.
The cornerstone of each of these phases of our communications plan is going to be a video. And
we've already produced the video. We've listened, we've heard the people, and we put together
the video that I will send the Board a link so that you can watch the video prior to us launching
it, of course. And so this is really more kind of how we help people to all understand, we know

what their concerns are. We have concerns, too. We're all in this together. And it's really more of
a hopeful message.
And so you'll be getting that in the next day or so so that you can see the video and how this
messaging that we've put together has come together in that way. There's also some bus
exteriors, a light rail rap, other forms of messaging that we have planned through social media
and through pushing out to our partners to share information through their channels. And so
you'll be able to see that as well. That is really just high-level touchpoints that I wanted to make
sure we mentioned to the Board. And Madam Chair, I'm happy to answer any questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you so much. We'll run through the alphabet again. Let's do
it backwards. Chair Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have nothing. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: No, I don't either. Thank you, Pauletta, for that update. And I appreciate the
materials that were in the packet.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Pauletta. A very comprehensive report, so I have no questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you for the update. No questions or comments.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for the report. And thank you for all the very hard
work you're doing during these trying times. No questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: No questions. Thank you, Pauletta, for all the creativity and staying current on
all the information.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: No questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: No questions. Thank you so much, Pauletta, and your staff for doing all that
work.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lewis. Director Lewis, are you muted? We'll come back.
Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes. Thank you, Chair. Pauletta, thank you so much for that information.
It's really great. Your team is working long hours-- it's obvious.
But I did have a question. And it kind of came up last month and I forgot to mention it or what
have you. But different local jurisdictions have different rules about young people wearing
masks. In some places, they want two-year-olds to wear masks. In some places, they're five or
nine or seven. OK. So they're moving on a bus through jurisdictions-- I forget what age we have
that we encourage people of a certain age to wear a mask. What do we do for people that are
younger? Do you know what I'm talking about?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes. Thank you so much, Director Folska. This has been one of the
challenges, I think, because we have different orders and protocols that have been supported by
the various jurisdictions that make up our region, which is vast. We have 40 cities and 8
counties, and they're not all necessarily aligned with their orders. So that has been one of the
challenges, frankly, for our whole agency.
As it relates to young people, we have really not encountered much of an issue with this as far as
I'm aware. Our operators obviously are not enforcers, and they're not enforcing it. We have told
people we're requiring masks. We have our operators wearing masks. But as it relates to
children, we have not specifically communicated demands as it relates to age groups.
And we're really, again, trying to really ask people to be our partners in safety and to use good
judgment. And those who have young children with them, our hope is that they would have some
type of a mask on kids that I would just make it up and say, you know, six and up. And so that's
just a safety measure that I would say is important for us to think about. And I don't know if
Mike Meader is on the line, but Mike may have some insights that he can weigh in on with that
as well.
PAUL BALLARD: This is Paul Ballard, General Manager speaking.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Go ahead, Mr. Ballard.
PAUL BALLARD: Yeah. Mike Meader is not on the call tonight. He's off for a couple of days.
But we have not issued any guidance because of the changes from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. We
pretty much rely on the parents to protect their children and handle masks for children. We
encourage everyone to wear a mask. And if you're in a jurisdiction that requires it, then you
should do it. We have announcements on the buses and trains that indicate you're required to
wear a mask. But for children, it's pretty much up to the parents.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So if I may, Pauletta, maybe then that's something to articulate to our
customers and our drivers and really, frankly, all our constituents what our position is on that.
That's all. Thank you very much.

PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Let's see. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Nothing. Thank you, Pauletta.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I appreciate the presentation very much. Good
work by you and your team. But I guess I would just caution that we make sure that all of these
efforts give us the best bang for our buck in these times of pretty great financial challenges. And
I'm sure you're looking at that, but I just want to make sure that the perception is that we're doing
everything we can to be very mindful of the costs of some of these endeavors. Thank you.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes. If I may, Madam Chair, just real quickly-LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure. go ahead.
PAULETTA TONILAS: --that is really the way that we've approached pretty much everything
we do, period. But especially since COVID and with us tightening our belts, we have done all of
our work in-house. All of our work has been done in-house. I'm so proud of our team. We have
used a videographer who is on our bench, our contract. We have some videographers that we can
use if necessary, and we wanted this video to be impactful. And so we did use them for that
resource. But believe me, cost-effectiveness is like our number one rule. So thank you for that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, no questions. Thank you, Pauletta, for all that you and your team are
doing. Thanks a lot.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you. No questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. Thank you, Pauletta, from me too. It's very helpful information.
I thought the survey was really interesting and all your other work. So thanks. All right.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: We are going to go to our updates, our local, state, and federal updates.
And just as a reminder, we have very good reports from all of our public affairs crew. And so we
just asked them to update in the last week or so what's going on. There's a lot going on, at least at
the state and federal levels. But we'll start with you, Roger Sherman. Do you have an update?
ROGER SHERMAN: I don't really have anything since I submitted the written report. Certainly
I think the only local elected officials I've spoken to was really about the stopping of service over

the last couple of days, just wondering what the next steps were, just inquiries. But I think so
many of our local partners have their hands full right now that they're not meeting in person just
as we are, and I'm not seeing them in person either. So nothing really to report.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thanks very much. State update. Brandeberry McKenna. Is that you,
Jenifer?
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: Yes. Hi, it's Jenifer Brandeberry from Brandeberry McKenna. I
think we put together a pretty comprehensive report. But first of all, it's great to be back and
really appreciate all the work that Julie and Megan and Lynn and Pauletta and Sherry and folks
did. The first part, we're really kind of going into a second session, even though it's still
considered the one session. And I think as you are all very much involved and aware, Senate Bill
151 occupied a lot of our time in the Capitol from January till March 15, when they took a break.
And now, as you know, we've gone back into session. We started the Tuesday after Memorial
Day with the goal of kind of working through the weekend and hoping to get out in a condensed
period of time given COVID, given the budget crisis, et cetera. Of course, nothing is ever very
easy this year in 2020, it seems. And so they came back on Tuesday-- you know, Thursday
evening. And then all of the protesting began, and they shut down the Capitol for Friday and
Saturday of last week. And now we're back in. I think folks are trying to get out, so folks can
participate in the evenings for some of the more sponsored events.
But 151, when they came back on that Tuesday morning, it was talked about in that interim,
given the fiscal note associated with 151, the likelihood that that bill would go away, I think
there were some concerns from various members in both the House and Senate, the way it was
structured beyond just the fiscal impact. And we were fortunate enough to talk to leadership
along the way. And I think it was clear that 151 was going to go down. But the desire to have
some additional oversight and participation from the General Assembly and the administration
had not gone away.
And really, where we ended up was the potential for a late bill that would have been statutory in
terms of requiring an oversight committee. And due to the hard work of Director Malpiede and
Guissinger and others on the staff and a lot of conversation, I think where we have gotten to is an
agreement among the parties to work towards an oversight committee without legislation. So I
think we're moving very much in the right direction on that subject.
And again, the beginning of the session was really all pretty much focused on 151. Now we're in
the second half. There are a handful of bills that are being introduced. We mentioned some in our
report. Some have actually been introduced today. They're going to be heard in committees.
Things are moving very, very quickly. Really, shout out to Sherry as we send drafts of those
bills. She's getting them out to staff to do an evaluation on impact, and as we get more
amendments to those. We're continuing to participate in stakeholder meetings with leadership
both in the House and the Senate on these later bills. And Julie can go over some of those if you
want her to, or you can just read them in our report.

But know that we are getting feedback from the district. We're incorporating that feedback in
these stakeholder meetings and I think making some traction on some of the nuances that had
some concerns for the district. We're not there yet. I think also of note is, you know, they wanted
to get out and adjourn by June 12. I think given the current dynamic and the loss of those couple
of days last weekend, that may not happen. The priority right now is in the House getting
through the budget.
Tomorrow they are hoping to pass the budget on the 3rd and move it over to the Senate. The
Senate has been dealing with killing off the 350 bills that were remaining from the beginning of
the session. And then they'll start working on the budget next week. So I think that you see each
chamber kind of getting rid of bills from the earlier part of the session now and moving the
budget through. But now there's going to be a handful of late bills that are COVID related. Some
may have some impacts to the district that we'll continue to look at. And then that may take
another week.
So even though I think they're still shooting for June 12, 13, 14, I wouldn't be surprised if it went
on for another week. Julie, do you want to do a quick highlight of the late bill, the couple that
may have some impact to the district?
JULIE MCKENNA: Real quickly, like Jenifer mentioned, we did mention a couple of these in
the reports. But there is a whistleblower bill that, for public and private entities, would provide
protections for employees reporting working conditions that would put workers at risk of
contracting the virus. It has not been introduced. RTD did provide some comments. And the bill,
we just got a new draft today which requires an exhaustion of administrative remedies before
going to court as the biggest change in that draft. And we will continue to work with the
sponsors to make sure that it's written in a way that is operational for the district.
Today we participated in a stakeholder call with the majority leader on paid sick leave. The
majority leader did acknowledge the receipt of RTD's comments. One was a clarification of
carryover hours and how that would work. And it will be capped at the 48 hours, as most entities
were requesting. That bill is up in committee tomorrow upon adjournment in state affairs. And
then in terms of documentation, which was another issue for the district, it will be up to the
employer to determine how an employee would request that paid sick leave.
And then lastly, worker's compensation proposal, which would change the burden of proof and
presumption standard for workers to request benefits for COVID-related health impacts, was just
introduced today, Senate Bill 216. And it specifically calls out this presumption is for essential
workers, and RTD is specifically mentioned in this bill as calling out essential workforce. So this
is something that we will be watching along the way, too. And I'm happy to answer any other
questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. That's a great report. I think that the best thing to do, since we're
running through everyone, is to go ahead and do our federal update-- if everybody will just jot
down your questions. And then everybody from Brandeberry McKenna and CRL and Squire
Patton Boggs will still be available to answer questions. And we do have the accountability
committee audit as a separate item. It's sort of the follow up of SB151 that we'll get into with

Other Matters. But I think we will turn-- I think one of the nice things about doing a phone call is
that we can talk to Patty Doersche from DC. Are you there, Patty?
PATRICIA DOERSCH: I am. Yes, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. You have an update from the last week or so, since you filed your
report? Or anything to add?
PATRICIA DOERSCH: Well, I do have good news on a couple of measures since submitting
our report last week. With respect to the House Heroes Act-- that included supplemental funding
for 14 cities but not RTD-- Sherry Ellebracht and I had a very productive conversation yesterday
with New York MTA on how best to include RTD in any additional funding.
And so why New York MTA? Well, they are leading the effort to secure a second round of
COVID funding for the transit agency nationwide, but likely not every agency. So the good news
is that New York MTA supports changes to their Heroes Act formula in the next COVID relief
bill that will move through the Senate in order to include RTD. So next steps for us is to work
internally within RTD to devise a modification of the Heroes formula and then share that with
New York MTA next week. Basically, their bottom line is they need to net 3.9 billion out of
anything that we propose. So that's basically our one guard that we have to stay within.
The second issue amid all that's going on across the US right now, Congress is trying to advance
a FAST Act reauthorization bill. That's relevant to us in a couple of ways. Because with respect
to securing legislation, to require and fund the return of our $29 million Rif CRP, it's our
understanding that due to the efforts of our House delegation, particularly Congressman
Perlmutter, the bill that will be introduced tomorrow by Chairman DeFazio will include the
return of our CRP. I haven't seen it in black and white yet so I'm not counting on it, but it's our
understanding that it's in the base bill.
A couple of caveats on that. Because this bill, in a huge break with tradition, does not include
bipartisan measures-- it's simply a Democratic proposal-- the bill as written will not be the bill
that makes it to the president's desk. We have to work on that. And then secondly, the reason
why we're fighting so hard to be in the base bill, the bill that's introduced, is that if you're trying
to offer language as an amendment, language like ours that requires funding, once a bill is
introduced, you're in a zero sum game.
If I need 70 million to fund the return of CRPs for all of cohort 3, I have to cut 70 million from
the bill that I am amending. I have to take from someone else. That is what's stopped us in the
past to get our amendments through. So that's why it's so important for us to be in the base bill.
And so we'll find out tomorrow whether we're in. If we're not, we'll push for an amendment. And
then my job is to make sure that that provision makes it into whatever the final bill is that's
conferenced either later this summer and delivered to the president for his signature. That's my
update.

LYNN GUISSINGER: That's great. Well, I'll be the first to say fingers crossed. And I'm hoping
that the CRP gets in there. That's great. I'm going to open it up to questions now. Director
Broom, do you have questions of any of our organizers here?
BOB BROOM: Not at this time.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No, thanks, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Madam Chair. I do have a question with regard to the signature
gathering process that was introduced-- or that the Secretary of State ruled on, and particularly
for our candidate and what that entails.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You just want to Who was that? Is that Roger?
ROGER SHERMAN: I mean, I can certainly answer that, if you'd like.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great.
ROGER SHERMAN: The governor, in one of his executive orders, did give the Secretary of
State the ability to do and allow signature gathering by mail and email. So she just put out the
ruling on that a couple of days ago. And so now you do have the opportunity to submit and get
an email or mail form approved, which you can send to people in the districts. And they sign it
and either return it to you by mail or electronically. And then you collect those just like you
would collect the signatures on a traditional petition. You also can still get a traditional petition
format approved and collect signatures that way.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks. Does that answer your question, Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. When I read it, I was a little bit confused about people who were
petitioning on behalf of a candidate and if they went through the same process-- volunteers, for
example.
ROGER SHERMAN: [INTERPOSING VOICES]
PEGGY CATLIN: So I can find out later. But it's still the same process?
ROGER SHERMAN: It is.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Cook.

SHELLEY COOK: No questions. I would like to say thanks to you and everybody who's been
involved on all these levels. Thanks so much for your good work.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair. Thank you all for your hard work. And I know these
are very difficult times. And Patty, thank you, thank you, thank you for continuing to work
relentlessly on the CRP. And it sounds like you're making great progress. I did have a question,
though, about why we're hooking up with NYC as opposed to having APTA support us in that
effort. And I think it's great that we are. No problems with that. I'm just wondering where's
APTA in all of this? Because I don't-- is NYC a member of APTA? I thought they were not, and
maybe they are. I don't know what they are now. That's all.
PATRICIA DOERSCH: Very good question. They are back in APTA. I had to work hard to lure
them in, considering they're 40% of all transit rides. We're working with New York MTA, quite
honestly, because the House Heroes Act was driven by House appropriators. The Chairman of
the House Appropriations Committee is Nita Lowey of New York, and she was committed to
throwing enormous amounts of money at New York. And so the transit funding, the weight of
that, is being carried now by New York MTA. And now, as it pivots to the Senate, they're
working directly with Senator Schumer. So that's where this is moving right now.
Of course I'm also staying close with Homer and Janet, Senate Banking Committee. But the
transit funding so far is being driven not out of the appropriator's office, not out of the
authorizers of Senate Banking, but basically right now Chuck Schumer. So that's the carriage
that's carrying this, so that's why we're working with them.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you so very much. I really appreciate it. That's all for me.
PATRICIA DOERSCH: Sure.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Lewis. Director Lewis, are you muted?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Nothing for me. Sorry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Nothing for me. But thank you all for your very hard work.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Nothing. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Mikalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Nothing for me. Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just a couple of things. First of all,
thank you, Patty, for all of your hard work. We had the APTA DC virtual fly-in, and several of
the staffers for the Colorado delegation made very favorable comments about you and your
efforts on behalf of the CRP refund. And we also addressed the FAST Act reauthorization and
including it in there. And relative to why work on this rather than have APTA do it, APTA is
following a parallel path. Ward McGerrer and the legislative committee of APTA are pressing
for a separate bill. And rather than try to address the Heroes Act, we were talking about the
possibility of a standalone $25 billion additional funding for emergency relief.
The problem is that the Heroes Act, this distributes funds 80% based upon formula and 20%
based upon need, whereas the APTA proposal is 80% based upon need and 20% based upon
formula. So that may be a little too much in the weeds, but that's going ahead as well. And we do
have DeFazio speaking to the APTA Board next Thursday.
And just FYI, for Director Catlin's question, the Secretary of State's office has been very, very
collaborative and cooperative. I've already, for example, had both the form of nominating
petition and the form of email request approved, which in each case they did within 24 hours. So
they've been right on top of this. Thank you. And that's all.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you so much. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you all for your presentations. Nothing further.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you all for your hard work. No questions for me.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I don't have any questions. I just want to say welcome back, Jenifer. We
have missed you, and we're glad you're here.
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And Chair Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. You know, this has been one
heck of a year. And I can't put my finger on the top one so far of what's been the most
challenging or just taken so much work. "Thank you" doesn't seem to convey the right words,
because I know how many hours every one of you have been working on every one of these
issues and how fluid every one of these issues have been. And I really am just so grateful for
your expertise and your willingness to partner with us to help make this agency the best in the
country. Thanks.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Very well spoken. I will echo all of that. I think that we have just great
teams here, and I appreciate and am glad you can join us this way, Patty. It's great to hear what's
going on. Things are happening very quickly there. And I agree, welcome back, Jenifer. Thanks
to your teams, Julie and Megan did a great job on SB151, and we appreciate all of you. And
Roger's been helping us on a number of things. So thank you all. And I guess we're going back to
BBMK in just a little while.
We don't have any Information items tonight. So we're into Other Matters. We have two listed
Other Matters, and then I think that someone said there's another one coming up. We'll go ahead
and start with these and then go to directors on any other matters we have. There's a discussion
of the protests that are going on and RTD's response. I believe that's Michael Ford, our COO.
MICHAEL FORD: This is Michael Ford, COO. I just wanted to give you an update on the
events that have been taking place over the last several days. I'm actually at Blake Street right
now, and there's probably another couple thousand people on 17th and other areas downtown
right now. But what I wanted to do is just kind of give you an update of kind of how things
started and then bring you into present day, where we're at right now.
Thursday, May 28, is when we were notified about issues downtown. At about 7:12, bus dispatch
informed bus operations staff about Civic Center, around Colfax and Broadway, had been closed
due to a heavy protest. Buses were detoured, and streets supervisors were sent to assist in that
area. Bus dispatchers were informed that DPD indicated RTD may need to close Denver Union
Station, and DUS as well.
Shortly thereafter, we closed those stations and rerouted our buses. So that really became the
start of this. There was some reporting of rioting and looting throughout the 16th Street Mall. All
clear was initiated about 1:14 AM for both stations going into Friday morning.
On the rail side, we were made aware of some protesting that was going on there in the
downtown area. The situation resulted in employees having to shelter in place for their safety and
exposure of our equipment. So that was going on as well. With the first closure of DUS, two
trains and operators were held in the tail track as well. And then at that time, we began to turn
equipment around at Empower Field, as protesters continued to accelerate and we needed to
address the security down there as well as DUS.
We were successful in safely removing our existing service and trains from the downtown loop
into the safe locations. That was on the rail side. But turning the existing trains at 10th and
Osage, suspending the L Line service, was an initial hit for us.
On the security side, safety and security side, Chief Grado, had been in contact with Lieutenant
Ballard. An unannounced protest had started to kick off, and there was some conflict going on in
I-25. Different police were engaged, and there were random shots fired. Denver police were not
expecting this, and a command post was not established at that time.
There began to become aggressive crowds, aggravated crowds heading towards the station and
crossing the Millennial Bridge. So those are some of the activities on the Thursday night that

started to create some of the concerns and issues. Transit police officers at the Civic and other
Union Stations also dispatched or contracted Denver police officers at Union station as well.
Transit security officers posted at Civic Center and were advised to lock the facility and shelter
in place later that evening. It was determined that protesters were essentially near the Capitol, so
we could begin to evacuate folks down at the DUS and other places.
So that was kind of a summation of a few areas. I talked about rail safety and security and bus.
And then obviously, with all this going on, we wanted to convene fairly early the next day to
map out strategies of what we needed to do. We were getting intel reports that there was going to
continue to be more protests and that we were advised heavily by law enforcement that we
should not be bringing our buses and equipment, our employees or our passengers, down into the
heart of downtown.
So by that time in the morning, we made a plan to cover the perimeter of the downtown and not
come into downtown. So we had that up and running by 11:00 AM that morning on the bus side,
as well as rail. So we wanted to make sure that we communicated effectively with our customers,
our employees, our Board. Communication did a yeoman's job in getting the information out.
Senior leadership, again, met to talk about all the issues that we were relying heavily on
information from law enforcement and their contacts with the city to make the appropriate
decisions.
So that continued on. And then we continued to address this issue. And not much really changed
over the course of the next couple days. So we maintained in place because we didn't want to put
folks in harm's way on the rail side. We continued to meet and bus as well with SOT and others.
The rail actually suspended the L Line. The H was terminated at 10th and Osage station. The C
and E and W lines were terminated at Empower field. A commuter rail, A Line, operated from
Central Park to Denver international Airport. The B Line operated between Westminster and 41st
and Fox. And the G Line operated between Wheat Ridge and Ward and 41st and Fox.
So directions were given quickly to suspend operations so that we could potentially place-- if we
didn't do that, we could potentially place employees and passengers and equipment at risk. So we
wanted to really heed that. Then going into the next day, I also wanted just to point out that
Access-A-Ride was also involved in making sure that passengers and trips were canceled going
into downtown and that they were not scheduling any trips on Saturday and Sunday as well. So
we wanted to make sure that we were addressing all our areas within the transportation field,
making sure that we were communicating. And we really were tethered with law enforcement
and getting information so we could make intelligent decisions on how we wanted to move
forward.
During that time, Denver Police stated that they were very grateful that RTD decided to keep our
service out of the downtown area and to eliminate potential attacks on their vehicles. Further, the
downtown partnerships sent out notices to all downtown businesses to be aware of potential
vandalism and take proactive measures to protect property. The Denver Police set up a command
post at Civic Center Station because of large stones that they were able to take out of the
landscape. We actually had those stones removed. The city is going to, I guess, reimburse us for
the work that they did, so we didn't have more vulnerability there.

Again, things changed a little bit. We still were hearing more reports of crowds and everything
else. Finally, on Saturday, we got word about a curfew being enforced starting at 8 o'clock. And
again, we are still in curfew stage right now as of yesterday. I believe the mayor's office issued a
curfew for 9 o'clock. We have suspended our services after 6:30 out of the downtown area, but
we did resume bringing people in to downtown starting today.
So again, there is a lot more in a written report. I didn't want to get too long-winded in all this.
But it gives you a series of progressions of what we did. We pretty much stayed the course
because conditions didn't change. We're still in curfew. We still see people protesting. Obviously
one of the biggest things we wanted to do is to make sure that our employees, our customers, and
our equipment were safe and not putting ourselves in harm's way. Again, there will be a report
issued tomorrow that will have a little bit more detail. But I wanted to try to give you the
highlights of what was going on and where we're at right now. And again, the curfew, I believe,
doesn't end until Friday morning, and it goes from 9:00 to 5:00 in the morning.
And again, we're going to continue to provide service in and out, but closed up at 6:30. We want
to be consistent but we will continue to monitor the situation because things are fluid, and we
may need to make adjustments at times. So we'll continue to be tethered with the information to
make the appropriate decisions. So again, I know I went maybe longer than I should have, but I
wanted to give you a snapshot of what was happening. And happy to answer questions, but there
will be a more detailed report coming out tomorrow. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Ford. And I know it's been a hard, long weekend. Thanks
for all your good work and to you and your team. Let's see. We'll start with Director Broom. Do
you have questions?
BOB BROOM: Did the district sustain any damage, graffiti or otherwise?
MICHAEL FORD: Yes. We did have some buses that were egged. And some buses actually had
some rocks thrown at them. And I believe a supervisor's vehicle had a slashed tire. So there was
some-- I guess I would say maybe minor damage, but we did sustain some of those during the
process. Six buses, one supervisor vehicle, and there was also some damage, two broken
windows at the Civic Center, our starter booth, where the folks are there to kind of monitor the
bus flow. There was some windows, I'm understanding, that were broken.
BOB BROOM: Thank you. That's all I wondered about.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yep, that was my question too. Thanks, Michael.
MICHAEL FORD: No problem.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No questions. Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: No questions. Thanks so much, Michael. I saw an aerial of a bus on
Thursday night wending its way through an intersection with smoldering trash or something like
that. And it seems absolutely appropriate to have diverted or stopped our service around the
downtown area. Thank you so much.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair. Michael, thank you so much for your work, and really
to all of our staff, every single person that works for RTD from the front line to the supervisors
and all of our administrative staff. I know that everybody is working hard. And it's particularly
difficult that our safety was just the pandemic, and now there's this. And I'm all for protests, but
we need to be safe and get our message across. So thank you very much for your support.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lewis. I guess we'll come back. Director Lubow.
SHONTEL LEWIS: You didn't mention how the operator and the supervisor, how they're doing.
MICHAEL FORD: I think everybody is safe and secure-- the reports I have, that there were no
personal injuries. Obviously we did have to hunker down in some areas for a while, and we
didn't want to put ourselves back into that situation. But I can get a update on that. Everything
I've heard so far is that everybody is OK and safe and there were no injuries to people,
particularly our employees or customers.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's good about the injuries to people, and we do have insurance to cover
the property. So I expressed my concern about cutting service into downtown. I thought that was
really, really important that we allow people to come into downtown if they wanted to participate
in the protests. But one of the things that I haven't heard mention of is the folks who depend on
our service who needed those services.
And I know several directors heard from individuals who are having a hard time getting to the
places that they needed to get to who weren't protesters. And so the assumption that everyone
utilizing our services going into downtown were protesters I think was not correct, and we didn't
think about how we might take care of the people who depend on our service when we
essentially ensured that they didn't have access by making the call that we did. And so I disagree
with it. It's done. It is done, but people are still being negatively impacted with the schedule
changes. And I think that's important, because I've heard many directors talk about our transit
dependent people, with restaurants reopening, et cetera, et cetera. I think it's important for us to
value our people over our property.

MICHAEL FORD: This is Michael Ford. I really appreciate your comment. But I can assure you
that we did a lot of due diligence in trying to determine the best way in which to accommodate
the need versus the safety of our passengers, our employees, and just the general facility. You
know, we are sometimes a target in these situations, and if you kind of look around, you look at
the transit agencies and what's been going on. Some of that has taken place.
We did create a circumference around the downtown to try to accommodate people as best we
could. We will continue to look at ways in which we can do better. But I can assure you, given
the veracity of what we saw, the concerns, and the unpredictability of things, we were really
trying to be as mindful and safety conscious as possible.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I hear you. And I think we can, like other directors, agree to disagree. I just
think we should not have suspended our service, and we should value our people over our
property. And I'll conclude with that.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I wanted to thank you, Michael, and your team for the hard work. It
seems like we keep having piled on more and more hard work dealing with all these extreme
experiences. I did want to say that I had a similar feeling to Director Lewis in that I was also
concerned with the many people that needed to go downtown and weren't able to do so. And I
was hoping that we could come up with some alternatives. Obviously we could not, but it's
definitely worth thinking of for those people who truly are transit dependent. How can they be
helped? And I don't know if there is a way, but I felt obligated to bring it up.
MICHAEL FORD: Michael Ford, COO. I appreciate it We also had the National Guard
deployed as well, so that also complicated matters a little bit more as well. So I just would point
that out.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I'm sure it was a very difficult situation.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Menten.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Could I go at the end?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: No. Nothing at this time. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just many, many, many thanks to
Michael Ford for stepping into the breach in terms of being operationally responsible for all of
this. And just recall, Mr. Ford, that no good deed goes unpunished. So your careful and very
cautious behaviors, I think, were very helpful. But there will be those who will differ with your
conclusions. And that's just the responsibility of leadership. So thank you again, sir.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you very much. This is Michael Ford, COO. I also want to just extend
my thanks to the entire group, because it really was a team effort. We collaborated. We took all
the different options that were available to us from law enforcement to dispatch to operations to
rail to communications and marketing. All those folks did a tremendous job of making this
happen. I just want to acknowledge that. So thank you very much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Yes, thanks to you and your team, Mr. Ford, for the efforts you put out
there. I've worked downtown for about 15, 16 years now. And I've been caught in one or two
spontaneous protests. And while I fully agree with the right of people to protest and the ability of
people to protest, for those of us who didn't intend to protest, it's a difficult situation. And I've
seen how carefully the bus drivers move to navigate those streets when they're full of people.
I'm wondering did-- so I've been leaving downtown when those protests have occurred, so
nobody is getting off of the bus. But I'm wondering if the buses coming into downtown, do the
operators have discretion about where they can let somebody off if they sense that it's not a safe
situation for our customers to get off there, at a designated bus stop?
MICHAEL FORD: Drivers have the ability to make decisions depending on the situation. They
usually call in to get help and support. Everything is fluid. And obviously if there are extenuating
circumstances, we work with them on that. If they see something that needs to be corrected, they
do have some flexibility there. But it's constant communication with the dispatch, the controller,
the operations supervisor, security, and law enforcement. So we all work in tandem together.
And if there are issues or accident producing situations, we all try to work together to come up
with the best solution.
JEFF WALKER: OK. And the effect of the protest downtown, that was only in the downtown
area. Did that affect any other parts of the region?
MICHAEL FORD: My understanding that currently there are some signs that there are going to
be other protests other than downtown and might be spreading in other locations, I don't have the
most recent intel, but that's what I had heard yesterday. I'll need to do some more checking up on
that to give you a further update.
JEFF WALKER: OK. Well, thanks again. I went downtown Sunday and Monday morning to
help clean up a little bit. And the folks I did see, the other folks who just showed up to clean up,
and the people who lived in the park, were appreciative of folks coming in after a bunch of other
folks came in, and didn't necessarily clean up after themselves when they left. So that's all.
Thank you.

MICHAEL FORD: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes, Mr. Ford. Thank you for your leadership. I was very personally
pleased, and please pass along my thanks to your colleagues, both those that are on the call on
those that worked and continue to work under very difficult situations. I'm very proud of our
team. Thank you.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Mr. Ford, I echo everybody's thanks to you and
to everybody who worked to make us as functional as we could be. I want to point out that it
seems that there are other transit agency throughout the country who shut down completely. So I
think that we did a good job of getting people as close as we could get them as safely as we
could get them, and that we managed to maintain a large percentage of our service.
I'm sorry that we've had to deal with the riots, and on top of COVID, on top of ridership levels
falling, it just seems like you can't win for losing. But I think you and all of your staff, and all of
the RTD people, the union workers, the maintenance guys, everybody, has done a really, really
outstanding job. And I would like to thank everybody for that.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, Director Williams.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Back to you, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: What about the chair?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, I'm sorry. Chair, would you like to talk?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Michael, I cannot begin to thank you for the amount
of work and Mr. Meader and the stress level, because I know that you've been on the phone 24
hours a day, seven days a week, working on all of this stuff. And I think that it is paramount that
our transit system be safe for those who use our transit system. And I think you guys have done
one heck of a job. And the collaboration-- that you have been in communication with the mayor's
office and the Denver Police Department and everybody else-- shows that RTD is truly a leader
in this community and really cares about everybody and wants to make sure that we do the one
thing that we are supposed to do, and that is to provide safe and reliable service. So thank you.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Now, Director Menten.

NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, thank you. My question is, having spent a considerable amount of
hours Friday and Saturday while I was down there in the Civic Center, Capitol area, let's say we
had not cut service and we had frequent travel on the 0, the 15, 15L, let's just say we had
continued service, what would we have done to keep tear gas out of the buses? How much does a
windshield cost when a bottle hits it? Mainly the tear gas especially, how would we have even
kept that out of our system? Wouldn't we have been trapping the driver with fumes each time we
would stop, even if we've got the back windows open on the bus, which is very common? How
would we have done that if we tried to continue service?
MICHAEL FORD: Michael Ford, COO. I think the trick to all this-- I don't know if it's a trick,
but it's to avoid these type of situations when at all possible and not try to put ourselves in harm's
way and try to evacuate from those situations. Obviously our key importance is our employees,
our customers, our stakeholders. And when we get intel reports like we did have, it just seemed
like the right thing to do not to put ourselves in those situations. So we want to make sure that we
didn't come near those areas, and we were actually praised for making those type of decisions by
law enforcement because of what they were experiencing and seeing.
So fortunately, I don't think we had any specific concurrences like that. But again, that's just
another way in which we wanted to address the situation by not putting ourselves in harm's way.
And obviously if something like that happened, that would not be something we would want to
happen. And we'd have to re-examine how we got ourselves into that.
We are going to be doing an after action item focus on how well we did, what we could have
done better, what worked, what didn't, as part of our ongoing process of evaluating our readiness
for events like this. So maybe some of that could also be helpful in further discussions.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Yeah. I don't even know how we could have kept certainly the
drivers along those routes that are in that area, how we could have even kept them in a
comfortable working environment, and then even take [INAUDIBLE]. Would it have been
dangerous? But I was down there Friday till 12:30 in the morning, which I know those buses are
still continuing.
You know, I'm sure everybody has seen the video or maybe some of the Board of Directors went
down there, maybe some of the staff went down there. But it was not good. It was not good. And
also down there Saturday, pretty much the same story. Different parts of the day was like a
whole different world during different parts.
And when I think about how we would have even run this system, when I watched masses over
at the Capitol who seemed to find that it was just too quiet or something over there and then
swarmed Civic Center, which I've got the photos, because we had some property things-- we
talked about the rocks-- I watched where it was just swarming Civic Center. Standing in a
dangerous position, seeing a Denver police car on video-- you know, I have the guy stabbing the
tires and smashing the windshield. And that's just a beginning, because it went on.
Going down Colfax and talking to business owners who were quickly slamming up the plywood,
as quick as they could. And putting up signs on their doors going, we have to close at 3:00

because of the protests, because we're scared. I don't know how we would have kept our drivers
and our Capitol assets safe if we had run service.
So I wanted to share that because I didn't feel comfortable depending on media to give clips,
because they have a limited time to share that. So the firsthand experience really just gave me
confidence that I don't doubt the decision that staff made in this case. And I am one that loves to
protest the government. But I was down there just as an observer, to watch what was going on.
So I just wanted to share that. And thank you.
MICHAEL FORD: Michael Ford, COO. Thank you very much for your words. I appreciate it.
NATALIE MENTEN: You're welcome.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I'll just add my words on that, which is just that these were tough
decisions. You know, there were peaceful important protests going on. But there were a lot of
other things.
SPEAKER: Thank you, Lynn.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I appreciate the difficulty of sort of pulling it apart and keeping our
employees and our riders safe and all of that. So thanks.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All righty. Anything else? We will do our-- I'm sorry?
MICHAEL FORD: No. I'm done, and we'll get a report out to you very soon. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. We're gonna talk about the Accountability Committee. We sent the
proposal out. This has been a continuing process. I want to thank our Chair for really, I think,
stepping up and making it clear this is a collaborative process. We're moving forward.
As Jenifer Brandeberry said, Matt Gray, Representative Gray, and Senator Faith Winter were
given approval by the-- well, Matt was given approval by the speaker to pull a late bill and to
pursue the idea of an oversight or accountability committee for RTD. And we started
conversations with them. And that's the proposal that was sent out today. We're just now getting,
last night and today, comments back from the governor. I think everybody's been working hard.
Julie McKenna did a great job getting SB151 managed, and there were some very problematic
provisions in there, as you all know. So we're happy to focus on the Oversight Committee for
now. And Jenifer has done a great job with discussing this with all of the leadership. I'm going to
ask Jenifer to talk a little bit about this, and then I'll come back and we can talk about what we're
looking for.
I'll just say right now that what we're looking for tonight is sort of a general approval to move
forward-- I guess it's a head nod, although we may have to just run through or just ask if there are

people opposing that idea-- where some of the latest comments we got from the governor's office
weren't final enough. They were still getting approvals for us to get those out. But we're all still-it's pretty close to what we sent out today, and looking for authority for Chair Malpiede and Paul
Ballard and I to keep moving forward with some final negotiations, along with Brandeberry
McKenna. Jenifer, you have things to add or explain there?
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: Not really, other than just thank you, guys, for working over the
weekend. And I guess what I would say is, rightly or wrongly, I think there is a desire from some
of the state-elected-- certainly the two chairs of transportation who, I might point out, are going
to maintain those chairmanships. And more than likely-- Senator Winter isn't up this year,
Representative Gray is up, but I think is probably slated to be re-elected. And the administration.
I think the governor was never a huge champion of the district when he was in Congress. I think
he's had some issues with us all along. And I think, rightly or wrongly, the overall sense in the
building is, folks want more of a partnership with us.
And so instead of trying to go down the path of legislating this with 100 different people from all
over the state who have different ideas about how that could work, I just want to really applaud
the leadership for taking time to-- you know, as Director Malpiede said, look, we don't have
anything to hide. We are audited regularly. We are as transparent as we can be. But if folks don't
think that we are or still have more questions, we're happy to work with them to get to a place
where we're rowing in the boat together versus finding ourselves where we were at least the first
half of the session, of bipartisan level distrust and some pretty radical ideas on 151 going
forward.
So I think this gives us a chance to get everyone in the same bus, so to speak, and start driving
together and communicate more. And I think, again, it's not the easiest thing to do. But the
administration has been good to work with. The leadership has been very good to work with.
And again, your team with Lynn and Sherry and Pauletta and Andy have been great to kind of
get us to this point. So I'm happy to answer any questions.
But as difficult as a session as it has been, I think ironically-- and it's still going to be a tough
couple of weeks to get out of this, just given the nature of COVID and the state budget and the
environment up on the hill. I think we could end up with a little gem here that our goal, I think, is
to help continue to build those bridges so that we have good partnerships with folks in the areas
that you all represent. So I'm happy to answer any questions as well.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Before we go to questions, I'm going to ask the chair to speak to it
as well. But I want to echo how much we appreciate Senator Winter and Representative Gray
working with us. The governor's office has come in later, but they're working with us well, I
think, as well. And all of the team, I think, has been doing-- I think we look at it as an
opportunity. You know, people come in, see what RTD is.
We can learn. There are ways to improve. We can hopefully do what we need to do to strengthen
the relationships we have with our local governments and the state government and move
forward. Chair, do you have some things you'd like to add?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You know, I just want to first of all thank Brandeberry
McKenna and CRL and Sherry Ellebracht and Pauletta, just our teams that have been out there
working with us. Senate Bill 151, it is no secret, was painful, really painful, to go through. And
the thing that seemed to keep evolving was that they weren't hearing our words, and they were
making assumptions that were really not correct.
But now we have a chance to work collaboratively and work together to make sure that we are
making this agency the best agency in the country, and that truly transit belongs to the entire
region. We may lead it, but it's going to take all of us to make sure that it is successful. And we
need to partner together, particularly now that we've gone through all of these unprecedented
experiences, like COVID-19 and everything else. We're really going to have to rely on each
other.
And I really absolutely believe every word that I talked about, that we have nothing to hide. We
are audited on so many different levels. We are mandated by so many regulations that we might
need a fresh perspective and look, but that is something that a lot of Board members ran on, was
it's time for RTD to revisit who we are and how we're moving forward. And I think this just
gives us a breath of fresh air to move on and to look at things and develop relationships that have
been severed, that we can really make this a positive move forward for the whole region. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I'm going to try doing this as one round. We've talked to
most people today, and so I'm going to ask if you have questions and comments and also if you
can give us the head nod to move forward and have, I guess, officially the chair would have the
authority to do the negotiating. I think all of us will be involved. And then we come back with
the recommended action, or there may be another update before that. So let's see. I will start with
Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you. Is there a fiscal note to this? Do we have to provide a budget?
LYNN GUISSINGER: We do. And it was in some of the materials sent out today. Originally the
fiscal note was 1.8 million. That was part of what happened with SB151. Now there is the
discussion-- and it's still not a done deal by any means, but that the committee would be housed
and staffed with DRCOG and that there would be a budget set at $200,000 and could go higher if
the committee feels like it needs to, although that's a sort of estimate of what would be needed.
That is a budget that RTD would be expected to pay.
BOB BROOM: Thank you. Yeah, I would support this approach.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. You know, my feelings about this have evolved from
really negative to indifferent to seeing some positive that can come of this. And I agree with
Jenifer Brandeberry. You know, although our legislators are wonderful people and very
intelligent, sometimes legislative solutions aren't the best. So if we can work with them and the
leadership at the State House to come up with something that makes sense and works, I'm all in
favor. And I want to thank our Chair, Chair Rivera-Malpiede, because I know she has been

percolating this idea for some time now. And I think she was really right on the forefront of this
as it's been coming up. So thanks, Angie, for all that work. And I am in favor of continuing to
allow this team to continue to move forward and get us to the best possible place and then come
back to us with a proposal. That's all I have. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I too want to thank you and Chair RiveraMalpiede as well as our team for keeping this dialogue positive and ongoing. And I'm very
supportive of moving forward. I would like, along the lines of Director Broom's question, I
would like to understand what this budget is. I know it's on a reimbursable basis. But are we
going to be able to at least see up front what is proposed and what expenses would be eligible
moving forward? I just don't know what the mechanics of that will look like.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You know, I think that's a very good suggestion and one we can take
back. What we have heard so far-- and it's a pretty new idea-- is that it would be reimbursable.
It's not that we would just pay over $200,000. It would be paying expenses. And if it goes
forward with DRCOG-- which I think we hope that would be the case, they've been a good
collaborator, they've got a real smart team, and we think they would be a good source for this
committee.
But they estimate is it be about $100,000 for staff time and a variety of materials and other
things, and then another 100,000, as I understand it, that may be used for consulting work. It may
be that we have some consulting work that's already budgeted. Some of Reimagine, some of
other things, perhaps compensation study that we could transfer over to some of that. But all of
those things remain to be seen. But I think your request is a reasonable one and one we can take
back and discuss. Jump in if anybody else has anything else to answer.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is that what you needed, Peggy?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah. I just want to make sure that it's just not a blank check. But your
answer satisfied me. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Yes, and I support this also. It seems like by suggesting this
approach, you all have managed to work on something that is now more positive, that gives us an
opportunity to identify areas where we can work together. And that also brings in the region, as
Angie said, as collectively involved and helping and responsible for our being able to provide the
service and assure a mobility that we've always aspired to. So I just wanted to say thanks. I think
that's so good, and I'm glad we're able to look at it as an opportunity now. And with that, we'll
just pass it along.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Well said. Thank you. Director Folska.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair. I think this is a great opportunity. And again, thank you
to everybody for all of your hard work and this has been going on. And it is a better approach
than the SB20-151 was for sure. But I have some concerns, and I'm sure that the governor-- I
would imagine his intention is to make RTD the best transit agency in America. That's my hope.
I like the idea of collaborating with another group of people. And I know they're going to be a
real high caliber group of people, right?
And so I don't want to waste their time, and I want to respect their time. And I don't know if
they're being compensated. That would probably be part of that fiscal note. And I would be keen
to know what it is, and I think that that fiscal note should have a cap on it. I mean, we just don't
have money to just spend, not even the 200,000 as it is now. So my concern is, where are we
going to find the money? The other concern is-- or question, really, before we even get started
and before I can support this-- I mean, in principle it's a great idea-- but what are the goals? What
are the objectives? What's the problem that we're trying to solve or that this body is trying to
solve or that the governor or the legislature is trying to solve?
And how many goals and objectives would they have? And, you know, this is only supposed to
be a one-year term, period. So it seems like we can spend a lot of time in our own work with our
consultants. It takes far more than a year. So I think that's a constraint that I'd like to know about.
And what do we know about the benchmarks for success? How do we know that they've
achieved what they were getting to achieve?
And I think oftentimes, we're an elected body like the legislature. And so what's to keep any
governor from not appreciating what the legislature is doing and start appointing people and
making the legislature come up with it from the Joint Budget Committee or something like that?
So I think one of the challenges with elected folks, whether you're local, state, or federal, is
you're dealing with a bureaucracy. And bureaucrats know their business. That's their career.
That's what they do their whole life. And the elected people come and go, especially if they have
term limits.
And so to me, the challenge is how to make change. I mean, on the one hand, you want a stable
institution. And on the other hand, you want it to be flexible and to be nimble and able to make
changes when necessary and be creative. And in the case of many institutions, it's like turning a
tanker. So those are my thoughts and concerns. And I would be for it, but I need to know more
information. So that's all I have to say. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Folska. There was a lot there. And it may be
helpful-- I think you talked with the Chair today-- but as we move forward with doing some of
these negotiations, it may be helpful to have another conversation [BUZZING] hear some of
those concerns. Chair, did you have anything to say?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No. I mean, I think Director Folska and I had a conversation
about that this morning. And I do think that there are questions that need to be answered.
Understand that tonight we're asking for a head nod to move forward so we can really work on
the specifics of this agreement. So it is a working document, but we really feel like we're making

real strides in the right direction and would really appreciate support that we could share with the
governor in the morning that the Board is behind this initiative.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Honestly, Director Folska, I'm not sure where you were coming out on
that, in terms of-- is it a move forward and you'd like more information before a recommended
action? Is that where we are? Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Sorry about that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's OK.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah, I'm here. Sorry about that. It's the button. Yeah, I'm for
collaboration. In fact, I think it's high time that they took an interest in what we're doing at RTD,
and I welcome it with open arms. But I can't support it until those questions I gave you are
answered, because I don't know. But in general, the idea sounds good. But I can't support it
without knowing more information.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. We will be bringing that more information.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I am completely in support of accountability. I,
like Director Folska, have some questions, the questions being, what are we hoping to be able to
solve [INAUDIBLE]? What are our outcomes? What do we hope we have in terms of
deliverables when this year is up, when this year is concluded?
I do also think it sets a bad precedent for folks to appoint folks to an accountability board. Just
generally, it sets a bad precedent. I am happy that we are having conversations around
collaboration, and I hope we are able to do this in a way that does that but also isn't harmful. And
then finally, within the language-- and it doesn't say anything specific like goals or outcomes or
any of that.
But within the language, I think it says something to-- it says that there is going to be a focus on
geographical equity-- and I think I've shared this already-- that I'm concerned that if we aren't
talking about social equity that we might unintentionally harm communities, that are most
vulnerable or most marginalized. And so those are my thoughts that I am pretty much aligned
with Director Folska in hoping that we could have some more tangible outcomes stated when
this comes to us for a recommendation. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I'm taking notes. Definitely social equity has been a big part
of the conversation. That's one of the factors in terms of appointing people. And I think equity
and service provided by the district, it says, analyzed in terms of geography, fare structures, and
needs of transit dependent populations. The governor's office has added some language in terms
of that scope of work.

And I think we'll be moving towards some of this, but it's very clear that our partners in this want
this committee to define some of that themselves. In other words, we may not be able to say what
exactly the deliverables are. But I think this is good feedback. Anybody-- you have something
else, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No, go ahead. I'm listening to you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, I was just going to see if the Chair or BBMK, anybody else had any
thoughts on that?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No. You know what? I think the whole idea about making sure
and that we have the ability to submit names and criteria of who we want to be at the table is
really helpful. And part of our conversation with the senator and the representative was to be
able to partner together on names of people that we would like to see at the table representing all
the different components. They clearly have a list of folks of expertise that they want on this
committee.
And I think that equity is one, transit expertise, HR, financial, disabilities. I'm trying to think of
all the 11. They were all listed in the packets that we sent out to you. And then RTD, we will
have two ex officio members so that we can ensure that, as they're talking and looking at
different components of RTD, that we bring in all of those pieces to make sure they're being
addressed.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I appreciate you adding that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And just to add one thing. One of the changes from the governor is-from the governor's office, and I think from the metro mayor, as he requested, is the number may
be changing and the specifics. But yeah, I believe that social equity will be an important piece
for this committee.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. I hear that. I'm just speaking to this specifically in the document that
you circulated that it doesn't say-- it lists analyze equity in terms of geography, fare structure,
and needs of transit dependent populations. But it doesn't explicitly say social equity. And so
while we might say it's important, I think it's concerning for me that it's not in the document.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It will be. I mean, I think that is really part of that whole deal,
Director Lewis, is to make sure that it is, in fact, inclusive of all diversity represented in the
district and who we serve.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I just wrote that down that we will add that into our
recommendations back to the team, OK?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, thanks. And then finally, the final comment that I have is similar to
Director Broom's, and I think someone else mentioned the price tag on this, the $200,000
concerns me, while it's not a lot of money, because we were just talking about budget deficits in
general, and it's really concerning, that dollar amount, especially the language around that it

could potentially go up above the $200,000 and just not having any criteria attached to that. So
those are my final comments, but thanks for bringing it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: If I could ask Mr. McManus to talk a little bit about the budget.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Ms. McManus? Are you muted?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Hi. I'm here. I'm here. I just wanted to say that we've put in place
some different tracking mechanisms for the budget much differently than we've done in the past.
You know, Director Guissinger singer had asked me for some information about the Fiscal
Sustainability Task Force, and we know what the facilitator cost and we knew with some regular
expenses, but they were spread over so many different cost codes that at that particular time
seemed appropriate to attach those expenses, too.
But I've been working with Heather and her team. And as we're moving forward with these
different initiatives and projects, and I'm going to use the general manager's search as one, we're
setting up a particular code as we have set up for the CARES Act in terms of not monitoring the
dollars that we spend there, so that at any given point in time, as long as everything is rolled up
in the budget, we can run a report and see where we are within the budget so that we're able to
monitor where we are.
And as we're speaking about this, we do know that we don't have an overall control over what
the budget will look like. We're trying to take the initiative and move this forward, as Director
Guissinger has said. There is a really huge delta between what the original fiscal note is and what
we're bringing forward right now. So I understand the Directors' concerns. But I just want them
to know that the Board Office is working very hard with Finance to make sure that we have
accountability along the way and that at any point in time, we'll be able to give an update on
where we are with the finances and how we need to move forward to keep that in check as best
we can.
There were a number of questions in that direction. So I just wanted to put that out there and just
say that we don't know what the overall outcome of this committee is over a year. And what will
be proposed ultimately over and above this draft that we're looking at today, but that we will be
totally accountable to the budget along the way. So if you have any additional questions, you can
contact me in the Board Office. And we're hoping to learn from the past and move forward in the
best way possible in getting all of the information out there in an expeditious way and being
mindful of all the budgets. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. That's great. I appreciate all of that work. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, thank you. I wanted to thank Director Guissinger and Chair for all the
incredibly positive work that you've done and the team. Turning this thing around from

something that seemed so negative, which was SB151, to something that in my opinion seems
like a win-win. And I am giving this an incredibly vigorous head nod. You can probably hear the
shaking across the call. I come from a part of the district that there's a lot of feeling of not being
listened to and not being heard by RTD.
And this committee is going to be a process where the partners are going to be listened to, and
RTD. Everybody is going to listen to each other. We have to come together and create the ideas
for the new partnerships that I think could be envisioned by this process. And I'm incredibly
excited about it. And the truth is, I would say for the last eight years, I've been saying, we need
to be better partners. We need to figure out a way. And I think this accountability committee is
part of that process that's going to help us become better partners, so I'm very excited. Thank you
very much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. I agree with you, and I appreciate that. Director
Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I will focus in on a couple of financial areas of this draft. And
that is, compared to Senator Tate's bill, because we know right now we're talking about the
governor, the governor, governor, but Senator Tate was the sponsor of 151. And one of the
things that especially was appealing to me, and as the Board Director who testified in favor of
151, this doesn't include a specific compensation audit. And I am not clear whether our modified
budget is going to go forward with a compensation audit.
And then I did hear-- and I may have misheard this from Chair Guissinger-- that perhaps we
would take money-- correct me if I'm wrong-- take part of the money that's dedicated for a comp
audit to pay for this accountability committee, which doesn't have a comp audit. So that's one
concern that I've got. And the whole mission-- where one part of the mission was Senator Tate's
bill-- was to have an independent compensation audit, because our own auditors stated that
perhaps employers council is not the best. We already have a relationship with them. That means
it's not an independent audit. We pay them dues to their benefit, to keep us happy. That's not an
independent relationship. So I am not clear where we end up with a comp audit there.
Another item is, this was supposed to have oversight with the CARES Act. I'm a Board Director,
and I asked for the line by line register for where we spent the CARES Act money, and I still
don't have it. The spreadsheet we've got, based on my request, includes some details, but it is not
a line by line check register. And I hope that will come out with this published register that we
did pass as a Board. But it makes me wonder whether there is going to be that cooperation and if
it's going to be really soon enough, as that money is being spent as we speak. And so I'm a little
bit concerned about that, that we're going to be looking back at a historical, versus keeping an
eye as it's in the works.
Another item in here is that it's of course called the accountability committee. But it has two
Board directors. That means that it's by law not required to be posted as a public notice and
would be recorded. What is the intent there? Are these going to be open, published meetings with
recorded minutes, public participation? Where would we be going with that? Those are the notes
that I have based on this draft, except that I'm a little bit worried about approval to go negotiate,

although I do understand it comes back to us for a vote. But I'm not sure what that all means. So
those are my thoughts. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: We're getting great feedback. All of your comments, I think, are really
helpful. I'm writing it all down. I'll start at the end. I assume, and I think it's in the draft, that this
will be open meetings. But we will definitely go back and take that to our partners. And I'm quite
confident that that's what their intent is as well, although I can't speak for them, I guess.
The compensation audit, I probably shouldn't have said that. That was an off-the-cuff comment.
But there is an HR person. And this committee-- and it includes an organizational assessment-so I'm hoping when I say that that we're not doubling up on our work. Again, you know, we don't
get to define all of what they're doing. But if some of that sort of thing is being done, that was
my reason for putting it that way. But I don't know where we are on that in terms of our budget
and our changing budget and all of that.
The CARES Act-- I don't know if someone else can speak to that. I think that your questions and
requests, I certainly appreciate those. This committee is supposed to get started in July, but I
hope that you're getting what you're requesting. I don't think that Ms. McKillop is here tonight,
but if there's anybody else that wants to address that.
DOUG MACLEOD: Madam Chair, this is Doug MacLeod.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Hi, Doug. Yes, that'd be great if you want to address that.
DOUG MACLEOD: Sure. Good evening. As far as the CARES Act go, we can get with Director
Menten and get the specifics of what she would like. I know she asked for a line-item detail.
There are literally thousands of transactions. So we can sure provide that. But we will call you,
or I'll get in touch with you, Director Menten, and just tell you what we have to offer. As far as
the compensation study goes, we have that working through procurement. It's still in the budget,
and we have budgeted $250,000 for that. So we expect to have that completed by the fall.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you for that information. Does that answer some of your
questions, Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. It answers the questions. And just one note that when I look at the
human resources expertise, if we look back at when SB151 was in discussion, which is a world
and a century ago, really, we were talking about workforce, dropped runs, all those kind of
things. So to have something-- I'm glad to know that it's up for procurement right now. That
makes me feel a little bit better instead of it being dropped, because I think we need that for the
health of the agency and not just a financial.
But there are some employees who are very concerned about some of the findings in the past,
about title changes and increased comp but doesn't see a change in duty. And I think that needs
to be part of the discussion. So Mr. MacLeod, that'd be great if we could get together, because I
was pretty much told what the FTA gets is what I get. And at this point, the FTA is not asking
for a line-item [AUDIO OUT]. And I certainly don't mind tens of thousands-- I mean, to look

through them-- of line items. That does not scare me at all. But it's that detail that I am looking
for. So I would appreciate that conversation too see what we can get with some more details.
Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Do we have a head nod to move forward with you, Director
Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. I mean, adoption is no. Nothing more of this. And I'd go for
stronger things. So yes, I'm going to keep pushing. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Guissinger, this is Barbara McManus. I also just want to
interject some additional information that could ultimately dovetail with what is going on here.
And that is the $400,000 that we're spending on the state audit that is going to hopefully bring
forward some information that this accountability committee can also look at in terms of
guidance with the information they're looking for as to how RTD operates.
So, you know, no one's really mentioned that, but I know that staff, my team as well as Heather's
team and others, are working feverishly on many multiples of emails and questions that are going
on with that audit that's going on behind the scenes right now. And hopefully that's going to help
us give some information to this committee that will be helpful as well as all of the other
guidance, because we don't read out on the Board about that very often, but I wanted to remind
everybody that that was going on and that the outcome of that could be helpful to us. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. That's a good reminder. It is in the proposal that
the committee would review the audit findings and consider that towards their recommendation.
So we appreciate all your work on that. Thanks. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: I don't have anything to add right now. But I will say that this discussion has
been valuable for me. And I will be a-- my head is shaking yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I have one typo, two questions, and
one observation. The typo, if you look on the draft proposal that you sent on the first page in the
paragraph before the accountability committee members are listed, it says the table below shows
the recommended expertise for the Board. That word should be "committee."
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: So that's just a typo.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Changed.

DOUG TISDALE: Then on the accountability committee relative to the members, I assume that
these were essentially the requirements that the original bill contained as to the people proposed
for the accountability committee. If it's not from that, can you just advise me where those
particular categories came from?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes. Those came out of Senator Winters' addition to SB151. It originally
was seven. It grew to nine. I think it may be growing to 11 people now. And hopefully we'll have
the information at a point we can get it out to all the Board in just the next couple of days.
DOUG TISDALE: No, that's fine. Thank you. And then as to the accountability committee
considerations on the second page, it's really the same question as above, which is what is the
source of this list? I mean, obviously number two, about the CARES Act, was added recently.
But I'm just curious about the source of that. Having said that, let me just quickly interject, if
these were understood to be essentially what the legislature would impose upon us in Senate Bill
151 or in some replacement bill, better for us to take the lead here. But are these considerations
essentially what were contained in 151?
LYNN GUISSINGER: They are. There were some changes, but minimal. And getting back to
Director Lewis's question, I'm almost certain that language was out of Senate Bill 151. And we
can get a change on that, I think. The governor's office has added some detail to that that we'll be
getting out. I don't think it's a lot different from what we're talking about. It's looking at
financials and recent audits and CARES Act and prioritization of resources and who we serve
and how we serve them and those sorts of things. But this language that you see, other than, like
you said, updating with CARES Act and a couple of things like that, it's out of Senate Bill 151.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you. And then lastly, the observation, I think this effort
demonstrates communication, collaboration, and cooperation. So I would much rather see it done
this way than to have the legislature do something without benefit of communication,
collaboration, and cooperation. And that gives me a head nod at the end of the day. Thank you,
ma'am.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. There are some things in 151 that I liked and some things that I didn't.
I do like this because I think it kind of dovetails in with the Reimagine RTD, which looks at the
operations, and this looks more at the governance. But they're there together at the same time,
even if there is some overlap, and not strictly congruent. So yeah, I'm fine with this moving on.
You and I spoke earlier about some questions I had, so you definitely have a head nod from me.
Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes, thank you. And congratulations, Madam Chair, and the many others
that have worked to get to this point. This is certainly a much better position than it was looking
to be back in February, to Director Tisdale's point. I was pretty active in 151 discussions and
testimony, like many other Board members. And that just had a problematic and gargantuan

scope that really was a concern to most of us. So I thank the lobby team and Sherry and the rest
of the gang for moving us in the right direction.
You know, to play off Jenifer's term of this being a gem, I believe it is. I'm maybe not quite so
enthusiastic about it, because it's probably a $200,000 gem, if not more. And I'm not sure that we
can afford a $200,000 gem. But we probably don't have a choice. So with that, yeah, you have an
affirmative head nod from me, albeit not as enthusiastic as Director Lubow's. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Hi. So I can give you my head nod upfront, mostly because I don't think we
have a choice. But let me tell you a quick one. I once had a friend whose daughter called him up
from college and said, Dad, I'm pregnant. And he said, oh my god, you know. Yeah, and in the
end, she said, no, really. I just got a D in chemistry. And he said, great! That's great news.
So we're kind of in the same boat here. I have a couple of points that I want to make. I don't see
that the Senate or the House of Representatives have advisory councils overlooking them. So I
find it interesting that they think that this body of elected officials should have that. Just an
interesting observation.
Number two, RTD has more advisory councils than the pope has bishops. We've got the ACPV
and we got the APAC and we got the CAC, and now we're going to have another one. We might
want to suggest that maybe we put all those advisory councils together and have one advisory
council that's made up of all of those groups. Because either we need to disband all those,
because they're not doing any good that we have to have another one-- it just seems like we keep
getting advisory councils and oversight groups. And I don't know. So I'm down for another one.
I think that it's interesting that we are a Board of elected officials, but we're going to have an
advisory group that's appointed. I think it's interesting that our legislature wants us to have that,
but they don't want to pay for it. That's like the fox in the hen house. You know, we're going to
have an advisory council that we're going to pay for-- another, the fourth advisory council that
we're going to pay for. But, you know, I'm for it. I'm done with it. I think it's a step in the right
direction. And I have my head nod, as I said, to begin with. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Chair, any additional comments?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No. I just want to thank everybody for their candid conversation
about this. Because at the end of the day, our responsibility is to the region to provide a-BARBARA MCMANUS: Hello? Oh. I wanted to make sure everybody didn't drop off. Maybe
it's just the Chair.
I'm still here. Are others still here?
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm here.

LYNN GUISSINGER:: I'm here.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm here.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. We just lost the Chair? OK. All right, well, if she comes back-DOUG TISDALE: Like Stephen Sondheim said, I'm still here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. All right. Well, that's a good note on which to end. Oh no. I think we
still have one other matter. I'm just going to wind that up and say that I'm hearing-- it sounds like
we have the head nod to move forward. And as part of that, as the authority to the Chair and Mr.
Ballard and all of us to move forward and finish negotiating and bring it back. Many thanks to all
the teams and Jenifer and Julie, who have been doing a great job, and Sherry and all of them.
Thanks. Anything else before we move on? OK. Other matters.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I have an other matter.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Director Folska. Yeah, sorry. Yeah. I think that at some point in the real
near future here, I would hope that we could make a resolution that would be for the districtwide, enterprise-wide, that is people first language. And I think that John McKay sent out that
language that the state legislature adopted over 10 years ago. And it's people first language in
anything we put in writing and how we communicate about people. It seems pretty simple and
straightforward and obvious, but we lack it in our agency. And I think it would be very valuable
to put in writing. That's all.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. I only had a brief chance to look at it, but I will do that
more. And anybody else have any comment on that or any other matters?
SHONTEL LEWIS: This is Director Lewis. I have one, not a comment on that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Go ahead, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And this is an opportunity to have a conversation. It's also an observation.
At the beginning of our meeting, we had a moment of silence for George Floyd, and I appreciate
that. I mean, it seems to me it might be an opportunity for us to revisit our contract with our
security officers, as we know that they have been harmful to communities of color, similar to
George Floyd.
And so while I appreciate the gesture, I think we should probably go a little bit beyond symbolic
and move into how we change our system. And I think we can do that as a Board by bringing
forward a resolution that disinvests from folks who are harmful to communities of color and
invests in more resources like the mental health worker that was recently hired and promoted on

social media and to the Board. And so I urge each one of you to think about that as Directors and
how we can make systems change as Directors and not just be responsive in the future. Thank
you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I appreciate that. I think that-- I can't speak directly to the contract with
security officers, although I know it's coming up. But I think that that is something we all need to
be aware of and thinking about right now in the world that we're in. Any other comments?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger, I'm sorry. I think my phone died.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You're back.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm back. I'm so sorry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: It's all right. Go ahead.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, that's OK. I think-LYNN GUISSINGER: [INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No. I just really want to thank you for the hard work you've
done. And I think that this is our opportunity to change the trajectory of RTD in terms of
developing a collaborative model with all of our key partners in the community, from the
governor's office all the way to our transit riders. And I'm really excited and look forward to this
opportunity, and I'm honored to be doing it with all of you. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you all. Anything else?
JUDY LUBOW: This is-- yeah, this is Judy Lubow. I'd like to comment on Shontel Lewis's idea.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Please.
JUDY LUBOW: I just want to say that-- I do think in light of the horrible, horrible events of the
last few days and what we've seen and what happened to the gentleman that was killed that it
would be appropriate, I think, to be looking at our own transit and making sure that we're as propeople as possible. And I think it would be an opportune time to see if there's any way to be
making any improvements that we could do. And I would urge staff to look at that in that light.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Any other comments? I would agree with you. As I said briefly earlier, I
think we're in a time where we all need to be thinking about how we address equity issues and
how we are treating people. And I hope I would agree with those comments and hope we do
move forward.
KEN MIHALIK: This is Director Mihalik. I just have one thing to say. Just to add-- well, not to
add on, but the idea that-- just an observation that the events that have spread around the world
now aren't just because of George Floyd's murder. It's decades and tens of thousands of

incidences where people have been brutalized. And so let's hope this time actually does change
something, but it wasn't just this one, this one event.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Agreed. Agreed. Thank you, Mihalik.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So I think that's right. And I think we talk about the code of conduct, but
let's look at all what we're doing. I appreciate that. All right, anything else?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, I have one. Menten.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. So I know that in the past there have been some incidents. And I'm
not sure where we go with this plan to evaluate our internal officers and the security firm that we
hire. So what is being proposed? Because I heard some people agree. Can I understand a little bit
better what that all meant?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'll bring a resolution forward. What I was essentially saying is, it's nice for
us to be symbolic. And I appreciate Mihalik, Director Mihalik saying, this isn't about one
murder. This is about hundreds of years of harm to communities of color, to black people, to
brown people, to indigenous people. And my ask was that we, as Directors-- right, we talk about
the code of conduct. That's a great example, Director Guissinger.
But I was speaking specifically to our contracts with Allied Security. We have had discussions
and concerns. We've heard from constituents about those folks specifically. This would be a
really great time for us to not invest of the very little resources that we do have at this point, with
COVID, and invest those in other places. And so I'm talking about that contract specifically. I've
mentioned it a few times. I've been concerned about it. And this would be a really great time for
us to move away from symbols to system change. And so that's my ask, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: So I guess my question, then, is, if we talk about police and how they deal
with the public or authorities, somebody who's carrying a gun, why would it be specific just to
certain skin tones? Because it should be across the board. And for me, when I've gone down-- I
addressed this in a couple meetings during the code of conduct. I don't want to say undercover,
but it wasn't like I announced myself, hey, I'm a Board Director. I'm sitting down here watching
you, watching what's going on-- that I saw these officers in these cases actually being quite
compassionate. So I realize there are instances, but I would have concern if we were targeting
only certain individuals versus a general across-the-board philosophy. So I'm sharing that
thought. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I am not going to-- I don't know how to respond to that in a way that I think
would be fair to you on this call. But I will say, Director Menten, that black men, black women
dying in the streets, is why. And I will leave it there.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. I think it should be an across-the-board-- I am one that likes to,
for me personally, when I have an exchange with somebody, I am not looking at the color of

their skin. And if we are talking about human treatment and treating humans properly, then I
don't think the skin color should be part of it. We should all be respected. We should all be
loving one another and treating each other as we want to be treated. And the skin color, to me, if
we're going to have a Board policy, would not narrow it to only certain individuals.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Well, Director, I appreciate your sentiments. And I appreciate this idea of
utopia. We do not live in utopia. And I'm specifically naming black and brown bodies that are
murdered by police. We have someone who is currently suing us because of what transit security
officers did to a homeless man. So I'm asking that specifically because black and brown bodies
are dying in the street. And so someone, maybe another Director might reach out to you, and
have this conversation with you to help you better understand it. But I will leave it there.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Well, I would have to look at records. I would have to look back at
police reports and then say, what, there is no Caucasian this ever happened to?
LYNN GUISSINGER: You know what, I'm going to intercede here. I think that your sentiment
is right, that we hopefully aren't seeing color. But obviously it has been a problem historically, as
Director Lewis and Director Mihalik and others have pointed out. You know, I'm going to take
this offline and figure we've had enough for tonight. And let's continue the conversation offline if
we need to. And I think we do. So thanks. If there is no other matters, I'm going to consider this
meeting adjourned. Is there anything else? Meeting's adjourned. Thanks.

