1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Bob Broom, District F
Claudia Folska, District E
Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M

Ken Mihalik, District G
Doug Tisdale, District H
Jeff Walker, District D
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Civil Rights Committee
Tuesday, October 6, 2020
REMOTE MEETING
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 855-962-1128

Civil Rights Committee
Chaired by Shontel Lewis

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions
C. Guest Speaker

• Transit Security Elsewhere (Justin Bai - 10 minutes)
D. Updates

• Civil Rights Update (Zamy Silva - 10 minutes)
• ACPD Update (Director Williams - 10 minutes)
• CAC Update (Roger Sherman - 10 minutes)
E. Other Matters
F. Next Meeting Date - TBD 2021
G. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Board of Directors

Date: October 1, 2020

From:

Shontel Lewis, Director, District B

GM

Date:

October 1, 2020

Board Meeting Date: October 6, 2020

Subject:

Transit Security Elsewhere (Justin Bai)

ATTACHMENTS:
•

Transit Security Elsewhere (revised)

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Shontel Lewis, Director, District B
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 3

1.C.1.a

Attachment: Transit Security Elsewhere (revised) (4349 : Transit Security Elsewhere

TRANSIT
SECURITY
ELSEWHERE

Eyes on the streets of the Bay Area,
Los Angeles, and Portland
Packet Pg. 4

Overview of this presentation

SOME NOTES ON
RTD AND FARES

“EYES ON THE
STREET”

LOOKING AT THREE
TRANSIT SYSTEMS

Packet Pg. 5

Attachment: Transit Security Elsewhere (revised) (4349 : Transit Security Elsewhere

1.C.1.a

1.C.1.a

Attachment: Transit Security Elsewhere (revised) (4349 : Transit Security Elsewhere

RTD Transit Security
• The RTD page on “Transit Security” states, “Officers
inspect fares, discourage disruptive and inappropriate
behavior and act as ambassadors by assisting riders
who may need help navigating the system”
(emphasis mine).
• Thus, we see from the description of the website that the
function of Transit Security is distilled into these three
functions.
• Do we required armed security officers to perform these
three functions?

Packet Pg. 6

1.C.1.a

Attachment: Transit Security Elsewhere (revised) (4349 : Transit Security Elsewhere

Fares on RTD
• RTD has the highest
adult base fare
(which is $3)
compared to other
cities of similar or
larger size.
• RTD may point out,
though, that the fare
is actually a 3-hour
pass.
Image source: Streetsblog Denver

Packet Pg. 7

1.C.1.a

Most buses use a pay-as-you-enter
system (though during peak hours,
some regional buses use a pay-asyou-exit system). You can pay via
cash or MyRide Card while you
board or present a valid pass (which
may be a paper pass or electronic/on
an app).

Attachment: Transit Security Elsewhere (revised) (4349 : Transit Security Elsewhere

How do you pay the RTD fare?

Trains (light rail and commuter rail)
use a proof-of-payment system. You
must have a valid ticket/pass
(typically at a Ticket Vending
Machine) before you board, which
may get inspected by Transit
Security.
Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: Transit Security Elsewhere (revised) (4349 : Transit Security Elsewhere

1.C.1.a

Some thoughts on the
MyRide Card
• MyRide Card sounds like a good idea in theory. No
fumbling with change! (There’s a US coin shortage after
all!)
• Only 1% of riders pay with MyRide (Source: Streetsblog
Denver).

• You also get a discount when you pay with it. Adult fare
is $2.80.
• But it’s so hard to get one in the first place! You have to
get it at an RTD Sales Outlet (many of which are not
open weekends) or select Safeway and King Soopers
stores. (You can also order them online.)
• Can’t load a day pass or a monthly pass on it!
• So much potential such as fare capping, which isn’t
used!
Packet Pg. 9

Fare evasion
• Fare evasion is quite low on RTD’s to begin with! According to CPR,
only 1.6% of riders on light rail fare evade and only 0.12% of riders
fare evade on commuter rail.
• “Studies in Washington DC, New York City, Portland, Minneapolis,
Seattle, Los Angeles, and Cleveland have shown that fare
enforcement disproportionately targets black and brown people, and
that people of color face harsher penalties when they are stopped.”
(Source: Transit Center)
• Have there been any independent analyses of fare evasion enforcement on
RTD?

Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: Transit Security Elsewhere (revised) (4349 : Transit Security Elsewhere

1.C.1.a

Does fare enforcement actually help?
From Transit Center:
The Seattle-area King County Auditor’s Office released a report on
King County Metro’s fare evasion tactics and stated in part that
“Fare enforcement is an important and highly visible part of
Transit’s RapidRide system, but Transit is not able to determine if it
is effective. The direct costs of the current fare enforcement model
are about $1.7 million per year. This includes over $300,000 in court
costs to process evasion fines, the vast majority of which go
unpaid.”

Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: Transit Security Elsewhere (revised) (4349 : Transit Security Elsewhere

1.C.1.a

“Eyes on the
street”
• A term coined by Jane Jacobs in The

Death and Life of Great American
Cities

• The general idea is that streets are
safer when there is natural
surveillance, other human presence.
• “Walls, fences, and padlocks are all
less effective at deterring crime than
a simple lit window” (Duany et al.
2000).
• This theory has motivated certain
transit systems to have street
vendors near stations, so as to
increase “eyes on the street.”
• Is this possible in Denver?
Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: Transit Security Elsewhere (revised) (4349 : Transit Security Elsewhere

1.C.1.a

Attachment: Transit Security Elsewhere (revised) (4349 : Transit Security Elsewhere

1.C.1.a

BAY AREA RAPID
TRANSIT (BART)
A transit system with a troubled policing history

Packet Pg. 13

BARTPD
• Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) has its own police department (BART Police Department).
• BARTPD made headlines in 2009 when a police officer shot Oscar Grant, an African-American
22-year-old, at Fruitvale station in Oakland.
• The shooting of Grant is still a major point of discussion today, and one of the BART
directors, Debora Allen, received criticism after brushing off concerns about BARTPD. She
wrote off claims that BARTPD murders people (since the shooting of Grant never led to a
murder conviction). (Source)
• Other members of the BART board have called Allen racist.

Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: Transit Security Elsewhere (revised) (4349 : Transit Security Elsewhere

1.C.1.a

Attempts at reform efforts
• After the shooting of Oscar Grant, BART made some efforts at
reform. They created a citizen review board and an independent
police auditor.
• However, biases in policing still persisted: “60 percent of BART
police use-of-force incidents involved Black riders, despite the
fact that only 10% of the system’s riders are Black” (Source:
Transit Center).
• A recent headline was a story about a Black rider who was arrested for
eating a sandwich while on a BART platform.

• Reforming transit security must actually bring about meaningful

change. It shouldn’t just be a PR move that ultimately
accomplishes nothing.

Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: Transit Security Elsewhere (revised) (4349 : Transit Security Elsewhere

1.C.1.a

Revived attempts at reforming
• BART has made efforts to rely less on armed officers for policing.
• BART shifted $2 million from police to transit ambassadors. (Source:
SF Chronicle)
• Transit ambassadors are unarmed, uniformed employees who can provide help
on stations and trains.

• BART has also previously had an issue with keeping their station
elevators clean and safe. They implemented an elevator attendant
program that has proved to be successful (Source: BART).
• The main takeaway from BART is that there are other methods than
armed police officers to provide eyes and ears to transit spaces.

Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: Transit Security Elsewhere (revised) (4349 : Transit Security Elsewhere

1.C.1.a

Attachment: Transit Security Elsewhere (revised) (4349 : Transit Security Elsewhere

1.C.1.a

LOS ANGELES METRO
A transit system facing demands to defund their
transit police

Packet Pg. 17

Metropolitan Division of LAPD
• LA Metro’s security is primarily provided by a division of the LAPD (not a private contractor
as is in the case of RTD).
• Currently, LA Metro is facing demands to defund their transit security.
• Activists and community groups are arguing that instead of investing in security, the money
could be used “on free fares, on better and more frequent service, on homeless outreach
workers” (Source: LA Times).

Packet Pg. 18

Attachment: Transit Security Elsewhere (revised) (4349 : Transit Security Elsewhere

1.C.1.a

Metro motion
• A Metro boardmember has announced a motion to shift from a
police-based approach to a community-based approach. Per
Streetsblog LA, these changes include:
• transit ambassador program
• alternatives to armed law enforcement response to nonviolent crimes
and code of conduct violations
• community stewardship of transit spaces, such as supporting street
vending in transit plazas
• Universal Blue Light program – described in a June 2018 Metro report as
an emergency call box system to be installed throughout the transit
system to improve safety and security
• education about and expansion of fare discount programs
• outreach and services for unhoused individuals
Packet Pg. 19

Attachment: Transit Security Elsewhere (revised) (4349 : Transit Security Elsewhere

1.C.1.a

Changes underway
• The motion was passed on June 25, 2020.
• A Transit Public Safety Advisory Committee will be established.
• 15 members, 3 alternates
• Selection will be through an application process: October 12, 2020 November 6, 2020
• Notifying applicants by early December, kick-off meeting January 2021
• Application mentions meetings until at least June 2022
• Application link: http://metro.legistar1.com/metro/attachments/5766a9ce5bd8-4313-9409-48b13f0e3ab1.pdf

• On August 27, LACMTA CEO Phil Washington announced the
that there will be a new task force to study options for a fare-free
system.
Packet Pg. 20

Attachment: Transit Security Elsewhere (revised) (4349 : Transit Security Elsewhere

1.C.1.a

Attachment: Transit Security Elsewhere (revised) (4349 : Transit Security Elsewhere

1.C.1.a

TRIMET (PORTLAND)
A transit system with a commitment to making
changes to its policing

Packet Pg. 21

TriMet Security
• Security is provided by a variety of personnel
• Have police officers (from local police departments) as well as contracted security (from G4S)
• There are also ride guides, customer safety officers, and customer service representatives
• Specific duties of these various personnel are listed on the TriMet website:
https://trimet.org/about/personnel.htm

Packet Pg. 22

Attachment: Transit Security Elsewhere (revised) (4349 : Transit Security Elsewhere

1.C.1.a

Reimagining transit security
• TriMet has pledged “to move $1.8 million in funding from Transit Police
and other sources to community-based safety programs” (Source: TriMet
blog).
• TriMet chose not to fill six police positions and instead use that money in
community-based approaches.

• As part of reimagining transit security, TriMet
• has been holding “community-wide listening sessions to gather feedback from
riders, front-line employees and community members on the best approaches to
providing security on our system that is free from bias”

• created “a panel of local and national experts to advise us on national best practices
for transit security, equity and community engagement in safety and security”
(Source: TriMet blog).

• TriMet is also establishing “new non-police response resources, such as
mobile crisis intervention teams for mental and behavioral health issues.”
Packet Pg. 23

Attachment: Transit Security Elsewhere (revised) (4349 : Transit Security Elsewhere

1.C.1.a

TriMet timeline
Attachment: Transit Security Elsewhere (revised) (4349 : Transit Security Elsewhere

1.C.1.a

Packet Pg. 24

TriMet’s previous efforts
• TriMet been working on maintaining an equitable system for the past
several years. Previous work they have done includes
• Having independent analyses of the fare citation process to check for any racial
bias
• Decriminalizing fare enforcement by asking state law to be changed
• Discontinuing routine fare checks by police

• Decreasing the fine for fare evasion citations and giving violators the option of
doing community service instead

Packet Pg. 25

Attachment: Transit Security Elsewhere (revised) (4349 : Transit Security Elsewhere

1.C.1.a

END OF
THE
LINE
Attachment: Transit Security Elsewhere (revised) (4349 : Transit Security Elsewhere

1.C.1.a

Packet Pg. 26

1.D.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Paul J. Ballard, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: September 29, 2020

From:

Zamy Silva, Senior Manager, Civil Rights

GM

Date:

September 29, 2020

Board Meeting Date: October 6, 2020

Subject:

Civil Rights Committee Update

ATTACHMENTS:
•

2020-10-06 Civil Rights to Board (PPTX)

•

ACPD Mtg Minutes-8.20.20

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Vivian Morales, Civil Rights Outreach Specialist
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 27

Civil Rights Committee
Zamy Silva, Civil Rights Senior Manager
Kathryne Grove, EEO Manager

October 6, 2020

Packet Pg. 28

Attachment: 2020-10-06 Civil Rights to Board (4346 : Civil Rights Committee Update)

1.D.1.a

1.D.1.a

Attachment: 2020-10-06 Civil Rights to Board (4346 : Civil Rights Committee Update)

Equal Employment Opportunity Office Update
• The EEO Office submitted the EEO Program Plan to
the FTA on February 28, 2020. The FTA approved the
plan on April 24, 2020.

• The EEO Manager continues to virtually train managers and supervisor on
Workplace Discrimination and Harassment within 90 days of new
employment/ promotion at RTD as required by the FTA.

Packet Pg. 29

Equal Employment Opportunity Office Update
• On September 2, 2020 we conducted a 2-hour virtual
and interactive EEO Training to SLT focused on
Workplace Discrimination and Harassment, Unconscious
Bias, Microaggressions and the EEO Investigative
Process.
• On October 21, 2020, the EEO Manager and the ADA Manager will facilitate the
required annual Workplace Discrimination and Harassment Training and ADA
Compliance Training to all RTD Transit Police.

Packet Pg. 30

Attachment: 2020-10-06 Civil Rights to Board (4346 : Civil Rights Committee Update)

1.D.1.a

ADA Office Update
• RTD’s ADA Office coordinated with City and
County of Denver and helped facilitate several
disabled focus group meetings for the 16th St. Mall
project, the most recent one on August 5, 2020.
• To mark the 30-year celebration of the ADA, the ADA Office coordinated with
RTD’s Public Information and assisted with articles, blogs, and interviews in
July of 2020.
• The Civil Rights ADA and EEO Offices, in partnership with HR, Legal, Labor
Relations, and Safety, is conducting a new comprehensive ADA Reasonable
Accommodations Training to all RTD Managers and Supervisors.
• On September 18, 2020, SLT approved the ADA Reasonable Modification Policy
and Procedures.

Packet Pg. 31

Attachment: 2020-10-06 Civil Rights to Board (4346 : Civil Rights Committee Update)

1.D.1.a

ADA Office Update (cont.)
• The ADA Office and Bus Operations are revising
the ADA Reasonable Modification Training, which
will be used for all frontline employees and
dispatchers starting in the next couple months.
• The ADA Office hosted 3 Advisory Committee for People with Disabilities
(ACPD) meetings (2 virtual). Director Williams, the BOD representative to the
ACPD Steering Committee, will provide a brief report from the August 20,
meeting.
• The ADA Investigator streamlined and implemented internal ADA investigative
processes and procedures. Provided data analysis of ADA complaints and
trends to Fixed Route Leadership.

Packet Pg. 32

Attachment: 2020-10-06 Civil Rights to Board (4346 : Civil Rights Committee Update)

1.D.1.a

Small Business Office Update
Base

IGA

Current contracts being monitored

54

13

Sample contracts

Snow removal and janitorial

Highway PnR Expansions

Fixed-route bus operations

First Creek Restoration

On-call construction

Colfax Area Plans Station Area

IT

TOD Projects: 33rd Street Outfall,
Old Towne Transit Hub Project

Landscape
Fare validators
Contracts Breakdown

25 with DBE Goals
29 with SBE Goals
16 with DBE/SBE as Primes

8 Construction
5 Planning

Current DBE/SBE firms
commitment

$90,609,606.27

$12,518,255.74

Packet Pg. 33

Attachment: 2020-10-06 Civil Rights to Board (4346 : Civil Rights Committee Update)

1.D.1.a

1.D.1.a

Attachment: 2020-10-06 Civil Rights to Board (4346 : Civil Rights Committee Update)

Small Business Office Update (cont.)
FasTracks Projects (Corridors and program-wide contracts)
DBE/SBE Commitment to Date

$1,162,076,063
DBE $819,502,787
SBE $342,573,276

Total DBE/SBE firms to date

619

Total subcontracts to DBE/SBE

2,999

Packet Pg. 34

Civil Rights Outreach Update
Small Business Office Outreach
• Small/Disadvantaged Business Enterprise Advisory Council
• Hosted 1 in person (February 26) and 3 virtual events (April 29, June 24, August 26).
Last 2020 event scheduled for October 28.
• Topics ranged from Upcoming RTD Opportunities and Building Financial/Bonding Capacity.

Attachment: 2020-10-06 Civil Rights to Board (4346 : Civil Rights Committee Update)

1.D.1.a

• RTD Small Business Enterprise Certification Webinars
• Hosted 4 virtual webinars (March 25, May 27, July 29, 2020 YTD SBE Applications Received - 61
September 30). Webinar scheduled for November 18.
• Hosted 2 Virtual SBO Office Hours (July 22, August
Outreach
19)
48%
52%
Word of
• Half of new SBE Certification applications received to
Mouth/Website
date are a direct result of Outreach efforts.

Packet Pg. 35

Civil Rights Outreach Update (cont.)
2020 Events and Partnerships
•

Attended YTD 93 events including:
• 25th Annual MLK Business Awards, January 17
• 2020 WTS Gala, February 6
• COMTO Garrett Morgan Youth Day, February 10
and Virtual Scholarship Banquet, June 12
• Hispanic Contractors of Colorado Annual Banquet,
February 15
• Black Chamber’s Economic Breakfast, March 10
• Asian Chamber of Commerce Virtual Gala, July 17

•

Partnered with 17 organizations and agencies that support and benefit small,
disadvantaged, and women owned businesses.

Packet Pg. 36

Attachment: 2020-10-06 Civil Rights to Board (4346 : Civil Rights Committee Update)

1.D.1.a

ACPD Update
Director Williams

Attachment: 2020-10-06 Civil Rights to Board (4346 : Civil Rights Committee Update)

1.D.1.a

Packet Pg. 37

Q&A
Attachment: 2020-10-06 Civil Rights to Board (4346 : Civil Rights Committee Update)

1.D.1.a

Packet Pg. 38

1.D.1.b

Meeting Objectives:
1. Introduction of New Steering Committee Members
2. ADA Hero Awards
3. ACPD/APAC Committee Proposal
4. Updates: Bikes on Light Rail, Suspended Service Communication, Ad Hoc Committee
Code of Conduct, General Manager Search, 16th Street Mall Feedback (postponed to next
meeting)
5. Acknowledgements to Members
6. Other Matters
Jaime Lewis welcomed everyone to the virtual meeting. Jan Ross did Safety Moment, Vivian
Morales reviewed technology and questions. 31 people on the call. Jan Ross completed roll call.
Zamy Silva introduced Director Kate Williams and Legal Counsel, Melanie Snyder to the ACPD Steering
Committee.

I.

Public Comment Period: (Non-ACPD members in attendance may provide 3-minute input).
Candice Grier – spoke up and thanked Ed Neuberg for providing her the tools on riding
fixed route buses and mall shuttles.

II.

ADA Hero Awards – presented by Anne Hillyer
ADA Hero Award certificates and pins were presented virtually to David Tadevosyan,
Richard Foust, Wondu Absu, Josefina Olivas, and Troy Norris. Jaime thanked the group for
being true heroes!

III.

ACPD/APAC Committee Proposal - Zamy Silva
Director Williams has been appointed by the RTD Board Chair to serve on RTD’s ACPD Internal
Steering Committee and she will be reporting to the RTD’s Board on ACPD’s agenda during
the Civil Rights committee. As we move forward, in 2021 as a matter of transparency, and
efficiency, we would like to pilot a new initiative that involves integrating the two existing
ADA committees, ACPD and the ADA Paratransit Committee (APAC). APAC currently meets
every other month and ACPD meets quarterly. We are looking to increase the frequency of
the ACPD meetings to 6 times per year and combine some of the meetings during the year
to include both committees. APAC does not have a steering committee, so we feel that one
steering committee could support both committees. Brent Belisle commented that he would
be in favor of more frequency for ACPD. Please email Jan or Ed if you have feedback or
comments.
Page 1 of 5

Packet Pg. 39

Attachment: ACPD Mtg Minutes-8.20.20 (4346 : Civil Rights Committee Update)

Advisory Committee for People with Disabilities (ACPD)
August 20, 2020 – Time: 2:00 pm – 3:30 pm
Teams Remote Meeting - Minutes

1.D.1.b
RTD ACPD Meeting Summary: August 20, 2020

IV:

Updates:

Questions/Comments – Vivian Stovall asked about the Auraria light rail and whether the were
going to put any seats back in the rail cars. That will not happen as all rail cars need to be able
to be switched around and any cars may be used as the lead car. This was also part of RTD’s Light
Rails lawsuit Settlement Agreement.
•

Suspended Service Communication - An update was given by Chief of Police, Bob Grado, and
AGM of Communications, Pauletta Tonilas. It was explained that due to the protests and the
vandalism with the riots and protests downtown, bus service into downtown was suspended for
about 7 days. Lots of things were taken into account, but ultimately safety was the main concern
both for our riders and our bus and rail operators. There was a committee of Senior Leaders
formed and they met daily to make these tough decisions, along with the intel and constant
communication with Denver Police. Officers were on hand to take care of DUS and ensure it was
safe. Buses were re-routed to Pepsi Center in some cases. Pauletta stated that we were in
constant communication with the media, our stakeholders, social media posts and website
updates. Ultimately, we made the right decision for the safety of everyone. Jaime thanked
Pauletta and Bob.
Questions/Comments – Both Earl Lee and Greg Martinez commented that they agreed with
RTD’s decision to keep its riders safe. Vivian asked the Chief about the use of DPD’s cameras
and the Chief indicated that we share feed with practically every agency in Denver Metro, plus
our security command monitors 24 hours a day.

•

Ad Hoc Committee Code of Conduct – Barbara McManus provided an update: current RTD
Board Chair Angie Rivera-Malpiede formed a committee with community partners, ACLU
members, Colorado Coalition for the Homeless, Denver Housing Authority, Denver Health and
others which was sponsored by Mike Meader and Chief Grado. They worked on the guide and
it was unanimously approved in mid-July by the RTD Board. Education helps to promote rider
safety.
Questions/Comments – Earl Lee asked how these will be communicated with the public and how
will they be enforced. Chief Grado stated that they are available on our website and they have
the communication sent out to stakeholders. Enforcement will be as needed. Jaime stated he is
a little disappointed that the disability community wasn’t asked for their input. Mike Meader did
state that Director Williams was on the committee and shared her efforts for the disability
community.
Page 2 of 5

Packet Pg. 40

Attachment: ACPD Mtg Minutes-8.20.20 (4346 : Civil Rights Committee Update)

Bikes on Light Rail Pilot - Paul DesRocher provided an update and indicated that the ‘bikes on
light rail pilot’ will be postponed to early September due to marketing and communications
materials delay. No set date on the launch yet. This pilot uses the space on the light rail cars to
provide room for bicyclists. This pilot does not include the front car on the trains which has the
high block space mainly used for mobility devices/ aids. Pauletta mentioned she wanted to tweak
the signs in order to best communicate this program to our riders.

1.D.1.b

•

V.

General Manager/CEO Search – Barbara McManus – Barbara shared the timeline and process
for the Board to select the next General Manager and CEO. An executive search firm started
the recruitment process after Dave Genova retired. Fifty applications were received and were
narrowed down to 18. The Board met during the whole process and soon they narrowed it
down to 6 candidates. Initial interviews were conducted and three candidates moved through
the next phase. The three candidates were required to provide their bio’s and complete a
virtual video presentation which were all issued publicly for the general public to view and
provide input through a survey with a series of questions. Once the evaluation of survey
information completed, the Board will meet again. They have it now narrowed down to 3
candidates and they are all female. On or before the October Board meeting they will have a
decision made and start the contract negotiations. It was advised for the committee to go out
to the website and complete the survey and provide feedback.
Acknowledgement to ACPD Members

•

VI.

Shout out to Barbara Boyer who is leaving the committee. Jaime was very appreciative of her
service for the last three years. Also, Anahit Labarre and Greg Martinez renewed their terms for
another two years.
Other Matters

•

16th Street Mall Discussion will take place at the next ACPD meeting on November 19, 2020.
(due to insufficient time at this meeting to discuss).

•

Dr William Gross tried to give his Liaison update on APAC, but his connection was poor.
Attached is the report from him taken over the phone after the meeting.

•

Kyle Bradell is running in the November election as a Board of Director for District A.

Jaime closed the meeting by thanking everyone for their participation. Meeting adjourned.

Page 3 of 5

Packet Pg. 41

Attachment: ACPD Mtg Minutes-8.20.20 (4346 : Civil Rights Committee Update)

RTD ACPD Meeting Summary: August 20, 2020

1.D.1.b
RTD ACPD Meeting Summary: August 20, 2020

APPENDIX A: Attendance
ACPD MEMBERS
Name

X

Jaime Lewis – Chair

X

Vincent Leasher

X

Brent Belisle

X

Earl Lee

Barbara Boyer

X

Greg Martinez

X

Kyle Bradell
Lynn Edmonds

X

Attachment: ACPD Mtg Minutes-8.20.20 (4346 : Civil Rights Committee Update)

Name

Aaron Pasterz
X

Anahit Labarre

Vivian Stovall
Vacancy

Joe Lamers
X – on the phone;

ACPD Steering Committee

Name

Name

X

Bob Grado

X

Gary Schafer

X

Anne Hillyer

X

Zamy Silva

X

Brian Iacono
Dave Jensen

Bill Sirois
X

Greg Smith

X

John McKay

Melanie Snyder

X

Heather McKillop

Henry Stopplecamp

X

Barbara McManus

X

Pauletta Tonilas

X

Michael Meader

X

Erin Vallejos

X

Ed Neuberg

X

Jan Ross

X

Jenifer Ross-Amato

Jyotsna Vishwakarma
X

Paul Von Fay
Vivian Morales

X

Director Kate Williams

* – on the phone;

Public Comment Speakers

Name
X

Name

Candice Grier

Other Attendees
Page 4 of 5

Packet Pg. 42

1.D.1.b
RTD ACPD Meeting Summary: August 20, 2020

Role

Staff

APAC Liaison

William Gross

ADA Heroes

David Tadevosyan, Wondu Absu, Josefina Olivia, Richard Foust, Troy Norris (not attndg)

Mgmt of

Winona Rivera, James Boutell, Kalee Wallace, Steve Martingano, Michael Pierce, Regan
Pena, Adam Reeves

Presenter

Paul DesRocher
Attachment: ACPD Mtg Minutes-8.20.20 (4346 : Civil Rights Committee Update)

ADA Hero
Awardees

Page 5 of 5

Packet Pg. 43

