Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Shelley Cook, District L
Bob Broom, District F
Vince Buzek, District J
Claudia Folska, District E
Lynn Guissinger, District O
Shontel M. Lewis, District B

Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, October 22, 2019
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Kate Williams

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• January 2020 Service Changes
• Wagon Road PnR/144th FlexRide
C. Updates

• Board Paper on Mandating
• Service Availability September 2019
• Rail Operations Update September 2019
• Union Station Private Carrier Access

D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - November 12, 2019
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: October 16, 2019

From:

Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer

GM

Date:

October 15, 2019

Board Meeting Date:

Subject:

January 2020 Service Changes

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the January 2020 Service Change package as revised and summarized in Attachment A
resulting in an annualized base system cost of $519,000 and, further, to authorize the General Manager
or his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is
impacted by these changes
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services
Task Goal #1 – Fiscal Sustainability
DISCUSSION
To meet the diverse travel needs of the citizens of the District and maintain a high-performance,
sustainable transit system, RTD has developed a networked family of services for which the different
classes of service have different expectations of performance. We will continue adjusting services in
response to changes in ridership and operational performance of the transit system as a whole. It is also
our responsibility to identify services that are underperforming and recommend modifications,
curtailment or cancellation of service as warranted or recommend new service as changes in the
community warrant and finances allow.
The proposals herein include a mix of service improvements, adjustments and reductions.
The grant for service on the Route 62 – Commerce City/Dick’s SG Park expires in December 2019 and
due to its low ridership performance, it is proposed for cancellation. With the expiration of grant funding
for expanded service on the Route LD, it is proposed that the Route LD be returned to its pre-grant level
of service. Additionally, a number of service changes aimed at increasing on-time performance and
service reliability are included in these proposals. We will monitor customer response to the
implementation of these service changes and propose adjustments and service alternatives as
appropriate in future service change recommendations.
The guiding principles for proposed service changes continue to be:
 Service performance evaluation based on the RTD Service Standards;
 The effects on the overall integrity of the transit network and on transit dependent markets;
 The availability of alternative services to affected riders;
 Cost-effective distribution throughout the District and Family of Services and the ability to
enhance service when possible;
 Title VI of the Civil Rights Act: benefits and services are provided without regard to race, color or
national origin; also disparate effects on low income and minority populations; and
 Response to changes in the communities where services are provided

Packet Pg. 3

1.B.1

SUMMARY OF PUBLIC MEETINGS
Five public meetings were conducted between September 25th and October 3rd in Lafayette, Commerce
City, Longmont and at the Blake Administration Building Rooms T & D. Comments and further details
from these meetings and the service change website are summarized in Attachment C of this report.
CHANGES TO INITIAL RECOMMENDATION
Staff receives input during the public comment process and continues to conduct additional analysis
after the initial service recommendations are communicated to the Board of Directors. Depending on the
outcome of the public comment process and continued analysis, staff may or may not propose
modifications to these initial recommendations. The following proposals have been significantly modified:
Route 10 – East 12th Avenue Terminal change for CBA compliance
Route 11 Mississippi Avenue school tripper schedule adjustment
Route 15L – East Colfax rescind proposed bus stop changes
Route 30L – South Federal Limited schedule adjustment
Route 32 – 32nd Avenue/City Park extend trips to Ward Rd and I-70 park-n-Ride
Route 38 – West 38th Avenue extend trips to Ward Rd and I-70 park-n-Ride
Route 44 – 44th Avenue extend trips to Ward Rd and I-70 park-n-Ride
Route 73 – Quebec Street school tripper schedule adjustment
Route 51 – Sheridan minor schedule adjustments
Route 99L - Federal Center/South Kipling Limited name change, formerly Route 100L
AB – Airport/Boulder Schedule adjustments for better passenger level distribution
E Line (Light Rail) schedule adjustment in the very early morning for better on-time performance
FF 1 Union Station/Downtown Boulder Station schedule adjustments for better passenger level
distribution
L Line ( Light Rail) schedule adjustment for better on-time performance
LD 1/LD2/LD3/225 service restructure
Southwest Plaza Terminal Relocation Route 35 to remain at Southwest Plaza
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED SERVICE CHANGES

Routes proposed for service improvements:
Route 65 – Monaco: extend select peak trips to Northfield
Route 66 – Arapahoe Road: extend evening service
Route LX – Longmont/Denver: add one northbound mid-day weekday trip

Routes proposed for service reductions:
Route 62 – Commerce City/Dick’s SG Park: discontinue service, due to low ridership.
Route LD/LX/225 – Longmont/Denver: service restructure reducing service midday weekday and
Saturday to pre grant levels.

Routes proposed for mixed service improvements/ service efficiencies:
Route 1 – 1st Avenue: schedule adjustments
Route 3 – East Alameda: extend morning trips to Colorado Blvd and remove Adams/Ellsworth deviation
in the Cherry Creek area.
Route 15L – East Colfax Limited:
As part of the East Colfax Stop Improvements, make bus stop revisions are proposed.
Revise peak frequency.
Southwest Plaza Terminal Relocation

Packet Pg. 4

1.B.1

Routes proposed for routine running time analysis/schedule adjustments:
0L – South Broadway
1 – 1st Avenue
Route 10 – East 12th Avenue Terminal change for CBA compliance
Route 11 Mississippi Avenue school tripper schedule adjustment
Route 30L – South Federal Limited schedule adjustment to improve on-time performance.
Route 32 – 32nd Avenue/City Park extend trips to Ward Rd and I-70 park-n-Ride
Route 38 – West 38th Avenue extend trips to Ward Rd and I-70 park-n-Ride
Route 44 – 44th Avenue extend trips to Ward Rd and I-70 park-n-Ride
Route 51 – Sheridan minor schedule adjustments
Route 73 – Quebec Street school tripper schedule adjustment
157 – CCA/Buckley
AB – Airport/Boulder
E Line (Light Rail – Denver Union Station to Ridgegate Station)
FF –1 – Flatiron Flyer
L Line (Light Rail – 30th & Downing to Convention Center)
NB – Nederland/Boulder
R Line (Light Rail – Peoria & Smith Rd Station to Ridgegate Station)
W – Line (Light Rail - Denver Union Station to Jefferson County Gov. Center/Golden Station)
Bus Stop Consolidation:
Route 15 – East Colfax
Route 24 – University Boulevard
Route 27 - East Yale Avenue
Route 35 - Hampden Avenue
Route 46 – Dahlia Street
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The overall financial impact contained in this proposal includes a base system cost of approximately
$519,000 and a reduction in 1 FTE requirements.
EQUITY ANALYSIS
The Federal Transit Administration’s (FTA) Circular 4702.1B provides its recipients of FTA financial
assistance with instructions for achieving compliance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and
Executive Order 12898 regarding Environmental Justice. In this circular, the FTA requires RTD to
evaluate, prior to implementation, any and all service changes that exceed the established major service
change threshold, to determine whether those changes will have a disproportionately negative impact on
minority or low-income populations. Our evaluation of the proposed January 2020 service changes has
found no disparate impacts.

ATTACHMENTS:


January 2020 Attachment A



January 2020 Attachment B public comment



January 2020 Attachment C - rLD1

(PDF)



January 2020 Attachment D - rLD2

(PDF)



January 2020 Attachment E - r3 (PDF)



January 2020 Attachment F - r59

(PDF)



January 2020 Attachment G - r65

(PDF)

(DOCX)
(PDF)

Packet Pg. 5

1.B.1


January 2020 Attachment H - r76



January 2020 Attachment I - r99 (PDF)



January 2020 Attachment J - r225 and rLD3

(PDF)
(PDF)

Prepared by:
Jessie Carter, Manager, Service Planning and Scheduling
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 6

1.B.1.a
Atch – January 2020

Bus
Route 0L – South Broadway Limited
Service Standard type - CBD Local – (10% - 15.2 pass. per hr. / 25% - 22.3 pass. per hr.

Schedule adjustments on weekend service. No cost impact anticipated.
Route 1 – 1st Avenue:
Service Standard type - CBD Local – (10% - 15.2 pass. per hr. / 25% - 22.3 pass. per hr.

Route 3 – Alameda
Service Standard type - Urban Local – (10%-12.2 pass. per hr. / 25%-19.1 pass. per hr.) Extend

selected trips presently operating west of Alameda Station, east to Colorado Boulevard,
from 6:00am to 9:00am. This change would provide 30 minute peak frequency between
Alameda Station (Central LRT) and the Cherry Creek district.
Also, remove deviation via Adams/Ellsworth, route to stay on Steele Street one block
away. Also, discontinue the following stops, due to low usage and very close proximity to
the better located stop at 1st/Fillmore:
- 1st Ave/Milwaukee (westbound)
- 1st Ave/St. Paul (eastbound)
Cost impacts are anticipated to be an estimated 765 hours and $63,400 annualized.
Route 10 – East 12th Avenue
Change terminal from Elitch Gardens to Denver Union Station for CBA compliance. No cost
impacts anticipated.
Route 11 – Mississippi Avenue
School tripper time schedule adjustment. No cost impacts anticipated
Route 15 – East Colfax Avenue
Service Standard type - CBD Local – (10% - 15.2 pass. per hr. / 25% - 22.3 pass. per hr.

Close stop westbound at Colfax/St. Paul Street, consolidate one block east with new Route
15L stop at Steele Street. Close stops at Colfax/Valentia, instead use new stop at Uinta
Street one block west. Close westbound stop at Colfax/Washington, adjacent stops are
500 feet in each direction. No cost impact anticipated.
Route 15L – East Colfax Limited
Service Standard type - CBD Local – (10% - 15.2 pass. per hr. / 25% - 22.3 pass. per hr.

As part of the East Colfax Stop Improvements, make the following stop revisions:
- Add stop at Steele Street in both directions.
- Add stop at Elm Street in both directions.
- Discontinue stop at Glencoe Street (will continue to be served by Route 15,
replaced by new stop at Elm Street).
- Discontinue stop at Tamarac Street (stop may be discontinued, replaced by new
stop at Uinta Street).
- Add stop at Uinta Street in both directions.

Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: January 2020 Attachment A (3971 : January 2020 Service Changes)

Schedule adjustments, no cost impact anticipated.

1.B.1.a
Atch – January 2020

Revise peak frequency to consistent 7 minute (morning westbound) and 8 minute
(afternoon eastbound) frequency. Cost savings are anticipated to be an estimated 944
hours and $78,169 annualized.
Route 24 – University Boulevard
Discontinue the following stops, due to very low ridership:
- University/Cherryville Road
- University/Garden Lane
- University/Willamette Lane
- University/Huntwick Lane
- University/Sunset Drive (southbound)
- University/Sunrise Drive
- University/Iowa Avenue
- University/Cedar Avenue
In addition, the stop at University/Vassar should be moved one block north to Harvard,
which provides a safe, signalized pedestrian crossing. No cost impact anticipated.
Route 27 – East Yale
Route 46 – Dahlia Street
Service Standard type - Urban Local – (10%-12.2 pass. per hr. / 25%-19.1 pass. per hr.)

Discontinue eastbound stop at 4200 East Yale, and westbound stop at Yale/Ash Street.
Alternative stops are 400 feet in either direction. No cost impact anticipated.
Route 30L – South Federal Limited
Service Standard type - CBD Local – (10% - 15.2 pass. per hr. / 25% - 22.3 pass. per hr.

Schedule adjustment to improve on-time performance. No cost anticipated.
Route 32 – 32nd Avenue/City Park
Service Standard type - CBD Local – (10% - 15.2 pass. per hr. / 25% - 22.3 pass. per hr.

Extend trips to Ward Rd and I-70 park-n-Ride for CBA compliance. Cost impacts are
estimated to be 940 hours and $77,879 annualized.
Route 35 – Hampden Avenue
Service Standard type - Urban Local – (10%-12.2 pass. per hr. / 25%-19.1 pass. per hr.)

Discontinue the following stops, due to very low usage:
- Jefferson Bypass/Downing (eastbound)
- Hampden/Buell Mansion Parkway
- Hampden/Monroe
- 10200 Block East Girard (westbound)
No cost impact anticipated.
Route 38 – West 38th Avenue
Service Standard type - CBD Local – (10% - 15.2 pass. per hr. / 25% - 22.3 pass. per hr.

Extend trips to Ward Rd and I-70 park-n-Ride for CBA compliance. Cost impacts are
estimated to be 250 hours and $20,700 annualized.

Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: January 2020 Attachment A (3971 : January 2020 Service Changes)

Service Standard type - Urban Local – (10%-12.2 pass. per hr. / 25%-19.1 pass. per hr.)

1.B.1.a
Atch – January 2020

Route 44 – 44th Avenue
Service Standard type - CBD Local – (10% - 15.2 pass. per hr. / 25% - 22.3 pass. per hr.

Extend trips to Ward Rd and I-70 park-n-Ride for CBA compliance. Cost impacts are
estimated to be 441 hours and $36,580 annualized.
Route 51 – Sheridan

Route 62 – Commerce City/Dick’s SG Park
Service Standard type - Suburban Local - (10%-4.7 pass. per hr. / 25%-11.4 pass. per hr.)
Grant funding for Route 62 expires as of December 31, 2019. Due to low Ridership, it is
proposed to discontinue Route 62 and to serve Northfield High School via selected trips on
current Route 65. Resource savings are estimated to be 2 weekday and one Saturday full
time employee equivalents.
Route 65 – Monaco/Northfield
Service Standard type - Urban Local – (10%-12.2 pass. per hr. / 25%-19.1 pass. per hr.)

New branch service extending service to the Northfield area, thereby replacing a segment
of Route 62 service. Operates from Central Park Station north on Central Park Blvd., then
makes a clockwise loop via 56th Avenue, Dallas Street, and Prairie Meadow Drive,
returning to Central Park Boulevard and Central Park Station. Provides two morning and
two afternoon trips, oriented to serve Northfield High School. Cost impacts anticipated to be
an estimated 1,275 hours and $ 105,600 annualized, requiring one morning peak period vehicle.

Route 66 – Arapahoe Road
Service Standard type - Suburban Local - (10%-4.7 pass. per hr. / 25%-11.4 pass. per hr.)
Add morning peak bus for adequate recovery and operator breaks, and improved
connections. Also, running time adjustments. Extend evening service one hour later in
each direction, for improved access from the Arapahoe County Justice Center. Cost
impacts are estimated to be 2,170 hours and $179,600 annualized.
Route 73 – Quebec Street
Service Standard type - Urban Local – (10%-12.2 pass. per hr. / 25%-19.1 pass. per hr.)

School tripper time schedule adjustment. No cost impacts anticipated
Route 99L - Federal Center/South Kipling Limited
Service Standard type - Urban Local – (10%-12.2 pass. per hr. / 25%-19.1 pass. per hr.)

This proposal changes the designation of the Route 100L to 99L to be consistent with the
naming convention place in effect with the G Line Bus and Rail Service change. No cost
anticipated.
Route 125 – Youngfield/Ward
Service Standard type - Suburban Local - (10%-4.7 pass. per hr. / 25%-11.4 pass. per hr.)
Running time adjustments.

Packet Pg. 9

Attachment: January 2020 Attachment A (3971 : January 2020 Service Changes)

Service Standard type - Urban Local – (10%-12.2 pass. per hr. / 25%-19.1 pass. per hr.)
Minor schedule adjustments. No cost anticipated.

1.B.1.a
Atch – January 2020

Route 157 – CCA/Buckley
Service Standard type - Urban Local – (10%-12.2 pass. per hr. / 25%-19.1 pass. per hr.)

Running time adjustments. No cost impact anticipated.
Route AB – Boulder/Denver Airport
Regional - (10% 11.3 pass. per hr./ 25% - 21.9 pass per hr.)

Schedule adjustments for better passenger level distribution. No cost impacts anticipated.
FF 1 Union Station/Downtown Boulder Station
Schedule adjustments for better passenger level distribution. No cost impacts anticipated.
Route LD1/LD2 – Longmont/Denver
Regional - (10% 11.3 pass. per hr./ 25% - 21.9 pass per hr.)

Grant funding for Route LD1/LD2 expires as of December 31, 2019. Due to low weekday
mid-day and weekend ridership a modification to the current service pattern is warranted.
This proposal offers a combined 30 minute headways on Route patterns LD1 and LD2
during weekday peak between Longmont & Denver Union Station. An additional pattern is
also proposed, detailed in the LD3/225 proposal below. Resource savings are estimated to
be 1 weekday and two Saturday full time employee equivalents.
LD3/225 - Longmont/Broomfield
Regional - (10% 11.3 pass. per hr./ 25% - 21.9 pass per hr.)

It is proposed to replace the Route 225 segment between Lafayette PnR and US 36 &
Broomfield Station to be with new branch service designated Route LD3. The new Route
LD3 would provide service between 8th & Coffman PnR and US36 & Broomfield Station
with 60 minute midday and evening service and 120 minute headway frequency on
Saturday.
Route LX1/LX2 – Longmont/Denver
Regional - (10% 11.3 pass. per hr./ 25% - 21.9 pass per hr.)

It is proposed to add one northbound mid-day weekday trip on Route LX2, to address
current mid-day demand between Union Station and 8th & Coffman Park-n-Ride. Costs are
anticipated to be an estimated 765 hours and $61,900 annualized.
NB – Nederland/Boulder

Regional - (10% 11.3 pass. per hr./ 25% - 21.9 pass per hr.)

Schedule adjustments to allow for AM and PM service to Nederland High School, due to
change of bell times. No cost impacts anticipated.
Southwest Plaza Terminal Relocation
Due to the redevelopment of the Southwest Plaza area it is proposed to move the bus
terminal location to Long Drive and Bowles Avenue. This proposal will affect Routes 35,
59, 76 and 99100, requiring routing and schedule changes. Anticipated costs are
estimated to be 629 hours and $51,700 annualized.

Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: January 2020 Attachment A (3971 : January 2020 Service Changes)

Regional - (10% 11.3 pass. per hr./ 25% - 21.9 pass per hr.)

1.B.1.a
Atch – January 2020

Rail
E Line (Light Rail) Denver Union Station to Ridgegate Station
Schedule adjustment in the very early morning for better on-time performance. No cost
impacts anticipated.

W Line (Light Rail - Denver Union Station to Jefferson County Gov. Center/Golden Station)
Schedule adjustments, to match Saturday and Sunday evening trips, creating a consistent
weekend service. No cost impact anticipated.
R Line (Light Rail – Peoria & Smith Rd Station to Ridgegate Station)
Schedule adjustments, shifting evening trips to allow for better time spacing between the
R, E and H line. No cost impact anticipated.

Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: January 2020 Attachment A (3971 : January 2020 Service Changes)

L Line (Light Rail – 30th & Downing to Convention Center)
Schedule adjustment for better on-time performance. No cost impacts anticipated.

1.B.1.b

Wednesday, September 25, 2019
Lafayette Public Library
6:00pm

Carl Crosswhite had signed up to comment, but initially declined to comment. He later
inquired as to the status of the destroyed shelter at US36 & Broomfield Station, and when
a replacement would be installed.
Francie Crosswhite stated that she appreciated the service provided by the LD. She also
stated that she hopes the LD1 does not go away in the future.
Jeff Zumfelde had signed up to comment, but had departed the meeting prior to the meeting
opening for comments. He had his questions addressed by Nataly prior to the presentation.
Elizabeth Dickinson claimed that the 30 minute combined frequency provided by the LD1
and LD2 would be inadequate as they service different stops in Lafayette. She stated that,
if she were to miss an LD1 in Lafayette, she would need to wait an hour for the next bus,
as the LD2 does not service the same stops. Elizabeth stated that many of the LD commuters
may switch to US36 & Flatiron Station because of the 60 minute frequency of the LD1. She
also argued that the taxes levied on Lafayette residents were unfair as they have continually
have service cut in their area. H
Hiram Wolgemuth had signed up to comment, but declined to comment.
Ian Kelly Voiced support for the initial proposal for the LD1 put forth by Boulder County. He
argued that the LD1 should be rerouted to service the apartment complexes south of
Lafayette Park n Ride/north of Exempla. He also argued for another southbound route from
Lafayette to the US36 corridor. e later asked for clarification about how RTD works together
with local organizations to determine service.
Joan Santon stated that it is a disservice that Lafayette only has as much service as it
currently does. She claims that she always sees empty buses on other routes, and wonders
why RTD keeps threatening to cut the LD. She asked whether there are any other routes
which are grant-funded in the RTD system. She also wondered why rail lines keep opening
without any service being provided to Lafayette. She later asked how she could get in
contact with her local officials.
Sondra Bland seconded Joan’s point regarding FasTracks and rail lines continuing to be
funded without Lafayette receiving any service. She claimed that the LD is unreliable
because, if she misses one, she will have to wait for far too long, especially in inclement
weather. She claims that people will simply end up driving across Boulder County to catch
another bus (the FF). She also stated that she has heard RTD drivers mentioning the fact
that they hate driving the LD.

Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: January 2020 Attachment B public comment (3971 : January 2020 Service Changes)

Staff in attendance included Nataly Handlos, Sage Thornbrugh and Lisa Trujillo. There were
17 members from the public in attendance, along with Judy Lubow, Director District L, RTD
Board. Also in attendance - Scott McCarey with Boulder County, Alex Hyde-Wright with
Boulder County, Jeff Butts with Boulder County, and Paul Rayl with the City of Lafayette.

1.B.1.b

Helen Bushnell questioned whether drivers are being sufficiently trained to drive the LD. She
claimed RTD’s public outreach to notify riders of potential service changes is subpar, as it
doesn’t reach enough people. The complimented the proposed LD3, and liked that it
connects Longmont, Lafayette, and Broomfield. She also claimed that it is difficult to grow
ridership when buses like the LD are always leaving early. She later followed this up by
claiming the Commuting Solutions and other TMOs in the areas work exclusively to get
subsidies for white/rich/middle class/9-5 workers, rather than reaching out to poorer
communities. She claims that RTD should do a better job by provide equity in their public
outreach.
Sarah Barnes stated that it would be great to focus more on driver training, as some of them
don’t know their routes.
Stephanie Welton voiced support for the Boulder County proposal. She also stated that
dealing with our customer service department is frustrating, and claims that there appears
to be a disconnect in RTD between the data though which decisions are made and the
communication to the public. She later clarified part of a question posed by Ian Kelly,
explaining that RTD not only works with local organizations, but works with counties, cities,
and regional organizations as well.
Devon McCune stated his support for a mid-day option to Union Station. He claims that
having to connect from the LD3 to the FF at US36 & Broomfield Station adds lots of
commuting time and, with inclement weather and long walks, is a major inconvenience for
passengers.

Thursday, September 26, 2019
Commerce City - Eagle Point Rec Center
6:00pm
Staff in attendance included Nataly Handlos, Sage Thornbrugh and Lisa Trujillo. There was
1 member from the public in attendance. There were no RTD board members, elected
officials, or local staff in attendance.
Paulette Steinhoff was the only member of the public to attend, and posed questions
regarding the changes to the 59 and the 51. She wanted to know how the change of terminal
for Route 59 would affect her travel time to her appointments, and whether any of the route
was being discontinued. She stated her support for relocating part of Route 51 to go directly
through the mall in Englewood. She asked questions pertaining to Access-a-Ride specifically, what the requirements are for her to be able to use Access-a-Ride at all times,
and who sets those requirements. Staff contacted Dan Merritt during the meeting to help
address concerns regarding the changes to Route 59, and followed up with her via email
the next day, in order to provide her the contact information for Sage Thornbrugh, Nataly
Handlos, and Dan Merritt.
Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: January 2020 Attachment B public comment (3971 : January 2020 Service Changes)

Louis Burkhardt said that he would love a bus from Lafayette Park n Ride to US 36 &
Broomfield Station on Sundays. He also argued that drivers need more training about the
fare zones on the LD, as he claims that he has been charged the incorrect fare several times.
He states that he uses a MyRide card, and often has to convince drivers that a fare is local
rather than regional. It is inconvenient for him to consistently contest his fares with either
the drivers or with RTD administrative staff.

1.B.1.b

Staff in attendance included Nataly Handlos, Sage Thornbrugh, Jessie Carter, Michael Ford,
Chris Quinn, and Lisa Trujillo. There were 23 members from the public in attendance. Also
in attendance - Scott McCarey with Boulder County, Alex Hyde-Wright with Boulder County,
Jeff Butts with Boulder County, and Phil Greenwald with the City of Longmont. There were
no RTD board members in attendance.
Andrea Kaumann claimed that she repeatedly hears RTD claim that there’s not enough
ridership after 5:45pm for more LX service, and compared the situation to a chicken/egg
scenario, and that, if RTD were to actually provide the service, more people would rider it.
She argued the same is true for early morning LX trips, and suggested that RTD should pilot
the service to see what the results would be. She requested an LD or LX to leave from/go
to Civic Center. She later asked how she could provide a suggestion or advocate for a
specific route change, apart from in the public meeting format.
Rolf Kaumann echoed Andrea’s requests for earlier/later LX service and trips on the LD/LX
to/from Civic Center. He asked if there was any way we could build flexibility into our
courtesy hold policy, as he claimed that, whenever he takes local buses to connect to
regional service (or vice versa), he often misses his connections. He claimed this is a major
inconvenience for passengers, especially in inclement weather. He later asked whether RTD
was still on track to implement B Line service by 2040.
Jennifer Record stated her desire for all LX2 trips to go to 23rd & Main in Longmont. She
stated that RTD could work together with companies who provide ecopasses in order to
better notify riders of upcoming service change hearings. She claims that all of the
connections necessitated by the LD3 make the trip too long, and that an LX2 trip after
5:45pm would be helpful for commuters with their loss of direct LD service during the day.
Karen Vent showed up late and required Jessie to provide the presentation to her separately.
She provided written comments, stating that Lafayette PnR needs a stop for the LD3, and
she requested Sunday service to Broomfield.
Thomas Gilbertz asked whether the 324 would be expanded to provide later service. He also
submitted written comment stating the following: “I get off of work at 10pm. As a cook it
is a crunch to catch your bus. Friday Saturday, and Sunday, I cannot even use RTD and
driving to Denver on 36 or I-25 scares me. I know ridership is down at 10pm but a two hour
commute makes me want to leave my community. If I must make a connection, allow 15
minutes between the FF1 arriving at Broomfield and the LD3 departing. Please consider the
LD3 running until 12:15am on Friday and Sunday. Consider LD3 on Sunday. Please and
thank you.
Colleen Elrod asked why RTD can’t push out service change information further ahead of
time. She states that many riders don’t even know that meetings occur, and plenty of people
who could potentially provide feedback are absent due to the poor outreach. She asked if
the additional 2:30 pm LX trip was mainly due to the students, or if it was a year-round
issue. She asked if FF frequency will be increased. She stated that, if passengers are waiting
for an hour for the LD3 at Broomfield, the shelters in place are inadequate, especially in the
Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: January 2020 Attachment B public comment (3971 : January 2020 Service Changes)

Tuesday, October 1, 2019
Longmont Museum
6:00pm

1.B.1.b

event of inclement weather. She concluded by stating that when RTD bolstered LD service
in 2016, Longmont was happy, and she now feels as though Longmont is “getting the
shaft.”

Jenn Stoelzel stated her support for an LX trip going to Civic Center, as she often misses
her transfer at Union Station. She later provided written comment, stating the following: “I
would like to propose a new route from Longmont to Civic Center Station. I tend to miss
my LX bus because of traffic on the Metro Ride, so having a route from Civic Center or later
LX buses would be great. I also think mid-day times from Union to Longmont are needed as
life is unpredictable and the need to go home early may arise. The new LX2 at 2:30pm
should go all the way to 23rd & Main as many riders park up at that stop.”
John Harris claimed that he considers midday service a “safety backup” as he sometimes
has to go home early, and would appreciate having direct service back to Longmont from
Denver. He stated his support for another LX in the late morning, as well as for an LX2 trip
to go to Civic Center. He concluded by asking whether it makes sense to still commit to B
Line service to Boulder, or to fully fund and improve the bus service along US 36.

Thursday, October 03, 2019
RTD Administrative Offices
Rooms T&D
NOON
Staff in attendance included Jessie Carter, Lisa Trujillo, Dan Merritt, Tegan Rice, Cooper
Langdon, Sage Thornbrugh, Miguel Aguilar, Maux Sullivan and Clara Bechtel. There were 7
members from the public in attendance.
Kevin Mooney wanted to know about the LD changes since he lives in Lafayette, especially
the new LD3 information and how it would compare to 225 routing. He later wondered if
there were any plans to add a new stop on the LD on Boulder Road. He was also concerned
about the condition of the Lafayette Park-n-ride, citing current construction has caused falls
and injuries. He inquired about the availability of restrooms at RTD facilities for persons with
disabilities and asked how the new restroom doors were working in Union Station. Staff
addressed his LD questions and offered to connect him with maintenance staff regarding his
other concerns. He shared that he recently observed someone with a camera (video camera)
filming passengers at the Alameda Station running to catch the bus and wondered if staff
knew what that was about. He later asked if there were any plans to add Wi-Fi to RTD
vehicles, especially regional routes. He also wondered about the new Bustang service to
Estes Park and where he could get more information about that. He expressed concern that
the shelter boards are not always current, and another LD rider confirmed that this is
consistently an issue.
Dorothy Smith was very concerned about the August service changes that had gone into
effect and said they were a complete mess. Was particularly concerned about the route 72
and how long it takes, that it goes through the neighborhood, and how there is an insufficient
sidewalk network to connect to the bus stops. Stated that connections between the 72 and
Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: January 2020 Attachment B public comment (3971 : January 2020 Service Changes)

Brent Clark asked what changes are going to be made when the N Line opens. He also
complained about the lack of a direction connection between Longmont to Thornton, and
Thornton to Brighton.

1.B.1.b

D. Martinez mentioned that he has been riding RTD for 34 years and has had a good
experience so far. Was very concerned and shocked to hear of RTDs financial situation and
budget deficit that was recently highlighted in the news. Had questions about the specific
route 1 proposed changes as that is a route he frequents. Staff explained that there would
be minor running time adjustments and explained what that meant. He then mentioned that
there were two stops along the route where buses have trouble getting from the stop, over
across several lanes of traffic to make the required turn - westbound at Leetsdale and
eastbound the stop before they need to turn onto Colorado Blvd. He later asked for more
information regarding the recent reports of the cancelled light rail trips due to a shortage of
operators. He also inquired about who was responsible for putting up signs directing people
to Park-n-Rides as he recently had a lot of difficulty locating the Parker Park-n-Ride. Staff
said they would follow-up to see what could be done.
Desiree Jones wanted to know if there was a way to make safer bus connections as she
feels she and others often have to run across traffic to catch their connecting bus. Staff
mentioned that you could ask your bus driver to contact dispatch to see if the connecting
bus could do a courtesy wait to ensure a successful transfer. She later asked who she could
talk to in order to make sure her local King Sooper’s is stocked with RTD passes (especially
the monthly ones) in time, at the beginning of the month when she needs it. Staff said they
would follow-up to see what could be done.
John Lake expressed concern about not being able to get the attention of the bus driver
once on the bus. Staff expressed that for safety reasons the operator needs to be focused
on driving and the safest time to talk to the driver/ask them questions is when boarding. He
also wondered if the N Line was supposed to go to Longmont and if it was going to open in
2066. Staff explained that he must be confusing the N Line and the proposed Northwest
rail line and explained the differences.
Arthur Murray came late and also wanted to know the details of the LD changes. Staff again
explained the proposal. He then wanted to know what the plans were for the Northwest rail
line as he is a resident of Longmont and has been paying taxes on several properties and
feels that he therefore has significantly contributed to the building and completion of 5 lines
that he is not served by and if there was a way he might be able to be repaid. Staff explained
that that was beyond the scope of the meeting, but that we could connect them to long
range planning and that a similar question has been posed to the state of Colorado at a
legislative level. He also wondered if there was any plan to have the Longmont routes go
directly to Civic Center, since so many other regional routes do. Staff responded that while
there are no current plans to do that, staff is looking at it very closely to see how that might
be possible and additionally, Denver is currently optimizing signal timing so that RTDs free
shuttles could provide faster connections from Union Station.

Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: January 2020 Attachment B public comment (3971 : January 2020 Service Changes)

the 31 and 51 no longer work. She then made threatening remarks unrelated to the service
changes and quickly exited.

1.B.1.b

Adino – Concerns with elimination. Concerns with people who can’t speak English, buses
aren’t current on their schedules, all RTD departments are saying different times. Concerns
with bus stops being taken away when new people move to town ex. 12th Ave on the 10
– stops were eliminated to get there faster, people now have to walk a further distance,
RTD is down bus service and bus riders. Forced on to crammed trains, trains were sitting
on the tracks and people were crammed into the trains, why were trains sitting on the rails
not being used when they should be in service? Go get somewhere you have to take multiple
transfers when trying to get somewhere. Need more consistency to keep ridership up.
Removing stops doesn’t help. Public attitude towards the drivers is changing, bus drivers
aren’t waiting for people, some don’t open up doors, some don’t look in their mirrors to wait
for people running for the bus. Times are changed throughout the day, not consistent, ex:
:39, :09, :39 then :42, :12 etc. this doesn’t create consistency and should be every day of
the week. Transfer connections, from train to a bus, the bus is taking off when people need
to make a connection. Power outage – shuttle buses picked people up and dropped off at
University station and no light rail showed up and empty buses sat there when they could
have gone downtown. There were 12 empty buses.
Jonathan Detogo – Commend eliminations of bus stops on Route 24, losing frequency
because stops are a block apart. Route 15L (changes) were also good. Go further with
eliminations in downtown. There is one route where you just turn the block and then there’s
another stop after just stopping. Go further with 15 15L and 20.
Shaina – Agree with Adino on some comments and with Jonathan. When the bus gets
downtown there should be fewer stops and let the bus get there faster. Biking is faster
sometimes. Less stops downtown is ideal. Know what the true bus schedule is essential.
For the buses it should be up to date.
Kim Young - Agree with some of the comments made, understand the drivers are doing
what they can, trying to get through on the call system is a joke, an operators don’t have
any resources for when a person doesn’t pay or if there’s a problem. Usually they have to
call the police or 911. On the Mall Ride, seems to be inefficiently managed, people trying to
run for the bus, even when someone touches the bus. Appreciate the frequency. Why do
they all bunch up and not wait until busses are split evenly. Sunday 15 Sept - There have
been service outages, and the buses couldn’t keep up but doesn’t seem any different than
when operations are ok. 5 trains simply didn’t show up. 28 didn’t show up and there is
nothing on Next Ride to tell her that and she doesn’t know how long she’s going to be there.
Annie – Light Rail GTFS times don’t match up with schedules.
Matt Brady – Security and operators supposed to check correct fare is paid, whether cash,
eco pass, student fare, some people under senior citizen age, who look younger, are paying
Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: January 2020 Attachment B public comment (3971 : January 2020 Service Changes)

Thursday, October 03, 2019
RTD Administrative Offices
Rooms T&D
6:00PM

1.B.1.b

Roger Messenger – RTD could use some cheerleaders and could use some constructive
criticism. Lives in Elizabeth but the area he lives in doesn’t have service but people drive to
the district to catch some trains or buses. Are any bathrooms proposed at stations, and if
so where? Some people need to use the bathrooms. Are any changes proposed because of
operator shortage? Are there going to be any bike lockers at the stations so people can ride
there to catch the train? Maybe for the women there could be better security at the stops
and stations.
Paolo Solazano– On time performance, 86% for local, 121 is somewhere around 55% which
is 5 minutes or more, it’s either late sometimes by 12 minutes. Not convenient and seems
to happen quite often. LCD signs are out, would be helpful for when the bus is late, the
Colorado Station is out for over a year. Google-real time data is not tracking correctly.
Chris Humphreys – Complaint got on the bus at 15L at 4:45 tonight, got on at Colfax and
Yosemite. It is never on time and neither is the 15. Operators don’t pass one another and
they should. Had to take two buses to get to downtown in the morning and then 3 buses in
the evening. The 76 wasn’t on time and waited 1.5 hours. 4:22 4:45 5:08 are never on
time between 4-6 the bus is never on time. Are bus shelters being taken away from Colfax?
What’s happening?
Karlyn Kaufman - Issue with seniors at Yale Station, they can’t go anywhere, no stop in
front of the building, can’t go up the stairs or the ramp, no service on the weekend. Rt 3 Bus stops at the Jewish center instead over by Filmore, Trouble with a driver (Clinton) who
is mean and only follows the rules and does only by the rules. No wheelchair can’t go up
the ramp because it’s too steep. Flexride isn’t on time and then riders miss appts. Stops
have been eliminated and senior citizens can’t get to the stops. Trains on the weekends too
many shuttles. Route 24 – waiting and bus never showed up at cherry creek area. Bus
operator on Downing passed right by and didn’t even stop. Yale station – what can be done
to improve service in that area? Security on the 31 buses is needed.

Packet Pg. 18

Attachment: January 2020 Attachment B public comment (3971 : January 2020 Service Changes)

senior discount. Light rail has been off a couple minutes recently, used to be good. Ticket
machines at the platforms, one of the machines has been out of service for a while, been
that way for a long time. Only one is operating, what happens when that one goes wrong?
People will then just walk on the light rail. Figuring out what numbers to hit and all the
prompts was confusing and somehow was charged and overpaid. Even the security guy
who helped him didn’t get the fare paid right. Issue was at 10th and Osage.

Route
3

Support

Opposed

Inquiry

1

First Name

Last Name

Email

Additional Comments

Tia

Arnold

tiar2697@colorado.edu

Hope your day is going well! I recently learned that RTD
is considering eliminating the Adams and Ellsworth stop
on Route 3. I would like to speak in favor of keeping the
stop for the following reasons:
1) Moving the stop to Steele St would be dangerous for
the seniors living in the Kovod Assisted Living building.
These residents would need to cross the busy Steele St
traffic where the signals are not very long. The
neighborhood street the stop is currently on is in a high
density neighborhood and is a shorter distance for those
residents.
2) The speed of traffic would be slowed on Steele street.
This would increase congestion around the Cherry Creek
mall. Where the stop is now, it isn’t as busy and doesn’t
affect traffic flow in the area.
Please consider keeping the stop on Route 3 at Ellsworth
and Adams. Thank you for your considerations and
feedback.

1

37

Jude

Buemi

j-lbuemi@peoplepc.com

I would like to comment regarding the route 37 service.
I did not find this particular service change proposed,
however I have a change I would like to propose for this
route. What I am proposing and pushing for today is
extending the "morning rush" frequency of every 30
minutes by one additional trip westbound. Currently
after 8:30 AM the rt 37 operates hourly westbound from
40th/Airport. I propose adding a 9 AM departure
westbound from 40th/Airport. Currently the driver of
the eastbound trip departing 40th/Colorado at 8:03 AM
pulls into the garage after arriving 40th/Airport at 8:57
AM. I believe the addition of a 9 AM departure could be
accomplished fairly easily by having this driver departing
9 AM on a westbound trip instead of pulling in.
Thank you for your consideration. Please feel free to
contact me if you wish.

1

46

Diane

Cerafici

dianecerafici@rmpbs.org

I’m requesting that you DON’T eliminate the bus stops
along East Yale (why not also list the bus stop numbers
in the change notice?). These are along a major
shopping center and those stops are very helpful when
carrying bags or using a shopping cart. It makes a
difference to have a stop nearby. Also I know a rider who
has been using a walker and he gets off at the Yale/Ash
stop—he takes the bus to shop and to go to the gym for
rehab.
In general, I don’t think eliminating stops is the best path
to service. It may make the trip quicker but it makes it
more difficult for many people to walk further to the
next stop. Even I don’t always go some places that I used
to because it’s not as easy to get to them anymore. You
may not have the data but I’m sure it affects businesses.

65

1

Richard

Behler

rabehler@gmail.com

I live in Lafayette and extremely upset that you are
reducing our ability to get into Boulder via the 225. We
have been using it every week and our only other option
is the Jump which we'd have to pick up more than a mile
from our house. It seems especially unfair since up here
in the north we've been paying that extra light rail tax for
years and instead of getting more service via that
unfulfilled promise of a rail line, you are actually reducing

Packet Pg. 19

Attachment: January 2020 Attachment B public comment (3971 : January 2020 Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

1.B.1.b

our service! Seems like all we are doing is subsidizing
more service for Denver. Not fair.
1

Abby

Henry

ahenry243@gmail.com

Please do NOT change route 225! My child takes this
daily to and from Platt Middle School. She arrives to
school on time by 8:30 and is home by 4:15.
Do not end this route! So many families depend on this
route for our children. My child says she has to stand
some days it is so full. Why would you hurt local
families?!
KEEP 225 for baseline school kids!!

LD

1

Giardiello

Richardo

sollasi@hotmail.com

If you want to even out the ridership between the LX and
he LD routes, the LD2 buses should go from Longmont to
the Civic Center Station. About half of the people that
take the LX and LD to Denver each morning will go
straight to the FreeMetro Ride or the Mall Shuttle to get
to the other side of the 16th street mall, all those people
will gladly switch to the LD if it came to the Civic Center
instead of Union Station. It would save commuters 15-25
minutes each way to and from Civic Station and Union
Station, probably an average of 40 minutes per day with
that single change. Same logic that was applied to the
FF4 route to Boulder.
The LD routes should be funded permanently. Longmont
does not get anything in comparison to other cities in
your districts, local service is almost non-existent, so the
least that we could have are options for commuting to
Denver. Specially considering none of us in Longmont
will get the light rail in our useful working lives, having
the LX and LD options, in addition to an option to go
directly to the Civic Center Station is the best thing RTD
can do for Longmont.

LX

1

Gary

Alchin

garyusww@yahoo.com

Please consider adding a stop for the LX2 route at the
park & ride at highway 52 and I-25.
Thanks,

LD

1

Elizabeth

Mylander

bethmylander@gmail.com

Please explain your proposed changes to the LD and LX
routes a little more fully for me. Will you continue to
have mid-day routes from Longmont to Union Station?
And, if so, how many will be express? Also, how many
buses will run on the weekend?

LD

1

Katie

Solomon

katie.ann.solomon@gmail.
com

Do not reduce the number of LD buses from Longmont
to Denver. College students need to be able to get to and
from Denver to get to their classes without having to
wait.

LD

1

Lisa

Root

lisaroo@ymail.com

Hello, I am writing to voice my opposition to the
proposed service changes, particularly those in
Longmont.
As a single working mom, putting a kid through college, I
rely on RTD to get me to and from my job. Earlier this
year I was facing a serious health issue and I had doctor's
appointments every day for 4 weeks. I scheduled my
appointments for early mornings and late afternoons,
but still needed to leave work at 2 pm or arrive at noon
to get to and from my appointments . If RTD did not have
the mid-day service to and from Longmont, I would have
had to drive to work, using gas (adding to our air quality
problem), wear and tear on my car, and pay for parking
in Downtown Denver to the tune of $15 a day or more. I
already pay $200 a month for my monthly bus

Packet Pg. 20

Attachment: January 2020 Attachment B public comment (3971 : January 2020 Service Changes)

225

1.B.1.b

There are more people moving to the area every
day. We need more busses, not fewer. Students
attending Metro and CU Denver use the mid-day
busses. Working people who work off-hours use the
mid-day busses. RTD cites low ridership as one of the
reasons for eliminating the mid-day service. However,
every time I take a mid-day bus, there are several other
riders. Perhaps RTD could use smaller busses for those
times. I believe that these changes would cause more
people to drive, adding to the already horrible traffic
problem, that is getting worse all the time.

LD

1

Linda

Aguirre

Brenda.Aguirre@colorado.
edu

Please don't return route LD to its service level of a
reduced weekday. I am a regular commuter.
I live in Broomfield, Garden Center Apartments. I take
the LD bus that departs at 22h16 from Union Station. If
you take away this late route, I would have to walk from
Broomfield station, which is a 30-minute walk to my
home.

LD

1

Karen

Benker

karenbenkerlg@earthlink.
com

I am writing today to urge you NOT to make changes to
mid-day trips from Longmont to Denver. I understand
you now want Longmont taxpayers and riders to transfer
in Broomfield. Direct service to Denver is very important
to many of us bus riders and now you want to make the
trip more time-consuming and inconvenient.
RTD has cut service in Longmont numerous
times. Please LISTEN to your customers and keep the
current service level and direct routes to Denver.
In light of not building our rail line, I would have guessed
that RTD would want to try to help Longmont increase
our mobility in other ways. Instead, you make things
even more difficult for us.

LD

1

Gina

Gerton

Gina.M.Gerton@wellsfarg
o.com

Please re consider deleting the bus service from Denver
to Longmont on the LD. I work near Civic Center at 1740
Broadway if I work until 5:30 PM I have no way to be able
to catch the last LX2 at 5:45. Even leave a few minutes
after 5 pm with traffic it is hard to get across town using
the Free Metro shuttles by that time. I currently ride the
LD at either 6pm or 6:30pm once or twice a week. The
new recommendation I will have to go to Boulder and
then from Boulder to Longmont. After an already long
day I don’t want to spend two hours on a bus. In the
documentation about changes it is suggested that
ridership is down. I am not sure what busses this would
be as ALL the Longmont busses I take seem to be getting
more ridership. If you want to delete the LD then please
add at least one or two LX routes past 5:45. It would be
awesome to have a late LX1 around 6:20!!!
I am not alone when I get off the bus at 8PM at 23rd and
Main after leaving work at 5:30pm. Everyone I ride with
is very upset about this change. None of us could make
a 6PM meeting in Longmont on a Tuesday night. Please
help the Longmont riders we have so few options now
and really need our buses.

Packet Pg. 21

Attachment: January 2020 Attachment B public comment (3971 : January 2020 Service Changes)

pas. Having to transfer at Broomfield Station would be
confusing and take a lot of extra planning.

LD

1

Katie

Cotrell

koosekoos@gmail.com

Hello, I'm sending this email because I was informed the
LD route was going to be changed. I'm not sure on
exactly how its being changed but I heard it's route is
being shorted and will run less often. I hope this decision
will be reconsidered becuase as a student I, and many
others, really rely on this route to get us to the CU
Denver campus and having this as a valuable mode of
transportation befinits our education greatly.

LX

1

Kimberly

Latta

kimberly.latta@state.co.us

I bus from north Longmont (23rd & Main) and work near
Civic Center Station. I take the LX1 downtown and return
on LX2 due to scheduling. I am often forced to drive if I
have to work even a few minutes past 5pm as the last
express bus from Union Station leaves at 5:45. If I walk
out of my building at 5pm, it can often take to long for
me to get to Union Station on the shuttle (due to Rockies
games, construction, snow, etc) to make the last bus. I
would ask that either an LX bus leave from Civic Center
or that there be one more (later) LX bus leaving from
Union Station to Longmont. Thank you for your
consideration.

LD

1

Jennifer

Davis

jennifer.davis@vertafore.
com

I am not sure how you can justify service changes
between union station and Longmont during non peak
hours..there are a good amount of people need these
schedules. Kids that go to school in Denver and people
like me who travel to Longmont during non rush hour
times. We need something that doesn’t take more than
the current hour to hour and 15 minutes not something
that will take longer.

LD

1

Coleen

Elrod

colleen.elrod@state.co.us

As you are the Lead Service Planner & Schedule for the
Northern routes, please accept this email as my
vehement opposition to the proposed service cuts for
the LD routes! I am outraged! The additional time added
to the (already) time-consuming LD commute, along with
the increased risk/danger to passengers having to
transfer at a Broomfield station, is completely
unacceptable. We (Longmont) do not have our rail, and
now we're told that our our LD bus service is going
discontinued.
I've been dependent upon, and supportive of RTD route
for over 15 years. Though I mainly commute during peak
hours, it is relatively often that I need to utilize the LD
routes with a late morning commute; early in the
afternoon, or even late into the evening.
Many frustrating (if not dangerous) scenarios come to
mind with this proposed change. For example, evening
commuters risk being stranded overnight at an
Broomfield stop if the FF is behind schedule and a rider
misses the last connection to Longmont. Even if one
doesn't miss the connection, a rider could be forced to
wait at an outdoor stop in Broomfield for up to an hour.
This could be in darkness, and/or in the cold of winter.
This increased risk to personal safety alone, is
unacceptable.
I also think of the many riders who do not drive at all.
Currently, they must coordinate a Longmont City route
with an LD route. As of January, they will have to also
add a coordinating stop with an FF route. This can easily
turn one-way of their Longmont-Denver commute into 2
hours!
I do take note that all fingers are pointing to a Grant that

Packet Pg. 22

Attachment: January 2020 Attachment B public comment (3971 : January 2020 Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

will expire, as the culprit. If this is true, I must ask why it
was not pursued beyond 2018? Who would be
responsible for pursuing this Grant? Why would RTD
allow this to happen, even if not their responsibility?
Why are we only hearing of this now? Does RTD not have
any concern for their Longmont community??!
I understand the staffing issues that RTD has been
plagued with, as you and I have discussed at prior
Longmont RTD meetings. However, it seems increasingly
apparent that Longmont (and all of the NW Boulder
County area) continues to be the target of RTD
reductions, yet we continue to pay the same in fares and
taxes for the vanishing service.
Please share this with your peers at RTD, as I'm not
aware of everyone who is involved in this (atrocious)
decision -making process. Also, if you have Judy Lubow's
email address, please share it with me. The link to her
email on the RTD site, will not work for me.

LD

1

Gina

Geton

ginagerton@gmail.com

I must ask that RTD takes a long and hard look about the
elimination of the LD line going into Denver. Longmont
only has a few express buses to take us to Denver and
back home. Now it is being proposed to take more routes
from us. I would be fine with deleting the LDs if you were
adding some more LXs. Many nights I have to work late
and take the LD at 6:30PM or even the 7:30. This doesn’t
put me home until 8 or 9 PM. With the proposed changes
I can assume it would even be longer and I would have
to take two or three busses to get home. It is not safe for
a woman to be waiting in the dark for busses. Longmont
put up a lot of money to keep RTD running between
Denver and Longmont and RTD is talking about canceling
our service. This doesn’t seem fair. Many of the
Longmont riders will probably stop riding in January
between the price hikes and eliminating our service.
PLEASE I AM BAGGING PLEASE DON’T TAKE OUR BUSSES.

LD

1

Earl

Harrison

harrison.earl@gmail.com

I am writing to provide comments on the proposed LD
route changes for January 2019. The proposal to
discontinue direct service to Denver Union Station will
sever Longmont's access to the RTD network and make
an already long trip completely prohibitive on public
transit. Today, when I ride an LD1 or LD2 bus, the
overwhelming majority of customers boarding/exiting
along 287 are riding the bus to/from Union Station. By
forcing these customers to now take a much longer route
and add a change of bus, it now is easier to simply drive
to Denver and puts more cars on area roads.
I am extremely disappointed in RTD's proposal and feel
that it does not serve the community of Longmont.
Personally, this change will force me to abandon taking
the LD route into downtown and limit the times I can
even use the LX buses during commute hours since I
often need to take an LD bus one-way due to already
limited schedules.
I strongly encourage RTD to re-evaluate this change and
maintain Longmont's link to the Denver area's primary
transit hub and not isolate Longmont from the greater
RTD network.

LD

1

Viktoria

Lawson

viktoria.b.lawson@gmail.
com

Please don't get rid of these services between Longmont
and Denver!

Packet Pg. 23

Attachment: January 2020 Attachment B public comment (3971 : January 2020 Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

LD

1

Robert

Madachy

MADACHY@msn.com

I was reading your Proposed January 2019 Service
Changes for the LD liines and it makes several references
to LD3. Is LD3 going to be a new route? Does it already
exist? I see no reference to route LD3 anywhere in your
current schedules. I plan on attending the Oct 3 public
meeting in Lafayette, but before going I want to make
sure I am not missing something already available (Route
LD3).

LD

1

Juneliz

Maginnis

Rj3maginnis@comcast.net

The LD buses that come out of Union Station in the
afternoon between 4:15, 4:20, 4:56, 5:16 and 5:31 are
usually always crowded. Some of them may not be
completely full, but neither are the Boulder FF buses. I
know because I also go down to Boulder from time to
time.
I’ve taken McCaslin buses in the morning on occasion,
and they come every 8-10 minutes and are not always
crowded, maybe one person per double seat.
I find RTDs proposal to eliminate the LDs that takes
passengers from Lafayette straight to Union Station very
disturbing to say the least. It will require all people to
change buses at least once, if not twice, when service has
been seamless. It will greatly increase commuting time
for many, many people, and force a lot of us to begin
driving to other PNRs to get straight bus service from
point A to point B. Currently, I walk to one of the stops
along 287 and now will have to consider driving 4-5 miles
to get to McCaslin PNR to make it to work on time,
thereby defeating the purpose of taking mass transit and
keeping extra cars off of the roadway.
If the LD did not exist, I would never have accepted
employment commuting down to Denver. It is too
congested on the roadways and expensive to drive and
park. I have been taking the L to and from Denver every
weekday for the past 10 years. The direct trip down to
Union Station on one bus makes it convenient. I cannot
see supporting RTD with my tax dollars if direct service is
not continued. It seems that RTD could continue direct
service to and from Longmont/Lafayette/Denver at least
during rush hour.
Those buses are crowded.
The Flatiron bus service doesn't start until 6 am in the
morning. A lot of us need a bus prior to that time.
Perhaps the L could eliminate one of the bus between 56 am and fill those buses, make other adjustments to the
schedule and eliminate so many buses on Saturday.

LD

1

Keith

Manek

keith.manek@gmail.com

Please don't end the LD1/LD2 bus route. At a time when
metro denver traffic is getting worse, at a time when we
need to be expanding public transportation (for many
reasons including helping the climate), at a time when
cities like Lafayette and Longmont are growing and
Denver is adding jobs, now is not the time to cut these
lines. It's the time to expand and try to add new riders.
These routes are used and needed by many people.
Ending these lines will hurt RTD more by forcing people
to find alternative (non RTD) means of transportation.
More people will be lost than those who will deal with
the bus transfer(s). RTD should be expanding service and
making it easier for people to ride. RTD should be trying
to grow and not shrink. We can't just keep cutting service
and hoping that things will get better. Boulder county
needs this route and I am sure I am not alone in saying,
please keep this route.

Packet Pg. 24

Attachment: January 2020 Attachment B public comment (3971 : January 2020 Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

LD

1

Jake

Marsing

jakemarsing@gmail.com

How many different ways are you going to find to screw
Longmont and it’s residents? First, you fail to live up to
your promise to the community on Northwest Rail. Now,
you’re cutting our city’s direct service to Denver in more
than half. It’s absolutely wrong. If I were the City, this
would be the final straw in our relationship. But, I’m not
the city. I’m a CU Denver student who relies on the LD1
and LD2 for reliable transportation to get to class on
time. Without the 9:26 and 1:01 LD on
Tuesday/Thursday I wouldn’t be able to make it to class
those days. You say it’s a ridership issue. But, my LD
busses consistently are at least 50% full, even I non-peak
hours. That’s better than lots of routes you aren’t
threatening. Yet, because this is a Longmont-centric
Route, you want it gone. It’s really shameful. Essentially
ending non-peak hour direct service between Denver
and Longmont hurts RTD’s perception in our community
and hurts RTD’s long-term bottom line. Please retain the
LD1 and LD2 direct service between Denver and Union
Station.

LD

1

Kristina

Martinez

krisnmsu24@yahoo.com

My bus driver just announced that there is a plan in
January to eliminate these routes that I use Monday Friday to get to work.. why???? How am I going to get to
an from work and home ? Please explain to me why
these routes are being eliminated and what else I can do
to stop these routes from being eliminated. I will write
everyday until I get a valid response.

LD

1

Janeen

Neri

fixed.palette@gmail.com

I was at last night’s Longmont meeting, and I felt the
need to write in to say that at least 2 of us in the
audience were actually paying attention.
I’m not usually in favor of changes that add a transfer,
because it can intimidate newbie bus riders. But after
hearing the explanation of the proposed changes, I’m a
bit sad they got delayed. It sounded like they were faster,
more frequent, and cheaper, which is a hard
combination to hit! And both “faster” and “more
frequent” helps a route appeal to newbies. I was very
impressed with the solution overall, it seemed like not
only a cost-saving measure, but a genuine improvement
in service. I know you folks probably can’t endorse any
specific initiatives, but I’ll be on the lookout for ballot
measures that increase RTD’s funding. I’m pleased with
how efficiently my tax dollars are being spent, and it
sounds like having a bigger pool for driver/mechanic
salaries would help you out a lot. :)

LD

1

Sarah

Nofal

ssnofal@gmail.com

My name is Sarah and I am a patron who often uses the
LD1 to commute from Lafayette to Union Station. I
would like to voice my opinion for the proposed route
change for the LD1. I am not in favor of any change that
would alter the route or frequency of this bus. It is the
only bus that does not require several transfers to get
downtown in a timely manner. Any other route adds a
significant amount of time to my daily commute. Please
do not remove one of the best forms of transportation
for myself and those who take this bus along with me.

Packet Pg. 25

Attachment: January 2020 Attachment B public comment (3971 : January 2020 Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

LD

1

Brittany

Pettrone

www.bluemoondigital.
co

LD

1

Enrique

Rivera

echico24@gmail.com

LD

1

Will

Ronco

william.ronco@gmail.com

I appose the cancellation of LD1 and LD2. I live in Old
Town Erie and catch the LD2 @ Diamond and 287 in the
morning to get to work @ 16th and Larimer and return
by the LD1 or LD2 after work. Canceling these routes
would create great hardship for my self and many other
bus riders. There are many passengers that get on or off
through out Lafayette. The 7:33 LD 2 at Diamond and 287
in the morning typically has 8+ riders that get on there.
I know people that would like to take the bus if there
were more time options in the morning and evening.
One specifically would be getting to Denver before 8am.
I hope you take this in to consideration and NOT cancel
the route.
I work in downtown Denver and am a frequent rider of
the LX1/2 lines. There are times when I cannot make the
last LX bus leaving at 5:45 P.M. from Union Station and
am forced to take the LD line back to Longmont. Despite
the low ridership of the LD lines it is the only option I
have going from Union Station/ Work to Longmont/
Home. I don't drive and don't own a car so I depend on
the Longmont/ Denver routes on a daily basis, to include
Saturdays. Adding an additional line (the 225) would add
to my already lengthy commute. In my opinion the
Longmont/ Denver routes should not be changed at all.
As a rider I do see how many people ride and depend on
all the LD and LX routes on a daily basis and these
changes would effect the riders negatively. Longmont is
the only city that have limited bus lines to and from the
city unlike Boulder or Denver. If lines are cut or changed
it may require riders to move to a place that has better
bus service outside of Longmont itself.
I am disappointed to hear that you're considering
reducing service between Longmont and Denver!
Longmont needs MORE transit, especially to Boulder and
Denver - cutting back this service is the wrong choice!

LD

1

Allison

Rothermel

allisonrothermel@hotmail.
com

To RTD regarding proposed service changes to Route LD1
and LD2. As more commuters travel from the Longmont
area to Downtown Denver for work and school, it is
important to have several public transportation options.
Unfortunately, light rail has not been established in
Longmont; therefore, commuters must rely on RTD
Regional Routes to get to Downtown Denver and back.
The LD Southbound Routes are very important to
morning commuters when the LX Route does not run.
The LD Northbound Routes are very important during
the afternoon commute back to Longmont. If a situation
is happening along I-25, many riders choose to avoid the
area (avoid the LX) and take the LD routes. Also, the final
LX route is at 5:45 pm, whereas the LD has several later
options. Additionally, the LX Northbound Routes seem
to be at or near capacity during the afternoon rush hour.
It would be very beneficial to add additional northbound
rush hour LX routes if the proposed changes are
implemented.
In conclusion, my feedback is the proposed service
changes to the LD routes would have an adverse impact
on riders. If the proposed changes are implemented,
additional LX routes are strongly recommended for the
northbound afternoon/evening rush hours.

Packet Pg. 26

Attachment: January 2020 Attachment B public comment (3971 : January 2020 Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

LD

1

Loraine

Street

loraine.street@bclplaw.
com

I understand that the proposed change to the above
routes is that they will end at the Broomfield exit. Here
are my Comments: I take the bus to Denver every day
and have gotten off at Broomfield several times to catch
a FFlyer to Denver. They are always packed and I’ve had
to stand each time. So I no longer attempt to catch a
FFlyer. If you discontinue the bus as is I will have to take
3 buses to work. From Lafayette to Broomfield to Union
Station and then hop on the Metro Ride. The ride home
will be very inconvenient. I will have to get off the bus at
Broomfield and cross over the bridge to catch a LDI or
LD2.. It’s going to extend the length of time it takes me
to get home in addition to being out in the elements for
longer periods of time both coming and going to work.
In bad weather I already am at an unprotected bus stop.
Longmont/Lafayette LD1/LD2 always seems to be the
ugly stepchild. In recent years they finally adjusted the
schedules so that both of these routes stop along 287
and Empire Road and have more than just three
Saturday buses. There is still no service on Sundays. I
propose that the routes stay as they are.

LD

1

Jenny

Turner

jenny.blindsay@farmers
agency.com

I would like to ask that you keep the route for the LD1
and LD 2, this route helps assist a lot of people with using
our public transportation to commute home. We are
trying to push public transportation in Colorado to help
with pollution levels, and for some this is their only way
home. Eliminating this route could force some into a bad
situation.

LD

1

Jason

Walke

jason.walke@gmail.com

I commute from Broomfield to Denver each weekday,
and I purchase a $171 monthly pass every month. I
understand the logic of eliminating the LD routes south
of US-36 as these duplicate FF routes. This will require
me to transfer at Broomfield station, but I think that is
reasonable. My concern, however is the proposed
decrease in frequency of 225 (which will be renamed
LD3). Today during rush-hour, either an LD bus or 225
stops at 287 & 10th Ave (which is where I live) every 15
to 20 minutes. The proposed changes indicate that 225's
frequency will be every 60 minutes. This change in
frequency in addition to the transfer required at
Broomfield station, will have a significant negative
impact on my commute next year. If at all possible
please increase the frequency of the 225 (which will be
renamed LD3) to less than every 60 minutes.

LD

1

Cynthia

Wilson

CyWilson@tiaa.org

I oppose the January 2019 “LD” proposed service
changes. You have taken away from Longmont (and
Lafayette and Niwot) so many promises that have been
made through the years, and now this?
I have been commuting from Longmont CO from the
ParkNRide on south Main Street (Hwy 287) to downtown
Denver either via thru Market Street and now Union
Station since February of 2007. I have had both knee
replacements which now need to be replaced again, as
well as needing a hip replacement. The LD1, LD2 and LX
buses have given me mobility to keep my job in Denver.
(Why we ended up with LD1 and LD2 busses has been a
mystery to me. It seemed to run smooth and fine with
just L and LX buses.) The complete removal of the LD1
and LD2 busses south of US36 will only bring me hardship
and exposure waiting in the weather elements. This not
only affects me but and all the other disabled people,
both those unstable in their walking gait, a blind
gentleman and others with vision problems that ride,
and those that are wheel chair confined. Our winter

Packet Pg. 27

Attachment: January 2020 Attachment B public comment (3971 : January 2020 Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

1.B.1.b

It is my understanding that either going south or north (I
am not sure at this time) that there will be some tunnel
I will have to walk through under US36 to get to the other
side of US36 to get on another bus? This could put me
at risk of injury, and even the possibility of not being able
to get to my job.
The suggestion of using the FF buses will be a joke,
particularly when there are sports events in downtown
Denver. Tell me it is not so that there are often times FF
buses that have only standing room only? I am not able
to stand very long, let alone an entire trip. Would you
also propose that I wait again in the weather elements
for the next FF bus that might have a place to sit? I have
been on the LD busses with drivers who have jockeyed
up and helped out the FF bus drivers whose busses were
too full.
Do we even need the LD2 Northbound from Union
Station bus times and the LD2 Southbound to Union
Station bus times? It seems the LD2 travel the same
routes as LD1 except skip a couple of stops along the
way. (Except please consider changing the 10:16 pm
from an LD2 to an LD1.) Whoever dreamed up not
stopping in Lafayette on the last run north must of not
gotten enough sleep the night before making that
decision.
At the same time, why not look at having fewer LD1
Northbound from Union Station bus times and fewer LD1
Southbound to Union Stations. Right now Northbound
to Longmont there are 3:15, 4:15, 4:55, 5:25, 6:01, 6:31,
7:31, 8:31 and 10:16 pm (a total of 9 LD1 runs). Why not
change that to 3:30, 4:30, 5:30, 6:30, 7:30, 8:30 and
10:16 pm (and eliminate 2 of them for a total of 7 LD1
runs)? Look at doing much the same for Southbound
from Longmont to Union Station.
There are many better proposals than what is being
suggested in your brochure on proposed changes.
Please and thanks for considering other means of saving
money for RTD, or at least try a different schedule
eliminating some of the runs and their times first.

Packet Pg. 28

Attachment: January 2020 Attachment B public comment (3971 : January 2020 Service Changes)

weather can be particularly cold blustery weather, and
some years much snow, let alone there be any ice that
may have all of the handicapped such as myself unstable
on our feet or in their wheelchairs.

1

LD1

Juneliz

Fernandez

juneliz.fernandez@gmail.
com

I oppose the proposed changes for the LD1 route. I am a
single mother of 2 school age children. We are
dependent on the LD1 bus route to get my children to
school and for myself to work since we cannot afford a
car. It would bring undue hardship to my family if this
route were to be eliminated. Having to take alternate
routes would mean a longer commute time, less sleep
for my family, longer exposure to the elements which is
definitely a major factor taking into consideration our
climate in Colorado. The LD1 is a very frequently used
route and has multiple users who are handicapped as
well and this would also leave them exposed to the
elements for a prolonged time and longer commutes for
them as well.
An alternative option could possibly be to reduce the
amount of trips instead of completely eliminating the
route and all scheduled times. It would be helpful to
choose these times based off of amount passengers.
Eliminating the LD1 is unfair to the community that lives
in the Lafayette and Longmont areas. Many of the
people who use this route are doing so to commute to
work and or school. It would bring so many people who
are dependent upon public transportation undue
hardship. I have extreme respect for the drivers and
understand the shortage of drivers and appreciate all the
service RTD provides. It would greatly affect and sadden
the Lafayette and Longmont community if the LD1
service were to be discontinued.
Thank you for your time and I hope RTD takes the publics
concerns and needs into consideration.

Totals

1

71

10

TOTALS

Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: January 2020 Attachment B public comment (3971 : January 2020 Service Changes)

1.B.1.b

1.B.1.c

US 287 & 21st Ave PnR

Main

Hover

Hwy 66

Longmont
8th & Coffman PnR

3rd Ave

Hwy 119

Ken Pratt

US 287 & Niwot Road PnR

Attachment: January 2020 Attachment C - rLD1 (3971 : January 2020 Service Changes)

US 287

Longmont PnR

Arapahoe
Baseline

LD1
Regional
Public Rd

US 287

Hwy 52

S Boulder Rd

36

Lafayette

US 287

US

Lafayette PnR

Broomfield
120th Ave

I-25

Wadsworth

US 36 &
Broomfield Station

Route LD1 -- Regional
Current Routing (Unchanged)

Current Routing (Unchanged) -Selected Trips
Union Station

Colfax

Packet Pg. 30

Hwy 66

1.B.1.d

Main

US 287 & 21st Ave PnR

Longmont
8th & Coffman PnR

3rd Ave

Hwy 119

Ken Pratt

US 287 & Niwot Road PnR

Attachment: January 2020 Attachment D - rLD2 (3971 : January 2020 Service Changes)

US 287

Longmont PnR

Hwy 52

US 287

LD2
Regional Express

Arapahoe
Baseline
S Boulder Rd

36

US 287

US

Lafayette

Broomfield
120th Ave

I-25

Wadsworth

US 36 &
Broomfield Station

Route LD2 -- Regional Express
Current Routing (Unchanged)

Union Station

Colfax

Packet Pg. 31

Attachment: January 2020 Attachment E - r3 (3971 : January 2020 Service Changes)

St. Paul

Milwaukee

1st

Fillmore

Clayton

1.B.1.e

1st

Adams

Cherry Creek
Shopping Center

Ellsworth

Steele

This stop will continue to be
served by the Route 46

Bayaud
Route 3

Current Routing (Unchanged)
Proposed Jan20 New Routing
Proposed Jan20 Discontinued Routing
Current Stops (Unchanged)
Proposed Jan20 Discontinued Stops

Packet Pg. 32

Attachment: January 2020 Attachment F - r59 (3971 : January 2020 Service Changes)

1.B.1.f

Û

Ring Rd

Û

Cross

Û

Crestline

Lon
g

Southwest Plaza

Dr

Long Dr

Wadsworth

Bowles

New Terminal
Location

Û

Û

Û

Route 59 -- Weekend Changes
Current Routing (Unchanged)
Proposed Jan20 New Routing

Packet Pg. 33

Dallas

Attachment: January 2020 Attachment G - r65 (3971 : January 2020 Service Changes)

1.B.1.g

Û

56th Ave

Northfield
High School

Û
Û

Prairie Meadow

Û

Route 65
Current Routing (Unchanged)

Quebec

Proposed Jan20 New Routing

Central Park Blvd

Northfield Blvd

I-70

Smith
Central Park Station

35th Ave

Packet Pg. 34

Attachment: January 2020 Attachment H - r76 (3971 : January 2020 Service Changes)

1.B.1.h

Route 76
Current Routing (Unchanged)

Û

Proposed Jan20 New Routing

Û
Û

Long Dr

g

R in

Û

Rd
Û

Lon
g

Dr

Long Dr

New Terminal
Location

Û

Bowles

Û

Southwest Plaza

Wadsworth

Û

Packet Pg. 35

Û

Û

Û

Ring Rd

Û

Cross

Lon
g

Southwest Plaza

Dr

Long Dr

Wadsworth

Bowles

New Terminal
Location

Û

Û

Û

Cross

Attachment: January 2020 Attachment I - r99 (3971 : January 2020 Service Changes)

1.B.1.i

Route 99
Current Routing (Unchanged)
Proposed Jan20 New Routing
Proposed Jan20 Discontinued Routing

Packet Pg. 36

28th St

Arapahoe

Lafayette

Baseline

Hwy 119

Longmont PnR

US 287

US 287

Downtown Boulder Station

Boulder

225

LD3

3rd Ave

1.B.1.j

Hwy 52

US 287 & Niwot Road PnR

S Boulder Rd
a
dw
oa

Lafayette PnR

US

36

US 287

y

US 287

Br

Exempla
Good Samaritan
Medical Center

Arapahoe
Broomfield

Lafayette

Baseline

Lafayette PnR

US 36 &
Broomfield Station

Exempla
Good Samaritan
Medical Center

US

36

Route LD3
Proposed Jan20 New Route

US 287

Proposed Jan20 Routing to be
Replaced by the LD3

120th Ave

Wadsworth

Route 225
Current Routing (Unchanged)

Wadsworth

S Boulder Rd

Broomfield
120th Ave
US 36 &

Attachment: January 2020 Attachment J - r225 and rLD3 (3971 : January 2020 Service Changes)

Ken Pratt

Longmont

Main

8th & Coffman PnR

Packet
Pg.Station
37
Broomfield

1.B.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: October 14, 2019

From:

Fred Worthen, Assistant General Manager of
Bus Operations

GM

Date:

October 14, 2019

Board Meeting Date:

Subject:

Wagon Road PnR/144th FlexRide

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a 4 (Four) year contract with Smart
Commute Metro North Transportation Management Organization for the implementation and ongoing
grant administration of the new Wagon Road PnR/144th FlexRide. The grant includes $1,600,000 in
initial funding and $400,000 in local match for a total grant amount of $2,000,000. The total not to
exceed RTD contribution to this grant is $150,000.
It is also recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to amend the current ADA paratransit/FlexRide services
contract with Via Mobility Services (contract #16-DH-047) to allow RTD to distribute grant funds to VIA
Mobility Services to operate the new Wagon Road/144th FlexRide. The contract increase for the new
FlexRide service is $303,161 for year 1; $317,099 for year 2; and $331,927 for year 3. In addition,
RTD will reimburse the contractor’s direct fuel costs in an amount estimated to be $36,840 for year 1;
$37,945 for year 2; and $39,050 for year 3. The fourth year cost for the Wagon Road/144th FlexRide
service will not be included in this amendment since contract 16-DH-047 will be rebid during 2022. The
initial 3-year not-to-exceed amount for service is $952,186; and fuel is $113,835.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services
BACKGROUND
As part of the 2020-2023 Transportation Improvement Program, Smart Commute Metro North
Transportation Management Organization applied for and was awarded a grant to provide FlexRide
service in the northern area of the RTD district. Smart Commute was awarded $1,600,000 which is
conditional on a $400,000 local match for a total of $2,000,000. Local match sources include the
RTD, Adams County communities including Westminster and Thornton and private sector partners.
DISCUSSION
A special public meeting for the new Wagon Road/144th FlexRide was held September 16, 2019 at
Cabela’s in Thornton. At the public meeting, there were 15 members from the public in attendance and
Director Buzek from District J present. Staff members presented details on the new FlexRide including
service routing and start date to which all members of the public supported the new FlexRide proposal.
The area served by the new FlexRide can be described as 136th Avenue to the south, the Amazon
Distribution Center to the north, Huron to the west, Washington Street to the east and connecting
service at Wagon Road PnR to the far south. Please see attached Proposed Wagon Road/144th FlexRide
map for further detail. The FlexRide will serve numerous businesses in the northern area and provide
connection opportunities with the Route 8 and Wagon Road PnR. In this area there are multifamily
units, St. Anthony’s North Medical Campus, Amazon Distribution Center, the Orchard Town Center, The

Packet Pg. 38

1.B.2

Grove and Denver Premium Outlet Mall. The evening service provided by this FlexRide will provide
transportation options for the employees at St. Anthony’s, Amazon and a variety of other retail
employers.
The proposed Wagon Road PnR/144th FlexRide will provide approximately 7,415 annual revenue hours
and serve the RTD Wagon Road PnR, Monday-Saturday 4:50a-9:45pm. Two vehicles will operate during
peak hours, 4:50am – 8:45am and 5:50pm-9:45pm with timed meets at the Wagon Road Park-n-Ride.
One vehicle will operate during non-peak hours offering service based on demand with no timed meets.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
RTD will be the recipient of the $2,000,000 grant and will distribute grant funds during the 4-year term
($1,600,000 budgeted funds and $400,000 through local match). The grant funding will pay for the
FlexRide services, staffing, marketing, promotions, other non-transit mobility options, minor
infrastructure transit improvements, and the purchase of two additional cutaway buses. RTD’s total
contribution to the grant will be $150,000 over the first three years of the grant and no financial
commitment during the fourth year of the grant. RTD’s $150,000 contribution includes a $75,000
“challenge grant” whereby, $75,000 of the $150,000 will not be paid by RTD unless Smart Commute
meets specific goals for selling RTD Fare media.

ALTERNATIVES:
1) It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a 4 (Four) year contract
with Smart Commute Metro North Transportation Management Organization for the
implementation and ongoing grant administration of the new Wagon Road PnR/144th FlexRide.
The grant includes $1,600,000 in initial funding and $400,000 in local match for a total grant
amount of $2,000,000. The total not to exceed RTD contribution to this grant is $150,000.
It is also recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to amend the current ADA
paratransit/FlexRide services contract with Via Mobility Services (contract #16-DH-047) to allow
RTD to distribute grant funds to VIA Mobility Services to operate the new Wagon Road/144 th
FlexRide. The contract increase for the new FlexRide service is $303,161 for year 1; $317,099;
and $331,927 for year 3. In addition, RTD will reimburse the contractor’s direct fuel costs in an
amount estimated to be $36,840 for year 1; $37,945 for year 2; and $39,050 for year 3. The
fourth year cost for the Wagon Road/144th FlexRide service will not be included in this
amendment since contract 16-DH-047 will be rebid during 2022. The initial 3-year not-to-exceed
amount for service is $952,186; and fuel is $113,835.
2) Do not enter into contract with Smart Commute Metro North Transportation Management
Organization and do not assign new services to Via Mobility Services. This is not recommended
as the grant that was awarded establishes a framework for the RTD to partner with
transportation management organizations, businesses and local communities to establish new
services in areas not currently served by the RTD. Additionally, Smart Commute would need to
pursue a private transportation service provider which would create significant barriers to
integrating these services and the fares generated into the RTD network. If Smart Commute
decided not pursue private transportation services, the grant funding would not be distributed and
this community would not have transit services.

Packet Pg. 39

1.B.2
ATTACHMENTS:


Wagon Rd FlexRide_Proposed

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Brian Matthews, Manager, Special Services
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 40

Proposed Wagon Road/144th FlexRide

1.B.2.a

Amazon

The Orchard Town Center

144th Ave

Grant St & Grove Ave Traffic Circle Farside
The Grove

Grant St & 141st Place Traffic Circle Farside

Grant St & 140th Ave Traffic Circle Farside

Downing St

Denver
Premium
Outlets

Washington St

I-25

Pecos St

136th Ave

Grant St

128th Ave

120th Ave
Wagon Road PnR Gate A

Packet Pg. 41

Attachment: Wagon Rd FlexRide_Proposed (3968 : Wagon Rd PnR/144th FlexRide Approval)

Orchard Pkwy

Huron St

St Anthony North Employee Entrance

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date:
Subject:

Date: October 16, 2019
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: October 22, 2019

Board Paper on Mandating

ATTACHMENTS:


Board Paper on Mandating

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 42

1.C.1.a

Work Force and Operator Mandating
Problem:
Due to labor shortages and issues with recruiting and retaining bus and light rail operators,
the Regional Transportation District (RTD) is challenged to deliver its current and planned
level of service.

Many bus and light rail operators have been required to work six (6) days per week every
week for the last four (4) years. Working overtime without an option to refuse is referred
to as being “mandated” to work. Mandated work is assigned based on seniority. The more
seniority, the less likely it is that you will be mandated to work on your days off. The less
seniority, the more likely it is that you will be required to work on your days off. Mandating
begins with the lowest seniority employees until work is covered and then continues to
return to the lowest seniority employee without going all the way to the top of the seniority
list. This results in a cycle of the lowest seniority employees experiencing the most
mandating, it is most challenging for new employees. Mandating is the single biggest factor
affecting new employee retention. Even though mandating predominately impacts lower
seniority employees, on many occasions we have had to mandate as high as number 1 on
light rail on the seniority list and as high as number 3 in bus. The chart below represents
the number of employees on a weekly basis that are mandated to work their days off. For
example, so far in 2019 68.8% of bus operators and 41.7% of light rail operators have been
mandated to work one of their days off each week.

Weekly Average

Bus - FTEs Mandated
Total Bus Operators
% of Mandates vs FTE
Light Rail - FTEs Mandated
Total LRT Operators
% of Mandates vs FTE

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

590
847
69.7%

560
909
61.6%

620
849
73.0%

636
855
74.4%

603
876
68.8%

170

71
161
44.3%

78
177
44.2%

67
161
41.8%

157

History:
RTD has always had some level of overtime required to operate our service. Overtime may
consist of special services such as sporting events, community events, concerts, etc.
Overtime was available to those that desired to work it, but was not routinely required.
However, since 2016, RTD has opened five new rail lines and one bus rapid transit line.
Between 2013 and 2019, RTD has added approximately 600,000 in-service hours or a 20%

Packet Pg. 43

Attachment: Board Paper on Mandating (3985 : Board Report on Mandating)

Issue:

1.C.1.a

increase over 2013. At the same time the economy started to rapidly improve and the
Denver Metro’s unemployment rate dropped from 6.1% in 2014 to 2.6% in September
20191 creating severe tightening in the availability of labor.
The labor market is tight everywhere and many professions including those that require a
commercial driver’s license have been deeply impacted. Here are some headlines:



ATA: Trucking industry was short more than 60,000 drivers in meeting demand at
the end of 20182
CDOT raises hourly rate for snowplow drivers; looking to hire more than 1003

Other industries are also feeling the pinch and labor shortages are affecting service.




Labor shortage taking a toll on Denver restaurants4
Behind Deadline: Home projects in Colorado suffer from worker shortage5
Colorado construction industry finds no relief from labor shortages6

Recruitment and Retention Efforts
In 2015, we formed the Recruitment and Retention Working Group which consisted of a
cross section of employees that were organized to try to improve recruitment efforts as well
as retention of existing employees. The following are some of the recommendations that
came out of this effort and have been implemented:


Recruitment
o Advertising on buses
o Advertising on all RTD fleet vehicles
o Implemented signing bonus of $2,000 for bus operators, light rail operators,
and mechanics
o Implemented referral bonus to $1,000 for bus operators, light rail operators,
and mechanics that are hired
o Started accepting hand written applications.
o Changed customer care “On hold” message to advertise that RTD is hiring bus
and light rail operators.
o Added hiring message on destination signs on buses
o Implemented “One Stop Job Shop” hiring process for bus operators, light rail
operators, and mechanics

1

U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, Unemployment Rate in Denver-Aurora-Lakewood, CO (MSA) [DENV708URN], retrieved
from FRED, Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis; https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/DENV708URN, October 9, 2019.
2

Transport Topics, July 24, 2019, Eric Miller, Staff Reporter
Fox 31 News, October 9, 2019, Christine Rapp
4
CBS 4 Denver, September 18, 2018
5
CBS 4 Denver, June 12, 2019, Karen Leigh
6
Denver Post, August 28, 2019, Aldo Svaldi
3

Packet Pg. 44

Attachment: Board Paper on Mandating (3985 : Board Report on Mandating)





 Bring in all applicants at one time
 Conduct background check
 Conduct drug screening
 Present job offers
o Redirected WIN efforts internally for community based recruiting
 In last nine (9) months, HR has attended 121 community outreach
events
o Implemented new application process that is significantly more user friendly
o Expanded where we advertise positions
o Launched targeted marketing campaigns
Retention
o Increased shift differential pay
o Implemented incentive pay of $2.00/ hour for working split shifts
o Increased professional development funds from $1,500/ year to $2,000/year
o Increased bus and light rail operators pay by $1/hour in July of 2017 in
addition to the CBA increase of 3% that was implemented in March 2017

Collective Bargaining Unit Negotiations
The issue of mandating employees to work on their days off was a central theme of the
negotiations in 2017/2018. Also during this period, staff reported to the Board several times
regarding labor, wages, economy, and service increases over time beginning with the 2001
recession that affected market conditions and workforce.
In order to improve working conditions and the ability to recruit and retain employees, the
following improvements were made for represented employees:










Increased starting base pay for operators to $19.40/hour in 2018 (10% increase),
$19.98 in 2019, and $20.58 in 2020
Increased existing employee wages by 8% in 2018, 3% in 2019, and 3% in 2020
Kept $2/hour incentive pay for split shifts and $2/ hour incentive pay for being
mandated to work
Daily assignments of Extra Board work cannot have a greater spread than 13
consecutive hours instead of 14 hours
The minimum number of straight runs on weekdays shall not be less than 60% and
75% on the weekends, this reduced the number of split shifts by 5% on weekdays
and 10% on weekends
Day Board operators shall not be assigned work that gets off after 8:00pm to the
extent practicable, and in no circumstances work that gets off after 8:30pm; and the
Night Board operators shall not be assigned work that starts before 9:30am
Allowed for more recovery time in service schedules for restroom usage

Packet Pg. 45

Attachment: Board Paper on Mandating (3985 : Board Report on Mandating)

1.C.1.a

1.C.1.a

These changes did help with recruitment but many of the changes actually led to a higher
number of operators required to be able to provide services for some of these provisions.
The increased need for operators resulting from these changes only exacerbated the
mandating issue.

Between January 2017 and September 2019, RTD has hired 791 bus operators and 177
train operators. For comparison, our total headcount needed for bus operators is 1,083 and
train operators is 216. In the last 33 months, we have hired the employee equivalent of
73% of our entire bus operator workforce and 82% of our total train operator workforce.
However, during this same 33 months, RTD has had over 710 bus operators and 201 train
operators leave their positions. Although some are related to promotions or retirements,
most are leaving for other reasons.

Current State
In 2018, the Board adopted the 2019 General Manager’s Core and Task goals. Task Goal
#2 is “Address Service and Human Capital.” One of the tasks under “Achieves Goal” is
“incrementally optimize service through the runboard process to bring balance regarding
service delivered and headcount available” and under “Exceeds Expectations” one of the
tasks is “mandating reduced by 20% from 2018 levels.”
Employees
We are getting more and more requests from bus and light rail operators to, “please do
something about the mandating situation.” The excessive overtime is taking a toll on our
employees.
We have seen a noticeable increase since 2015 regarding the number of operators on Family
Medical Leave (FML), Sick Leave, or On the Job Injury (OJI) leave. See chart below.

Packet Pg. 46

Attachment: Board Paper on Mandating (3985 : Board Report on Mandating)

In February 2018, Mike Meader, Chief Safety Officer, presented to the Board the issue of
mandating and the toll it was taking on our employees. Each month, staff presents the
amount of dropped runs that both bus and rail are experiencing as a result of the labor
shortage. These things have not improved and in fact are getting worse.

Through September, based on the trend to date, we estimate 171,301 hours related to
FML, Sick, and OJI. 171,301 hours equates to 82 operators being out for a whole year.
In a National Safety Council report, transportation employees have the highest level of
feeling tired at work (70%).7 This same report identified nine risk factors: shift work,
quick shift returns (less than 12 hours), long shifts (more than 10 hours), long weeks (50
hours or more), high risk hours (late night/ early morning), demanding job, no rest breaks
during shift, sleep loss (less than 7 hours), long commute. 8 Of those nine risk factors, eight
are applicable to what is occurring as a result of mandating our employees.
The following is a chart of RTD preventable accidents by hours on duty. You can see that
the more hours an operator is on duty, the higher rate of preventable accidents.

7
8

Fatigue in Safety-Critical Industries, National Safety Council, Final Report
Fatigue in Safety-Critical Industries, National Safety Council, Final Report

Packet Pg. 47

Attachment: Board Paper on Mandating (3985 : Board Report on Mandating)

1.C.1.a

1.C.1.a

Preventable Accidents
by Hours on Duty
350
300
250
200
150

50
0
<1 Hour

1-4 Hours
2016

2017

4-8 Hours
2018

8-12 Hours

2019(Fcst)

In addition to safety concerns, operators report, that loss of time with family and missing
planned events, such as doctor appointments and school activities are also impacting them.
Mike Meader has been meeting with employees to discuss safety. Since 2018, he has
talked directly to 386 bus operators, 92 rail operators, street supervisors and division
management. Operators state mandating as their number one complaint and in asking how
it has impacted them they said: tired/exhausted (78%), affected relationships at home
(70%), health is worse (70%), schedules unrealistic (83%), schedules have impacted safe
operations (80%), leadership is not engaged (70%).
RTD staff has been meeting with Union representatives on a regular basis to work on issues
related to retaining employees and providing a better work environment. These issues
include: availability of restrooms, handling of biohazard materials, handling conflicts with
customers, safety concerns, and use of retired & part-time employees.
In addition, staff has been reaching out to peer agencies for their recruiting “best practices”
to see if we can add them to our efforts. Most recently we talked to the Jacksonville Transit
Authority. Based on those conversations, we have taken a number of steps:







Recently upgraded our subscription with Indeed to enhance our search optimization
so that we will show at the top of the search
Increased our class sizes for both bus and light rail to accommodate more new hires
Starting targeted outreach to the Nepali, Indian, Ethiopian, Sudanese, and Sikh
communities in the metro area after focusing much of our targeting to the Hispanic
community
Improved our job descriptions to be conducive to social media postings
Added a recruiter to specifically help with hiring bus and light rail operators

Packet Pg. 48

Attachment: Board Paper on Mandating (3985 : Board Report on Mandating)

100

1.C.1.a




Having discussions with a recruiting firm about providing us with temporary light
rail, bus, and paratransit operators
Trying to work through the issues that might be inconsistent with the CBA such as
lodging, per diem, dues, etc.

While we are providing a high level of service availability, we are seeing increased reductions
in service or dropped service. Dropped service is service that was scheduled but not
delivered.
Bus Service:
For 2014, service availability for bus was 99.80% only 4,831 hours of service were dropped
during the entire year. The worst year was 2018, when service availability had dropped to
99.21% and 19,269 hours of service were dropped. In 2019 through September, we are
at 99.54% service availability with 8,520 hours of service dropped.

Light Rail:
Dropped service is a more recent phenomenon on rail. Light rail has had to mandate much
more infrequently until recently. When the Southeast Extension (E, F, and R Extension)
opened in May 2019, we added 6,350 annualized hours of service. This required 20
additional light rail operators. In July, light rail dropped 27 hours of service or 26 trips. In
August, this climbed to 285 hours or 296.5 trips.

Packet Pg. 49

Attachment: Board Paper on Mandating (3985 : Board Report on Mandating)

Customer Impact

1.C.1.a

The labor shortage has dramatically impacted our employees and our ability to deliver reliable
service to our customers. This is eroding public confidence in our service. RTD has worked
to significantly improve our recruitment efforts over the last three years. In addition, we
have worked with the Union to improve overall working conditions and have increased
operator pay to put them above market in the Denver Metro area. Even with all of these
efforts, we are still having to mandate many of our employees on a regular basis 6 days a
week every week. Even with the mandating, we are dropping service. Additional steps
beyond recruitment and retention needs to be taken to be able to bring relief to our
employees and bring service reliability to our customers.

Next Steps:
Staff will continue to look for new recruitment techniques and provide for increased training
classes so all applicants can get into training as quickly as possible. In addition, staff is
proposing curtailing a significant amount of service for a temporary period in order to bring
our service in-line with the amount of operators we have available to run service without as
much mandating. The proposed draft plan would reduce the need for 58 operators (bus and
rail). These next steps wouldn’t completely alleviate the need to mandate employees, but
would reduce the needs for the same employees to work 6 days every week. In addition,
this should significantly reduce any dropped service and provide more reliable service on the
routes that RTD will be providing. On November 12th, the proposed draft plan will be
presented to the Board at the Operations committee.

Packet Pg. 50

Attachment: Board Paper on Mandating (3985 : Board Report on Mandating)

Conclusion:

1.C.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: October 11, 2019

From:

Fred Worthen, Assistant General Manager of
Bus Operations

GM

Date:

October 3, 2019

Board Meeting Date: October 22, 2019

Subject:

Service Availability September 2019

Information

ATTACHMENTS:


Service Availability Memo - September 2019



Update Lost Hours September 2019

(DOCX)

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Gina Callahan, Deputy Assistant General Manager, Bus Ops
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 51

To:

Dave Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Gina Callahan

Date:

October 3, 2019

Re:

Service Availability – September 2019

RTD fixed-route bus operations provided slightly over 99.71% of all scheduled hours of bus
service in September 2019. Lost service hours for personnel related reasons, reflects a
significant reduction compared the same month (September) last year. Service delivery overall
has improved steadily since July 2018. Lost service for personnel related reasons follows:





September 2019 – 12.12 hours
September 2018 – 173.24 hours
Year to date hours for 2019 – 2,579.89 hours
Year to date hours 2018 – 9,328.25 hours

Contributing to our service/staffing challenges in September were special events (such as: Taste
of Colorado, Rockies home games, Broncos home games, and planned bus bridges).
While RTD did provide in excess of 99.71% of all scheduled hours of service in the month, it
was necessary to cover 2,801 shifts with operators working a 6th day (one of their scheduled
days off). This represents approximately 22,408 hours of service being provided by a “6th day”
RTD operator and does not include the mandated service hours provided by our contractor
partners, First Transit and TransDev.
Additional information regarding bus operator headcount follows:

Headcount - Bus Operators - September 2019
Category

Budgeted

Current

Vacancies

Vacancy Ratio

PT

138

123

15

10.87%

FT

945

865

80

8.47%

Total

1,083

988

95

8.77%

Separated

Recruitment/Retention
Category

Hired

Separated

Hired

September

2019
23

22

18

21

Year to Date *

221

185

308

239

2018

Staff continues to collaborate with our partners to address and implement measures to attract,
retain and sustain skilled employees.
* Note: Year to date numbers for 2018 in recruitment/retention graph reflect the end of the year total.

Packet Pg. 52

Attachment: Service Availability Memo - September 2019 (3960 : Service Availability September 2019)

1.C.2.a

1.C.2.b

Lost service hours review
weekday hours
Contractor
missed runs
pullout delay

4504.00 wkday
subtotal %

RTD
missed runs

pullout delay

5714.00 wkday
subtotal %

RTD & Contractor
missed runs
pullout delay

10218.00 wkday
total
%

2014
Jan-14
Feb-14
Mar-14
Apr-14
May-14
Jun-14
Jul-14
Aug-14
Sep-14
Oct-14
Nov-14
Dec-14
total
2015
Jan-15
Feb-15
Mar-15
Apr-15
May-15
Jun-15
Jul-15
Aug-15
Sep-15
Oct-15
Nov-15
Dec-15
total
2016
Jan-16
Feb-16
Mar-16
Apr-16
May-16
Jun-16
Jul-16
Aug-16
Sep-16
Oct-16
Nov-16
Dec-16
total

0.00

6.13

6.13

5.54

61.36

66.90

5.54

67.49

73.03

0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00

0.27
0.39
1.06
0.17
0.14
0.59
0.36
2.20
0.08
0.10
1.13
1.23
7.72

0.27
0.39
1.06
0.17
0.14
0.59
0.36
2.20
0.08
0.10
1.13
1.23
7.72

2.10
12.27
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
2.47
0.00
0.00
0.00
16.84

12.16
12.05
4.03
8.05
3.59
4.49
3.42
7.19
6.59
7.27
8.11
7.40
84.35

14.26
24.32
4.03
8.05
3.59
4.49
3.42
7.19
9.06
7.27
8.11
7.40
101.19

2.10
12.27
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
2.47
0.00
0.00
0.00
16.84

12.43
12.44
5.09
8.22
3.73
5.08
3.78
9.39
6.67
7.37
9.24
8.63
92.07

14.53
24.71
5.09
8.22
3.73
5.08
3.78
9.39
9.14
7.37
9.24
8.63
108.91

0.00
0.44
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
9.11
23.48
54.09
93.55
385.21
264.07
829.95

0.37
1.22
0.27
2.19
1.31
0.51
9.11
16.56
19.51
38.49
91.16
100.33
281.03

0.37
1.66
0.27
2.19
1.31
0.51
18.22
40.04
73.60
132.04
476.37
364.40
1110.98

1.49
0.00
0.00
1.37
5.22
2.20
7.43
0.00
15.14
1.24
30.23
77.25
141.57

8.15
9.38
7.16
7.28
8.41
5.16
16.58
9.55
5.50
16.47
11.08
35.32
140.04

9.64
9.38
7.16
8.65
13.63
7.36
24.01
9.55
20.64
17.71
41.31
112.57
281.61

1.49
0.44
0.00
1.37
5.22
2.20
16.54
23.48
69.23
94.79
415.44
341.32
971.52

8.52
10.60
7.43
9.47
9.72
5.67
25.69
26.11
25.01
54.96
102.24
135.65
421.07

10.01
11.04
7.43
10.84
14.94
7.87
42.23
49.59
94.24
149.75
517.68
476.97
1392.59

210.12
522.58
794.17
27.30
27.08
7.13
1.50
18.26
273.44
508.47
288.29
402.13
3080.47

61.15
56.12
22.57
15.59
12.02
9.14
6.17
9.22
79.36
134.03
64.51
86.29
556.17

271.27
578.70
816.74
42.89
39.10
16.27
7.67
27.48
352.80
642.50
352.80
488.42
3636.64

90.12
353.01
297.34
126.16
38.56
84.22
89.34
45.37
36.04
99.36
20.58
83.30
1363.40

41.03
41.22
13.41
9.11
11.21
17.01
6.28
7.35
10.34
4.54
8.14
14.49
184.13

131.15
394.23
310.75
135.27
49.77
101.23
95.62
52.72
46.38
103.90
28.72
97.79
1547.53

300.24
875.59
1091.51
153.46
65.64
91.35
90.84
63.63
309.48
607.83
308.87
485.43
4443.87

102.18
97.34
35.98
24.70
23.23
26.15
12.45
16.57
89.70
138.57
72.65
100.78
740.30

402.42
972.93
1127.49
178.16
88.87
117.50
103.29
80.20
399.18
746.40
381.52
586.21
5184.17

Contractor
missed runs
pullout delay
2017
Jan-17
Feb-17
Mar-17
Apr-17
May-17
Jun-17
Jul-17
Aug-17
Sep-17
Oct-17
Nov-17
Dec-17
total

2018
Jan-18
Feb-18
Mar-18
Apr-18
May-18
Jun-18
Jul-18
Aug-18
Sep-18
Oct-18
Nov-18
Dec-18
total
2019
Jan-19
Feb-19
Mar-19
Apr-19
May-19
Jun-19
Jul-19
Aug-19
Sep-19
Oct-19
Nov-19
Dec-19
total

0.00301
0.00642
0.00907
0.00048
0.00043
0.00018
0.00009
0.00031
0.00392
0.00713
0.00392
0.00542

4504.00 wkday
subtotal %

RTD
missed runs

pullout delay

0.00115
0.00345
0.00272
0.00118
0.00044
0.00089
0.00084
0.00046
0.00041
0.00091
0.00025
0.00086

5714.00 wkday
subtotal %

RTD & Contractor
missed runs
pullout delay

Attachment: Update Lost Hours September 2019 (3960 : Service Availability September 2019)

2013
total

0.00197
0.00476
0.00552
0.00087
0.00043
0.00057
0.00051
0.00039
0.00195
0.00365
0.00187
0.00287

10218.00 wkday
total
%

125.23
173.27
66.35
97.38
100.40
58.58
174.28
468.39
811.88
555.66
141.10
61.97
2834.49

46.37
44.53
31.26
9.15
26.04
22.09
93.51
237.01
362.40
311.50
96.36
76.82
1357.04

171.60
217.80
97.61
106.53
126.44
80.67
267.79
705.40
1174.28
867.16
237.46
138.79
4191.53

0.0019
0.00242
0.00108
0.00118
0.0014
0.0009
0.00297
0.00783
0.01304
0.00963
0.00264
0.00154

78.00
28.58
174.42
52.53
32.51
97.07
34.08
49.06
335.58
195.00
172.17
375.75
1624.75

21.16
51.27
11.41
22.55
26.21
25.39
13.41
20.35
58.35
43.15
40.11
111.83
445.19

99.16
79.85
185.83
75.08
58.72
122.46
47.49
69.41
393.93
238.15
212.28
487.58
2069.94

0.00087
0.0007
0.00163
0.00066
0.00051
0.00107
0.00042
0.00061
0.00345
0.00208
0.00186
0.00427

203.23
201.85
240.77
149.91
132.91
155.65
208.36
517.45
1147.46
750.66
313.27
437.72
4459.24

67.53
95.80
42.67
31.70
52.25
47.48
106.92
257.36
420.75
354.65
136.47
188.65
1802.23

270.76
297.65
283.44
181.61
185.16
203.13
315.28
774.81
1568.21
1105.31
449.74
626.37
6261.47

0.00132
0.00146
0.00139
0.00089
0.00091
0.00099
0.00154
0.00379
0.00767
0.00541
0.0022
0.00307

119.63
96.35
467.75
426.48
248.18
254.98
26.20
18.50
12.03
20.55
12.39
3.40
1706.44

52.43
29.28
33.42
31.72
12.13
18.09
2.75
5.27
6.03
7.40
3.28
3.28
205.08

172.06
125.63
501.17
458.20
260.31
273.07
28.95
23.77
18.06
27.95
15.67
6.68
1911.52

0.00191
0.00139
0.00556
0.00509
0.00289
0.00303
0.00032
0.00026
0.0002
0.00031
0.00017
0.00007

425.95
732.78
889.87
1230.98
1763.33
1021.99
138.13
91.61
93.44
316.40
174.35
78.32
6957.15

66.03
137.68
165.12
193.83
172.60
149.93
84.40
47.62
61.74
75.26
37.88
39.27
1231.36

491.98
870.46
1054.99
1421.60
1935.93
1171.92
222.53
139.23
155.18
391.66
212.23
117.59
8185.30

0.00431
0.00762
0.00923
0.01244
0.01694
0.01025
0.00195
0.00122
0.00136
0.00343
0.00186
0.00103

545.58
829.13
1357.62
1657.46
2011.51
1276.97
164.33
110.11
105.47
336.95
186.74
81.72
8663.59

118.46
166.96
198.54
225.55
184.73
168.02
87.15
52.89
67.77
82.66
41.16
42.55
1436.44

664.04
996.09
1556.16
1883.01
2196.24
1444.99
251.48
163.00
173.24
419.61
227.90
124.27
10100.03

0.00325
0.00487
0.00761
0.00921
0.01075
0.00707
0.00123
0.0008
0.00085
0.00205
0.00112
0.00061

3.40
2.22
214.94
6.48
16.40
12.83
85.44
63.14
0.00

3.17
4.75
8.35
3.61
3.65
6.23
4.50
10.17
0.44

0.00007
0.00006
0.00248
0.00011
0.00022
0.00021
0.001
0.00081
0.00002
0
0
0

78.03
360.30
933.95
71.00
82.54
93.29
32.05
35.40
0.00

39.19
74.00
68.47
32.49
57.58
77.77
26.38
54.45
11.28

1686.56

441.61

81.43
362.52
1148.89
77.48
98.94
106.12
117.49
98.54
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
2091.41

42.36
78.75
76.82
36.10
61.23
84.00
31.28
64.62
12.12
0.00
0.00
0.00
487.28

124.19
441.27
1225.71
113.58
160.17
190.12
149.17
163.56
12.12
0.00
0.00
0.00
2579.89

0.00061
0.00216
0.006
0.00056
0.00078
0.00093
0.00073
0.0008
0.00004
0
0
0

44.87

117.22
434.30
1002.42
103.49
140.12
171.06
58.43
89.85
11.28
0.00
0.00
0.00
2128.17

0.00103
0.0038
0.00877
0.00091
0.00123
0.0015
0.00051
0.00079
0.00004
0
0
0

404.85

6.57
6.97
223.29
10.09
20.05
19.06
89.94
73.31
0.44
0.00
0.00
0.00
449.72

Packet Pg. 53

1.C.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: October 15, 2019

From:

Dave Jensen, Assistant General Manager, Rail
Operations

GM

Date:

October 14, 2019

Board Meeting Date: October 22, 2019

Subject:

Rail Operations Update September 2019

ATTACHMENTS:


Rail Operations Update September 2019

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Caitlin Magee, Administrative Specialist, Rail Operations
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 54

1.C.3.a

RAIL OPERATIONS UPDATE

Headcount

Month
Week of
9/24

Light Rail Train Operators

Full Time

Part Time

In Training

155

4

7

On Time
Performance

YTD
On-Time
Performance

On-Time Performance

Month

Service
Availability

Light Rail Operations

August

98.85%

89.16%

90.77%

Commuter Rail Operations

August

97.76%

94.39%

93.94%

Mean Distance Between Failures

Month

Actual

Goal

Light Rail Vehicles

August

27,425.89 miles

> 25,000 miles

Maintenance of Way

August

4,348.85 hours

> 2,500 hours

Operator
Mandates

2018

2019

Month

Mandated

Volunteer

Total

Mandated

Volunteer

Total

2019 vs 2018

Jan

193

119

312

24

78

102

-210

Feb

124

123

247

71

60

131

-116

Mar

159

142

301

83

125

208

-93

Apr

211

115

326

156

135

291

-35

May

233

118

351

226

163

389

38

Jun

191

109

300

219

176

395

95

Jul

167

126

293

264

255

519

226

Aug

129

113

242

249

242

491

249

YTD Total

1407

965

2372

1292

1234

2526

154

Preventable Accidents
Light Rail Operations

August Year to Date
0
2

Packet Pg. 55

Attachment: Rail Operations Update September 2019 (3962 : Rail Operations Update September 2019)

Dave Jensen, AGM

1.C.4

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: October 15, 2019

From:

William C. Van Meter,
Manager, Planning

GM

Date:

October 15, 2019

Subject:

Union Station Private Carrier Access

Assistant

General

Board Meeting Date: October 22, 2019
Information

ATTACHMENTS:


DUS Private Carrier 10222019

(PPTX)

Prepared by:
William Van Meter, Assistant General Manager, Planning
Doug Monroe, Corridor Planning Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 56

Attachment: DUS Private Carrier 10222019 [Revision 1] (3970 : DUS Private Carrier Access)

1.C.4.a

Union Station Private Carrier Access
RTD Board of Directors
Operations Committee
October 22, 2019

Packet Pg. 57

Attachment: DUS Private Carrier 10222019 [Revision 1] (3970 : DUS Private Carrier Access)

1.C.4.a

DUS Private Carrier Access
History
• November 2017 – Informed Board of Request for Expressions of Interest
(RFEI)
• December 2017 – Received 4 responses to RFEI
• Greyhound
• Ramblin’ Express
• Ace Express
• Gray Line of Colorado

• 2018 – RTD internal discussions on requirements and approach
• April 2, 2019 – Update to Board
• Summer 2019 – Discussions with Greyhound

Packet Pg. 58

Attachment: DUS Private Carrier 10222019 [Revision 1] (3970 : DUS Private Carrier Access)

1.C.4.a

DUS Private Carrier Access
RTD Approach
• Non-exclusive use of 3 gates at Union Station
• Fees for bus movements and passengers
• Increased fees during peak periods to encourage off-peak use

• Additional security and custodial services to be covered by fees
• Greyhound - 14 daily round-trips from approximately 5am-1am
• Considering access agreement for private operators

Packet Pg. 59

Attachment: DUS Private Carrier 10222019 [Revision 1] (3970 : DUS Private Carrier Access)

1.C.4.a

DUS Private Carrier Access
Status
• Spring 2019 – Denver Greyhound Station put on the market
• Summer 2019 – Discussions with Greyhound accelerated
• Greyhound proposing to consolidate operations to shorter hours
• Issues to be resolved:
• Ticketing
• Security
• Restrooms

• Anticipate an update for the Board in late 2019 on status

Packet Pg. 60

