October 22, 2019
Operations & Customer Service Committee
KATE WILLIAMS: Recommended actions that we will begin, as soon as we get the agenda
rolling here.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Mihalik. Good. The first thing on our agenda tonight-do we need a call to order? I think we're good, right? We're good to go? OK. The first
recommended action-- it is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee
that the Board of Directors approve the January 2020 Service Change Package as revised and
summarized in attachment A, resulting in an annual base system cost of $519,000, and further to
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for
private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
This recommended action supports the following General Managers' goals. Core goal number
one, successful delivery of transit services. And task goal number one, fiscal sustainability. Do I
have a motion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Malpiede and Director Broom. I see that we have some
gentlemen up here that will speak to this issue.
MICHAEL FORD: Yes, it's Michael Ford, COO. Just wanted to briefly talk about, this is the
January Service Change. It's about a mix of services, improvements, and adjustments that we're
looking to do for January. Some of the higher noted issues are a Route 62, which is going to be
expiring. That's what is being proposed in the adjustment of the LD.
There are several other things in here that are kind of housekeeping. And I was going to turn it
over to Mr. Carter to speak to any details if there were more questions about the service changes
that are being proposed for January.
JESSIE CARTER: And in the interest of time, Jessie, we'll be brief. So with that said, we did
have a pretty good public hearing process this go round. We had five public hearings. We
actually had pretty good participation. The largest meeting was in Longmont, actually. So going
back to what Michael said about the service change, the two biggest changes were, of course, the
62, due to grant funding going away on the Route 62. However, we only had one person at that
public hearing in Commerce City, and they were not there to speak about the Route 62.
So we also didn't have very much input in the service dot change about the Route 62. And I think
that's largely because of changes that we are also proposing on the Route 65, which would cover
the two trips in each peak period that have the highest ridership. However, we did have a

modification to the plan as far as the discontinuance of service, midday service, that was grant
support on the LDLX service. We did go forward with a new proposal, and that is highlighted in
this Board paper.
We do believe we did receive some confirmation from both customers and stakeholders saying
that they were in agreement with the adjustments made to the proposal. So that kind of
summarizes the proposal as it stands right now. So with that, I'd like to open to any questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Jessie. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank each, Chair Williams. I had a question about the Longmont fare buy up.
Is that part of this at all, or is that-JESSIE CARTER: No, that was not under the actual service change.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. So that's not part of-- OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: General Manager?
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Madam Chair. We did reach an agreement with Longmont,
though, so Heather can fill you in on that later if you would like.
JUDY LUBOW: OK Thank you. Thanks a lot. And one additional point. I've gotten several
contacts or calls from people about the LD, their disappointment that, in the mid-day, it was
going to be a transfer ride. In other words, they'd go to Broomfield, and then transfer to the
Flatiron Flyer.
JESSIE CARTER: That's correct. As you noted-JUDY LUBOW: Right. And I understand. I'm going to be supporting it, because I really
appreciate the cooperation that was done. I thought it was an example of the good work that can
be done from cooperation between the stakeholders and RTD. But I know that there are people
that feel that transferring is difficult for them. One person is disabled, and he just-- and I wanted
to say that, given the fact that we don't have the rail, there are people that really do believe that
we should have a one seat ride from Longmont and Lafayette into Denver. So I'm going to be
supporting this. But I am nonetheless concerned about those changes. And thank you for the
cooperation.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair. Mr. Carter, I always like working with you.
On the Route 62, I know that needs to be eliminated, but there will be another service in place to
help like, the kids from Northfield High School get around, correct?

JESSIE CARTER: That's correct. The Route 65, we did propose two trips on each peak to
actually cover those trips.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just briefly, I wanted to second what Director Lubow, said that I think
what happened with the LD, there were some draft changes to the schedule, and the stakeholders
up there in Longmont and Lafayette and Boulder County came together and came up with
another plan. And I think Jessie and your team agree that was a better plan. And they went with
it one way or the other. And I think we all appreciate that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Jessie, thank you for your outreach on 62. Long live 62.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Appreciate your work on that, and the alternatives, as Director Malpiede
had mentioned.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. I think we all appreciate, particularly when there is
something that we can bring to the community and the community can partner with us to make
something happen that suits everybody. I think that's what we've been talking about earlier
tonight. So-- I'm sorry. Did you want to speak? How much money-- no.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I would like to thank you both for being responsive to the concerns of both
our communities and also the concerns of the Board. I don't know if you get thanked enough,
because you're always coming in here giving us bad news. But thank you.
[LAUGHING]
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, then. Thank you for that. OK. If that's all the questions we have on that
portion, we can move right along. I think what we have next is Wagon Road.
MICHAEL FORD: That's correct. I think we have Fred Worthen.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, we have to vote. Yeah, I forgot about that. We do have to vote. OK. So
everybody's done talking. I'm going to call for a vote. And that would-- you know, it's the peanut
gallery. That would be-- the mover was Director Malpiede and the second was Director Broom?
Or do I have it backwards? OK. I'm game. We have to have something up there first.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes?

BARBARA MCMANUS: I just want to let you know that Director Folska's having some
technology issues, so if we could do a manual vote for her, that would be great.
KATE WILLIAMS: Absolutely. Or we could you talk about the weather or something while it
gets fixed?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, no. Just vote OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. We can absolutely accept a manual vote in this case. If everybody else,
mover would move, would vote.
BOB BROOM: I was the second.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's what I think, Director Broom. OK. And the rest of us can vote.
Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I'll be a yes vote. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. If we could so indicate. OK. That looks like we have
unanimous. Director Folska, we have 15 yes votes. So this passes. Gentlemen, thank you. Now,
we'll move on to the Wagon Road Park and Ride, I think. And I'm going to read the
recommended action, and then we'll talk about it some.
It's recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into a four-year contract with
Smart Commute Metro North Transportation Management Organization for the implementation
and ongoing grant administration of the new Wagon Road Park-n- Ride, 144th FlexRide. The
grant includes a $1,600,000 in initial funding and $400,000 in local match, for a total grant
amount of $2 million. The total not to exceed RTD contribution to this grant is $150,000.
It's also recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorized the General Manager or his designee to amend the current ADA,
Paratransit/ Flex Ride Services Contract with the VIA Mobility Services, contract number 16DH-047, to allow RTD to distribute grant funds to VIA Mobility Services to operate the New
Wagon Road 144th Flex Ride. The contract increase for the new flex fund service is $303,161
for year one, $317,099 for year two, and $331, 927.
In addition, RTD will reimburse the contractors' direct fuel costs, an amount estimated to be
$36,840 for year one, $37,945 for year two, and $39,050 for year three. The fourth year cost for
the Wagon Road 144th Flex Ride Service will not be included in this amendment, since contract
16-dh-047 will be rebid during 2022. The initial three-year not to exceed amount for service is
$952,186 and the fuel is $113,835.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager's goals. Core goal number
one, successful delivery of transit services.

VINCE BUZEK: So moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second.
KATE WILLIAMS: That would be Director Buzek and Director Malpiede. And now we would
like to have some discussion on this.
FRED WORTHEN: I'll be very brief. Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations. I have with me
Greg Smith, our Senior Manager of Contracted Services. Smart Commute Metro North
Transportation received a $2 million grant to support flexible microtransit service and mobility
options for workforce needs in the North I-25 and corridor along the 120th to 144th area. This
new Flex Ride will basically service a new Amazon distribution center here on to the west,
Washington Street to the East, and connecting service to Wagon Road Park and Ride, and to the
far south.
It will provide service Monday through Saturday, 4:50 AM to 9:45 PM. We'll have two vehicles
operating during peak hours and one during off-peak. We've committed $75,000 to the grant, and
we have a challenge to the grant also, where if specific goals are met with regard to selling fair
media, then we would contribute up to another 75,000.
We're seeking approval to authorize a General Manager to amend our operating contract with
VIA Mobility Operating Services in the amounts within your packet. I will be happy to answer
any questions you may have.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Worthen. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Williams. And I assume those vehicles are all
accessible?
FRED WORTHEN: Yes, ma'am.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And thanks, Mr. Worthen. And special thanks to Brian
Mathews for your work on this as well. I went to a meeting with regard to this on September 16
at the Cabela's in Thornton and had a pretty good turnout and good interaction from the
community. They're excited about that coming. And this is true workforce transit that is going to
be serving a need that doesn't-- it's serving a need, and there is no service out there for that need.
And for $150,000 investment from RTD, they get a $2 million return and a couple new buses.
Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Whitmore.

TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I serve as a member on the Smart Commute
Board. My company has a board seat, and I'm the representative on that very fine organization.
So you might know how I lean towards this opportunity. But it is probably appropriate that I
recuse myself from this vote, unfortunately. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that, sir. We appreciate that. Seeing no other questions,
gentlemen, thank you for that. I think we will move to a vote on this action. The mover was
Director Buzek, and the second was Director Malpiede. And if the rest-- and we will recuse
Director Whitmore. The rest of us will vote.
OK. Looks like it passes with 13 yeses, one no vote, which is Director Menten, and one recusal,
which is Director Whitmore. Thank you, gentlemen. That is all of our recommended actions for
the evening. We are going to move on to some updates that include a Board paper on mandating.
And I think we'll have some staff to come up here and talk to us about that.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
KATE WILLIAMS: General Manager, how can I help you?
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm going to start us off on this one. And then, of
course, we have our team of-- at the table, Michael Ford, our COO, Fred Worthen, Assistant
General Manager, Bus Operations, Dave Jensen, Assistant General Manager of Rail, Operations,
and Heather McKillop, our Chief Financial Officer, also AGM of Administration, which
includes HR. So they will be available to add additional insight and answer questions.
But I wanted to provide just a few-- just kind of review a few of the highlights that was in the
paper that we provided to the Board last Wednesday, and then again in the packet this week. So
as we've reported regularly to the Board, mandating overtime of bus and rail operators has been
an ongoing issue for the last several years. In the last year, the issue's become even more
predominant at light rail, now resulting in dropped runs, I believe, for the first time in light rail
over the last few months.
So while we've made significant improvements to service availability on bus, meaning we've had
a lot fewer missed trips on the bus side, it's really come at the cost of additional mandating. So
since 2013, RTD has added approximately 600,000 in-service hours. And then there's also
information in the paper about what the unemployment rate is. It was about 6.1% a number of
years ago, now down to 2.6%.
Mandating, as the Board is aware from when we were going through the 2017 to 2018 collective
bargaining negotiations, along with a number of other quality of life issues for our employees
around split shifts, report time hour duration, relief times, wages and some others, were some of
the main points that we were working through at that time. So we made a number of
improvements in all of these areas, some of which requiring additional staffing to fill the work.
So, for example, when we reduced the number of split shifts by a certain percentage, when we
increased the relief time on runs, and then also, reducing the report time by an hour.

And work has been done in those areas, but it's actually caused us to have a carry a higher
headcount than before. And then the Board over the years, also recognizing workforce concerns,
has adopted strategic goals around workforce the last few years at the Board Strategic Retreat
each year the last few years.
So while we have been making some extraordinary efforts to recruit and retain, the hiring is just
not keeping up with our loss of operators. And we believe that's mainly due to mandating. So, for
example, in 33 months, we have hired 791 bus operators and 177 train operators. So to compare
that, our total headcount of bus operators is 1,083. And so that's 791 operators that we hired in
the last 33 months represent about 73% of that entire workforce in just a 33 month period.
And then on the rail side, we have hired-- let's see. Where I am? 177 train operators. The rail
headcount is 216. So that's about 82% of the total train workforce. So we've been able to, even in
low unemployment, and even in a competitive environment, we've been able to do a lot of hiring,
but it's been our retention that's been problematic. And we think that is largely due to mandating.
So we've talked to the Board about this a number of times. I'll point out one time back in
February 2018, where actually Mike Meters, our Chief Safety Officer, presented to the Board on
the issue of mandating and some of its impacts on employees. And each month, the staff presents
the amount of mandating and dropped trips that both bus and rail are experiencing as a result of
our labor and operator shortage.
So currently, over the last number of months, we've seen an increasing amount of call-ins, an
increasing amount of on the job injuries, an increase in family medical leave, and we believe that
mandating is one reason that could be driving fatigue, which is leading to an increase in leading
indicators that's affecting safety, as many of our newest operators are working six days a week
most weeks.
The other factor we have-- so we have our team of employees that we're incredibly concerned
about in terms of the mandating and the number of days. And, of course, the way the mandating
works, it's always are newer employees that are getting mandated the most. So that's where we
think that a main retention issue is at work.
But the other side of this equation is the reliability of our services for our patrons. And so over
the last few months, particularly, if you subscribe to the rider alerts on light rail, maybe you've
been seeing these. there's days where there's-- I think it was today, I was counting the number of
dropped trips on the rider alerts. I got up to about 23, and I quit counting. That doesn't happen on
a daily basis, but it's happening fairly regularly. So it's problematic on our ability to deliver
service, which is a problem for us to be reliable for our customers.
And so that's why we're here today, and we've provided information to you. As we said, we've
been working on for the last number of months, compiling some data and doing some analysis to
talk to you about a temporary service curtailment to provide relief to our operators and reliability
to our customers.

I do have one graphic. I don't know if we can get it up or not. What it shows-- and I'll just walk
through what it shows, because it shows some interesting things in terms of what's been
happening with workforce overtime, wages, the economy, and then also openings, so when we've
added significant amounts of services.
So we start over in 2003. The reason we go back that far is that there was a number of years that
you can see in this graphic. The first three years of that, wages were flat, then we had a couple of
increases. And then we had about a five-year period-- we had a three-year period of flat wages, a
two-year period of flat wages, and then there was another five-year period of flat wages.
And so we had a we also had a recession in there in 2007 to 2009. That was an impact on the
market. And then you can see the increases that were made in 2018. So that's when our latest,
most recent CBA went into effect, and we went from an hourly rate of $16.59 for starting to
$19.40 in 2018. So a very significant increase in wages, and then you can see what the wages are
for '19 and '20. So in 2020, we'll move to $20.58 an hour.
Now that green bar with the 1950, that says $19.50 an hour, that is the Denver average for CDL
workers. So in 2019, we're fairly-- we're just above the average, and in 2020, we'll go up a little
bit more. But I just provided that for just a little perspective on wages over time. Because this
isn't an issue that's even three years old or a couple of months old.
There's a lot of factors that have contributed. And then the yellow arrows that you see on the top
that point down in a year, those are all the major openings we've had over time. So you see the
southeast corridor in '06, and then you see the really major expansion we have beginning in 2013
with the W Line, Union Station, Flat Iron Flyer, University of Colorado A Line, B Line, and then
2017, the R Line, and then this year, of course, the G Line and the Southeast Rail Extension. So I
had to show that to you in terms of a graphic way to kind of put a little bit more onto the story.
So now, we are happy to take your input questions about anything you would like for us to
receive. And as I said, the team's here for questions and additional detail if you like.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, General Manager Genova. Director Malpiede-Rivera?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. So I have a few things that I'd like to
say. Let me just start by saying that the number that you just gave us in terms of $19.58 per hour,
that means that all of these bus drivers would qualify for our LiVE program. That's like, really
not a workable wage for me. With that said, I'd like to just ask a couple of questions.
One is I did get to go to the-- I had mentioned before, all of the barbecues. And I got to visit four
different sites and talk to different folks. And some of the things that I saw really kind of made
me question a couple of things. And Mr. Genova, I shared this with you yesterday.
But I know that when I was at the body shop and talking to those guys, really what they have are
18 guys working on the floor with three supervisors and one secretary. And four years ago, there
were 48 guys in the body shop. And so it seems to me that perhaps this is really top heavy.

In the information center, we have one manager, one lead supervisor, five supervisors for 48
operators. So I really have a concern about looking at every division to see how many people are
in each one of those with an FTE, and where we can look at really kind of augmenting to make
sure that the people working on the floors and in the community are getting access to funding as
opposed to having a lot of administration.
But more than anything else, I would like to request officially, that before we do any discussions
about different routes being eliminated or looked at, that we go out to our key stakeholders from
the Governor's office, all the way down, and utilizing our lobbyists to work with us to help us get
together these key stakeholders. Because, in my opinion, RTD is in crisis. And this is a districtwide issue, and it's not just an RTD issue.
And in everything that I read, in every campaign that happens, the number one issue that they
bring forward is transportation. And transportation is the backbone of this community, dealing
with every economic level, and our own stability for our communities. So I would request those
pieces. Thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I want to start out by thanking Nate Minor for his
recent article that was been informative for me about why your bus didn't show up today. That's
some great background information. Now this paper that we've been given was interesting and
disappointing in so many ways.
First, I got from this paper that the only option considered were significant cuts to service.
Because no other options were discussed in this paper I want to see 100 other things we've tried
before we start cutting service in a significant fashion. That's one thing that I found problematic.
This seemed to be our first out of the box choice and option to take to this problem. No creative
solutions at all.
We've got this problem? Well, just cut service. Let's match our service to the number of
operators we have. And then, how do we restore that service? I would contend that maybe we
never do because now, we don't have an operator shortage. So we can get stuck in a catch-22 that
becomes problematic. So anything that comes forward, if there are going to be service cuts-- and
I don't support that, because I'm hopeful there are other ways around this-- we need to have a
plan for restoring service.
And I also find it interesting that when I talk to the union representatives, they tell me that
mandating is an issue, but it's not the single biggest issue out there. There are many other issues
that are causing problems with our operators. Let me tell you, we need to take care of our
operators, and we need to take care of our riders. And those are not mutually exclusive. So this
rush to, let's cut service because we have this problem, I find it very disappointing, and I look at
it as a failure. Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair. I had a good meeting with General Manager Genova
and with Heather McKillop and had a lot of my questions answered. I was very concerned when
this came up for several reasons, one of which is the timing, that we would go in and make these
kind of cuts right at the beginning of Reimagine RTD, where we're trying to really look at our
service in a more structured way.
And I share Director Buzek's concern that-- and also, I think Director Lewis expressed it earlier,
that if we don't have an end date, then are these really temporary, and especially if we're building
them into our 2020 budget. I'm concerned about-- I would like to see an end date there.
But my most important thing, which I say-- and many I think have heard it in many contexts, is
we need to be working with our partners and our stakeholders. And I agree with both of the
Directors who have spoken already that the next step, before we see any kind of draft plan,
before there's any more work done on cutting service, is to go out and meet with all of our
elected officials and our partners, the cities, the counties.
We need to be at the Metro Mayors Caucus, the Mayors and Commissioners Coalition, all of the
different groups. We've talked about it today, is maybe working with the subregion groups, like
the DRCOG groups. But to go out there and say, here's our problem. We need help. Do you have
some suggestions?
There's a lot of workforce groups. There's a lot of chambers that might be able to come up with
some ideas that we haven't seen yet. But at the very least, if we do get to the point of talking
about service cuts, it needs to be done in a collaborative way, so that people aren't being told,
these are your service cuts.
And I think, you know, we're looking at it-- it sounds like, basing it on the family of services
report, that gives you something as a basis to go out and start talking about. But before I could
support this, I would need to see a big outreach to our partners and see where that takes us.
Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Like I've mentioned before several times, when I first got on the
Board, one of the first decisions I had to make back in September, October of 2011 was to cut
about 10% of the service. What I remember from the conversation then was that Directors from
different districts kept asking for this route to be saved, that route to be saved. And it wasn't 10%
of the service that was cut anymore, so that those funding savings had to come from someplace
else.
Different scenario in that that was about finances, and not driver availability or operator
availability. But similar in that the Board at that time-- I think I was only one because I was
appointed for a year. But anyway, the Board at that time wanted to protect their constituents and
their district, and I totally understand that.

However, I'm a frequent bus rider, frequent train rider, and I've been left at the start several years
waiting-- not several times, but over the last several years, waiting for that bus to show, and it
hasn't shown. The schedule that we put out isn't being met, and we're therefore lying to our
customers, me and other folks, about what we say we will provide.
Unlike Fast Tracks, which has an asterisk next to everything, that schedule is the Bible. You
know? That should be Gospel. So my perspective is instead of it being a guessing game, maybe
the bus will show, maybe it won't show. Thanks to some of the apps that are out there now, it's
not as much of a guessing game. But not everybody has a smartphone. So I think it would be in
our customer's best interest, and from the operators I do talk to-- when I do ride the bus, when I
do bug them for a little bit.
I think it would be in the best interest of a lot of our operators that we provide a schedule, we
create a schedule, that can actually be met. So I support this concept. I don't know what routes-maybe my beloved 0 might be on that chopping block, temporary or long-term. But I think that
providing reliability to our customers and stress relief for our operators right now, these days,
should be our top priority besides getting our customers to their destinations safely.
So also back in '11, when we had those service cuts, I did see over the few years that followed,
that a lot of that service was restored. One of the big ones was the number four that went down
Morrison Road. Eventually, that was restored years later, but it was restored.
So the routes do come back as demand for those services increases, and those financial situations
increase. So this has been in the works for a while, as Mr. Genova stated, and Mr. Meader came
before us in 2018 and said pretty much we have the same situation that we have now. So I think
we need to do something. I think we've been putting it off for way too long. And I think we need
to act so our customers can have the reliability that they deserve and our operators can get the
relief that they deserve. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Walker. Vice Chair Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Chair Williams. I agree with Director Guissinger that we do need to
meet with our stakeholders, and before any proposal is put forth. And I also would suggest that
rather than just using our normal process for service changes and those normal criteria, that we
may look at some other parameters or other criteria by which we would make some of these
service changes, just so that there might be a little bit more spreading the pain around if we do
decide to make some of these cuts. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I too support engaging with the local communities that we
serve so that this doesn't get sprung on them as kind of a last minute bad surprise. But it looks
like we've reached a tipping point. We've reached the point now where we're hiring a lot of new
drivers, but then when they get on the job and they find out they've signed onto a six day a week
job, then they're quitting and going to work for somebody else. And so we've wasted a lot of
training time and so forth.

So something has to be done to get this thing into balance until such time as we can figure out
how to hire additional drivers and then keep them on staff. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair. Yes, so I agree. Wanted to just underscore the importance
of reaching out before we unveil a proposal. And so we were talking about this as sort of a
service change-- not a service change that's temporary in that sense. But it's not-- I don't think we
can handle it in the way we normally do. I think we really have to reach out, meet with the
different groups, the cities and counties, the metro mayors, the TMAs. I think that effort
undertaken at the outset will pay dividends if we move forward.
And I agree with Lynn Guissinger. I can't support-- I'm open to this idea. But until we can
demonstrate that we listen to people, factored in their issues or priorities to the extent we can,
and have a little bit more information in the way of how temporary it is-- does that $9 million
that we're proposing be included in the 2020 budget identified from savings from this? Is that
carried forward into the mid-term financial plan and how far, for example. So I do think nailing
down some of that.
And then being clear about what we have done. Because I think we'll start to see-- three of us
have had calls recently in the past day or two about people who have been seeking work. We
don't know both sides of the story. But they've attempted to apply, and haven't heard back. So I
just think to the extent that we're going to be talking about cutting service and hurting people
who rely on it to get to work, potentially thousands, affected, I want to provide reliable service
too, and I want to provide it to a lot of people. I don't want to deprive people of service if we can
help it.
And until we can just demonstrate that we've done what we can, that we're being responsive in
terms of people who do want to work, and are exploring all means to try to address the various
issues, not just the mandated over time, then I think we'll have a credibility problem as we go
forward with actual service cuts. It'll be very painful. So, thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Cook. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Williams. This is not an easy situation to deal with. It's just
going to be difficult. But I reiterate what people are saying. We've got to reach out to the
stakeholders. We've got to. This is not just an RTD problem. It's a region-wide problem.
And a solution that is worked out, including people. Instead of excluding them, is going to make
the pain a little bit easier to deal with. And I think it's something that really has to be agreed upon
and worked on is an equitable set of criteria to determine which routes are going to be cut. That's
it. Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Chair Tisdale?

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I couldn't agree more with the
comments that have been made that we need to work with our partners, first and foremost. We
have to show that this is a collaborative process. That is critical in terms of proceeding with any
kind of consideration of service reductions. That collaborative effort will produce good results
that people can all take ownership in. So I think that's important.
Secondly, as has been suggested, yes, we definitely need to set a sunset for this. We can always
address in the future whether or not that sunset must be extended. But you have to set a sunset.
You can't just say, trust us, at some point, it will go away. No, you start it with a sunset.
And the way we solve the problem, I submit, is by continuing the hiring practices we've had.
We've been hiring very successfully. We have not been retaining successfully. And what we're
trying to do is to address the issues that, in fact, cause that lack of retention.
So we have to address all of the quality of life issues for the operators. That includes, but not
limited to, mandating. It includes split shifts. It includes things as simple, as important, as
critical, as restroom breaks. Those all have to be addressed. That's part of the solution as well.
I ask myself, how can we, with a straight face and with integrity, say that we will provide, for
example, 1,000 runs per day, knowing that even with mandating, we can only service 900 runs
per day. We can't do that. We can't continue to do that. We have to address it. We need to give
ourselves back our credibility and our trust with the public, which we can only do by delivering
what we promise.
There is an old parable. Who is the better son? The one who says to the father, yes, I'll go out in
the field and work for you, and then goes off and plays and doesn't work, or the son who says,
no, I'm not going to do it, but then later on regrets his decision and goes out and does it. I'd like
for us to be the better son. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. I don't know what the protocol is, but I want to talk. So I
will get to, Director Menten momentarily. I'm calling on Director Williams. I'd first like to
acknowledge the people in this room, who are living this situation, who sat here until 9 o'clock at
night to hear what was going on. Thank you all for being here. Thank you for your concern.
I think that we need to listen to those people. I went to the first Reimagine RTD meeting, and I
think it should be called Rehash RTD instead of Reimagine RTD. Because all the people that
were in that room are the same people that talk to each other about the situation every day. I
think the people that need to be in that room include the people that are in this room tonight, and
bankers, and bakers, and shoemakers, because everybody is our stakeholder. We are the public
transportation network, and I think our stakeholders and our partners are a whole lot more than
that head of DRCOG and the Mayor of Boulder.
I think that we need more input from the people, and not just the politicians, even though they
are the policy makers. I put an ad on Monday morning on Indeed for a position that pays less
than a starting bus driver. And I had 47 applicants in a day. So I don't know-- I don't run our

personnel department, but I think that there might be something wrong for openers with how we
go about hiring people.
I think that we need to be flexible about how-- I have somebody on my staff who only works 25
hours a week. That's all I can afford to pay that person, and that's all that person wants to work.
So we had that understanding when she came on board. I don't know if we allow bus drivers to
work 25 hours a week, but I know we're talking about having some retirees come back, so maybe
we just need to look at more flexible plans that allow people to fill in those spaces.
So maybe we wouldn't-- again, I'm probably the wrong person to do this. But I do hire and retain
people in my day job. And we are transit-related at what I do. So we hear all this. I have an
interesting story. I happened to be talking to one of my partners at work, which was a guy from
the city and county of Denver. And I mentioned that we had an operating problem and asked
them if they had a job board.
And they said, well, yeah, they did, and that nobody had ever asked them to post RTD bus driver
openings on the City and County of Denver job board. And they said, well, yeah, they'd be happy
to do that. So I think Chambers of Commerce and all of those, I think that we could do more-- I
don't know. Do we post our openings on Indeed?
DAVE GENOVA: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, we do. And we do post them on the Denver job board.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. So this guy just didn't know that.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That's correct.
DAVE GENOVA: And we use part-timers and retirees as well.
KATE WILLIAMS: All right. So we're-- great. I knew there were greater minds than mine here.
But the idea is that we need to mix it up. We need to be more flexible. So that's enough for me.
Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I have some questions about the part-time situation, so I'm
going to quote some things out of the CBA that I'm not sure where we stand right now. Who
should I direct them to?
DAVE GENOVA: We'll see what the question is, and then we'll self-identify.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. So the collective bargaining agreement, or CBA, says part-time
shall not exceed 21%, assuming I have the right copy here. Part-time may not shall not exceed
21% of the full-time amount. Where are we sitting right now with part-time?

FRED WORTHEN: Right now, we're short about 15 part-timers out of our budget of FTE
allocation.
NATALIE MENTEN: And do the part-time get advertised as much as the full-time in all of these
different venues?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. The issue becomes with part-time is that they can't pick their
schedule. So we get a lot of requests for part-timers that want to work certain hours, certain parts
of the day. So like, 10:00 to 2:00, when their kids are in school, or something like that. And we
don't have that flexibility to offer them that. So that's one of the issues around part-time.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So that will lead into my next two questions about the times. So out
of the CBA, it also says only regular-- and my battery's kind of going dead here, so forgive me.
Only regular full-time may assigned to weekend extra board. Could you tell me exactly what that
would mean?
FRED WORTHEN: So the assignment is, basically, we're not supposed to use part-timers as part
of the regular extra board assignment.
NATALIE MENTEN: And for everyone who does not know what extra board would mean, what
would that mean?
FRED WORTHEN: That would be somebody who does not have a regular piece of work, but
they make themselves available to actually perform vacant or open work.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And so I will come back to that in just one moment. And it says
then-- it sounds like the full-time operators may or may not present a hurdle in what these parttime employees can do. As stated here, part-time operators may work weekend runs after fulltime operators have voted.
I'm wondering if that's a complication that we're running into. Because I kind of. Heard that
we've got-- I think this is true in the whole workforce right now. There's a lot of people that want
to work part-time. They like the flexibility. They might be very, very reliable, but they do like to
have that flexibility. So I'm sorry to interrupt. Could you let me know what your thoughts are
when it says, full-time operators have voted. That must occur before part-time bus operators may
work weekend runs.
DAVE JENSEN: So this is Dave Jensen, AGM of Rail Operations. And maybe to give a little bit
more information on rail, we've only got four part-time train operators currently. Some of the
things that you're bringing up, those constraints are things that we're discussing and looking into,
so that we could broaden our staff through the use of part-timers.
To answer your question specifically what, as I understand it-- I'm ready to be corrected if I'm
wrong-- is that the full-time staff has priority over the picks. So what we don't want to do or what
we're not allowed to do is to give priority to a part-time operator over a shift that a full-time

operator might be able to bid on. So they would have to have-- it's really just a matter of who
gets what shift, and making sure that that's handed out appropriately.
NATALIE MENTEN: And these votes would pick-- I know Dave wants to chime in for a
second. But these votes would take place before each of our three service change periods?
DAVE JENSEN: Well, some of those are done weekly. So if we know we've got a certain
amount of shifts available, then people are picking which shifts do they want to work for that
coming week, or beyond that.
DAVE GENOVA: So what I'd like to propose is let us go back and summarize some of that in
writing, so to make it a little bit more simple to understand, and we'll provide that to the Board.
NATALIE MENTEN: That would be great. Because I know the full-timers want to keep their
territory, right? That's what it is to me, and keep their seniority, keep their priority. And that's
just been maybe typical language in CBAs, collective bargaining agreements. But if they're
taking the brunt of it, and there's part-timers, retired, whatever, truck driver or somebody-- did
you want speak-KATE WILLIAMS: Go ahead, Fred.
FRED WORTHEN: If I may, I do want to say that we have been discussing with the union on
how to leverage part-timers and get more flexibility. For example, we don't have a part-time
program on our vehicle maintenance side of the house right now. So we've been discussing, how
can we use retirees and part-timers? We've been an active discussions with them on how to
leverage that particular component of the workforce. They have been showing willingness to
actually work with us on some of those things. But it's things that we're actively discussing.
NATALIE MENTEN: And that might work on both ends of the spectrum. If you've got a
youngster who's willing to bust his back with axels and tranny, and bust his knuckles, but he's
going to school still, or you got the seasoned mechanic who never had to break open a book, but
he doesn't want to stand there for eight hours. His feet and his back have been done over four
decades. It seems like it would be a great win-win.
So those are the questions that I've got, is how we can maybe expand that part-time. Because I
know in the regular job market, outside of RTD world, when those part-time jobs hit Indeed, and
when they hit Robert Half and all of these others, they are snatched twice as fast as the others. It
has nothing to do with the benefits, really. It has to do with the flexibility. I'm just speaking from
outside government world. That's what I see. And the recruiters speak to it too.
They're snagged. They don't even hit the job board. They're gone, those jobs. They're taken. So
I'm willing to bite the bullet and go to the community in my area. I'm just speaking to you for
myself. Sure, I could go to Lakewood. I could go to Golden. But we were elected here in this job.
And I'm happy to go out and tell them, this is the crunch that we're in.

And I am getting also the emails that say, I got to alert the 416W wasn't going to come. OK.
Didn't come. Next one didn't come. Next one may have come, but by then, you got three train
loads waiting to get on, and I didn't get on. So Director Menten, when am I going to see relief?
And my response is, I don't know.
So I'm happy to at least make it better, that we're not making promises that we can't fulfill. I
think that's a better position for us. So that's my feedback to you on this. Thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you Director Martin. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So I don't think I gave you any good feedback. But I do have one
question. Assuming everything goes well, and staff presents something to us, and we go out to
the public, when do we expect these to be a typical run board, shift our typical service change
like in May, because January is out already, or would it be mid?
DAVE GENOVA: The regular run board cycle is definitely one option. Another option would be
to do something intermediate, but we'd have to work with our union leadership on whether we
could work through that or not.
JEFF WALKER: OK.
DAVE GENOVA: And then there's some other factors in terms of just the work of our service
planning group. Every run board takes a lot of work on the service planning team. And then just
to work through all of-- to do the run cuts, and then to do the postings, and to get through the
voting, it's a lot of work to produce a run board. So there's a lot of things for us to consider on
what that timing might look like.
JEFF WALKER: Right. And I know that from however many run boards. I've been here three
times eight. The other thing is that what I would expect to see, what I've told folks who have
asked me about this, is that I would expect to see runs dropped from the more heavily traveled
routes. So like, the 0 has four runs an hour. I wouldn't be surprised, maybe I should say that-- I
wouldn't be surprised if that went down to two runs an hour. So every 30 minutes. And the ones
that have an hour run, that only show up every hour or half hour, those would be spared.
Now, I don't know how many buses, how many 60 footers we have, because when I come in on
the 0 at 8 o'clock or 7:30, it's pretty crowded. They're standing by the time they get to 13th
Avenue. But that's something that I would expect to see. Or that's something I wouldn't be
surprised to see. And I would be comfortable with standing from Iliff all the way downtown.
And also, just to say it one more time. We have a service cut every day. I mean, we have a
dropped run. So we have them already. It's just that they're a surprise to a lot of people, and they
shouldn't be surprised. So as soon as anything can be put in front of us, I'm all for it. The sooner,
the better. Whenever I go out to catch the bus or when I'm waiting for the train, I'm always
nervous. Like, where is it? Is it going to show this time? I hate that feeling. So whatever relief we

can give to our customers and our operators that are pulling six day workweeks, the sooner, the
better. That's it. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm sorry. Side conversations sometimes are going on around here. Director
Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: That prompted a couple of questions. Thanks for the second bite here. So
Pauletta's talking points talked about eliminating the least popular routes. So I didn't hear what
Director Walker was mentioning. And, in fact, one thing we haven't talked about as a group is,
what would be sort of our principles for moving forward? And I think that would be beneficial as
well, and also in those discussions with the communities that we reach out to.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Cook. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just-- we're hearing different sort of views of-- you know, we'd like to
get suggestions for what to cut right away versus we need to take this out to our partners. But I
am hearing a lot of people that agree. We need to go out and do this collaboratively and working
with our partners. And when I say that, it's certainly that the public meetings are important. But
that may be after the fact, like they've always been, but it needs to be with our local and state
government officials.
And so I'm just wondering if we can put something in place so we can move forward quickly, if
that's what we decide to do. But I don't know if we can come back in a week or two weeks with a
plan for meeting with our partners out there. And I'm happy to help with anything like that, with
the Government Relations Committee. And it's just an idea. If we could bring sort of an overall
plan, meeting schedule, things like that, that would be helpful.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I apologize for speaking twice. I try not to do
that. But, you know, I recalled the next item on our agenda, the Service Availability Report, that
when I read it, it seemed to fly in the face of the rationale used to make this proposal for
dramatic service cuts. Because it tells us, if I'm reading it right, that our fixed rail bus operators
provided slightly over 99.71 of all scheduled hours of service.
And year-to-date hours lost to personnel-related reasons up to date in 2019, 2,579 hours, when
last year same time, 9,328 hours. Mandating then, mandating now, it was three times worse last
year. Why is it suddenly a problem? Why are we suddenly looking at dramatic service cuts and
blaming it on lost trips and dropped trips due to personnel reasons? Because this report kind of
contradicts that rationale. Maybe somebody can explain.
KATE WILLIAMS: General Manager?
DAVE GENOVA: Fred, do you have--

KATE WILLIAMS: Who's up?
FRED WORTHEN: Fred Worthen, AGM, Bus Ops. I think part of the thing that we have to
understand, though, is when we go down a little further, we had 2,801 shifts that were worked a
sixth day. That represents 22,408 hours of service. This has been going on for a significantly
long period of time.
VINCE BUZEK: You know, I get that. I hate to interrupt you. I get that, and I read that too. But
we had mandating in 2018 as well. So that was happening back then as well. And the year-todate loss hours for personnel reasons last year was three times worse than now. But suddenly
now, we're proposing dramatic service cuts. Maybe it's a rhetorical question, but thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh, gosh. I hope I remember what I was going to ask. I might have
forgotten, but-- let's see.
KATE WILLIAMS: We can come back.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh, I got it now. I think that everyone that has mentioned going out
communicating with our constituents, our stakeholders, collaborating, cooperating,
communicating, all of that is critical. And I would agree with that. I also agree wholeheartedly
with Director Walker when he says we're already cutting service, but it's not planned. And so it's
unreliable for people. And it's unreliable for our staff who take the trains and the buses here too.
So I think one way we could communicate with people, sooner rather than later, could possibly
be like, town hall meetings with channel aides throughout the district, where people show up and
have an audience participation for as long as an hour and a half or whatever, two hours, three
hours, and then have the call-in like when we did the town hall. So you could take calls too.
And then people would have the question up on the screen, and you can do something like that.
And then, it would be a more expedient way to have a broader outreach to a broader community
for that. And with regard-- you know, the train services, the E, F, and R Line is dropping all the
time. And those ones are harder to recruit and train, because there's only so many hours they can
work on the train, or train on the train.
I don't know what else to say about that. But, you know, because it's in operation. Right? It's
down only for a few hours. So when do people have an opportunity to do that? You can do the
simulator so much. I'm wondering, though, if we're not mandating people, and let's say we get it
back to where people can have weekends off so they can do their business, their family business
and rest, would some of those drivers, if we had extra drivers, go to the operations? Or is that a
clear delineation between the train operators and the bus drivers? Can you flip back and forth,
like cross-training?

DAVE JENSEN: This is Dave Jensen, AGM of Rail Operations. No, they can't flip back and
forth easily like that. The union contract had stipulations for that. And then there's certain
training requirements that are necessary. So-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, would that be something that we could talk about with the union, if
they were trained?
DAVE JENSEN: I would say anything at this point is within the realm of discussion.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I don't know. Just so that-DAVE JENSEN: In terms of the rail operations and the comment of how we're training, we don't
wait until service has stopped for us to train our operators or get them out onto the alignment.
We try to minimize the overall impact. And so we do get trains out during revenue service, but
we do have a much tighter window. So that does limit our ability to be able to get more trains out
to get more students out to do more training. That is a factor.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Mm-hm. And then, what about seeking folks from refugee communities
that maybe have green cards, I guess? I don't know what-- can you recruit there?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. So this is Heather. So we have been concentrating very heavily
on looking at those. And I think in the report, we talked a little bit about what we've done. We've
either attended an event or done outreach in the communities, 121 different outreach events that
we've had over just the last six months. Maybe it was nine months.
So we are out there in the community. We've targeted specific-- we've been very focused on this
Hispanic community the last several years, and we're going to be shifting some of that to the
Sikh community and other communities that we-- Sudanese and other communities that we have
identified as people that might be interested. You know, references we've gotten from other
community leaders that they would like us to approach those different groups. So those are all
part of our outreach plan going forward.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. So I have a few things to say. Some suggestions, and also
just a few things to say. So one of the things that I talked about quite a bit during my time
campaigning for this seat was that operators were the life blood of our transit system, and I
believe that deeply.
And I want to make sure that we're committed to valuing our people over our policies. And so
we've talked about six day mandates policies. And as an elected, but also a transit rider, I'm not
necessarily interested in a reduction of service. Like, who wants to do that? No one, because it's
not fun.

But also, in that same vein, we have had conversations with operators who have shared their
struggles with the work. And I'm not really sure how we arrived at this point as an agency. And
so that's something that I'd like for us to better explore. Like, how did we get here, to ensure that
we don't get here again?
What's also important to me-- so I talked about being a rider. What's also important to me is that
people can get to places that they need to be when they say they will be there. And so I think
about doctors appointments. I think about interviews. I think about someone go in to go visit
their probation officer, and that someone was me back in the past. And probation officers aren't
excited to see you late, even if RTD is the reason that you're an hour late for your appointment.
And our role is to really make sure that people are getting to the places that we say that they will
get to. And we've heard from operators, and we've heard about the mandates, and we've heard
about split shifts, and we've heard about the restrooms. And we've heard about their need for
safety, psychological safety, physical safety, et cetera. And so for me, I don't think this is a
question-- this isn't an and/or. And I think oftentimes, the staff presents to the Board, do this or
do that. And I don't think it's that black and white.
And like Director Buzek and many of the Directors have said, I'd really like to see us explore
alternatives to come back to tell us what more information. But, first, we really need to have
conversations with those that are closest to the impacts of these decisions. So we're talking about
reduction in service. Who is that going to impact, and why won't talk to them after we have a
proposal, and not talk to them before we had a proposal?
And so, where are the opportunities in which we can do that to make sure that our decisions are
informed by those closest to the pain? So that's one thing. One of the things we've never had an
opportunity to get from staff is HR coming to one of these meetings and telling us what the HR
data says.
So we talked about recruiting. What are the recruiting strategies? But what are the retention
strategies as well? Do we collect surveys? Exit surveys? What are folks saying in those exit
surveys? Right? Can we bring that to the Board so we might be able to grapple with some of this
information and better inform our decisions? That's one.
What are the incentives? We're talking about cutting service. What does that mean for our riders?
How are we going to incentivize them to continue to ride if they can't rely on us? And what's our
long-term goals as well? I'll leave you with that, because I actually have a lot of things to say,
and it's getting late. But I really want us to think about not coming back to the Board with the
proposal that's solely from staff.
But like many other Directors have said, let's talk to our stakeholders. Let's talk to the union.
Let's talk to those who ride the bus. Let's go out and talk to communities and get their input
before we make a decision. Because this is a big deal, and we want to make sure that we're
making the right decision. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Broom.

BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. Could we talk a little bit about the magnitude of the
proposed cuts? If you say that 1% of the runs are being missed totally and, say, 5% of other runs
are being covered by mandated overtime, then that means we're going to cut 6% in order to bring
the system back into balance?
I know you don't want to get to the point where you totally eliminate overtime, because there's a
certain amount that the employees like to have. But, you know, how big of a cut are we really
talking about here, before we all get bent out of shape?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I can address it in very general numbers. So what we were looking at
is approximately 1% to 2%, depending on the day, more on light rail, runs are being dropped
right now. The bigger issue is about 15% of our work is being covered by mandated work on the
bus side. It's higher than that right now on the light rail side. And that fluctuates.
But it's about 14.9%, almost 15%, of our work is covered, our shifts are covered, with mandated
employees. So not that we'd be coming to you and asking for a 15% reduction, because we
understand that at any given time, there will be mandated requirements. We have days where we
have Broncos games that we've mandated up to number one and number three, right?
So what we're trying to do is bring relief to those operators, because once we bring at least some
level of relief, even if it's two weekends a month, we're hoping that that encourages people.
Because the feedback we're getting-- and I know that's not necessarily what everyone's hearing.
But the feedback we're getting as people that work in this organization and talk to the people in
this organization, is that mandating is the number one issue that they're leaving.
And we do do exit interviews, and we do hear that repeatedly, that it has to do with not being
able to go to doctor's appointments, not being able to attend their children's functions on a
regular basis, having to cancel functions with their family, divorces, heart attacks, all kinds of
illnesses that are happening. That's the information we're getting.
And so we're not going to be able to alleviate that with reduction. And we will continue to do
these measures that we have worked on extensively since I've been here since 2015 to improve
things. We didn't even advertise on our own buses or our cars that we wanted employees. You
know, we do that all now. So I know that the memo might not seem like we've been doing a lot,
and I'd love to have that conversation with those people that want the history on what we've been
doing, because it's been extraordinary. I've never seen efforts in any organization as we've done it
here to try to attract employees.
The issue we're having is keeping the employees. And it's also a very vicious cycle, because
every time we train a new employee, we spend a lot of money on that. Then, they leave. They
take that experience. They take that CDL someplace else. That someone else doesn't have to pay
for that, right? And it's because they're getting better-- maybe not better pay, but definitely better
work hours and better experiences there.

And so it's a very real issue. And so I don't know what that number is, but I can tell you, you
know, if we were to alleviate all mandating, it's about 15% of our work on the bus side. Again, a
little more, give or take, on the rail side.
NATALIE MENTEN: Is that that service hours work? What do you mean by work?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Shifts. Number of shifts.
SHELLEY COOK: 15% of shifts.
DAVE JENSEN: This is Dave Jensen again. I'm not sure how relevant this is to the conversation.
But one of the things I think we need to be careful about is looking at just missed trips, because it
could be misleading, inasmuch as if we have one operator, and they were assigned to work the L
Line, for instance, for an eight hour shift, that's going to be a lot of trips, as opposed to if they
were assigned the E, D, or C Line. Those would be a reduced number of trips.
So when we ask questions about how much service are we losing, it's more appropriate probably
for us to be looking at service hours that we're losing, both of which impact our customers, of
course. And the conversation that we're having really amounts to, if we stay status quo, if we
don't cut service now, but we stop mandating, we will have to cut more service. We won't be able
to make service. Right now, we are mandating and losing service.
And that's what's creating this vicious cycle. We need to stop that. And we care about our
employees, so we want to stop the mandating. But we care about our customers, so we don't
want to lose any trips. And that's the dilemma that we're faced with that we're all trying to solve.
Right? We all want the same bottom line, but that's the dilemma that we're all trying to solve, I
think.
MICHAEL FORD: This Michael Ford, the COO. The only thing I would add is that in addition
to that, we have a lot of people out for being sick, or LNI. And that's just exacerbating the
situation. So when they're out, we have to replace that resource with other folks to do that job.
The other thing-- and I'll just say that it's not just the mandating from what I hear. It's just how
people are feeling and being treated. How we can do a better job with that. So it's just not one
thing. It's making people feel more valued, more connected, to the organization. And so that is
coupled. And as we continue to talk about this, it's our recruiting and retention issues that we'll
need to continue to be more robust and help us continue to bring in more people, but keep them.
So even if we do make some modifications, or I guess cuts, for lack of better words, we're going
to still need to up our game on how we keep people here. And that's something that we've got to
take a harder look at.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Ford. Mr. Broom, Director Broom, are you finished?
BOB BROOM: Yes, chair.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director River-Malpiede.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you for the second opportunity to speak. Mr. Ford, I am so glad
to hear you say those words. Because when I look at this report, what I see the biggest issue is
our corporate culture, and that we really need to hone in on respecting our employees.
And I think Director Folska has, time and time again, come to this Board and said people have
called her and said, I need time off with my family. And when you read these reasons, they're
tired, they're missing their babies' events. Those are life-changing things that really make an
impact on loyalty.
And so I would implore you to really take a deep dive look into our corporate culture and reevaluate how we are communicating and helping our employees feel. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. OK. It's Director Williams again. Second bite of the
apple. One of the things I want us to look at as a whole, as this group here and as that group
there, is that there's a lot of changes in transportation. I know that Lyft is not PCU-regulated, and
they don't have a union. But they came out of nowhere and are providing maybe more rides than
we are.
The Department of Transportation has bus service now, Bustang, Its hugely successful. They had
some problems with drivers. I know they had to cut some service, but they've fixed that. So
maybe we want to find out how they fixed that. Their fare box revenue is way, way higher than
ours. So maybe we want to ask what they're doing that we're not.
Maybe we want to look at what other outside influences are doing not just TNCs seats, but
scooter companies, cab companies, other transit services. Because I'm inclined to agree with a lot
of what I hear there, that as a quasi-governmental agency, we are, in fact, a bureaucracy.
And I see the makeup of this Board changing. We used to be represented by real estate guys and
lawyers-- we still have them-- and politicians. And I see around this table now a lot more
transportation people. So maybe we need to carry that movement forward. Just thinking out of
the box.
OK. I don't see anybody else except me talking. So in the interest of getting out of here some
time on this date instead of tomorrow, we'll finish up that discussion and go on to our next
update, which I think we've already dipped into, which is service availability. Who's going to
take the-FRED WORTHEN: Unless there are questions, I'll defer on a report.
KATE WILLIAMS: Anybody want to talk about that one some more, or are we all talked out? I
see people like, packing up their stuff. OK. Service availability, no questions. We will move on
to the next update, which is a rail operations update.

DAVE JENSEN: I have nothing to add than what we've already offered in the packet, so I'm
willing to take questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Aren't these these guys great? Oh, Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: I didn't go through it in detail, but had previously, because of the comment
that Director Malpiede, Rivera-Malpiede, had mentioned about the concern raised to us, some of
us, or by the union about being top heavy.
So I noticed-- I put the personnel compliment for each of the years shown in the past several
years' CAFR. And not surprisingly, the area that saw the greatest increase was rail. So that makes
sense, because we've been opening lines, and we have the N Line coming up.
But the salary category for rail was up 67% in terms of FTEs over that time, while the
represented operators I assume was up 44%. So have you changed in terms of your approach to
managing that operation? Is there more in that I would not see at the surface? Can you tell me
why that's increased so much faster?
DAVE JENSEN: I am not familiar with what you're talking about, so I would have to look at that
in depth.
SHELLEY COOK: Fair enough. I'll send it to you. That'll be a good thing. Yeah. Thank you.
DAVE JENSEN: OK. We can look at that and get back to you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Are you good, Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Williams. Does DTP have this same problem with their
train operators that we're having?
DAVE GENOVA: We hear they have a pretty good turnover rate. I don't know the specifics
around it.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: It would be interesting to know if they're struggling with mandating and
that sort of thing, and how they're addressing it, or what they're doing. Because I don't hear about
the A, the B, the G Line getting dropped. I've never heard that. But I know about the E, R, and F,
all day. Is that-DAVE GENOVA: We'll get some info on that for the Board.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: That's knowable? We're allowed to know that? Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Thank you, General Manager. Seeing nobody else
wanting to speak on this one, I think, thank you, Mr. Jensen. I think we'll move to the DUS
Private Carrier Access Update. And we're going to change players at the table. Mr. Genova?
DAVE GENOVA: I have this update for you tonight.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir.
DAVE GENOVA: Madam Chair. 'Cause Bill Van Meter and a couple others are the folks that
are predominantly working this, but they're not available this week. So I will just quickly hit
some highlights on this. So I think that-- Heather can you work this slide?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, I can work it.
DAVE GENOVA: So just a little history, that we've had a number of organizations that have
been interested-- private organizations. So this is private use of Union Station. We did in a
request for expressions of interest in 2017. We received four responses, Greyhound being the
primary player out of all of them and a few other privates.
We've been talking with private sector, private carrier, users since that RFEI went out. And
again, the largest player in that is Greyhound. Those discussions are continuing with Greyhound.
Slide. Some of the use around this is that the approach would be, these would be use of-- nonexclusive use of three gates at Union Station. So we have the capacity for other private carrier
access.
We have based up a rate structure based on fees of increased fees during peak periods, of course,
to encourage off peak use. Largely, the fees are to cover our increased costs around additional
security and custodial service. And that's largely what we're looking at on the fee base. So right
now, the discussions we're having, this isn't a big revenue generator.
It's more of a cost recovery kind of an approach that we're working on in terms of-- especially
with Greyhound. So we're going back and forth now in discussions. But we'll bring that
information back to the Board on another date. But those are pretty in-depth conversations right
now with Greyhound. The biggest issue right now is around the fees and their ticketing needs. So
the last meeting, they brought ticketing needs to the table in a way that we hadn't heard before,
so we need to work through that with them as well.
So this would be-- we originally considered doing an RFP process on this, but we were looking
at doing some kind of an access agreement to cover the variety of users that would be interested
in access to Union Station. Heather, I think there's maybe one more slide. And I kind of covered
these already.
So the issues that we're working on the Greyhound are the costs, ticketing security, and
restrooms. And at one time, we looked at actually putting in additional restroom capacity. But we
came to the realization that that really didn't look like a good approach with us. So one of the

things we're looking at is using restroom attendants on practically a full-time basis. That would
just kind of help, I think, with not just additional capacity, but with our current patrons as well.
So we anticipate coming back to you with more on that. But we wanted to make sure that we
gave you an update that these discussions are ongoing. And soon, we will be bringing probably
what this fee rate may look like to the Board.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, General Manager. Well, well, there we go. OK. We do have
people who want to speak to this. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Williams You know, I think it's really exciting to
increase our capacity of other private providers of transportation at DUS. I'm just wondering
what the philosophy or the rationale is behind just cost recovery with these private companies.
DAVE GENOVA: As we look at generating additional revenue, which is where we our
conversation started, those kinds of fees put use out of reach for most of the operators.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, let's take Greyhound, for example.
DAVE GENOVA: Including what Greyhound's willing to pay. Now, we are at a difference with
them now on fees. But if the Board directs us that you would like to gain additional revenue
through private access to Union Station, that's what we will take back to them.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I think that would be appropriate. But thinking about Union Station, the
concourse is boring and dull and dead. I mean, there is a lot of people there, but there's no action.
You know? So like they do at DIA, suppose you had a contract with a company that then did the
leasing of some kiosk space so you get some revenue. Because I know DIA makes a bloody
fortune off of all those vendors that are in my way to get to the gate.
DAVE GENOVA: So we get-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Like Bose. Bose has a kiosk. See's Candy has a kiosk.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: If I could just-- I mean, one of the issues in them wanting space down
there for selling tickets, et cetera, is just the sheer amount of space. We don't have a lot, and we
don't have a lot for kiosks. And then we have a lot of issues around egress issues about getting in
and out of the facility. So we have looked at some of those things as it relates to them wanting
concession stands in there too.
And from a standpoint of getting people out in an emergency, or if there's large crowds of
people, that creates a huge amount of issues around that. So that is actually one thing we've
looked at as it pertains some other requests that Greyhound has had. It creates other issues,
though, for us in that small area.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. Look at this. So See's Candy has a 20 square foot kiosk at SFO
Airport. And years ago, maybe 10 years ago, they were taking home a million dollars a year, just

the fees that they were giving to the airport. And a little coffee cart in front of Nordstrom's, their
main original store in Seattle, years ago was making $500,000.
So I mean, they're not very big. And you know that little dog guy over there at Colfax in our
area? He's making six figures a year. And it's just one of those little carts. So I hear what you're
saying. We've got elevators. We've got escalators. We've got stairs. I think there are ways that
people could come in, especially during peak hours, like those mobility, mobile things. Like,
maybe some guys down there is singing and selling flowers in a cart and moving it.
Because there is that elevator that's big. And there was a guy that did that in LA, in Century City.
He made a fortune too. So I'd like to see some more out-of-the-box thinking. We have that
property. You know, look at what they're making over there on the 16th Street Mall. So, thank
you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Folska. Oh, look, it's Director Williams again. Two
things, Pauletta? Pauletta. Pauletta has a paper that I gave her today that was written by a
gentleman at CDOT that tells what you can do once you come into Union Station, and all of the
RTD that will take you to the Botanic Gardens and-- right? It's great paper. It's a one pager.
You know, maybe down there, we could share this with the people who are sharing Union
Station with us and have them give it to their riders who have come into Union Station, that then
would put them on to RTD. So that's a simple easy thing to do. Bustang wrote it for their people
who come into Union Station. And if we went back to our partnership, and cross-referenced, and
I don't know, them information on our trip planner and all, we might see some feedback back and
forth.
And maybe we want to have available in Union Station-- I don't know, we could be low tech.
You know, we could just have a billboard that said where you could go on our partners. Look
here, RTD riders. Here's someplace else you could go. So just some thinking out of the box.
Thank you very much, Director Williams. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you. I think this use really makes sense. And we're going to benefit,
because if somebody's going to catch Bustang, they can ride RTD to Union Station, and then
transfer to Bustang, and so forth. But the question I had was dealing with Greyhound. Are they
going to have a ticket office? And then, are they going to check luggage? And then are they also
going to have a freight operation there to ship things to stations?
DAVE GENOVA: No to the freight. There will be luggage. They're looking at having like, a
customer ambassador assistance down there to help the operators when their buses come through
to assist them with luggage and things. So their preference would be some kind of a ticketing
kiosk, but we're still talking to them about what ticketing might look like.
For example, one of the things we're looking at is we might do their ticketing for them through
our customer service window. They'd offer to do our ticketing for us, but that's one of the issues
that we still need to work through, is the ticketing piece.

BOB BROOM: OK. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. You good? OK. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Relative to this proposal and the
consideration, it is, and I think Director Folska has stated it very nicely, it is essentially grounded
in a cost recovery approach. And respectfully, I submit that our best interests are served, and I
think to some extent we are directed, by the Federal Transit Administration to explore a value
capture opportunity as opposed to a cost recovery approach.
And so in pricing this, I would not be inclined to say, well, it's only going to cost us x dollars, as
opposed to saying, what is the value to the person who is contracting with us, and should we not
seek to capture that value for our benefit, as I think we are mandated by federal law to approach,
or at least well-advised to approach. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Mr. Buzek? Director Buzek? Director, Director
Buzek. Wait, stop. Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: I have nothing to say. No.
[LAUGHING]
So issues to be resolved. One of them is security. Is that just generally security, or is it specific to
the fact that Greyhound is coming, or potentially coming?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, it would be additional security, because it would be additional use in
the facility, and a little bit of a different kind of use.
VINCE BUZEK: And the reason I ask is that-- I don't want to be stereotypical-- is that when the
Greyhound station existed where it existed, it wasn't a nice place. And when a director of a
movie needs a seedy place to film something, they go to a Greyhound station. And that's a bad-and Greyhound does not deserve that reputation, because they provide a great service.
So I want to make sure that if this happens, our security is tight and everything is great. That'd be
something that I'd like to make sure we're firm on that.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So if I could just comment on that. So one of the things we have
looked at is what the-- Mike Meters looked at what the call ratio is and things like that at the
existing facility are. And that's how we came up with a number of potential security officers we
need. We're also looking at them not being TSO officers, but off-duty police officers that have
some additional ability to arrest, and issue tickets, and those type of things. So it is a little more
expensive than doing the TSOs. And that's one of the push backs we're getting from Greyhound,
is that philosophy that we're using.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Heather. Director Folska.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Williams. Director Broom reminded me of this, and I've
mentioned this several times in my tenure here. So I think it's worth mentioning again. And
there's something to be said for mixing freight and passenger, whether it's rail or on our buses.
And it occurs to me that if we're going to be providing this flex ride through VM Mobility for
Amazon employees, that Amazon's got a whole lot of stuff that needs to be delivered all over the
place.
And maybe some will be with their drones, but maybe we could help support some of the need in
the spare areas of our vehicles or trains to move Amazon's products for a fee. You know? I mean,
I think thinking about how to-- this isn't about being greedy at all. This is about keeping this
agency alive and well. So, that's all. Well, and we have done it in the past. In the way, way, way
past. You can ask Bruce Abel about it. He knows everything.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Folska. Seeing nobody else in the queue, I think we
have managed to get through what we have here, unless there's somebody else who has other
matters. General Manager, you good?
DAVE GENOVA: Nothing for me, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Heather? Anybody on the Board? Oh, Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Well, first of all, Madam Chair, Happy Birthday.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Secondly, not something as happy. Director Catlin was so kind to bring in a
card for Bob Wilson. And I just wanted to make a special mention of him. Bob, of course, was
involved as an advocate for transit and good transportation generally, and was chair of the Gold
Line Advisory Committee for many years in Arvada. And you can't understate the importance of
that group. They not only advised us, helped us design a station area, and the plaza in particular
at old town, but also over the course of time, really helped to cultivate the support that made the
Gold Line welcomed in Arvada. Not nearly as contentious as had been the case in other quarters
that preceded it.
And he was the kind of person that contributed mightily, volunteered always. Was just a super
family man and an honorable competitor. So I just wanted to make acknowledgment of that. And
secondly, Lois Lindstrom passed away the same weekend. And Lois is the one we owe the name
Gold Line to, so I wanted to make mention of that in regard to her connection to our quarter.
Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. We need to be aware of the people who made us what
we are. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. Now it's just going to make me seem like I'm a jerk for
following this. But one of the things that came to the Board in other matters at our last meeting
was around the Reimagine--

KATE WILLIAMS: [INAUDIBLE]
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. For Directors to be a part of the committee. And we had had, on
a document that was sent previous-- I think it was sometime in September-- it said we would
make that decision as a Board with Board input. And I don't know if I may have missed it, or
what. And so I just wanted to check in with other Board members just to see how we might have
gotten to those decisions. I'm just curious.
KATE WILLIAMS: So what Board members are? Because I didn't have any input into that
either. So who's serving on the Reimagine Committee? Director Whitmore, Director Catlin,
Director Malpiede, and Director Guissinger. And who appointed those people?
DOUG TISDALE: The chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: The chair appointed them.
DOUG TISDALE: Pursuant to the structure of the advisory group and our bylaws, the chair
appoints people to various committees. And those are the four that I appointed after discussion,
with number one, each of them, and a number of the other Directors.
KATE WILLIAMS: So those people are on the advisory council? Is that correct?
DOUG TISDALE: The advisory group.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes. And is there anybody on the technical working group from the Board?
DAVE GENOVA: No, there's no electeds on the technical working group. That's mainly
transportation professionals throughout the region.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd like to be on that. I'm a transportation professional. If there's nobody
from the Board on there. We don't have to talk about it right now. But perhaps the chair could
appoint a transit professional to the technical advisory committee.
DOUG TISDALE: And actually the structure is that the technical advisory group is appointed by
staff. The advisory group is the only position that the chair had the power to appoint, just as the
other representatives who came from other agencies were appointed by their chairs.
KATE WILLIAMS: And then, when the current chair leaves, will the new chair next year be
appointing those people? Or did this chair appoint them for the two years of the life of that,
which I object violently to? That means that the chair is appointing people to a committee
beyond his term. And that is not how the rest of our committees work. The rest of our
committees, every year, are reappointed by the incoming chair. I'd like to see this committee be
that way as well.

DOUG TISDALE: Certainly, the Board has the power to address that next year. One might
wonder whether that's a good use of the Board's time. Given the fact that these people will or
participated. But it is absolutely the call of this Board.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Just for the record, I will be at every one of those meetings. I was at all
of the past program working group meetings, even though I was not on the past program working
group. And I think there will be a number of us here who will be at those meetings. So I'd like to
pursue the whole structure of how the Board interacts with that.
I have asked that we get the results of all of those meetings immediately following them, so that
those who are unable to attend because of their day job or something else can stay current. Since
we are re-imagining the agency that we are charged by voters with being in charge of, I'd like to
see us keep current with that. Anybody else?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I just had a few more things. I just want to be very clear that I'm not
objecting to anyone being placed on the committee. My question is around process. And we have
said that we'd be a transparent Board, and I didn't believe that process was transparent, because
we didn't hear anything else after we received the documents saying that Board would receive
input. And I will say as a Director, my input was not solicited nor received in that.
And so as we move forward, I hope that we can commit to keeping our word when we say that
certain steps will be taken in the future.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Anybody else? Hearing nothing further, this meeting will be
adjourned. Our next meeting is November 12, same time, same location. Thank you.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

