Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
July 11, 2013 at 12:00 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Anderson called the Executive committee to order at 12:05 p.m.
In attendance were:
Board members:
Chair Anderson, 1st vice-chair Bagley, 2nd vice-chair Hoy, and
Secretary Daly. Treasurer Walker arrived late due to work commitments.
Others Present: General Manager Washington, Paula Perdue

II.

July Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Anderson opened up the meeting by reviewing the order of the items for the Board
meeting agenda. Director Daly inquired about the retiree Joe Stogner and indicated that he
worked with him for years. Director Daly agreed to comment about his service at the
Board meeting.
Chair Anderson asked Director Bagley to speak on his update for the General Manager
Oversight and Performance Management Committee. Director Bagley indicated he will
share that the Committee and other Board members have been reviewing the GM goals for
2014 which will be voted on tonight. They have had some productive discussions that
show the Board members are involved in the process and are engaged in their focus on the
General Manager, their only employee. He thanks all of them for their input.

Chair Anderson asked if there were any comments relative to the July Board agenda and
the unanimous consent. Paula Perdue reminded the Chair to ask Board members who may
need to discuss or want an item removed from unanimous consent to please request the
item to be moved to recommended action. This keeps the records clean and allow us to
know which action item received objection from a Board member.

Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve moving the
July Board agenda to the Board meeting on July 16,
2013.
Director Hoy seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:


The motion PASSED.

Unanimous Consent
A. 2013 Title VI Service Monitoring
It is recommended by the Civil Rights Committee that the Board of Directors review
and approve the 2013 Title VI Service Monitoring Results and the future monitoring on
an annual basis, to comply with federal laws, regulations and guidelines related to
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.



Recommended Action
B. 2014-2019 Strategic Budget Plan (SBP)
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors adopts the 2014-2019 Strategic Budget Plan (SBP).
C. Approval of General Manager's 2014 Goals
It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee that the Board of Directors approve the General Manager’s goals for 2014
as defined in the attached General Manager Performance Evaluation Form.

III.

Other Matters


General Manager Washington stated that in the North Metro Quarterly meeting this
morning, he had announced the date for the opening of the bus terminal at DUS to be
May 9, 2014 which is ahead of the anticipated schedule in the original FasTracks plan.
They had stood up an activation committee approximately 12 months ago whose
function is to determine readiness to open. They are coordinating with DUSPA and the
USA for the historic building hotel and retail center. They will make an announcement
today which will include quotes from Walter Isenberg on their plans to open the hotel
and retail in late July. A heads-up has been given to the stakeholders (i.e. DUSPA,
City of Denver, Tami Door-Downtown Denver and CDOT).

Director Daly inquired about the closure of Market Street Station. General Manager
Washington indicated the closure will coordinate to the run date of May 10, Sunday
morning when the switch gets flipped.
Chair Anderson pointed out how important it will be to communicate to the people
from the West corridor and the North on options to access the AF Skyride from DUS to
DIA. This opens up new options for them. General Manager Washington added there
are many other aspects to this opening to be worked out such as the straightening out
of the street and signaling on Market Street.
Director Bagley inquired how far ahead of schedule were we? General Manager
Washington indicated about 4-5 months but did provide a qualifier around this
statement. Director Bagley responded it is very important that the riders of the SE/SW
lines understand they will have new alternatives for getting to DUS and the airport. We
need to notify these riders of light rail C&E and the ability to get to the airport a
different way. Some of his constituents have expressed concern over the loss of
Skyride service from southwest.


General Manager Washington indicated that Leadership APTA will meet in Denver next
week. Jenny Barket, legal, is our representative in this program. RTD will serve as
host and the staff will be presenting in a number of sessions. The Board has been
invited to attend some of the sessions on Wednesday, July 17th.



On September 5, Denver will host the Western CEO Roundtable. This consists of
CEOs/GMs from transit properties in the west (i.e. Dallas, SLC, Phoenix and Seattle).



Next week the Multi-Agency Exchange program (MAX) will have their graduation in
Denver. The MAX program currently has representatives from three transit properties
doing knowledge sharing and exchange. Some of the GMs from the Western CEO
Roundtable will be participating in the graduation ceremonies.



The COMTO Colorado organization will host its annual golf tournament next week.
Monies raised from this event goes toward the scholarships that are given to students
with interest in transit or transportation.



General Manager Washington indicated he had met with Don Hunt of CDOT. They are
gearing up for Impact 64, the statewide sales tax initiative for 2014. CDOT has the
lead on this and RTD will simply march in step with CDOT.



General Manager Washington provided updates on HR related items with focus on
investment in human capital.



Director Bagley provided the following comments:
o
o

o

o
o

He requested the process or mechanism we are using to provide support to former
Director Cohen during his illness.
He indicated he will provide slides from Tom Clark’s presentation that shows
projected growth and population changes over the next few years by quadrants.
He thinks this is beneficial information for the people engaged in the Northwest
Mobility study.
The South Metro Denver Chamber of Commerce hosted an executive meeting on
infrastructure issues. He would like to consider hosting the next session on
Infrastructure II at RTD. This is a great chance for RTD to get hooked into the
discussions. He will explore this opportunity for late fall or early spring.
He would like to follow-up on a conversation he had with the AGM for capital
programs related to SW corridor small group meeting with stakeholders.
On a return trip from the Mountains (Aspen area), he had a chance to observe the
RAFTA (BRT) in that area. The system operated smoothly with the busses
whizzing past while the rest of the traffic remained bogged down.



Director Walker apologized for arriving late due to work commitments.



Chair Anderson indicated that RTD had participated with the City of Arvada in a
selection of a developer for Olde Town. She attended a meeting where the focus was
on the partnership between RTD and the City of Arvada for Olde Town. The City of
Arvada is very pleased with this relationship. RTD is well thought of in the City of
Arvada.



Director Hoy commented about the North Metro Quarterly meeting that was held this
morning. There were 30+ people in attendance. He can see a change in attitude and
a spirit of cooperation. They are very committed to getting this thing done. It was a
good and valuable meeting. The stakeholders appreciated the information provided by
RTD.



Director Daly commented on the letter sent to General Manager Washington from a
stranger who had come into town and been assisted by the General Manager. He
asked the General Manager what may have been confusing-perhaps a lack of signage.
General Manager noted he does not think anything was missing but sometimes as a
new person in town, one can become discombobulated. This is the kind of help that
our employees give to people every day.



Director Walker asked the General Manager if he knew Anthony Graves who was
announced by Mayor Hancock as Director of Regional Affairs. General Manager
Washington indicated he is familiar and may try to introduce him to the Board. We
believe he will replace Paul Ryan.



Director Hoy shared that in a communications with Mayor Heidi Williams about paying
for parking for park-n-rides, there does not appear to be signage letting them know that
they can park free for 24 hours if they are in the district. He believes we need to
communicate this in a more visible way.

VI.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 1:14 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

