1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit
Tuesday, April 8, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Jeff Walker

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Walker called the meeting to order at 5:30 P.M.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
5:14 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

5:19 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

5:23 PM
5:37 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

5:11 PM
5:11 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

5:26 PM
5:12 PM
5:28 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

5:32 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

5:08 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:20 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:17 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Committee Vice-Chair
Committee Chair

Present
Present

5:17 PM
5:20 PM

Director Anderson left early.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Will Adams, Bill Bell, Bob Brown, Doug Carrington, Larry
Buter, Jessie Carter, Carolyn Conover, David Genova, Kenn Hardin,
Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Barbara
McManus, Brian Matthews, Doug MacLeod, Vivian Morales, Paula
Perdue, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Zamy Silva, Walt Stringer, Bill
Van Meter, Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Louis Apolinar, Doug Gragg, Rita Kahn, Francisco Nuñez, Ernesto
Ortiz, Martín Ramirez, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn

B. Recommended Actions

• Adoption of 2015 Performance Measures
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee
that the Board of Directors adopts the attached 2015 Performance
Measures for Goals 1-7. There are 23 performance measures in total.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the April 15, 2014
Board Meeting.
Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer, explained to the Board
how every year his team brings the subsequent year’s
performance measures for approval, which serves for
benchmarking and guidance for the budget. He introduced
Jannette Scarpino, Manager of Budget and Financial Analysis,
who gave an overview of the report starting on page 3 of the
Financial Administration & Audit/Civil Rights/Operations &
Customer Service Committee (FA&A/CR/Ops&CS) Meetings
Packet for April 8, 2014. She welcomed Will Adams, Senior
Manager for Customer Information, and Bruce Abel, Assistant
General Manager of Bus Operations, to answer any questions
the Directors may have.
Director Lubow asked why the EcoPass Revenue in Goal 6.3 is
considered no longer relevant and if this means the EcoPasses
are not important. Ms. Scarpino said there has been zero to
negative growth and that it wasn’t of service to update on

that item. Mr. Howerter said the EcoPass is not very sellable
but the FlexPass is and has better revenue. Director Lubow
asked if there would be something to report on the FlexPass
instead. Mr. Howerter noted staff does not report on any
other pass sales in the Goals so there was no intention to
include the FlexPass going forward. Director Lubow then
asked for clarification on the origins of the EcoPass report line
item. Mr. Howerter said that it was more of a tracking
mechanism than a goal. Phil Washington, General Manager,
interjected that John Tayer, former RTD Director, had
requested a report on the EcoPass on a quarterly basis and the
line item had no relevance to staff for measuring goals and
revenue.
Director Folska asked for clarification on Telephone
Information Center (TIC) and Customer Care. Mr. Adams
clarified Customer Information Division was renamed Customer
Care Division and TIC is one of the components of the
Division.
Director Solano asked for clarification on Goal 6.3. He
wondered if this is implying a fare increase in 2015. Ms.
Scarpino explained that this goal is set once the 2015 budget
is determined. Director Solano asked if there would still be
time to discuss a fare increase and Jannette Scarpino said
there would.
Director Lasater asked for clarification on the TIC estimated
time before getting an answer. Mr. Adams said the 75
seconds goal is from the moment the customer enters the
queue until they get an agent. Director Lasater noted that the
response time had gone from 75 to 49 to 49 seconds over the
last three years. He asked why not lower the wait time if the
goal is to continue to improve. Scott Reed, Assistant General
Manager for Communications, pointed out the expected
volume increase due to the many openings in the near future.
He considered it imprudent to change the goal at this time.
Director Lasater noted the goal was reached in 2013 with the
opening of the West Rail Line. Mr. Reed said the rest of the
year averaged out the volume increase for the West Rail Line.
The near future sees the Denver Union Station (DUS), US36
Bus Rapid Transit (BRT), Gold Line, East Line, and North Line
openings and staff needs to be prepared for the volume
increase to be caused by these. Director Lasater said this
didn’t make sense according to his experience implementing

programs in call centers as the 75 second goal has been
longstanding. He would rather see the goal set to RTD’s
average just in case the numbers aren’t correct and to give the
staff something to strive for. Mr. Reed assured Director
Lasater the numbers are accurate and asked if there was any
other information regarding the numbers to be brought to his
attention. Mr. Reed also said although staff survived the
volume increase in 2013, the openings in 2015-2016 are
unprecedented and the numbers presented are what his team
believes is prudent. Director Lasater expressed his
disagreement yet thanked Mr. Reed for his explanation.
Director Tobiassen thanked Mr. Adams for his work with the
TIC providing great service and the right answer 99.9% of the
time. He asked if Goal 4.2 referred to business or calendar
days. Mr. Adams answered it was calendar days. Director
Tobiassen then asked why employers would prefer the
FlexPass over the EcoPass. Mr. Abel explained the EcoPass
follows the insurance model, where an employer buys a pass
for every employee, receiving a deep discount. The FlexPass
was developed in response to employers asking for a pass that
can be purchased for specific employees within the company.
This product offers a lesser discount than the EcoPass.
Director Tobiassen asked if these are pre-tax purchases. Mr.
Abel answered that was at the discretion of the employer: pretax, post-tax, subsidy matches, etc., and the discount reflects
the choice of the employer. Director Tobiassen said the cost
saving benefits within this program are not clear.
Director Deadwyler expressed that by lowering the goals we
lower our standards of excellence. This should serve as an
opportunity to step up and ask what we are doing with our
staff to help them improve so they can meet the goals instead
of lowering them. She referenced the TIC and the day she
recently spent at the facility. She noted the fantastic job the
staff is doing and questioned if by lowering the standards we
are telling the staff they aren’t doing well. She also said that
she thought RTD needed to be staffing up for the openings.
Mr. Adams said that there are space limitations in hiring more
staff and that there is capacity to handle some additional
volume. He said the goal of 75 seconds is an average and he
doesn’t find it to be too high. Mr. Washington pointed out
how extraordinary the Customer Care team has been,
especially under the new leadership. Lowering the goal really
means anticipating the volume increase. If there’s a decision

to hire additional people then staff would have to look at the
cost benefit of increasing staff or balancing goals out. The 75
seconds benchmark was reached with some analysis,
reflection, and anticipation of what staff believes will happen
with the new openings. Director Deadwyler said she prefers
that the Board leave the status quo and reevaluate the
conversation as we get closer to the date. She asked if
anyone had taken input from those working the TIC as their
answers would be different from those in management.
Director Deadwyler also mentioned she would be willing to
take the conversation offline.
Director Folska mentioned how her first interaction with the
TIC saved her life as they instructed her how to get to CU
Boulder from I-25 and Hampden. She asked for clarification
on when the 75 seconds started counting. Mr. Adams said
from the moment the customer presses 0 to speak to an
operator. Director Foslka said most people would go through
the whole menu. She also suggested investigating the
possibility of temporary support during the volume increase
and keeping the status quo. Mr. Adams mentioned temporary
support would be challenging as TIC employees are
represented.
Director Solano shared that he has experienced call center
outsourcing and wondered if this has been considered as an
option. Both Mr. Adams and Mr. Washington said outsourcing
has never been an option.
Director Daly asked if the proposed benchmarks of 88% for
Bus Local Services and 94% for Regional Services in Goal 3.1:
Maintain System-Wide On-time Performance were realistic
since the actual percentage hasn’t been close to the goal in
the past 3 years. Mr. Abel noted there were many reasons
these goals have been hard to achieve, including this growth
and unavailability of resources to meet community growth.
His team just completed a Peer Group Analysis of On-time
Goals and Performance. Member of the Peer Group include
agencies from Atlanta, Dallas, Portland, Sacramento, Salt Lake
City, San Diego, San Jose, Seattle, and Washington D.C. The
average goal for the group was 88%. The actual performance
was 81%. Mr. Abel recommended the Board approve
amending the 88% goal to 86% for local services and the
94% goal to 92% in regional services. These percentages still
exceed the goals of the actual performance of the Peer Group

and still represents improvement from RTD’s actual
performance.
Motion to
Amend:

Director Daly made the motion to amend the percentages on
Goal 3.1 as suggested by Mr. Abel: change the On-Time Local
Service Goal from 88% to 86% and the On-Time Regional
Service Goal from 94% to 92%.
Director Anderson seconded the motion

Discussion:

Director Folska asked for clarification on reducing the
percentages of on-time customer service and the possible
increase of fares in 2015. Mr. Abel said there was no
discussion on fare increase that he was aware of. On the
percentages of on-time customer services, he reiterated how
the goals have not been achieved in the past. RTD has
implemented training for operators as well as technology to
track performance by route to understand if a problem is due
to scheduling or an operator-coaching opportunity. Director
Folska said she would vote no until the 2015 fare structure is
more clear allowing the Board to make a better decision.
Director Anderson asked Mr. Washington to refresh her
memory on why these statistics were compiled and how they
are used. Mr. Washington answered they are not just for
meeting goals. The impetus is to be a management tool.
Goals dropping off can help target a problem. Staff has found
that even targeting, addressing, and correcting problems have
not allowed reaching the 88% goal. This prompts the
question, “what goal is attainable?” These goals are brought
to the Board every 3 months as a report. Annually the goals
are brought to the Board in April as a plan for the next year
based on what’s expected to happen. Director Anderson
noted she is uncomfortable with changing staff
recommendations since they are a tool for support and not for
the Board. She said it is also up to the staff to note any need
for additional staff and then bring that request to the Board.
She pointed out that the fare increase mentioned is not in the
documents. Ms. Scarpino noted the difference between fare
revenue in dollars and fare rate increase. She said there is an
assumed fare rate increase for 2015 because it is Board policy
to consider one every 3 years and the 2014 consideration was
deferred to 2015.

Director Walker noted the necessity to set realistic goals with
accurate measures.
Director Deadwyler stated the need as a Board to look beyond
goals and to have an option to work with unions and hire more
staff since turnover is high and we don’t want to burn out our
workers.
Director James pointed out how the discussion was blending
both the recommended action and the amendment. He said he
is inclined to support both the amendment and the action.
Director Menten asked what the turnover rate is at the TIC.
Mr. Adams said very low. He has only lost 1 employee in the
last 2 months.
Director Hoy clarified the amendment for Goal 3.1 as was
presented by staff. If the amendment passed, then it would
be included with the recommended action.
Marla Lien stated that the motion amendment being voted on was to change
the percentages on Goal 3.1 for the On-Time Local Service Goal from 88%
to 86% and the On-Time Regional Service Goal from 94% to 92%.
VOTE ON MOTION TO AMEND
MOVER:
Bruce Daly, Director, District N
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Hoy, James, Lubow, Menten, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Barbara Deadwyler, Claudia Folska, Gary Lasater, Paul Solano
Committee Chair Walker declared the motion to amend PASSED
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors adopts the attached 2015 Performance Measures for
Goals 1-7, including the amendment to Goal 3.1. There are 23 performance
measures total.
VOTE ON MOTION AS AMENDED
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 4]
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 4]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
SECONDER: Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Hoy, James, Lubow, Menten, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Barbara Deadwyler, Claudia Folska, Gary Lasater, Paul Solano

Committee Chair Walker declared the motion PASSED

C. Updates

• Review of 2015-2020 SBP Development Process and 2015 Budget
Assumptions
Ms. Scarpino presented the Review of 2015-2020 Strategic Budget Plan
(SBP) Development Process and 2015 Budget Assumptions as presented in
the report starting on page 15 of the FA&A/CR/Ops&CS Meetings Packet for
April 8, 2014.
Director Rivera-Malpiede asked how soon the $3.02 diesel fuel price could
be locked down. Mr. Washington answered that providers do not want to
lock down this early but there might be a chance since there’s constant
conversation on the subject.
Director Deadwyler asked how the Fare Task Force and assumed fare
increase would work together. Mr. Howerter said that the SBP is a 6 year
projection covering the cost of inflation every 2-3 years as well as capital
cost. He’s sure the Fare Task Force would take this into consideration and
finance will then bring a constrained SBP for 2015-2020 that will include
fare increases to the Board for voting. Director Deadwyler asked about the
possibility of the Fare Task Force recommending a fare reduction but would
be negated to account for inflation. Mr. Howerter said that it may happen
as there is a lot of work that goes with a fare change. Director Deadwyler
hopes everyone works together before it becomes a mess. Mr. Washington
said it was legitimate to ask about the timing between the two and staff
hopes to have the recommendation from the Fare Task Force in early 2015.
He noted the crossover between the Fare Task Force and the group who
would review the fare increase, adding that RTD has great interdepartmental
communication. Director Deadwyler encouraged staff to make fair
decisions. She also pointed out the crossover of committee members was
disturbing to her and wondered where their loyalty would be in making
decisions. Mr. Washington said as General Manager he would ensure the
process will be done the right way.
Director Solano asked when was the next time for the Denver Regional
Council of Governments (DRCOG) six year Transportation Improvement Plan
(TIP). Mr. Howerter answered it would be this June. This will be presented
at a FasTracks Monitoring Committee with other recommendation from the
Northwest Area Mobility Study (NAMS). Bill Van Meter, Assistant General
Manager for Planning, said DRCOG solicits updates every few years for the
TIP. Every time RTD has changes we bring them to DRCOG as amendments
so their plans and RTD plans align. Director Solano asked if RTD falls under
the DRCOG umbrella. Mr. Van Meter replied that any RTD plans that affect

regional transportation plans as well as any federal funding plans have to go
through DRCOG. Director Solano mentioned he would like to continue the
conversation offline with Mr. Van Meter.
Director Walker commented that DRCOG plans feed into regional plans,
which feed into state plans, which feed into federal plans.
Director Hoy stated the Fare Task Force is not charged with increasing or
decreasing fares. Their focus is simplification. Mr. Washington agreed and
said the goal is to simplify the fare structure considering the myriad of
passes. He said they may have some analysis that could impact decisions,
thus the question is legitimate in terms of timing. Director Hoy agreed
timing is critical and restated the Fare Task Force is not charged with
coming to the Board asking for fare increases; the process will be
coordinated, and the Board will be able to choose fare increases or not as
well as pinpoint simplifications into fare increases if need be.
Chair Sisk thanked Ms. Scarpino for her report and asked for further details
on the replacement policy. Ms. Scarpino said this methodology is being
implemented with Federal Transit Administration (FTA) support to assess
asset condition. These figures will then be taken into consideration with the
SBP request for each cycle. Director Sisk said this was a great way to
assess asset condition and is interested in seeing the process develop. Mr.
Washington added that RTD is ahead of the FTA with this implementation.
The program will be brought to the Board at the July Study Session. Mr.
Washington said he would like to challenge the warranty period and surpass
the MAP-21 requirements. MAP-21 requires the governing body to approve
the plan for the agency and Mr. Washington’s goal is to educate the Board
on the components so the Directors can vote on the matter.

• February 2014 Monthly Financial Status Report
Mr. Howerter introduced Doug MacLeod, Manager of Financial Reporting.
Mr. MacLeod distributed updated pages 29-36 of the FA&A/CR/Ops&CS
Meetings Packet for April 8, 2014. He also said the corrected pages will be
updated in the packet.
Director Bagley noticed the 2014 Year-To-Date (YTD) ridership numbers are
higher than the 2013 YTD numbers, yet they still are not reaching the 2014
budgeted numbers. He asked what the perspective on the rest of the year is
and if this is a concern that we will end the year not reaching our target.
Mr. MacLeod said RTD uses the Leeds Business School forecast which is
broken down quarterly. Director Bagley commented he understands the
issue and is not overly concerned but also mentioned even though the
forecast drives a lot of the information there’s also a budget to consider.

Mr. Howerter noted the second quarter figures will be included in the
amended budget to be presented to the Board.
Chair Sisk asked for more details on the impact of House Bill 1272,
establishing exemption parity on sales tax, on the January and February
numbers. Mr. MacLeod said we are not able to verify that information
because vendors file taxes by sales percentage and not by products.
Director Folska asked if there is a way to guess an estimate on the
percentages asked by Chair Sisk the same way we are able to see the
marijuana sales tax revenue. Mr. MacLeod said marijuana retail
establishments and medical marijuana dispensaries are specific to that
product, making them easy to track. Mr. Howerter interjected that grocer
vendors, for example, file the 1% from all their non-edible sales but do not
break down how much of that one percent came from which kind of
product. Director Folska then asked how RTD can tell the tax collection
happens. Marla Lien, General Counsel, said there should be a correlation
between what the State collects and what RTD collects. Mr. Howerter
added State audits will also inform us that RTD is collecting taxes. Director
Folska asked if there’s a way to tell the change in revenue based on the
timing we receive the sales tax parity. Mr. Washington answered neither
RTD nor the State have the ability to break it down at that level and
perceived changes in revenue could be due to changes in economy and
people’s spending habits, among other variables.
Director Hoy asked if the new monitoring system will not be able to pick up
on those items. Mr. MacLeod said that is correct although there could be a
review of the supporting documentation the vendor puts together; it would
be a great task to track. Director Hoy then asked what specifically RTD
monitors regarding the sales tax or is it just from what the State collects we
collect 1%. Mr. MacLeod answered that it relies on taxpayer compliance.
The only way the State could verify that information is mainly through
audits. Director Hoy asked if RTD finds any taxpayer not in compliance then
our find also benefits the State. Ms. Lien interjected that another issue has
been the District boundaries since it includes 4 counties that are not fully
incorporated. Director Hoy then asked if the State still gives RTD a 1% if a
certain vendor pays taxes but isn’t reporting RTD taxes and they are within
the District’s boundary. Mr. Howerter answered that an audit needs to take
place in order for RTD to collect that tax. The vendor will need to submit it
to the State and then the State would remit the tax. Director Hoy noticed
the assumption of those not reporting taxes being along the District
boundaries, yet there may be vendors in Downtown Denver not reporting.
Mr. Washington said that it does happen and that adjustments are made
both ways throughout the year.

Director Menten reminded the Directors of her public stance on House Bill
1272. RTD told the State it would get about $3 million in revenue from that
bill. Director Menten believes that an increase in revenue due to a policy
change needs to go to the voters for approval and not doing so violates the
constitution, which the Directors took an oath to uphold. She also
mentioned how the sales tax parity is supposed to make it easier for vendors
but instead it is full of distractions, confusion, and disruption of business
while the vendors are trying to benefit our economy. She called RTD’s
actions, including hiring an outside auditor to do the legwork of the State,
disappointing.
Director Deadwyler asked if the Tabor Foundation is still taking RTD to
court. Ms. Lien answered we are still litigating and noted it is a long
process. Director Deadwyler then asked if RTD would have to return the
revenue generated if the litigation is lost. Committee Chair Walker called the
conversation back to topic and asked that any further comments be related
to the February 2014 Monthly Financial Report Status Report Update.
Director Deadwyler and Director Solano agreed to take their questions
offline.

D. Other Matters
Director Bagley noted the average use of the different parking facilities throughout
the District. The West Corridor parking facilities are not being used to their
potential and he would like to know the forecast on that subject. He mentioned he
made a well-received hour long presentation on behalf of RTD and DUSPA to the
City Club of Denver to a luncheon audience of 125 people. During his presentation
he referred to the development around DUS, dramatically showing the importance
of Transit Oriented Development (TOD).

E. Next Meeting Date - May 20, 2014
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Walker adjourned the meeting to the Civil Rights Committee at
7:31 P.M.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

