Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, January 27, 2009
at 5:30p.m. Page 1 of 5
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

January 27, 2009

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday January 27,
2009 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms T & D

Board
Members Present:

Staff Present:

Chair Kemp; Directors Bagley, Brohl, Busck, Chacon,
Christopher, Cohen, Daly, James, Martinez, McMullen,
Pulliam, O’Boyle, Tayer and Tobiassen

Marla Lien, Rick Clarke, Dave Genova, Paula Perdue, Scott
Reed, Phil Washington, Cal Shankster, Bill VanMeter
Martell Dyles, Sherry Ellebracht, Dave Genova, Ed Gonzales,
Kenn Hardin, Johanna Medina, Daria Serna, John Shonsey,

Others Present:

***
Call to Order:

Brian Murphy-BT, Peter Baertlein-CCD, Frank Cannon-USNC,
Tom Gougeon- USNC, William Gross, Dick Kaufman-McKenna,
Long &Aldridge, LLP, Bob Kochevar- CCD, Antonio Ledezma,Jalisco, Sipriano Ledezma-Jalisco, Frank Rapoport-McKenna,
Long and Aldridge, LLP, Roger Sherman-CRL, Jonnie ThomasTriunity Engineering, and Shem Tai Yeh-Yeh and Associates.

Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:40 p.m.

I. DBE Overview
Phil Washington started the meeting off by thanking the Board for their
support of the SBE/DBE program. Phil shared this is a Federal mandated
program with the goal of leveling the playing field for small, women-owned,
minorities, and veterans. He then turned the discussion over to Kenn Hardin,
Business Office and Opportunity Manager, who shared that RTD has been
extremely aggressive in our approach to participation. The SBE goals are
based on economics and are race and gender neutral. While RTD has set a
goal somewhere around 13%, it has actually achieve 25% participation.
Approximately $60M in FasTracks contracts have gone to DBE/SBE firms
since 2005. 85% of this has gone to local firms, that while RTD cannot

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, January 27, 2009
at 5:30p.m. Page 2 of 5
mandate local participation level, these firms have continued to contribute to
the local economy. Kenn Hardin then introduced three SBE/DBE vendors who
shared their stories.
 Jalisco International, Inc., Sipriano Ledezma and Antonio Ledezma—
Jalisco International started in 1985 and was recently awarded the
contract for US36, 116th pedestrian bridge. Other bridge/concrete work
they have performed in the city includes 128 & I-25, 120& I-25, 144th
interchange, sidewalk in front of 1600 Blake St, ramp at 84 th park and
ride and the notorious I-70& I-25 sinkhole.
 Shan-Tai Yeh – Yeh & Associates, Inc—is a technical engineer firm
that performs soil testing and foundation work. They have grown to
approximately 60 people in 10 years. They are currently working on
the West Corridor project with Transit. One of their biggest problems
shared is how to get in with the primes to get them to use them.
The DBE/SBE program helps.
 Jonnie Thomas – Triunity Engineering & Management, Inc.—Triunity
has been around for about 5 years as a small engineering firm and
has 17 employees. They are expecting to grow by 3 more in the near
future. The main office is in Colorado but they have branched out to
do work in several states. As a small company it can be kind of
scary but with the SBE/DBE program, they have been able to grow
and to demonstrate they can perform the work.

Phil Washington shared other functions that are performed by the SBE/DBE
office to support the small business efforts: mentoring and supportive
services, compliance monitoring, prompt payments, training for internal staff,
performance goals, evaluation criteria, etc. He also shared that as recent as
last week he received a call from the Congressional Black Caucus interested in
knowing more about the RTD DBE/SBE program and to see if they could
fashion something in the stimulus package around this model. They know
that the RTD program is aggressive and that we have one of the largest transit
projects in the country.
Relative to the P3 project, these goals and requirements will be looked at
closely for compliance.
Director Martinez congratulated the team for this update and indicated the
work performed by these small businesses contribute to helping the local
economy.
Director Tayer thanked them for sharing their stories and indicated these are
success stories that need to be told and he appreciates the interaction with
these firms. He also asked about price competitiveness and if these
businesses compete directly. Kenn Hardin responded it really depends on the
type of procurement but for the most part, they compete competitively.
Director Chacon reminded the Board of the first meeting last July to discuss

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, January 27, 2009
at 5:30p.m. Page 3 of 5
PPP where there were approximately 500 small businesses interested in PPP
opportunities. The SBE/DBE firms contribute greatly to creating jobs,
businesses and building a foundation that Colorado can grow on and help
cushion some of the impacts from a downturned economy. She also
complimented the DBE/SBE team for the work they are doing.
Director Brohl queried about the process of matchmaking the SBE/DBE with
the primes and how do we spread the wealth. She also queried about the
effectiveness of the outreach to the legal community. Staff responded two of
the firms had been certified and Marla Lien indicated when internal positions
became available, the minority bar made referrals that extended their network
to the minority communities as far as Pueblo and Colorado Springs where
subsequently she had hired a minority for her staff.
Chair Kemp thanked Phil, the DBE/SBE staff and the small businesses who
appeared before the Board for their efforts and diligence in making this an
award winning program and encouraged them to keep it going.
II. P3 Presentation
Director Pulliam introduced Frank Rapoport and Richard Kaufman from
McKenna Long & Aldridge, LLP who had made a presentation on PPP to the
Legislature earlier in the day.
Mr. Rapoport provided a summary of some of the points made to the
legislature on innovative PPP opportunities. Please refer to the P3 handbook
available in the Board office for the information provided by Mr. Rapoport.
Some of the highlights of Mr. Rapoport’s presentation included:
Greater opportunities to utilize PPP and the private equity partners up to
50%.
 Performance bond requirements on PPPs are unnecessary and add to the
cost of the projects.
 Slight raise in the gas tax but the gas tax is history in trying to rebuild our
infrastructure. Need to look for other innovative sources to finance.
 New financing tools coming out of Washington: 30% private activity bonds,
30% TIPIA state DOT loan programs, 30% state funds and 18% private
equity.
 Seven different points when considering P3’s:
1. Control over total structure
2. Non-compete clause
3. Public/private utility access
4. Revenue allocations
5. Creating enterprises
6. Value for the money
7. 50 year lease versus a longer term lease


In conclusion there is momentum in public/private partnership and voters like this.
He saluted RTD for what they have done and encouraged them not to hold back.
Colorado is listed as #5 on states that are proactive in PPP. Congress is looking at

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, January 27, 2009
at 5:30p.m. Page 4 of 5
the creation of a national infrastructure bank and RTD is well positioned to take
advantage of this opportunity.
III.

Revenue Generation Ideas-Naming Rights for Stations
Chair Kemp introduced this item for discussion to see what might be the
flavor of the Board related to pursuing this.
Several directors were in favor of pursuing this option but several also
expressed some reservation with this. After some discussion, Chair Kemp
directed Marla Lien to place an item on the next Ops/Customer Service
Committee meeting on “naming rights” to further the exploration. Staff needs
to provide the Board a copy of the current station naming policy, information
on whether other transit properties have done this and possible revenue
available. Additionally Marla will review copies of the CPV Spur agreements
with private financing partners that limit the ability to put in certain station
name.

IV.

Preliminary Information on Contract for Herzog to complete work at Littleton
Station
Rick Clarke provided a preview of an action item that will be brought before
the Board next week in a special board meeting to cover the costs for Herzog
to repair the RTD rail damaged by the BNSF derailment last week.
Board members expressed some concerns on whose responsibility to cover
the cost and if RTD will be reimbursed. Marla Lien indicated that it will
depend upon the cause in accordance with the contract, and if need be, could
file an insurance claim for this damage. This matter is still being investigated.

V.

DUS Update
Marla Lien provided a presentation on the Denver Union Station and the
Denver Union Station Project Authority (DUSPA).
A copy of this
presentation is included in the minutes notebook located in the Board office.
Marla Lien reviewed the Master Developer’s role and the transit elements
included in this framework. These elements include 8 track CRT, 3 track
LRT, 22 bay regional bus facility, 16 th street mall expansion and the
downtown circulator. She reviewed the development program and shared
an estimated RTD budget that does not reflect the final pricing. Rick Clarke
indicated they hope to come back to the Board in April with a refined pricing
based on the actual negotiations.

Questions and Answers:
Director Pulliam:
Director Pulliam stated he had heard that Amtrak was
having real problems with the design and asked for a status. Marla Lien
responded that Amtrak is a creation of Congress and gets its powers

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, January 27, 2009
at 5:30p.m. Page 5 of 5
therein. We have been negotiating with them for a long time and recently
have gotten more cooperation, though no signed contract. We will continue
to negotiate in good faith.
Director Daly: He had read an article in the papers a few weeks ago on the
west face of DUS and asked for comments. Marla Lien responded we have
a signed record of decision by the Federal Government and other documents
are in place to continue to move forward. She does not see this as an issue.
Director McMullen: Are we comfortable with the 12 year outlook? Marla
Lien responded yes.
Director Tayer: Concerning the project budget, is there an opportunity to
negotiate for lower costs given the cost of construction is decreasing? Rick
Clarke responded this is a different environment and pricing should be
reflective of environment and construction is hurting for work. However,
the actual cost will be a reflection of the negotiation but RTD is expecting an
aggressive pricing.
Director Christopher: When issuing bonds, what is the failsafe on financing?
Marla responded April.
Marla introduced Tom Cougeon with USNC who responded to how the
developers are reading this project in light of the changes in the economy.
Tom responded they see it as a good site for mixed use and while some
tenants (office, retail, hotel) may have stepped back a little, they believe the
prospects are still good. As he looks at the different phases of the project,
the smaller sites which are in the first phase will be manageable even in this
environment and the middle scale project is manageable for the 2010-11
timeframe. The larger scale projects are not planned until later when
hopefully the market will have healed. Tom also indicated that he thinks the
schedule ties into the TIF base and the financing structure is intact.
Director Christopher inquired if in the worst case scenario can we
accommodate the West Corridor light rail coming out of Union Station.
Marla Lien responded yes in that all we need to do is extend the line out;
however due to the excavation and raising of splines, etc that is needed for
the overall buildout, it is better to do this work together.
VI.

Other Matters
No other matters.

VII.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 7:40 p.m.

