1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, November 5, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:00 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Larry Hoy

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 5:03 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
5:04 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

4:59 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

4:14 PM
5:03 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Chair

Present
Present

4:56 PM
5:03 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Vice Chair

Present
Present
Present

5:03 PM
5:03 PM
5:10 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Absent

5:46 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

4:56 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

4:55 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:02 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:02 PM
4:54 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Robert Brown, Frank Buczkowski, Rick Clarke, Susan
Cohen, Lee Cryer, Paul Deeley, Kevin Diviness, Martell Dyles, John
Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Amy Ford, David Genova, Kenn Hardin, Terry
Howerter, Brian Iacono, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien,
Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Brenden Morgan, Paula Perdue,
Scott Reed, Pranaya Shrestha, Zamy Silva, Bill Sirois, Jim Starling,
Henry Stopplecamp, Kirk Strand, Walt Stringer, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa
Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington, Brian Welch

Others Present:

Chris Barker, Tim Biolchini, Jeff Boerma, Torie Brazitis, Damian Carey,
Chris Cramer, ZJ Czupor, Jane Donovan, Dale Ekberg, Larry Gallego,
Joni Goheen, Sherman Hamilton, Bruce Hamon, Erik Hansen, Lauren
Hartman, Matthew Helfant, Dale Honor, Thomas Howell, Tim Kamper,
Joseph Kneib, Rob Larsen, Anders Lindgren, Krista Mann, Jon
Moellenberg, Nick Moller, Susan Monard, Jena Montgomery, Jim
Paulmeno, Dan Pearsall, Mike Peek, Randy Pierce, Shawn Plichta,
James Price, Maxine Pryor, Gene Putman, Joe Reed, Christian Reitter,
Jacob Riger, Greg Ritke, Ted Rutledge, Ryan Seacrist, Roger
Sherman, Jeanne Shreve, Alan Sielaff, Marta Sipeki, Lindsey Smith,
Karen Stuart, Brook Svoboda, Ravi Swamy, Steve Taylor, Catherine
Teutsch, Lorae Tracy, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Enrique Vera, Jeff
Vera, Christen Villalobos, Roger Wilson, Libby Winter

B. Motion to Move into Executive Session

 C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(e) contract negotiations – North Metro Line
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move into
Executive Session under C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(e)
contract negotiations – North Metro Line.
Director Daly seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

A voice vote was taken which passed 14 to 0.
Director Menten arrived late and was not present
for the vote.

Committee Chair Hoy adjourned the FasTracks Monitoring Committee into
Executive Session at 5:04 p.m.

C. Motion to Resume from Executive Session into FasTracks Monitoring
Committee
Committee Chair Hoy resumed the FasTracks Monitoring Committee at 7:04 p.m.

D. Updates

• North Metro Procurement Update
General Manager Washington began by thanking staff, the evaluation teams
and stakeholders for working very long hours in evaluating the proposals
that RTD received. He noted that it took a lot of work and staff put
together an aggressive timeline for the evaluation teams but they came
through. General Manager Washington also thanked the four teams that
proposed on this solicitation, noting that all four are great teams made up of
great people with great ideas. He stated that the willingness of these teams
to respond to the Request for Proposal (RFP) and this agency on the North
Metro Corridor is truly appreciated.
General Manager Washington reviewed six key terms that he wanted to
ensure the Board and public understood as staff reviewed the process.
1) Best Value Proposal/Solicitation: all the criteria and everything in the
proposal is looked at and evaluated in terms of best value to the District
2) Lump Sum Fixed Price: the contractor has the burden to bring in the
contract at the stated price proposed
3) Best and Final Offer: after evaluation the two highest scoring proposers
are asked to give their best and final offer
4) Certificates of Participation (COPs): this is what is being used to finance
the project. RTD owns the right-of-way and this will be used as
collateral to finance the project. COPs can only be used if RTD owns the
asset
5) Regional Transportation Plan (RTP): RTD must submit an RTP to DRCOG
to show what projects we are planning to do and how we will pay for
those projects. The current RTP shows completing DUS to 72nd a long
way out. This schedule will be improved upon with staff’s
recommendation
6) Phase: staff broke the proposal into three phases
 Phase I: DUS to 72nd
 Phase II: 72nd to End of Line
 Phase III: all other extensions
General Manager Washington introduced Rick Clarke, Assistant General
Manager of Capital Programs, Gene Putman, Stakeholder Subcommittee
member, and Terry Howerter, Assistant General Manager of Finance &
Administration/CFO. They reviewed a Power Point presentation that is
available in the November 5, 2013 FasTracks Monitoring Committee Agenda
Packet.

Gene Putman stated that the North Metro Corridor Stakeholder
Subcommittee spent a lot of time going over the RFP and each proposal. He
recognized Chris Cramer, Jeanne Shreve and Brook Svoboda who were on
the committee and present at the meeting; two members were unable to
attend due to previous commitments. Gene Putman noted there were many
times when the team was kicked out of the FasTracks offices because they
were so thorough in their review; this was something the team spent a lot of
time on, felt very strongly about, and wanted to help RTD as much as
possible.
Gene Putman stated that the team’s evaluation goals were to:
1) Build entire North Metro Line
2) Ensure communities long-term vision
3) Meet North Metro EIS and ROD Commitments
4) Uphold communities needs expressed in IGAs
5) Continue to foster regional cooperation
6) Address communities comments on 31% plan
Gene Putman explained that these goals were only from the team’s
perspective. He said that everyone has been working long hours on the
IGAs. He is glad it is coming to an end because there have been so many
scenarios to work through.
Gene Putman said that the team initially thought it would be a hard decision
to come to a consensus; however, the team agreed that Graham, Balfour
Beatty, Hamon Contractors (GBBH) had the best proposal. He noted that it
was amazing that before today the team had not seen the actual rundown
that the Technical Subcommittee put together as their scenario was just like
the Technical Subcommittee. Gene Putman said that it took the team over
six hours of reviewing the pros and cons before they decided unanimously
that GBBH was number one and Kiewit was number two with those two
proposers being at the upper end. He reiterated that it was very similar to
what the Technical Subcommittee had. Gene Putman stated that GBBH’s
proposal demonstrated the ability to complete Phase I and II as well as go
beyond the end of the line which were key factors.
Gene Putman reiterated that GBBH was the unanimous preferred proposal by
the Stakeholder Subcommittee. He said the committee thought it contained
the most innovation, gave greater attention to details and recognized
individual stakeholder concerns and issue while developing sound
resolutions. Gene Putman noted that this was the only proposal to build
Phases I, II, III and additional scopes.

Committee Chair Hoy thanked the Stakeholder Subcommittee for their hard
work and diligence. He believes it is uncanny how their suggestion is
dovetailing in with RTD’s management and staff suggestion. General
Manager Washington also thanked Mr. Putman and the rest of the team. He
thinks the team was fantastic and did great work.
General Manager Washington stated that staff is recommending that the first
phase of the North Metro line be built to 124th with the funding that is
currently available. He noted that building to 124th as the first phase
actually serves the majority of the projected ridership for the corridor. As
additional funds become available, RTD can exercise the option with the
contractor to complete the line to 164th. General Manager Washington
shared that he is encouraged that RTD can exercise that option prior to the
demobilization of the contractor. General Manager Washington stated that
the benefits of this recommended action are that it serves the majority of
projected ridership and also provides a firm price on the various extensions
should RTD realize the additional funds to be able to exercise the options at
a later date.
General Manager Washington read the recommended action as follows:
“It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors (“Board”) authorize the General Manager to award the
design/build contract and negotiate final terms with Graham, Balfour Beatty,
Hamon Contractors (GBBH) to serve as the Contractor for the North Metro
Rail Line Project. The Project consisting of the North Metro Rail Line from
Denver Union Station to 124th Avenue, which will be constructed for a lump
sum amount of US $343.3 million. Acceptance of this proposal would
complete the North Metro corridor to 124th Avenue with an option to extend
to 162nd Avenue as funds become available.”
Committee Chair Hoy thanked everyone for the presentation. He stated that
it is nice to see more of our FasTracks Operation being built; RTD hears from
both North and South constituents that they want to see the system built
and this is another step in the process.
Committee Chair Hoy noted that a Special FasTracks Monitoring Committee
will meet Thursday, November 14th, 2013 to discuss the recommendation
further. He informed the audience that there will be an opportunity for
public input which is unusual because it is a committee meeting.
Committee Chair Hoy recognized the people from GBBH who were in the
audience.

Director Folska stated that she is thrilled with the stakeholder participation in
the evaluation process. She values everything they have shared with RTD
and appreciates their feedback. Director Folska thinks it is interesting that
their assessment is in line with staff’s assessment. Director Folska asked
staff to explain positive train control (PTC) and how it affects RTD with the
North West. She also wondered if GBBH had any prior experience with
positive train control. Rick Clarke explained that in 2009 there was a bad
head on collision with a Metro Link train in LA and a Union Pacific Train. As
a result congress passed an act mandating PTC be instituted by 2015,
which the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) had been
recommending for years. He said PTC is a complex set of computers
monitoring train location, relaying it to the back office who is communicating
with the field to keep two trains from coming close to each other and
avoiding a collision. Rick Clarke explained that when congress mandated
PTC the technology was not available but now every railroad is scrambling
to get it done. He stated that the Technical Subcommittee was looking for a
team they felt confident could implement this system.
Director Folska asked if any consideration was given to the Northwest Area
Mobility (NAM) or Central Corridor Studies. She wondered if MPACT64 was
weighted into the decision making process with regards to funding
considerations. Director Folska also wondered how the potential yearly
decrease in RTD’s Full Funding Grand Agreement (FFGA) might affect this
proposal. Terry Howerter stated that the NAM and Central Corridor Studies
did not come into this RFP on the finance side. The Financial Subcommittee
evaluated cost, the strength and ability of the proposal to be delivered to
RTD, and the financial impact long term. Terry Howerter stated that staff
anticipates collecting the entire FFGA by the end of the grant term but in the
short term, if RTD continues to get a reduction staff would look to program
that into the overall cost for TABOR. General Manager Washington stated
that MPACT64 was not assumed. The proposers were directed not to
assume that RTD would go to ballot or that MPACT64 would happen.
Director Lubow noted that when we began this process staff was hopeful
that we would be able to build out the entire line. She wonders what
changed after getting the bids that they no longer think that will happen.
Terry Howerter said that after the proposals came in staff had a good feel
for the cost of the project. He explained that they used these proposed
costs to begin modeling to see how much RTD could borrow and stay within
our debt covenants. Based on the modeling staff determined that RTD could
spend around $500 million so from there staff could determine how far we
could go. Terry Howerter noted that staff also had to model in operating
costs; quite often these are overlooked but it is a huge piece of the
equation. He said that over the next 30 years RTD will be looking at over
$200 million in operating costs. Another critical aspect is the repayment of

debt. If RTD needs $500 million to build the line then RTD has to pay back
$500 million plus another $600 million in interest.
Director Lubow commented that page 47 says that COPs can be used on
non-federally funded projects and projects where RTD owns the asset. She
wondered if both of those statements needed to be true or if this was an
‘or’ type situation. Director Lubow asked for confirmation that the plan for
the FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA) is to accrue the $300 million
and use it in 2030. Terry Howerter explained that when there is a federal
investment the Federal Government takes an interest in the asset; that asset
cannot be sold or disposed of until the end of the useful life. He said that
there are no grant funds on this line. RTD purchased the right-of-way so
since there is no other lien staff feels this is a great line for COPs. Terry
Howerter stated that Director Lubow is correct about the FISA; that is the
way it is modeled in the financial plan at this time.
Director Solano thanked the teams for all the work they did to put their
proposals together. He also thanked staff. Director Solano quoted Mother
Teresa: “Life is a dream. Realize it.”
Director Sisk seconded Director Solano’s appreciation. He feels Gene
Putman and the other stakeholders have done a great job. Director Sisk
asked for a presentation that outlines how this proposal might impact the
other lines. Director Sisk stated that RTD and the Board need to support all
of the projects to get FasTracks finished; that includes projects in both the
North and South.
Committee Chair Hoy pointed out that about one year ago there were
discussions about I-225 and how RTD could not afford to finish the line but
now it is being built. At that time General Manager said that staff was
going to move its focus to the North Metro. He said that based on where
we are today he is confident that staff will just move their focus to other
areas and RTD will continue to see progress; this is not an organization that
just sits around.

E. Recommended Actions

• Approval of Tenth Year (2014) Contract Amendment to Jacobs Engineering
for FasTracks Program Support Consulting
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the tenth
year contract amendment to Jacobs Engineering, in the amount of
$23,462,562 for Program Support Services Consulting (PSC) for
FasTracks for the year 2014. Funds for the award are contained in the

2014 Recommended Budget for the FasTracks capital program in the
specific projects where PSC support would be utilized.
Motion:

Director Sisk made the motion to move this item
to the full Board meeting on November 26th,
2013.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Rick Clarke explained that the initial multi-year contract was
approved by the Board in 2005; however, staff negotiates the
contracts each year because the flow of work changes. He
stated that these individuals are really an extension of the RTD
staff; they are used for their expertise in areas where it would
be difficult to hire a full-time employee. Rick Clarke stated
that this also helps minimize the challenges of placement for
RTD employees when many of the projects will end in 2014.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
SECONDER: Kent Bagley, Director, District H
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Natalie Menten
Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Approval of Items 2 - 5
Motion:

Director Sisk made the motion to consider items
2-5 together and have one vote to move these
items forward to the full Board at the November
26th, 2013 Board meeting.
Director Solano seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director James expressed his support for voting on these
items together. He asked General Counsel if there would be
any issue with this type of vote. Marla Lien stated that since
the FasTracks Monitoring Committee was just voting to move
the items forward to the Board meeting this would be fine. If
the vote was all in favor these items would end up on
Unanimous Consent; if the vote passed but there was at least
one ‘no’ vote then each item would end up under
Recommended Actions.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
SECONDER: Paul Solano, Director, District K
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Natalie Menten
Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Approval of Contract Amendment to Front Range Systems Consultants
(FRSC) for FasTracks Systems Engineering Consultant Services
It is recommended by the FasTracks monitoring committee that the Board of
Directors approve a Contract Amendment with Front Range Systems
Consultants (FRSC) in the amount of $10,566,646 for the year 2014,
bringing the total contract authorization to $64,309,557. Funds for the
contract award are included in the 2014 Recommended Budget for the
FasTracks capital program in the specific projects where FRSC support
would be utilized.

• Approval of Tenth Year (2014) Contract Amendment to Delcan for
FasTracks Quality Management Consultant Services
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the tenth year
Contract Amendment for Delcan in the amount of $1,700,000 for Quality
Management Consulting Services for FasTracks for the year 2014. Funds
for the amendment are contained in the 2014 RTD FasTracks Budget.

• Approval of 2014 Contract Amendment to Kumar and Associates, Inc. for
the RTD Construction Materials Testing and Inspection Services Contract
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the 2014
Contract Amendment for Kumar and Associates, thereby exercising the first
of five (5) one-year options and extending the contract term through
December 31, 2014.

• 2014 FasTracks Public Information Consultant Contract Award
It is Recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the second
one-year option to the Virtegic Group Incorporated as the FasTracks Public
Information, Communications and Public Outreach Consultant, extending the
period of performance through 2014. The scope of work is negotiated
annually between RTD and the Virtegic Consultant Staff, and awarded
annually by the RTD Board of Directors at the discretion of RTD. This
contract amendment is for an amount not to exceed $487,308.80 for the

year 2014. Funds for the award are contained in the 2014 FasTracks
Budget.

• Approval of Items 6 - 9
Motion:

Director Sisk made the motion to consider items
6-9 together and have one vote to move these
items forward to the full Board at the November
26th, 2013 Board meeting.
Director Folska seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Daly noted a typo in the North Metro Rail Line
Intergovernmental agreement with the City of Commerce City.
He requested this be corrected before final Board approval at
the November 26th, 2013 Board meeting. General Manager
Washington stated that would be corrected.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Natalie Menten
Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• North Metro Rail Line Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City of
Commerce City
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between the City of Commerce City
(C3) and the Regional Transportation District. The agreement includes
specific terms defining C3’s local agency contribution, coordination, and the
rights and responsibilities of each party within the Commerce City
boundaries.

• North Metro Rail Line Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City of
Thornton
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between the City of Thornton (COT) and
the Regional Transportation District. The agreement includes specific terms
defining the City of Thornton’s local contribution, coordination, and the
rights and responsibilities of each party with Thornton’s boundaries.

• North Metro Rail Line Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of
Northglenn
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between the City of Northglenn (CON)
and the Regional Transportation District. The agreement includes specific
terms defining the City of Northglenn’s local agency contribution,
coordination, and the rights and responsibilities of each party within the
Northglenn boundaries.

• North Metro Rail Line Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the Colorado
Department of Transportation (CDOT)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between the Colorado Department of
Transportation (CDOT) and the Regional Transportation District (RTD). The
agreement includes specific terms defining the coordination between CDOT
and RTD and the rights and responsibilities of each party associated with the
construction of the North Metro Rail Line especially regarding interface with
the state highway system.

F. Other Matters
Committee Chair Hoy reminded everyone the next meeting date is November 14th,
2013, which is a Thursday; there is no meeting on Tuesday, November 12th, 2013.

G. Next Meeting Date - November 14, 2013
H. Adjourn
Committee Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 8:31 p.m. to the Government
Relations Committee.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

