Minutes of the DBE Committee Meeting held on April 12, 2011
Page 1 of 2

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

April 13, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the DBE Committee Meeting held April 12, 2011 in
Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Brohl; Chair Kemp, Directors Anderson, Bagley, Deadwyler,
Cohen, Daly, Hoy, O’Boyle, Riley, Tayer, and Tobiassen.

Directors James, McMullen; Director Malpiede left before the DBE
Committee began.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Jessie Carter, Joe Christie, Rick Clarke, Carolyn
Conover, Sherry Ellebracht, Lisa Fliam, David Genova, Mike Gil, Terry
Howerter, Tom Hughes, Dan Jackson, Austin Jenkins, Barbara McManus,
Brian Matthews, Doug MacLeod, Anthony Menendez, Tai-Shrae Parish, Carla
Perez, Trent Radcliff, Scott Reed, Jeannette Scarpino, Daria Serna, Errol
Stevens, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Jeff Lieb – Denver Post.
****

Call to Order:
I

Committee Chair Brohl called the meeting to order at 7:54 p.m.

DBE/SBE Program Overview
Carla Perez noted that the Civil Rights Small Business Office wanted to ensure the Board
knew the foundations of the DBE/SBE. This presentation highlights those, along with the
objectives.
Christina Tubb explained that the primary objectives of the DBE/SBE Program are to ensure
nondiscrimination, create a level playing field on which DBE/SBEs can compete fairly for
contracts, remove barriers limiting DBE/SBE participation on projects, and to assist the
development of firms in the DBE/SBE program. There are five pillars on which the DBE/SBE
program is built on:
1. Comprehensive Compliance Monitoring and Reporting

Minutes of the DBE Committee Meeting held on April 12, 2011
Page 2 of 2

2. Outreach/networking and Public Participation
3. Training, Surveying, Mentoring and Technical Assistance
4. Implementation of the MOUs
5. SBE Certification program support services
II

Project and Goal Updates
Christina Tubb indicated that goal setting factors are Race Conscious vs. Race Neutral.
General Manager Washington added that Race Conscious has a specific goal in sight for a
project. Race Neutral has no set goals but still have opportunity for minority sub
contracting on projects.

III

Questions and Answers
Director Deadwyler added that there is a long way to go to get people to understand how
this process works. This can be a very confusing and invasive process.
Director Tayer inquired if we accept DBE certifications through other agencies. Carla Perez
noted that yes, we accept certifications through CDOT and City of Denver; however, it is
still recommended that they go through our process as well.

IV

Next Meeting Date – May 10, 2011

V.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 8:40 p.m.

