1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

AGENDA
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, November 5, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:00 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Bruce Daly

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• Federal Liaison Services Contract Renewal
• Local Government Liaison Services Contract Renewal
C. Other Matters
D. Next Meeting Date - December 3, 2013
E. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices

Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: October 29, 2013

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 25, 2013

Board Meeting Date: November 5, 2013

Subject:

Federal Liaison Services Contract Renewal

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the RTD Government Relations Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to enter into an agreement (for federal liaison services) with Patton Boggs
LLP to exercise a one-year option (February 1, 2014 through January 31, 2015) to extend Contract No.
19-DX-001, at a cost of $258,000. Funding for this contract is included in the 2014 budget.
BACKGROUND
A solicitation for proposals for Federal Liaison Services was issued on October 20, 2009. Eight
responsive proposals were received, and they were evaluated by a Board Ad Hoc Committee and
subsequently referred to the Executive Committee on December 10, 2009. The Executive
Committee unanimously recommended that Patton Boggs LLP be offered a new contract which
provided for a one-year base price with four one-year option periods. The referenced extension
covers the period from February 1, 2014, to January 31, 2015, and is the fourth and final option in
this contract. In addition to constant monitoring of Congressional and Executive Branch activities,
status reports are issued and special reports are prepared when required by the Board of Directors or
the General Manager. Annually, or as required, meetings with the Board of Directors are also held.
DISCUSSION
Constant monitoring of federal legislative activities that relate to RTD is required, and RTD’s interests
must be conveyed to appropriate members of Congress, including the Colorado delegation and other
key Congressional committee members. When RTD has a Full Funding Grant Agreement (FFGA) in
place as it now does (Eagle P3 Project), the annual appropriations process requires intense attention
to committee hearings and to the status of the Congressional budget process.
The current transportation funding bill, MAP-21, went into effect on October 1, 2012. The
regulations and rules for implementing this funding bill are still being drafted and implemented.
Patton Boggs will play a key role in advising RTD as to the contents of the bill and monitoring the
rule-making process. As drafts are circulated, special attention must be paid to the impacts to RTD.
With the buildout of FasTracks, the lobbyists will monitor discussions regarding the new funding bill
and will be especially attentive to the federal financing needs for the new corridors and potential
grant opportunities.
In addition, as the US Department of Transportation offers more discretionary grant opportunities,
extensive contacts with the Colorado Congressional delegation, as well as Executive Branch staff,
are required, including the Department of Transportation (the Federal Transit Administration and the
Federal Railroad Administration). The federal lobbyist group provides guidance and assistance in
applying for and receiving these federal funds from the Department of Transportation and other
agency grants for which RTD qualifies as an applicant.
The annual cost for this fourth year option is $258,000.

Packet Pg. 3

1.B.1

ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Government Relations Committee’s Recommended Action to exercise a one-year
option (February 1, 2014 through January 31, 2015) with Patton Boggs LLP.
2. Continue the contract on a month-to-month basis, if amenable to the current Contractor
(Patton Boggs LLP). This option is not recommended because continuity and stability in
liaison services is an important consideration.
3. Do not accept the Recommended Action and issue a new Request for Proposals (RFP) for
Federal Liaison Services. This option is not recommended because the RFP process was
properly utilized for this procurement.

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 4

1.B.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: October 29, 2013

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 25, 2013

Board Meeting Date: November 5, 2013

Subject:

Local Government Liaison Services Contract
Renewal

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the
General Manager to enter into an agreement for Local Government Liaison services with CRL Associates,
Inc. (CRL) to exercise a one-year option (January 1, 2014 through December 31, 2014) to extend
Contract No. 11-DX-001, at a cost of $116,496. Funding for this contract is included in the 2014
budget.
BACKGROUND
A solicitation for proposals for Local Government Liaison services was issued on October 20, 2011.
Eight responsive proposals were received for evaluation. Three of the teams were interviewed by a
procurement panel, and a recommendation was subsequently referred to the Executive Committee on
December 15, 2011. The Executive Committee unanimously approved the recommendation that CRL
Associates, Inc. be offered a contract which provided for a one-year base price with four (4) one-year
option periods. The referenced extension covers the period from January 1, 2014, to December 31,
2014, and is the second option in this contract. CRL will also provide Citizens Advisory Committee
(CAC) liaison services. The Government Relations Committee will make future annual recommendations
to the Board of Directors at the end of each contract period regarding the exercise of future option
periods.
DISCUSSION
CRL Associates, Inc. as RTD’s Local Government Liaison maintains contact with the elected officials and
staff of the cities and counties of the Denver metropolitan area, as well as the business community and
economic development organizations. This team has a broad knowledge of RTD’s needs and concerns,
as well as an extensive network of relationships with local governments, elected officials, and
stakeholders along the Front Range.
As part of the Local Government Liaison services, frequent contact will be made with RTD staff and the
Chairman of the Board to ascertain a coordinated plan to monitor and report on activities at the city and
county levels of government. In addition, as part of the coordinated plan, CRL will provide regular
outreach to the business community and economic development organizations in the Metro area to
develop partnerships and garner feedback on RTD issues of concern.
CRL will represent RTD at meetings at the local level of government and provide professional advice,
counsel, and analysis of issues regarding local government activities as they relate to RTD. CRL will also
provide Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) liaison services.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funds for this one-year contract award ($116,496) are included in the 2014 Adopted Budget for the
FasTracks program.

Packet Pg. 5

1.B.2

ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an agreement to exercise
a one-year option for Local Government Liaison services with CRL Associates, Inc. (January 1,
2014 through December 31, 2014).
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action. Do not authorize the General Manager to enter into an
agreement to exercise a one-year option for the Local Government Liaison services. A new
Request for Proposals could be sent to interested parties, and a new Local Government Liaison
firm could be retained. This action is not recommended because CRL Associates, Inc. has been
very effective in assisting RTD with local government matters in the past, and this group is very
familiar with RTD’s issues and policies.

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 6

