Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
January 19, 2017 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
Chaired by Larry Hoy
I.

Call to Order
Chair Hoy called the Executive Committee to order at 12:00 p.m.

II.

Committee members in attendance:

Chair Hoy, 1st Vice Chair Francone
2nd Vice-Chair Deadwyler, Secretary
Walker, Treasurer Menten

Other Board members present:

Director Anderson (via phone)

Others present:

General Manager Genova, Executive
Manager Barbara McManus, Board
Office Administrator John McKay

January Board Meeting Agenda Review
In reviewing the Board meeting agenda, Chair Hoy remarked that there were quite a
few retirees listed.
Barbara McManus mentioned that only two retirees were planning on attending the
Board meeting so far.
Chair Hoy stated he was impressed at how long people tend to stay at RTD.
Chair Hoy went over the components of the Board meeting agenda, including the
General Manager’s Report.

General Manager Genova said he would be giving his usual report, except that, at
the time of the meeting, he would just be returning from Washington, D.C. He
would not be able to report on the approved length of the extension on the Federal
Railroad Authority’s waiver on the University of Colorado A-Line at that time but
would be able to say how the meeting went.
Chair Hoy stated that the full Board would be discussing two recommended actions
at the upcoming meeting.
General Manager Genova said that Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Rail
Operations, would be following up with Director Deadwyler with further information
on one of the actions.
Director Francone discussed the cost of the pass program working group and asked
what would be done differently with the extant program than had been done in the
past. Chair Hoy clarified that the recommended action on the Board meeting agenda
was for the travel training program rather than the pass program.
Director Menten stated that Director Williams works for the Denver Regional
Mobility and Access Council (DRMAC). When Chair Hoy asked why she mentioned
Director Williams employer, Director Menten said that DRMAC was one of the
entities listed on the list of parties listed for the proposed pass program study
group. She said she did not think a conflict of interest existed but in the future she
wanted to be cognizant of contracts that may be affected by conflicts.
Director Francone asked whether Director Williams is a Director of DRMAC. Barbara
McManus said she believed that Director Williams is, though she is aware she may
have to abstain from voting.
Director Menten said that the only potential conflict she remembers in her time with
RTD was with Director Walker, who she said was always very cautious.
Chair Hoy mentioned Director James also had to abstain over issues in the past. He
said he would speak with Director Williams to understand her current position at
DRMAC.
General Manager Genova asked whether the Directors all sign an annual financial
disclosure form, and Barbara McManus confirmed that they do. General Manager
Genova mentioned the disclosure forms were recently distributed to the staff.

Motion:

Vote on
Motion:

III.

Chair Hoy made the motion to approve
moving the January 24th Board agenda
to the full Board.

The motion passed with 5 in favor (Hoy,
Francone, Deadwyler, Walker, Menten) and 0
opposed.

Other Matters
Director Deadwyler said that she did not understand why Director Archuleta had
abstained from voting at a recent meeting. She said that there had been discussions
in the past to change to bylaws to direct the Chair to ask a Director abstaining from
voting the person’s reasoning for the abstention, though she said nothing was done
at the time the discussion took place. Barbara McManus said that change had not
gone forward. General Manager Genova said it was determined under Robert’s
Rules of Order that a person does not have to give a reason for abstaining, and
Barbara McManus confirmed. Chair Hoy said that he recalled the bylaws had
changed to prevent people from being barred from abstaining. Director Deadwyler
said the reason for the change was to prevent Directors with a conflict of interest
from even participating in the conversation at hand, because in the past Director
James participated in discussions on a particular topic but later abstained from
voting on that topic.
Director Menten said she recalled a similar situation with Director Folska, and
Barbara McManus confirmed that the issue had to do with the naming rights for the
University of Colorado A-Line. Chair Hoy said that it is the responsibility of
Directors in conflict to abstaining from participating in discussion. General Manager
Genova said that in the past General Counsel Rolf Asphaug had said that the
Director could participate in the discussion and did not have to leave the room.
Director Walker confirmed that he had been in that situation in the past and was
permitted to stay but not vote on the matter in question.
Chair Hoy said that the Directors need to know what the ground rules are, namely
that people should not participate in the discussion, can stay in the room, and
should not be voting on something in which they have a conflict of interest. He said
it rests on the Director to know whether they have a conflict of interest since the
other Directors will not know about the conflict in advance.

Director Menten said a Director in conflict should leave the room, because even a
look on a Director’s face can have influence.
Director Francone said that someone intimately involved with a certain topic being
voted upon has some information that may be valuable to the discussion. She said
it is in the person’s best interest to vote one way or another. She further stated
that, if she knows that someone has a conflict of interest, she could have a
discussion with that person offline to get the information that the person could not
discuss in the open.
Chair Hoy said that the decision of what to discuss offline is between the Directors
but that he does not think the person in conflict of interest should participate in the
committee discussion, which may lead to the Director influencing someone to vote.
Director Francone said the appropriate response could be to take the discussion
offline.
Chair Hoy said he did not know that doing so would be appropriate, though he said
that would be left to the Directors to decide.
Director Walker said that a person with a conflict or the perception of a conflict
should not have contact with anyone about that conflict. For example, he said that,
if there were an item that had to do with Xcel under discussion at a Board meeting,
he would not discuss that item with anyone at Xcel.
Chair Hoy agreed and said that otherwise Director Walker’s position on the Board
may be that of lobbyist.
Director Deadwyler said the conflict goes both ways in that it may be inappropriate
for a Director approach the person in conflict for more information.
Chair Hoy said that it is in the best interest of the Board to make the best decision
based on the information available and asked whether the Board had agreement on
the matter, to which Director Menten agreed and Director Francone mentioned
General Counsel Asphaug had sent out a related memo.
Director Francone said that General Counsel Asphaug had sent a memo about
abstentions. Director Deadwyler said General Counsel Asphaug’s memo stated that
Directors may vote on minutes of meetings they did not attend. She said there was
no reason for Director Archuleta’s abstention.

Chair Hoy said abstaining is not a great thing to do but is allowed.
Directors Menten and Deadwyler said they would have to read the abstention
memo again.
General Manager Genova asked if Mr. Asphaug should put together some
information on abstention or parliamentary procedure, and Director Francone
agreed. Barbara McManus said that Mr. Asphaug would also be meeting with
Directors one-on-one.
Director Anderson said the issue of abstention is a legal issue and a Colorado
statutory issue. She would object if she had knowledge of a certain thing that RTD
was talking about and tried to influence Board members by calling them and
discussing the issue with them. She said the law makes it so Directors cannot do
that.
Chair Hoy noted that Director Anderson was speaking to the issue of conflicts of
interest rather than just abstention.
Director Menten said the key words to consider in abstaining are “financial gain”.
She said she would call Director Archuleta and ask why he had abstained from
voting the previous week.
Chair Hoy reiterated that there were two separate issues being discussed: conflicts
of interest and abstention. He said the Board would not be opening up another
bylaw committee.
Chair Hoy called for any other items of discussion.
Director Menten mentioned the new Directors should know procedure for removing
a single item from the consent agenda. She further stated, in regard to the study of
the fare pass program, that she was in sticker shock over the pricing. She said that,
with the cost of the facilitator and the technical consultant, the cost for the
program was between $240,000 and $290,000. She said that figure was not at all
what she thought it would be and had assumed a cost of a mediator being between
$10,000 and $13,000 to do three to six meetings with the public and with internal
stakeholders. She did not anticipate the cost of the study being $250,000 or more.
Director Menten said she had a meeting scheduled with Michael Washington and
Bill Van Meter to discuss the study costs. She said that the project had experienced
quite a bit of mission creep, which is why it had become so costly, and hoped to
reduce the scope. She said the project does not deserve a $250,000 study.

Chair Hoy said he was unsure where he falls on the issue and needs more
information.
Director Francone agreed with Director Menten.
General Manager Genova said RTD went through the fare structure process in
2014-15 and that the Board voted on new fare rates that went into effect in 2016.
He said at the time the new rates went into effect there was a significant increase
in purchasing of EcoPasses. He said the main EcoPass stakeholders were initially
upset about RTD’s approach to EcoPass pricing. He stated that he felt the price
increase was valid and that RTD had landed in a good place with respect to the
new fare structures. With the financial report of the previous Friday, he mentioned
RTD was close to the yearly projected revenue when considering all the different
variables, specifically changing from three transit zones to two and issuing day
passes for the first time. He said there had been concerns based on fare modeling
and significant service plan shifts but that the estimates were playing out very well.
He said that, at the time the rate changes were being discussed, RTD committed to
putting together a working group to look over all of the types of passes issued,
namely Flex Passes, monthly passes, neighborhood passes, college passes, etc.
General Manager Genova stated the original intent of the study was to look at all of
the types of passes issued by RTD. He also said that, in the meantime, there have
been discussions about low-income passes and even further pass types. General
Manager Genova said that RTD committed to the stakeholders and a broad body of
elected officials to undertake this study in 2015 and that he has struggled to tell
these individuals that the study will not commence until 2017. He said the
stakeholders are frustrated, but with so much going on in 2016, they were told
they would have to wait until 2017.
He said that RTD has finally embarked on the process and needs assistance from
the facilitator given the diversity of individuals on the working group and the groups
being interviewed around the districts. He said that the invitations had already gone
out to the individuals in the study group listed in the previous week’s Board packet.
He said that, originally, the plan was to appoint two individuals per RTD district but
that model was changed because it did not seem to work and that it was decided
the group needed a broader base. General Manager Genova said that certain people
opted not to participate because they could not commit to the process.
He said that he questioned staff as to whether the study will be completed in a
year. He said that other groups may perform their own financial analyses and may

conclude that EcoPass is too pricey. He stated that the reason RTD has hired a
facilitator is to represent RTD, to do data analysis, to crunch numbers, and to look
at as many factors as possible to take a look at the process, the financial analysis,
the induced demand, etc. He said that it is valuable to do this process because he
receives requests almost weekly from very large entities who are looking at using
RTD passes and typically choose EcoPass because it is the cheapest option. He said
that EcoPass is set up for companies and other organizations but that RTD has a lot
of contracts with different types of groups. For example, he mentioned that the
Governor’s office called to say EcoPass is really expensive. He said that, when RTD
representatives spoke with the Governor’s representatives to walk them through
the options and showed them how reasonable the pricing really is, they renewed
their contract.
Director Menten asked how many people under the state contract actually live
within district.
General Manager Genova said that the EcoPass is only for the people who live in
district, which is part of the master contract with the state of Colorado. He said
that RTD has other contracts, such as one along the US 36 corridor, and that RTD
has so many different approaches to issuing EcoPasses that it is dangerous. He said
that Denver Public Schools (DPS) had just emailed him to talk about EcoPass for
DPS high school students and that the City of Lafayette had considered placing a
property tax increase on the ballot to do a city-wide EcoPass. He said that RTD had
responded to these inquiries and said there are not enough resources in the
organization to properly come up with the cost for such an endeavor. He said
Boulder County has done the same as the City of Lafayette and that DIA wants to
put all 35,000 employees on EcoPasses.
General Manager Genova said it would be great to have all these people on transit
but asked how one would price a pass that gets such wide distribution, because it
is unclear how much issuing so many passes would displace other forms of
payment and revenue. He said there is a high variability with the way RTD is
issuing EcoPasses and that it would be difficult to move backward if RTD
establishes a large program. He asked what would happen if a program were to
bring in 10,000 new users on EcoPass. He said so much of the proper analysis has
not even been identified, which is why RTD is contracting with a technical
consultant. He said that managing the process and keeping up expectations would
be long and arduous, which is why RTD had contracted with the facilitator,
considering the amount of facilitation, minutes taking, and prep for four-hour
meetings. He said his hope is to make some improvements to the EcoPass program
in the end and mentioned that all of the Directors were on the Board for the fare

adjustment process. He said the project is going to take a lot of resources and that
the board made the commitment to proceed. He said even the 1-year period is
aggressive.
Chair Hoy asked General Manager Genova to confirm that it is fair to say the pass
program adjustment is just as big a process as fare adjustment.
General Manager Genova agreed and said, with the additional variables, this
process may be more complicated. He used the neighborhood EcoPass program as
an example, in one neighborhood someone might currently pay $50 while others
pay $12.
Chair Hoy stated that the end result may actually an increase in revenue.
General Manager Genova said that the Board approved the objectives of the study,
one of which is standardizing revenue. He said RTD will get requests for programs
that are not currently offered, such as community-wide EcoPasses and low-income
EcoPasses. He said the analysis will have to be done to determine what can and
cannot be done. He said that Heather Copp, RTD’s Chief Financial Officer, and
Michael Washington, Title VI Manager, are RTD’s representatives to the program,
because the two main issues are revenue and Title VI compliance.
Director Deadwyler stated the study may cost more than $250,000. She
speculated that, with all of the analysis needed, the total may run even higher.
General Manager Genova said the cost will be monitored very closely and that the
intention is to not go beyond that amount. He said that, at the very least, RTD may
come out of it with a better policy to respond to these questions about community
EcoPasses and the like. He reiterated that there is a high variability of how RTD has
done EcoPass in the past and that it would be good to put parameters around the
issuance of passes. He said that he is optimistic but that the process will be
challenging.
Director Menten asked how many of these groups want a reduced price and agreed
with Director Deadwyler in saying the study may exceed $250,000.
General Manager Genova said that the project has a defined budget and a timeline
of one year.
Chair Hoy said that he has friends in higher education who are reluctant to do
something for their students and wonders if something can be done to make the

passes work for them. He said that hopefully some of the formulas can be
simplified.
General Manager Genova said it would be nice to simplify the formulas and that
high schools have approached RTD wanting the same rates that colleges receive.
He said certain schools have not joined because they do not have the frequency or
level of services coming into the city center. He said that there is no policy for such
a program and that RTD receives tons of requests for pass programs for which
there is no policy. He said that people are frustrated that RTD is not being a good
partner.
Director Deadwyler said RTD is getting a lot of pressure from the schools though
they are looking for charity, such as free excursions. She asked how RTD should
handle those requests.
General Manager Genova said that RTD does not do excursions and that individuals
on Medicare, senior citizens, and students can purchase a 50% reduced fare, which
is what Denver Public Schools buy.
Director Deadwyler asked if DPS distributes those reduced-fare tickets to the
students.
General Manager Genova said yes, though he pointed out that even the schools
within DPS have differing methods of distributing the tickets.
Chair Hoy said that his wife works in the Adams 12 School District and that they
buy tickets for the district and distribute them to the individual schools, which may
have their own criteria. He said that many tickets go to students on the free and
reduced lunch program as one of the main distribution criteria.
Director Deadwyler said that schools constantly want RTD to give them more
tickets and that RTD sent out a letter about reduced fare criteria that went over the
heads of the schools.
General Manager Genova said that what the schools want is EcoPass pricing. He
said RTD receives requests from all around and that Denver’s mayor has asked
about EcoPass pricing, too. He reported that Denver uses something called a
MyDenver card and that, if the Mayor had his way, that card would be their transit
pass as well.

Chair Hoy said he did not want to speak for everyone but felt that the Executive
Committee does not want to see the EcoPass becoming a free-and-reduced
program and that stating so might be a good message going forward.
Director Francone said there is no question that the pass program needs to be
revamped but the Board felt sticker shock the other night.
Director Francone asked whether there has been any consideration, in the interest
of cost reduction, to partner with student groups or others to do the technical
evaluation.
General Manager Genova said anyone interested could respond to the RFP.
Director Walker said that giving the study over to students would result in studentquality work. He said that, in his field, a National Environmental Protection Act
evaluation for a small five-acre plot of land could cost $100,000. He said the
$250,000 price of the technical evaluation does not surprise him and that the oneyear timeline is aggressive. He further stated that transparency costs money and
that there will be value in whatever is developed, though the outcome may not be
what RTD wanted. Whatever the result, Director Walker said that RTD would be
able to back up any changes to the pass program, as was the case with the recent
changes in the code of conduct.
Director Deadwyler mentioned hiring a Chief Operations Officer. She questioned
whether a COO could not be hired for less than $200,000 and asked General
Manager Genova for a justification.
General Manager Genova said that a COO was being hired for a couple of reasons:
1) RTD has greatly expanded its operating base and has needed position like this for
years, because one person would be responsible for integrating bus, rail, and
Access-a-Ride operations, and 2) Certain pieces of the organization would be
elevated, namely Access-a-Ride and service planning. He said the reporting
structure of those two elements of the organization is very low and would now
report much higher. He said another piece is that he is more involved in the day-today business operations than he would like and suggested a COO would be able to
take that on.
Director Deadwyler said Phil Washington, RTD’s former General Manager, had
previously headed both Operations and FasTracks. She said she was not trying to
compare Mr. Washington to General Manager Genova, but she does not want the
organization to seem too top heavy.

Director Deadwyler also wanted to comment on the structure of the Executive
Committee meetings. She asked whether both Barbara McManus and Mr. McKay
are part of the Executive Committee team. She inquired about the Board Office
structure in terms of their roles.
Director Francone said that both Barbara McManus and Paula Perdue, former
Executive Director of the Board Office, had been present before.
Barbara McManus said she was not always in the meetings in the past and that she
will not be reporting and will not speak unless spoken to.
Chair Hoy said Mr. McKay is just getting up to speed on how the Board operates
and did not see a problem with both of them sitting in on meetings. He mentioned
that he would be meeting with Board Office staff individually.
Director Deadwyler said she only wanted to bring up their involvement because she
does not remember having multiple Board Office staffers in the Executive
Committee meetings in the past.
Chair Hoy said the Executive Committee would see Barbara McManus and John
McKay side-by-side because John would not learn everything overnight.
IV.

Adjourn
Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 1:05 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

