Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
January 19, 2017 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
Chaired by Larry Hoy
I.

Call to Order

II.

January Board Meeting Agenda Review

III.

Other Matters

IV.

Adjourn

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - January 24, 2017
I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
David Ayala – Service and Cleaning – 24 years
Bill Cashman – General Repair Mechanic – 17 years
Kevin Flageolle – Mechanic – 28 years
Terrell M. James – Street Supervisor – 23 years
Larry Perkins – Master Mechanic – 39 years
Victor Petersen – General Repair Mechanic – 18 years
John S. Shaver – Signal & Traction Power Maintainer – 32 years
Frank Snell – General Repair Mechanic – 28 years
Larry Sorget – Mechanic – 30 years
Larry D. Vogt – Bus Operator Instructor – 24 years

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Folska
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Deadwyler
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Menten
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Francone
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Director
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Chair Hoy

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Chair's Report

IX.

General Manager's Report

X.

Unanimous Consent

XI.

Recommended Action
A.

Award of Access-a-Ride Service Contracts

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into
contracts with MV Transportation, Transdev, and Via Mobility Services for the
provision of Access-a-Ride service using dedicated vehicles. These contracts are for
three years, with two one-year options for a total of 5-years, for a 5-year cost of
$175,341,294.00. In addition, RTD will reimburse the contractors’ direct fuel
costs in an amount estimated to be $20,715,915.00 for the total 5-year term. The
total 5-year not-to-exceed amount for Access-a-Ride dedicated-vehicle service and
fuel is $196,057,209.00.
It is further recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into
contracts with MV Transportation and Transdev for the provision of Access-a-Ride
service using non-dedicated (contractor provided) vehicles. These contracts are for
three years, with two one-year options for a total of 5-years, at a not-to-exceed 5year cost of $38,918,913.00. Fuel for the non-dedicated vehicle contracts is
included in the service contract price. These recommendations represent the most

responsive and responsible proposals received in response to Request for Proposals
(RFP) 16-DH-047 (dedicated vehicle) and 16-DH-046 (non-dedicated vehicle) to
provide Access-a-Ride Service. The contracts to provide this service are scheduled
to be effective April 1, 2017.
B.

Access-a-Ride Travel Training Project

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into a
contract with Via Mobility Services for the provision of Travel Training services.
Performance under the contract is for a one (1) year period and shall not exceed
$134,040.
XII.

Executive Session

XIII.

Old Business

XIV.

New Business

XV.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

2.11.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: January 11, 2017

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

January 11, 2017

Board Meeting Date: January 24, 2017

Subject:

Award of Access-a-Ride Service Contracts

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into contracts with MV Transportation,
Transdev, and Via Mobility Services for the provision of Access-a-Ride service using dedicated vehicles.
These contracts are for three years, with two one-year options for a total of 5-years, for a 5-year cost of
$175,341,294.00. In addition, RTD will reimburse the contractors’ direct fuel costs in an amount
estimated to be $20,715,915.00 for the total 5-year term. The total 5-year not-to-exceed amount for
Access-a-Ride dedicated-vehicle service and fuel is $196,057,209.00.
It is further recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into contracts with MV Transportation
and Transdev for the provision of Access-a-Ride service using non-dedicated (contractor provided)
vehicles. These contracts are for three years, with two one-year options for a total of 5-years, at a notto-exceed 5-year cost of $38,918,913.00. Fuel for the non-dedicated vehicle contracts is included in
the service contract price. These recommendations represent the most responsive and responsible
proposals received in response to Request for Proposals (RFP) 16-DH-047 (dedicated vehicle) and 16DH-046 (non-dedicated vehicle) to provide Access-a-Ride Service. The contracts to provide this service
are scheduled to be effective April 1, 2017.
BACKGROUND
The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) requires that public entities operating a fixed route system
also provide paratransit service to individuals with disabilities which is comparable to the level of service
provided to individuals without disabilities. RTD adheres to the U.S. Department of Transportation, Part
37 regulations (Transportation for Individuals with Disabilities) which regulate paratransit services. All
policies regarding services were developed in concert with a citizen advisory committee comprised of
individuals from the disabled community. The original design of the Access-a-Ride program was adopted
by the RTD Board of Directors and was forwarded to the Federal Transportation Administration for their
approval.
The current Access-a-Ride structure consists of one Call Center contractor, First Transit, one eligibility
certification contractor, Easter Seals of Colorado, three Service Provider contractors using RTD owned
vehicles and one Service Provider contractor using contractor-owned vehicles. The service providers
using RTD-owned “dedicated” vehicles are All Aboard Transit Services, MV Transportation, and Via
Mobility. The Service Provider using contractor-owned “non-dedicated” vehicles is Transdev. During
the course of the current contract, the service providers faced serious challenges in recruiting and
retaining operators. The Denver region is experiencing driver recruitment difficulties. Colorado has a
thriving economy and a very low unemployment rate, which means job applicants have many options.
The biggest challenge has been that many local organizations pay drivers higher rates than our current
service providers can afford. In addition to salary competition, the legalization of recreational marijuana
has introduced new challenges. Many otherwise qualified applicants and some employees are failing

Packet Pg. 4

2.11.A

their drug screening tests or choosing jobs where marijuana use doesn’t matter. As a result of these
significant factors, Access-a-Ride has been experiencing unprecedented challenges in meeting the needs
of our passengers. On a daily basis, staff struggles to have enough capacity to meet the ongoing
growth of the program. In order to mitigate current circumstances, staff elected not to extend the
option years (year four (4) and five (5)) in the current contracts and instead, issue new RFP’s in order to
offer proposers an opportunity to reevaluate current wages and to make adjustments accordingly.
On November 9, 2016, RTD issued two Requests for Proposals (RFP) soliciting technical and price
proposals to provide Access-a-Ride services. One RFP gave proposers the option of bidding on 40% or
20% of the service using RTD-owned vehicles. The second RFP gave proposers the option of bidding on
5%, 10%, or 15% of Access-a-Ride service using contractor-owned vehicles. These services represent
the re-bid of service currently provided by All Aboard Transit Services, MV Transportation, Via Mobility,
and Transdev. The two RFPs were available on the RTD external website for public download. In
addition, announcements were placed in transit publications. Proposals were due on December 15,
2016.

DISCUSSION
Five (5) proposals were received in response to RFP 16-DH-047 for the Provision of Access-a-Ride
services using RTD-owned “dedicated” vehicles. Proposals were received from All Aboard Transit
Services, MV Transportation, Total Transportation Corp, Transdev, and Via Mobility Services. In
addition, five (5) proposals were received in response to RFP 16-DH-046 for the provision of Access-aRide services using contractor-owned “non-dedicated” vehicles. Proposals were received from Metro
Taxi, MV Transportation, Transdev, Union Taxi, and Velocity.
It is the recommendation of the evaluation committee formed to evaluate proposals received in response
to RFP 16-DH-047, that RTD award contracts for the Access-a-Ride “dedicated-vehicle” service
provision to MV Transportation, Transdev and Via Mobility Services. This recommendation is based upon
the evaluation of the proposals according to the evaluative criteria as set forth in the RFP for this
procurement. The evaluative criteria established for this procurement were: a) understanding/approach
and organization for implementation (40%); b) experience of firm and individuals proposed for key
positions and disciplines (25%); c) Small Business Enterprise (SBE) Submittal / Compliance (5%) and d)
price (30%). In addition, it is the recommendation of the evaluation committee formed to evaluate
proposals received in response to RFP 16-DH-046, that RTD award contracts for the Access-a-Ride
“non-dedicated-vehicle” service provision to MV Transportation and Transdev. This recommendation is
based upon the same evaluation criteria as discussed above.
The evaluation team consisted of Carolyn Conover, Senior Manager, Contracted Services; Larry Buter,
Manager, Paratransit Services; Brian Matthews, Manager, Special Services; Chris Sills, Paratransit Safety
and Training Compliance Officer; Joy Volz, Paratransit Quality Assurance Supervisor and Eric Castillo,
Quality Control Inspector.
Each team member evaluated the proposals on how well the proposal met the evaluative criteria set
forth for the procurement and assigned a score for “Understanding and Approach” and for “Experience
and Proposed Key Positions.” SBE Submittal and Compliance was evaluated and scored by Amanda
Becker, SBO Compliance Officer. The score for the “Cost” element of each proposal was calculated by
the RTD procurement staff and was then added to the technical score of each proposal to determine the
overall score or rating of each proposal.

Packet Pg. 5

2.11.A

The key strengths of each DEDICATED vehicle proposal are as follows:
All Aboard Transit Services – Strong training plan; Safety focused narrative; Strong maintenance plan;
Familiarity with Access-a-Ride service provision.
MV Transportation – Strong and experienced management team; Strong training plan; Strong
maintenance plan; Good retention program; Full time recruiter; Regional audits; Strong corporate
presence; Familiarity with Access-a-Ride service provision.
Total Transportation Corp – Staff experience; Use of consumer advocates; Continuing education plan;
Standby operators.
Transdev – Experience; Strong and experienced management team; Detailed hiring plan; On-time
performance challenge plan; Dispatch/operator accountability plan; Detailed accident review process;
Strong training plan; Customer service training.
Via Mobility Services – Strong and experienced management team; Strong training; Detailed accident
review process; Good safety record; Familiarity with Access-a-Ride service provision.

The key weaknesses of each DEDICATED vehicle proposal are as follows:
All Aboard Transit Services – Weak description of hiring process; No safety statistics/ records provided;
Information regarding key personnel qualifications/experience either not current or not provided; Did not
include mechanic to vehicle ratios; Did not address meeting milestones; Did not address all required
aspects of the scope of work.
MV Transportation – The partial use of videos for training; facility may pose parking problems.
Total Transportation Corp – Facility located outside of RTD District which will raise cost of fuel
reimbursement; Did not provide safety statistics/records; Low number of operators proposed; Operations
falsely assumes changes can be made to manifests; Road Supervisors would be paid less than operators;
Training hours did not meet requirements; Proposal lacks detail.
Transdev – Identified PMI every 6,000 miles instead of every 3,000 miles; Did not provide mechanic to
vehicle ratios; Sub-contract cleaning; Did not specify PASS training included in training curriculum.
Via Mobility Services – Two facilities; Did not address plan to create positive relationships with
community.

The key strengths of each NON-DEDICATED vehicle proposal are as follows:
Metro Taxi – Call Center with computer assisted dispatch; Vehicle fleet maintenance tracking system;
Pool of over 300 operators; Strong operator selection process; Staff experience; Communication system
with vehicles.

Packet Pg. 6

2.11.A

MV Transportation – Strong management team; Operators are employees; Company provides operator
uniforms; Comprehensive training; Communication system with vehicles; Regional audits; Corporate
presence.
Transdev – MTdata dispatch software; In car video; strong management team and experience; Employee
retention program; Real time information for managers; Strong safety program; strong training plan.
Union Cab – MDT technology; written policies and procedures; good training plan; “IT Curves” software;
cameras on vehicles.
Velocity – No proposal provided.

The key weaknesses of each NON-DEDICATED vehicle proposal are as follows:
Metro Taxi – Response failed to provide sufficient information and subsequently could not be
appropriately evaluated.
MV Transportation – Facility may pose parking problems; failure to provide some information.
Transdev – Drivers are independent operators.
Union Cab – Failed to provide key staff resumes; proposal lack depth and a clear understanding of scope
of work.
Velocity – No proposal provided.

The total overall scores, including SBE rating and cost rating, were as follows:
Dedicated Vehicle
MV Transportation –
Via Mobility Services –
Transdev –
All Aboard Transit Services
Total Transportation Corp

93
90
85
78
78

Non-Dedicated Vehicle
MV Transportation –
87
Transdev –
81
Metro Taxi –
64
Union Cab–
49
Velocity –
3
A comparison of the proposed costs was made using the lowest scores for the dedicated-vehicle 40%
and 20% and the non-dedicated vehicle 15%, 10%, and 5% service levels. The service model deemed
most advantageous to the District in terms of both quality and cost resulted in a combination of one
40% dedicated-vehicle provider (MV Transportation) two 20% dedicated vehicle providers (Transdev and
Via Mobility Services) and two 10% non-dedicated vehicle service providers (MV Transportation and
Transdev). It was the consensus of the evaluation team that these firms presented the best proposals in

Packet Pg. 7

2.11.A

terms of the understanding of the project, proposed management team, proposed organization, approach
to deliver the requested service, attainment of SBE goals and proposed price.

FINANCIAL IMPACT
The recommended action is based upon the evaluation committee’s determination that the recommended
firm’s proposals represent the most responsive and responsible proposals received in response to the
RFP issued by the District. This determination is based upon the evaluation of technical and price
components consistent with the evaluative criteria established by RTD and communicated in the RFP
document.
An RTD internal financial analysis indicated that the estimated cost to provide these services would be
lower than the prices offered by the recommended service providers. The estimated cost was based on
projected wage rates and other operating expenses which were lower than those presented in each
proposal evaluated. As supported by the current labor market analyses that were included in the
dedicated-vehicle proposals, staff believes that the starting operator wages offered by each proposer will
give the contractors a much-needed ability to recruit and retain operators and thus address a major issue
facing all service providers in the Denver metro area. As discussed earlier, RTD as well as our
contractors have faced the same challenges with recruiting and retaining qualified operators. The
proposed starting wage will offer our providers the opportunity to make significant improvements which
will result in improved service for our passengers.
A portion of the funds needed for the provision of the first year of service under this contract are
included in the 2017 approved budget. However, due to the increased costs of the proposals, additional
funding may be requested during the Amended Budget process to ensure funding will be adequate to
provide Access-a-Ride service through the end of 2017. Funds will be requested in future budgets for
the provision of service in future years.

ALTERNATIVES:
1)
2)

3)

Award contracts to MV Transportation, Transdev, and Via Mobility as recommended.
Maintain existing contracts by exercising options. This is not recommended as it does not
address the issues currently facing the Access-a-ride program. This would severely limit
the ability of RTD to provide Access-a-Ride service.
Resolicit the RFP. This is not recommended as the proposal process has resulted in a
responsive and responsible proposal and will provide a realistic wage for Access-a-Ride
operators to address current challenges in providing Access-a-Ride service.

Prepared by:
Carolyn Conover, Senior Manager, Contracted Services
Larry Buter, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 8

2.11.A

Packet Pg. 9

2.11.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: January 11, 2017

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

January 11, 2017

Board Meeting Date: January 24, 2017

Subject:

Access-a-Ride Travel Training Project

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into a contract with Via Mobility Services for
the provision of Travel Training services. Performance under the contract is for a one (1) year period
and shall not exceed $134,040.
BACKGROUND
As a former recipient of New Freedom Funds allocated to RTD for a variety of projects, the Bus
Operations Department, specifically, Contracted Services, endeavored to collaborate with an existing
contractor for the purpose of creating a Travel Training Program. The program, designed to travel train
individuals with disabilities, was to be a catalyst for motivating individuals to use fixed route services in
lieu of its paratransit counterpart, Access-a-Ride. The existing contractor selected was Via Mobility
Services. Via, an established paratransit provider and nationally recognized as a travel training pioneer
was asked to provide travel training services during an experimental phase in order to assess travel
training as a feasible service offered by the District.
Via focused their attention on any Access-a-Ride eligible passenger and sought the assistance from our
Eligibility provider, Easter Seals of Colorado, in order to identify travel training candidates during the
initial phase of the eligibility assessment process. The combined efforts resulted in a positive return and
Via was able to average 5-8 trainings per month. During 2016, the New Freedom Funds were no longer
made available to RTD, thereby necessitating the release of a new RFP for services. The duration of this
contract is for a one (1) year term. During this time, staff will work with the ADA Paratransit Advisory
Committee (APAC) as well as members of the DRMAC Transit and Accessibility Task Force (TATF) in
order to modify the approach of travel training. In the subsequent RFP for travel training, trainees will be
trained to use fixed route so that Access-a-Ride can incorporate fixed route when scheduling paratransit
service. As an example of how future trips can be scheduled, when applicable, Access-a-Ride can pick
up a passenger at their home, transport them to a Park-n-Ride where the individual will transfer to a
regular bus and at the tail end of that ride, Access-a-Ride will meet them in order to transport them to
their final destination.
Members of both APAC and DRMAC TATF have agreed to offer
recommendations for this new design and serve as test participants during the trial phase. The one-year
term of this recommended contract award will allow RTD staff time to fully analyze and develop the
Scope of Work for the modified travel training and will allow individuals to continue to received travel
training services through 2017.
DISCUSSION
On November 17, 2016, an RFP was issued by RTD and two responses were received in response to
the RFP for travel training services. The Proposers were First Transit and Via Mobility Services.
The first step in the evaluation process was to review each Proposer’s qualifications, which included
understanding/approach and organization for implementation, experience and qualifications, and cost.
The second step was a comparison of bids from those vendors deemed to meet the minimum

Packet Pg. 10

2.11.B

qualifications of the RFP. First Transit fell short of meeting expectations by not being able to identify
the local staff that would be responsible for the day to day operations or an operating facility.
Overall, both proposals were similar with regards to the scope of services. The total cost for year 1
from First Transit was $295,127.64 as compared to $134,040 from Via. Staff recommends
awarding the travel training contract to Via Mobility Services. The not-to-exceed contract cost for
one year is $134,040.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funds for 2017 are currently available in the adopted 2017 RTD budget.

Prepared by:
Larry Buter, Manager
Carolyn Conover, Senior Manager, Contracted Services
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 11

