Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on May 1, 2007 at 6:15 p.m.
Page 1 of 2
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

May 1, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, May 1, 2007
at 6:15 p.m. in Rooms T and D, RTD Basement

Please Note: Beginning with the new committee assignments in 2007, FasTracks
Monitoring Committee meets the first hour preceding the Board Study
Session and is a Committee of the Whole.
Board
Members Present:

Board Member
Absent:
Staff Present:

Others Present:

Call to Order:

Chair Martinez, Director Chacon, Director Busck, Director
Brohl, Director Christopher, Director Daly, Director Elfenbein,
Director Kemp, Director Kinton, Director McMullen, Director
Pulliam, Director Ruchman, Director Tayer, Director Yamrick
Director Quinlan
Senior Staff: Cal Marsella, Bruce Abel, Ron Dodsworth, Marla
Lien, Lloyd Mack Paula Perdue, Liz Rao, Scott Reed, and Phil
Washington.
Gideon Berger, Rick Clarke, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova,
Kenn Harden, Caitlin Magee, Brian Matthews, Jerry Nery, Bill
Porter, Daria Serna, Dave Shelley, John Shonsey, Joe Smith,
James Starling, Henry Stopplecamp, Errol Stevens, Stan
Szabelak, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Mike
Turner, Bill Van Meter, Liz Telford
Kevin Flynn, L.W. Morrow, Roger Sherman, Joe Racosky, Don
Ulrich, Gary Sears, Bill Anderson, Saeid Saeb, Jonnie Thomas,
Ralph Lufer, Toti Cadavid, Wayne Oakley, Olga Woodsyn,
Nancy Fenton, Joey Bunch (Denver Post),Ty Perry, Greg
Jenifer
***
Chair Martinez called the meeting to order at 6:15 p.m.

Study Session
I. Englewood Art Shuttle
Mayor Olga Wolosyn shared how well the art shuttle is working to

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on May 1, 2007 at 6:15 p.m.
Page 2 of 2
accommodate the needs of approximately 30,000 residents. The Art
Shuttle was funded through a CMAQ grant with an additional 10% funding
from the City of Englewood and RTD. The grant will expire this year and
she is seeking consideration for funding from RTD of this worthwhile project.
Director Kinton shared that he is a rider on the art shuttle and reiterated how
important this shuttle is to the City of Englewood community.
II. DBE/SBE Outreach Program
Phil Washington discussed the importance of the DBE/SBE Outreach program
to RTD and introduced three SBE/DBE companies that have benefited from
this program on FasTracks: Todi Cadavid with Excelente Marketing, Saeid
Saeb with Rocksol and Jonnie Thomas with Triunity Engineering. RTD has
awarded 722 contracts including 100 contracts to small and underutilized
firms. RTD has exceeded its goal of 13% for small business and is currently
at 21%, of which 95% are locally owned firms.
RTD is also working with the Workforce Task force to show the significance
of construction and the economic impact on the Denver market.
Marla Lien spoke about the small tier bonding program which is RTD’s
innovative, out of the box effort to get small DBE/SBE firms bonded. This is
a program that has met opposition from the insurance and bonding
community but which RTD is currently reviewing two proposals for the
management of this program. The goal is to create a self-funded program
for contracts granted less than $500K and plan to make it available for the
work on the West Corridor.
The Directors were very interested in this program and requested additional
information on this.
III. Demonstration of webinar Technology
The Board reviewed a demonstration of the WebX webconferencing
capabilities. In general the Board felt that they wanted to move ahead with
this technology but need more information on costs, etc.
IV. Other Matters
Cal Marsella reported on a FTA grant given to the local municipalities along
36 for re-stripping lanes on US 36 for continuous HOV lanes. RTD has been
approached for a local match. RTD staff is reviewing the options.
The City and County of Denver has approved the re-zoning for the Mile Hi
TOD development at University Station.
Director Ruchman requested to see an array of options and alternatives on
the private penta-P in the May 19 Board retreat.
Chair Martinez shared the planned agenda for the retreat on May 19. It is
anticipated that the June FasTracks monitoring will be dedicated to the
follow-up from this retreat.

V. Adjournment—meeting adjourned at 8:07 p.m.

