Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held Tuesday, June 12, 2007
Page 1 of 2
Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

June 12, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held
on Tuesday, June 12, 2007 at 5:00 p.m. in Rooms T and D

Please Note:

Beginning with the new committee assignments in 2007, FasTracks
Monitoring Committee meets the first hour preceding the Board Study
Session and is a Committee of the Whole.
****

Committee
Members Present:

FasTracks Committee Chair Director Chacon, Chair Martinez, Director
Busck, Director Brohl, Director Christopher, Director Daly, Director
Elfenbein, Director Kinton, Director McMullen, Director Pulliam,
Director Quinlan, Director Ruchman, Director Tayer, Director Yamrick

Member Absent:

Director Kemp

Staff Present:

Senior Staff: Cal Marsella, Bruce Abel, Dave Genova, Marla Lien,
Lloyd Mack, Paula Perdue, Liz Rao, Scott Reed, and Phil Washington.
Gideon Berger, Derek Crider, Kevin Diviness, Carol Duecker, Sherry
Ellebracht, Jennifer Heisler, Caitlin Magee, Jerry Nery, Daria Serna,
Dean Shaklee, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Joe Smith, Stan Szabelak,
John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van Meter, Liz Telford, Mike
Turner, Susan Wood

Others Present:

Kevin Flynn, L.W. Morrow, Nick Martin, Joelle Martinez, Stu
Williams, Mary Woodard, Bill Wichterman, Brian Murphy, Steve
Roberts, Constatin Nickonou, Bob Yeager, Jeff Noble, Robert L.
Bobo, Don Ulrich, Marianne LeClan, Phunglan Nguyen, Elisa Cohen,
Jake Jakubowski, Kevin Scott, Gail Ferber, Judy Montero, Tim Boers,
Larry Burgess, Pat Burgess, Steve Gorden, Todd Platten, Howard
Alton, Kim Mucera, Stephanie Syner, Kathleen Osher, Gloria Holliday,
Shelley Coite, Tammy Fields, R.A. Plummer, Lorraine Anderson, Rick
MacNeil

Call to Order:

Director Chacon called the meeting to order at 5:05 p.m.

I.

FasTracks Follow-up from May 19th Retreat

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on Tuesday, June 12, 2007
Page 2 of 2
Cal Marsella provided a response and clarifications to follow- up questions from
the RTD Board of Directors from the May 19th retreat. For a copy of this
presentation, please refer to the FasTracks Monitoring Committee minute
notebook retained in the Board Office.
The following items were captured for additional follow-up from the discussion:
 The Board would like a flyer/document for the June 19th meeting to give
to the public explaining the current RTD position on DMU/EMU
technologies. Director Tayer also requested communications such as a
video to demonstrate the distinctions between the technologies to clear
up the constituents issues.
 Staff to clarify the risk factors associated with DMU. If this is a risk
factor for DMU should it be applicable to any corridor where we choose
to use DMU? Need consistency in the messaging.

II.

Discussion of Jeffco/Golden West Corridor IGA Terms—Cal Marsella shared that
much progress had been made in the discussion on Jeffco/Golden West single
track. The proposed IGA is based on triggers which tie going from single track
to double tracks to the ridership growth.
This issue will be further discussed in the July 10th Study Session. A
clarification is needed on the language included on the proposed resolution
which gives the Board the right to establish priorities for the use of funds should
the total FasTracks project come out under budget.

III.

Recommended Action
 It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the re-submission of an application to the
Federal Transit Administrator’s Penta P program for the Gold Line and East
Corridor and the selection of a preferred alternative of “commuter rail” for
the East Corridor.
MOTION:
Director Elfenbein made the motion to
Accept this recommendation to re-submit
The application for the Penta P program.
Director Busck seconded the motion.
DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

Director Daly requested Cal Marsella for
The purpose of the public to explain why
We cannot have any more light rail on the
Corridors. Cal provided the explanation.

The motion passed unanimously.

IV.
V.

Other Matters
Next Meeting Date—The next meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee
will be July 10, 2007 at 5:00 p.m.

V.

Adjournment – Director Chacon adjourned the meeting at 6:12 p.m.

