2022-01-04
Special Board Meeting
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good evening. I will now call to order the Tuesday, January 4, 2022, RTD
Special Board meeting. The record will reflect that we are convened as a 5:30 PM Mountain Standard
Time. I would respectfully ask everyone to remain muted unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that the official meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. The official meetings
of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting
recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the
Board website, which is at rtd.iqm2.com. A livestream of the meeting will also be available via our RTD's
YouTube page.
I'd like to talk about our civility statement colleagues being elected as members of this body imposes an
ethical obligation for each of us to enhance and maintain public confidence in this agency. As a Board of
Directors, it is our collective duty to the constituent stakeholders and staff to conduct our business in an
atmosphere of mutual respect, cooperation, civility, trust, and collegiality. These are the values we can all
agree upon. As such, I encourage each of us to review the operating guidelines adopted by this Board
and to act in accordance with those principles, which are available on the Board of Directors page on the
RTD website. Thank you.
Please note that at the appropriate time during our discussion and voting processes later this evening, I
will call on Directors in turn. So please note that your time to speak will come. And if possible, please hold
your comments until that time.
Also, for members of the public, please note that we will not be taking public commentary during this
Special Board meeting. Public comment can be made during regularly scheduled Committee and Board
meetings for a list of upcoming meeting dates please visit rtd.iqm2.com Ms. McManus, can you please do
the roll call?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, thank you. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Present.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale? Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here

BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I am also present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Let the record show that there are 14 present with Director Tisdale absent.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair? Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, there you are, Director Tisdale. Welcome, please let the record-DOUG TISDALE: I apologize.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's fine. Please let the record note that Director Tisdale is on the line by
telephone. Welcome, Director Tisdale. As a reminder, the Transit Security Administration, also known as
the TSA, has extended the federal mask requirement for public transportation until March 18, 2022. The
federal mask requirement states that individuals must wear a face covering while waiting for and while
riding public transportation to include airports and aircraft, train stations and trains, bus stops and buses.
This evening, I would be remiss if I did not acknowledge the devastation this past weekend from the
Marshall fire. I would like to ask our CEO Debra Johnson to speak on the agency's efforts, and then I also
would like to ask Directors Guissinger and Davidson to provide brief comments. I would kindly ask that all
other Directors save any comments that they might have until we reach other matters. General Manager?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair, and good evening to you and all Board
members and to all that are virtually assembled. As introduced, I am Debra Johnson, the General
Manager and CEO of the Regional Transportation District. As we are all keenly aware, this region is still
reeling from the fires that swept across Boulder County last week, the Marshall fire, which began on
Thursday, December 31 and has since destroyed nearly 1,000 structures and damaged 127 others and
forced tens of thousands of people to quickly evacuate their homes in anticipation of the blaze.
Suffice to say transit services across a large area of the district was disrupted as the fire burned
uncontrollably. Thanks to the swift work of staff in the face of this disaster, the agency was able to swiftly
pivot operations to provide buses to assist with the evacuation efforts. Transit passes were made
available to those affected by the fire.
The agency is providing direct service via FlexRide vehicles through the Boulder County Disaster
Assistance Center located at 1755 South Public Road in Lafayette and is open seven days a week from
9:00 AM to 7:00 PM to assist affected individuals. Trips can be booked to the Disaster Assistance Center

via the RTD website at rtd-denver.com. Tomorrow, Wednesday, January 5, route 228 that services
Louisville, Superior, and Broomfield will resume service via a detour due to road conditions.
The team and I continue to coordinate with Boulder County officials as we recognize the needs are fluid in
this changing environment of recovery. There are nearly 50 RTD employees who live in the impacted
area. The leadership team and I in coordination with the Human Resources Division, ATU, and
supervisors in the operating divisions have made contact with all those employees who addresses of
record place their homes in the vicinity, and we found them to be safe.
The Employee Assistance Program, also known as EAP, is available for all employees and members of
their households whether directly impacted by the fire or otherwise. EAP provides a myriad of services
which are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. And all those impacted by the fire are
encouraged to visit www.boco.org/marshallfire to learn more about the recovery process and available
resources for which they may qualify. For those wishing to volunteer or contribute financially or otherwise
to ongoing relief efforts, please visit coloradoresponds.org.
Though none of us can fully know the impacts of the Marshall fire on those around us, my team and I
stand ready to lean in and assist our colleagues and our community at large. My thoughts are with all of
you. That concludes my remarks. Thank you very much, Madam Chair, for the opportunity to speak.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. First Vice Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. And I'll start with a big thank you to Debra Johnson and all of
the staff who've been working so hard. I know they worked through the weekend. I think I forwarded an
email from Kathleen Bracke, one of our partners with Boulder County, expressing their real appreciation
for all the help that RTD has given. Our partners at those, at the counties and at the cities, are all working
around the clock right now to help people who've been affected, so I want to thank them.
My heart just goes out over and over for our neighbors and friends and all the people in Louisville and in
Superior. It's just an unbelievable devastation. I'm sure you've all seen it, as the fire was racing through
football-sized fields in just seconds. I have friends who watched their homes burn on TV, sometimes
repeatedly. And it's just a really sad thing.
I'm taken back to the 2013 floods and the King Soopers shooting and all of the things that the community
has had to rally from. And many of those are things that are shared through the district, the recent mass
shooting in Denver again that happened. My heart goes out there as well.
This was a winter fire. And December 30, it was fed by grasses that according to the news had only had 1
and 1/2 inches of moisture since June. So I think we can take our role seriously and important in moving
people in and helping with climate change and hopefully avoiding some of these issues in the future.

So the community will rally. #BoulderStrong was the hashtag before. It's #LouisvilleStrong,
#SuperiorStrong, #BoulderCountyStrong, and people are pulling in and helping out. Thank you very
much, Debra, for all the resources that you just listed, all that you're doing.
Another one is there's a wildfire fund that Boulder Community Foundation has set up. And it's at comm,
C-O-M-M, found, F-O-U-N-D dot org. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you very much. I'll keep this brief. But first and foremost, I'd offer my
prayers of peace and safety for the two missing people right now and their families at the moment. We're
still not out of this yet. And certainly, I would echo what's already been expressed, my deepest
condolences to all those who lost their homes, their businesses and more in this, including friends and
neighbors and colleagues.
And to those that I don't know, all I can say is that we're all here for you and grateful to the community for
how much everybody around Colorado and the nation, for that matter, are rallying around this. I definitely
want to say thank you to all of the people of RTD from leadership and across the Board for acting quickly
to not only keep our customers safe, our employees safe and ensuring their safety, but also joining the
team in ensuring that the community was safe during the evacuation efforts and ensuring that people did
not get into the area.
And a huge thank you to all of the first responders and everybody that was involved in the thoughtful plan
that prioritized lives over everything else. While my heart goes out to the two people missing and their
families, it is absolutely remarkable, particularly having watched this unfold in the distance very, very
quickly from where we are, that we're not missing more folks right now. So a huge thank you to the
community for the plan that went into that.
And finally, I'd be remiss, if just not on a personal note, I didn't thank everybody within RTD and
colleagues here and not here for reaching out to not only me but other RTD employees and all the folks
that we work with in the community and making all kinds of offers of help of places to stay and so forth.
It's quite the reminder of how resilient and compassionate a community can be. So thank you for giving
me the opportunity to comment, and thank you all for being part of this.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Our next agenda item, ladies and gentlemen, the election of the
2022 Board Officers. As stated in the Board Bylaws, in the first official meeting of the year the Board will
elect the Officers of the Chair, First Vice Chair, Second Vice Chair, Secretary, and Treasurer.
You have all received a copy of the RTD Board Officer election procedure rules of engagement for the
nomination and election of officers. And in accordance with the Board's Bylaws and with Robert's Rules of

Order, the Board's designated parliamentary authority, we will begin with the position of the Chair, and
we'll work our way through the process for all of the Executive Committee Officers. Those Board
members who nominate candidates, those seconding nominations if any, and other speakers will have up
to three minutes to speak regarding the candidates for each position.
For each office, I will ask for nominations. And when there are no additional nominations, the nomination
phase will close, and the call will be made for a vote utilizing the electronic voting process. General
Counsel Melanie Snyder in coordination with Directors Cook and Williams as election monitors will then
be asked to tally the votes and to provide the final count either to me or to the presiding officer as
appropriate for the announcement.
If no candidate given us receives at least eight votes, we will repeat the voting process. And if we proceed
into additional rounds of voting, Board members who wish to speak further on behalf of the candidate by
providing new or additional information may do so at that time. This will be done in around round-robin
fashion.
Again, each speaker will be limited to three minutes. And I've asked Ms. McManus to be our official
counter, so we'll let you know when three minutes are up. Are there any objections or questions regarding
this process?
BOB BROOM: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Director Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: Maybe we should discuss for a moment ahead of time what happens if we end up with
nobody getting eight votes. Will we then at that point drop a person with the least amount of votes before
we revote?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm going to ask Ms Snyder, our General Counsel, to talk about this a little
bit. General Counsel?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. So Director
Broom, we will proceed-- the Board Bylaws are requiring that there be eight votes in order for a Director to
be elected to a position. So we're going to be here until that happens.
In the event that there's more than two Directors that are nominated for a particular position, what
happened last year-- or what the Board decided last year, if there were three-- or two or more Directors
nominated and no majority was achieved through that first vote, the Director with the lowest number of
votes was dropped for subsequent votes. I think that might be what you're referring to.

BOB BROOM: Yes, thank you. I just thought it's a lot easier if you decide these things in advance than in
the heat of the moment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, thank you, Director Broom. Any other questions or concerns? I see
none. We will move forward with the process as defined.
At this time, we will proceed to the nominations for Chair of the Board. And I would like to take the
privilege to nominate the first nominee. I'd like to nominate Vince Buzek for Board Chair.
And as you probably know, Vince possesses excellent leadership skills, and I think he's a natural fit for
this position. I've had the pleasure of working with Director Buzek for the last two years in a leadership
position and have been able to see him at the ground level working in a regional capacity. But Vince grew
up in a transit-dependent family, so he knows the importance this role plays, this agency plays, in the
day-to-day lives of our communities who really, really depend on transit.
He has served for many years on the Broomfield City Council, where he helped gather support for
FasTracks. He has also served on the Executive Committee for the last two years. He's a member of the
DRCOG Regional Transportation Committee, the Northwest Parkway Public Highway Authority Board. He
has chaired the General Manager's Oversight and Performance Management Committee not just this
year, but he was very strongly involved last year during the Interim General Manager, the Colorado
Gaming Commission, the Adams County Planning Commission.
I know Vince to be someone who genuinely cares about transportation. He doesn't just care about it. He
lives it. He thinks regionally, and he considers the issues of equity that solely need our attention.
He understands the challenges we face. And I believe his expertise and his integrity will help guide us
through these difficult times. He'll be a great leader for RTD as we continue working to bring our riders the
best service possible.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam, I'll second your nomination, Shelley Cook.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Are there any other nominations for Board Chair?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Lewis, please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Historically, individual Directors have asked their
colleagues to nominate them for positions such as Chair and Vice Chair. However, I've chosen a different
path and would like to take the opportunity to nominate myself for Chair, for the Chair position.

I've shown tremendous leadership on this Board and efforts to ensure that during our global pandemic,
our operators, customers, and frontline staff have the necessary resources to keep them safe and
protected during these uncertain times. Excuse me. I'm battling some kind of illness.
We need to innovate our customer and constituent processes to ensure that those that are most impacted
by our decisions have a voice in the decision making right now. People are not getting the best out of the
district. They do not feel like they are getting their money's worth. I want to ensure that we empower our
General Manager and her staff to ensure that riders get their value and are valued in this agency because
this Board has not, and we have not for a very long time.
As a Board, our vision needs to prioritize our people over our processes and our policies. Many people,
riders, electants, constituents really don't know what RTD does and why it does what we do. It is time that
we change that and support our General Manager in ensuring success, the success of this agency and
thus our success.
It's much overdue that when we make decisions that we know exactly what that means and how that is
going to affect the individual that utilizes our services. I spoke with a rider the other day that asked if we
were canceling trips on the A Line because we did not have staff to enforce fares, which you all know isn't
true. But that is the perception.
In my leadership you can expect an inclusive leader. Not only will I but I have also demonstrated that I will
prioritize equity, diversity, and inclusion. And I will say that what's missing from that lens is the opportunity
to ensure belonging is a tenet in which we strive towards on this Board. As a Black, queer woman on this
Board, I have both seen and experienced what it means to feel as though you do not belong because
your ideologies, values, and experiences are different from those of your counterparts.
With that in mind, it is time that RTD begins a new voyage, and we direct this agency forward and not
backwards. We've been bogged down with conversations pertaining to the completion of FasTracks
program when we should be moving away from professing and into practicing to ensure resiliency and
adapt to the needs of our future and our current times. I hear from constituents that they do not believe
that RTD is able to meet our future needs because we cannot hire enough operators for our current
services. Yet, we are often focused on rail. We need to reimagine RTD and not stay stuck in the past. We
need to focus on maintaining our current infrastructure and our current assets
In my leadership, you can expect me to ask two questions. What problem are we trying to solve? And
how could I be wrong?
In my leadership, you can expect a balanced approach. This does not make the decisions that are best
for my district, but decisions that are best for the entire region. And I won't bother to read off my resume
nor my accomplishments because you all have access to that. Thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Are there any other nominations for the Chair?
KATE WILLIAMS: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I believe Director Lewis would need a second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, she does not.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I do not?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, she does not need a second. I see no other nominations. We will
close and go to the vote. So Tai-Shrae if-- so Board members will be receiving an email to cast your
ballots.
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: If you could give me one moment to finalize the ballot, and I will email it out.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you so much.
MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair? This is General Counsel Melanie Snyder.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
MELANIE SNYDER: So I see that Tai-Shrae has entered the nominations into the voting system, and I'm
going to invite our election monitors Directors Cook and Williams to join me in the other Zoom meeting.
And we will be back as soon as those votes are tallied. I thank you for your patience.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Chair Malpiede? I would just like to remind all of the voters they have to hit the
Submit button.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Can everybody please hit your Submit button? And then we should get an
email that said that our ballot has been submitted, correct?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Yes, ma'am.
BOB BROOM: I haven't got a ballot yet.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, Director Broom has not received a ballot yet, Tai-Shrae.
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: OK, let me see if I can resend that out.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Broom, you may also need to check if it went to a different folder in your
Outlook. For me, it shows up as Other and not in the Focused Inbox. And that can sometimes also go into
spam. So you may want to check other folders or also run a search for election, buddy.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think Director Broom is gone.
KATE WILLIAMS: We're not ignoring you guys. We're just trying to get the election software to work.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I did reach out to Director Broom to see if he needed assistance, and I did not get
through to him.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you.
BOB BROOM: I just got a plain-JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: Barbara, we're on the phone with him now.
BOB BROOM: --running around in circles.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, we should be getting that momentarily. Oh, there's Director Cook.
There's General Counsel.
MELANIE SNYDER: Hi, Madam Chair. This is Melanie Snyder, General Counsel.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
MELANIE SNYDER: We do have Director Williams and Director Cook back with us. So having conferred
with our election monitors, I can confirm that Director Buzek has received at least eight votes and has
been elected to the position of Chair of the Board.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Congratulations, Director Chair Elect Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: At this time, we will proceed to nominations for First Vice Chair. Are there
any nominations? Oh, wait a minute. Director Bouquet, I'm sorry.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I actually saw Director Davidson's hand up first.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Director Bouquet. I would like to nominate
Director Lynn Guissinger for the position of First Vice Chair. Director Guissinger has now served the RTD
Board of Directors as its Treasurer for one year, as the Chair of Communications and Government
Relations Committee for three years, and as the First Vice Chair now for one year.
She has also led and coordinated some of our efforts on SB-151 and represented us diligently on the
Accountability Committee, which was a difficult task for much of the past year and beyond. I've had
numerous opportunities to work very directly with Director Guissinger during my one year here at RTD
and specifically in a capacity that has given me the opportunity to see her clear and strong ability to
navigate government relations very well. I've personally witnessed Director Guissinger working hard to
prioritize the strength of the agency while gracefully negotiating and listening to various stakeholders and
members of the legislature.
This, as you all know very well, is not a small task and is often, as you all know, very stressful and
thankless particularly when emotions are very high. Given that we have an expanded focus in the
Executive Committee on Government Relations, I believe that Lynn is a strong fit to continue to serve as
First Vice Chair and continue to serve in a leadership capacity in the next year. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Madam Chair. I would like to nominate for First Vice Chair Director
Shontel Lewis. I have greatly appreciated Director Lewis's compassion and empathy for this position. And
I think what is even more impressive is her ability to connect and communicate with not only her
constituents, but constituents throughout this district.
In my opinion, we are getting on the right track at RTD. But there are going to be a lot of obstacles that
we're going to have to overcome. And I think the biggest thing is how we've been echoing across this
agency is listening and not only listening, but actively listening.
And I think Director Lewis has done an excellent job of actively listening to our community through social
media, in person, virtually. Again, she's reached out not only to her own constituents, but constituents
throughout the region. I've been very approached by it.
She is not one who will shy away from anyone who has a question, and I think that's what we're going to
really need for our RTD Board leadership is someone who is actively listening to the constituents of the
region, listening, seeing what their interpretations ultimately are, making those connections. And I think
she's going to be an important communication channel on the Executive Committee. And it would be
great to see her there.

Again, I think that's going to be our future as an agency. We're not going to be able to do it alone. It's
going to come from the public. It's going to come from private partnerships. It's going to come from other
governmental partnerships and, of course, partnerships with local community leaders and the community
itself.
And, again, I've been very impressed with how professional Director Lewis has been, including her work
as a Chair on the Civil Rights Committee. I've also really appreciated working with her on the GMOC. And
I believe that she is going to be that great connection between the public and the RTD Board leadership.
Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Are there any other nominations for First Vice Chair? I see
none. We will close with two candidates. And if I could have our General Counsel, Director Cook, and
Director Williams go to your other screen. And then we'll be getting an email.
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Chair, the ballots have been sent.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Madam Chair, just checking with others. I have not received a ballot yet, and I had
absolutely no trouble with the first.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Director Tisdale, I don't know about the others. But I've received the ballot and the
confirmation.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you. Yeah, I have not received mine. I'm monitoring on the computer and
phone both.
DOUG TISDALE: And for the sake of the record, this is Director Tisdale. The original comment was by
Director Whitmore. And I have received my ballot and received a confirmation of its submission. Thank
you.
MARJORIE SLOAN: I apologize for misidentifying. Your voice says, Doug and Troy.
TROY WHITMORE: I'll take it as a compliment, but I sure would like a ballot.
[LAUGHTER]

TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Director Whitmore, can you check your spam in case it was redirected to a different
folder?

BOB BROOM: I didn't get a second ballot.
TROY WHITMORE: It appears mine just arrived, Tai-Shrae. Thank you.
MELANIE SNYDER: OK, hi, Madam Chair. It's General Councilor Snyder. So after conferring with our
election monitors that I see are back in this meeting with us, I can confirm that Director Guissinger has
received at least eight votes and has been elected to the position of First Vice Chair. And Madam Chair,
you're on mute.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Congratulations, First Vice Chair. At this time, we're going to
proceed to nominations for Second Vice Chair. Are there any nominations for Second Vice Chair?
VINCE BUZEK: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And I'd be remiss if I didn't thank you for all the work you've done
these past two years. You led us into and through a pandemic. You led us to select an interim and a
permanent General Manager among many, many other things.
And that kind of experience is really important as we go into the year 2022. And hopefully as Chair of the
agency in 2022, I can help lead the agency out of the pandemic. That's I think something we'll all be
hopeful for.
But that said, I think coming into this year we need somebody that has significant experience, analytical
skills, and really understands the agency transit and transportation overall. That's why I'm going to
nominate Director Peggy Catlin for the position of Second Vice Chair. I've worked with Director Catlin on
a number of different committees within RTD from the GMOC to the selection committee for the Interim
General Managers.
I find her to be dedicated, as I indicated, analytical. She's level headed and is a common-sense leader.
That is really something we need. And while I don't want to read her resume because we don't have all
night, she has some significant experience.
We all know that Peggy had a career with the Colorado Department of Transportation. She served as
Deputy Executive Director, Acting Executive Director, Interim Chief Financial Officer, Interim Chief
Engineer, and was in charge of public and private partnerships. And she's a licensed professional
engineer. I find that fascinating. I think Peggy Catlin is the kind of person we need on the Executive
Committee and in the position of Second Vice Chair to help us lead the agency through this upcoming
year, and that's my nomination. Thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Are there any other nominations for Second Vice Chair?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I would like to nominate Director Bouquet. I really appreciate Director Bouquet's
commitment, compassion, and his thoughtful leadership that he's had on this Board thus far.
I've been really impressed by his willingness, his leadership, and quite frankly-- frankly, excuse me, his
willingness to listen to multiple perspectives, to take into a multitude of information, and to make a
decision that's best for the agency, not simply for his district. Director Bouquet has shown himself to be a
leader on this Board during his very short time. He asks very thoughtful questions. He engages
meaningfully with his constituents, and he's always prioritizing the needs of those most marginalized and
most vulnerable to ensure that their needs are at the center of all of our decision making as a Board.
Furthermore, I believe that his experience as an educator brings both a unique and necessary lens to the
RTD Board. While he does not have a lot of experience on this Board in transit or transportation, I do
think that our General Manager brings that. And it is an obligation and responsibility as policymakers on
this Board that I think Julien could bring that leadership and that lens to the RTD Board. And so with that
I'd like to enthusiastically nominate Director Bouquet to the Board as I think he would be a wonderful
voice onto the executive leadership.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lewis. Are there any other comments from other Board
members for candidates? Or are there any other candidates for the Second Vice Chair?
I see none. We have two candidates for Second Vice Chair. Ms. Snyder, General Counsel, and Director
Cook and Williams?
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Madam Chair. We'll be right back with you momentarily.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Chair, the ballots have been sent out. And I spoke to Brandy Hunter in IT, and she
recommended that everyone clicked the Send and Receive button in Outlook to help refresh their email
boxes and hopefully that you can get the ballots quicker.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, I just got mine. So thank you so much.
PEGGY CATLIN: Madam Chair, I have not received a ballot.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Is that you, Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: It is.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, Tai-Shrae?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: So I think the ballots are just slow since it seems a different person has an issue
each election. So if you just give it a few minutes, you will receive it in your email box.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, thank you.
MELANIE SNYDER: Hi, Madam Chair. We're back, it looks like.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
MELANIE SNYDER: OK, I can confirm that Director Catlin has received at least eight votes and has been
elected to the position of Second Vice Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Congratulations, Second Vice Chair Catlin. I will now open up the
nominations for Treasurer. Do I have any nominations for Treasurer?
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair, Shelley Cook.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
SHELLEY COOK: I'd like to nominate Troy Whitmore and would preface it with a couple of comments
here. As we all know, stakeholder and external relations are a key role for the Executive Committee with
our restructuring. And inter-governmental community relations and connections are just one of Troy's
strongest and most notable qualities.
Just by way of specifics, he's public affairs officer with United Power. He's also a former elected local-elected-- sorry, elected local official serving in Fulton, but active now in Brighton. And he's held leadership
positions in and has been honored by numerous regional and community boards almost too numerous to
name.
He clearly has credibility with the business community, his local school district, statewide energy, and
regional economic development groups and also non-profits, including serving on the Energy Outreach
Colorado Board and also Almost Home, which is a really worthy Adams County agency that serves
people experiencing homelessness. So note that not only does Troy have these strong connections in the
community and the region, he brings this quite diverse and helpful portfolio of expertise for understanding
RTD's impact across the district. Thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Are there any other nominations for Treasurer? All right, I see
none. We will close and go for the vote. General Counsel?
MELANIE SNYDER: And Madam Chair, with just one nomination, it is an option for the Board just to
proceed by acclamation. So that would be appropriate here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: An acclamation-DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, Director Tisdale, I move that we proceed with acclamation of Director
Whitmore as our Treasurer. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Do I have a second?
MULTIPLE: Second, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All in favor?
KATE WILLIAMS: Acclaim, aye.
MULTIPLE: Aye, aye, ave, aye, aye.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Any opposed? Congratulations, Treasurer Whitmore. Next, we will have
nominations for Secretary. Do I have any nominations for Secretary? Director Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Madam Chair, thank you. I wasn't sure if my hand was raising. Yeah, Madam Chair,
I would like to nominate Marjorie Sloan for Secretary.
Marjorie is I guess most well-known as the Mayor of Golden for two terms where she was a very well
respected and considered a very smart leader in her community and Metro Lives. She also chaired Metro
Mayors for a year. She was a Colorado representative to Mayors Against Illegal Guns and Committee
Mayors Innovation project, where she was on the committee with our new Secretary of Transportation,
Pete Buttigieg.
And she has worked very closely with many people in the area and the district. Her biggest, I think,
transportation victory was working out an agreement with the state and others in the metro area to see
that bringing the multi-lane highway through the City of Golden did not make sense. And she won that.
Before that, she practiced law with a large law firm and then with the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals and
was on a number of other boards, including the Planning Commission in Golden for two years. She
brings, I think, very wise counsel and good thoughts to the committee and will-- or to the Board. And I

think as a member of the Executive Committee, she would be a big benefit in working with people, with
elected officials and others throughout the district. So thank you, I nominate Marjorie Sloan.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Are there any other nominations for Secretary? Well, I see none.
We have one candidate, Director Sloan. Should we do it as we did the one before? Is everybody in
agreement that we just move forward with Director Sloan as Secretary?
VINCE BUZEK: Madam Chair, I move to have Director Sloan serve as Secretary by acclamation.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: By acclamation.
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Any opposed? Hearing none, congratulations, Director Sloan as Secretary.
So just to recap, what I'd like to do is congratulate the new Executive Committee for RTD's Board of
Directors. Chair Buzek, First Vice Chair Guissinger, Second Vice Chair Catlin, Treasurer Whitmore, and
Secretary Sloan, congratulations.
It is now my honor to turn it over the duties of the Chair to the newly elected Chair Director or Chair Elect
Buzek. But before I do, I would just like to say what an incredible honor it has been for me to serve as
your Chair for the last two years. And I want to thank the community for all the lovely emails I received
today and the flowers I received from a very special friend.
And it was really an amazing part of my journey. But I'm really excited about RTD and how we will be
moving forward under the leadership of Chair Buzek. So Chair Buzek, it's my honor to turn this meeting
over to you. Congratulations, sir.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. Thanks, everybody-- big shoes to fill. Moving on, our first item on
the agenda is the 2022 bank signature authorization. And the action item is for the Board of Directors to
approve the attached bank account signature authorization agreement, the agreement to authorize
certain staff members and Board officers to sign payments exceeding certain thresholds regarding
checks, automated clearing house payments, and wire transfers. Do I have a motion?
TROY WHITMORE: So move, Mr. Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: I heard Director Williams as the second. So we've got a motion by Whitmore, a second
by Williams. Is there any discussion on the motion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I believe it was Tisdale.

VINCE BUZEK: Was it? I'm sorry. You sound just like Whitmore.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I know. That's the second time tonight.
VINCE BUZEK: I mean, Williams, I think, Williams. So it's Tisdale. I'm sorry. Tisdale is the second, sorry.
DOUG TISDALE: No, point of order, Mr Chairman. Sorry, this is Director Tisdale.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, sir.
DOUG TISDALE: It actually was not me. I would be happy to second, and I would assume that great
responsibility-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You guys sound so much alike.
DOUG TISDALE: --was conferred upon me.
TROY WHITMORE: It was me, Whitmore. But thank you, Doug.
VINCE BUZEK: So I have Whitmore as the motion maker and Kate Williams as the second, and that's it.
That's what I heard. Is there any discussion of the matter?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: This is more specifically for our General Manager in the past. I know this it's simply for
signatory. But one of the issues that I've raised in the past-- actually for the past three years and this
would be the fourth-- is that we are continuing to bank with Wells Fargo. And I think Directors such as
Director Cook has actually done the research to see that Wells Fargo has some predatory practices. And
so I would just encourage us to think about what that means for us and how we continue to work with
folks who prey on and harm our most marginalized citizens in our community and our most vulnerable
citizens in our community.
And so I hope that we might consider a change in banking with Wells Fargo. In the past, our Chief
Financial Officers shared with us that Wells Fargo-- that we actually don't hold a lot of money in Wells
Fargo account. Director, I think Tisdale, you might not be on mute-- that we actually don't hold a lot of
money in our Wells Fargo account. And so I hope that we might just consider not banking with them,
RTD, as we are moving into a future that is really prioritizing diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging.
Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Lewis. I see Director Cook has her hand raised.

SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, well acknowledging the concerns and knowing that these have been brought up
in the past and not discounting them, I don't think it was me that did the research. I didn't want to take
credit for that and just wanted to set the record straight. But anyway, thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Cook. General Manager and CEO Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair, and congratulations to you on your appointment.
And thank you very much, Director Lewis for broaching that topic. I hear you, and I understand your
concerns. And I'm empathetic to those concerns.
And what I would suggest holistically, this would be part and parcel of the Board to put forward a policy as
we embrace collectively as an organization diversity, inclusion, belonging, and then equity as well as we
go forward. So thank you very much for bringing that to my attention. I was unaware as I had not heard
that in this forum.
But I do know from previous interactions with different agencies that past boards of which I've worked for
have broached similar issues. And it would be incumbent upon this policy body to act upon that, and we
re-establish, follow suit accordingly. So thank you very much.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. I appreciate that, General Manager.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you GM-CEO Johnson. Director Dishell?

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I want to second or third the statements that are made regarding
Wells Fargo. I formerly worked in Baltimore City Public Schools, where a number of individuals were also
severely impacted by Wells Fargo's predatory practices.
If there's any way we can-- happy to work with anyone on putting together that policy, or maybe it's part of
our fiscal policy. It doesn't need to be today, but offline would really appreciate sort of understanding the
mechanics and what the cost so that we approach this in a way so that we understand what the cost
would be to the agency along with the timeline for being able to exit one bank and enter a new one,
knowing that there's a certain number of requirements for banks that hold public funds and that each
large public bank, including JPMorgan Chase, have their issues. JPMorgan Chase is more on the
environmental side, but curious to know what our menu of options might be as well.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Dishell. Any further comments? Any further discussion on this
motion? Seeing none, we'll proceed to a vote. I'll take the role. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.

VINCE BUZEK: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek is a yes. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director-- I guess it's Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Secretary Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.

VINCE BUZEK: Treasurer Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: And Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: It passes 15 to 0. We'll move on to our next action item, which is the 2022 official meeting
notice posting location. And the item before the Board is for the Board of Directors to designate the Board
meeting portal on the RTD public website, http://rtd-iqm2.com, as its official location for posting of notices
of all public meetings in 2022 as required by section 24-6-402(2)(c)(III) Colorado Revised Statutes. Do I
have a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: Tisdale, so moved.
VINCE BUZEK: Tisdale.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: Second, Rivera-Malpiede. And is there any discussion on this motion? Seeing no
discussion, I'm just going to ask if there's anybody opposed to this motion. Hearing none, the motion
passes 15 to 0.
Let's move on to our third action item, which is the 2022 redistricting public outreach plan. Up for
consideration is for the Board of Directors to adopt the 2022 redistricting outreach plan in accordance with
the recommendation by Chair Rivera-Malpiede and Directors Broom and Sloan. Do I have a motion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved with, Rivera-Malpiede.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second, Catlin.
VINCE BUZEK: And is there any discussion of this? Seeing none, are there any-SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis.
VINCE BUZEK: I'm sorry, Director Lewis. Go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I would just like to say for the record, so as you all might recall, when it
comes to the redistricting conversation I've been a very vocal and insistent in some ways about ensuring
that we are engaging the public in this process in a real and meaningful way and put forward an
amendment to the process as it currently-- or existed prior to that amendment to ensure that the public

had a voice in this process. And I just wanted to say for staff, just for the sake of clarity that my intentions- and also Director Dishell can speak for himself-- was not for the Board to or for staff or Board members
to come back with a Board-initiated action item to have us vote on, but to have staff present that back to
us what the plan was including dates. And so I will just say for the record that this is actually an
unnecessary step, one.
But also, I would state for the record that oftentimes I don't think Board members are aware of when you
unintentionally erase the work of Black women, i.e. Shontel Lewis in this regard, by not asking or inquiring
with me about as to whether what my intention was when I brought forward the amendment to bring in
additional engagement for our constituents? And so I would just encourage folks to be mindful of that, that
you sometimes can erase individuals works by not asking questions or reaching out to them when you
might have an inquiry or you might be unclear of what the intention was of that individual, myself,
because this was not necessary to be voted on. I just wanted to know that the dates were scheduled.
Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Lewis. Is there any further discussion on this? Seeing no further
discussion, are there any no votes on this action item? Seeing none, that matter passes 15 to 0.
Next, we have the approval of the Board meeting minutes for November 16, 2021, the Board meeting
minutes; December 2, 2021 the GM Oversight Performance Management Committee meeting minutes;
and the December 7, 2021, special Board meeting minutes. May I have a motion to approve these
minutes?
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Williams, so moved.
BOB BROOM: Director Broom.
VINCE BUZEK: I got Williams as the movement and Broom as the second. Is there any discussion on the
approval of the minutes? Seeing none, are there any no votes on approval of the minutes? And seeing
none, that motion passes 15 to 0 unanimously.
Next is a discussion item on the internal audit improvement plan. GM-CEO Johnson, I'm going to turn this
over to you to have the staff and whoever present. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, thank you very much. And good evening, Mr. Chair and members of the Board.
Once again, I'm Debra Johnson, the General Manager and CEO.
I am here before you to introduce the internal audit function improvement plan discussion item prior to
introducing RubinBrown, the audit consultancy selected to perform this critical work. It is important to
provide context as to how this work came to be. As you recall, in December 2020 and then subsequently

in April of 2021, RTD's internal audit function was subject to review by the Office of the State Auditor and
then thereafter, a peer review panel that I requested of the American Public Transportation Association,
commonly referred to as APTA.
The performance audit performed by the Office of the State Auditor and the APTA peer review both
resulted in overarching findings and recommendations regarding the operation of the internal audit
function and the Board's Audit Committee. Following the reviews, it was collectively agreed by this Board
that a third-party subject matter expert in the field of auditing be retained to aid the agency with
improvements for its internal audit function, chiefly to align the internal audit function with recognized
audit standards and practices of the Institute of Internal Auditors International Professional Practice
framework. Specifically, the global public sector insight independent audit committees and public sector
organizations ensure the efficacy of the internal audit function according to auditing best practices and
implement recommendations from the state audit and the APTA peer review.
Momentarily, RubinBrown will present recommendations regarding the optimal structure for RTD with
respect to internal audit, audit committee best practices and recommendations, enterprise riskmanagement processes and conclusions, and the audit process and customary time frame. Our Chief
Financial Officer Doug MacLeod along with our Executive Business Partner John McKay as well as I have
supported the Chair and the Vice Chair of the Finance Administration Audit Committee since July of 2021
in administrative capacity and will continue to do so as the agency seeks to retain professional auditing
services to effectuate best practices for independent audit functions and public sector organizations. So
before I introduce RubinBrown, I would now yield the floor to Finance Chair Peggy Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, General Manager and CEO Johnson. As Chair and Vice Chair of this
committee, Director Davidson and I have had a chance to preview the RubinBrown presentation that you
will see in a moment. We would like to emphasize that this is a starting point, and the Board will make the
ultimate decision.
We know there will be many questions. I would ask, therefore, that we consider asking the new Board
Chair to appoint an ad hoc committee to flesh out the details of the new Audit Committee and governance
at the Thursday Executive Committee meeting. After RubinBrown's presentation, I would like to add a few
comments outlining a proposed ad hoc committee scope of work and charge.
And as a person who has been really, really advocating for a deep dive look into our internal audit division
since I got on the Board in March of 2018, I am so pleased to say that with General Manager CEO
Johnson staff's support and leadership, we are finally at a place where we can move forward deliberately.
So thank you very much. And I would ask my Vice Chair Director Davidson if he wants to add anything to
my remarks.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Chair Catlin. I'll keep it very brief. I just would echo the sentiments.
First of all, Director Catlin, thank you for your leadership-- or Second Vice Chair Catlin, thank you for your
leadership on this. And thank you very much to staff, including CEO and General Manager Johnson and
Doug MacLeod for leadership in helping us shepherd this through. I think I just would emphasize the
importance for us to make steady and swift progress here and just would echo your recommendation to
the Executive Committee and to Chair Buzek to consider forming an ad hoc committee.
I think we'll see there are a lot more questions than answers at this point. But I would just say we are
making progress. We're getting into this, and we need to continue the work. And it's time that the Board
get more actively involved through the formation of an ad hoc committee.
Particularly, just I would remind with the timing that the Finance Administration and Audit Committee is
now being changed. And we need to begin the work to put our audit committee together, which I think can
come out of the work product of the ad hoc Committee. Thank you. I yield the floor.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much. If I may at the juncture turn the floor over to Beth Wormersley,
who is with RubinBrown, and her colleague Dave Har-- if I'm sorry if I mispronounce your name, Haronik,
to lead the presentation.
BETH WORMERSLEY: Thank you, General Manager Johnson. Good evening, everyone. Thank you for
allowing us to come in and present some recommendations to the Board, to the RTD Board.
I will share the presentation. So if anybody has difficulty seeing it please let me know. I'm going to skip
through a few slides. We did talk already about the background and the fact that we were engaged to do
this internal audit project as a follow on and an initial step to the findings from the Colorado Office of the
State Auditor and the American Public Transportation Association, or APTA.
And specifically, the objectives of this review were the review of those reports, the APTA report, and
through that coming up with an optimal internal audit or recommended optimal internal audit structure,
recommended audit committee structure. We also reviewed the internal audit charter.
That is one step that has been completed by RTD. They have redone their charter as of last July. So we
compare that to the Institute of Internal Auditors' model charter, and it does align with the charter. And we
actually compared it to peer comparisons as well. And I would say RTD's is stronger and more aligned
than even the peer comparisons that we've done now that it is aligned with the IIA, or Institute of Internal
Auditors' recommendations.
The other thing that we did through this process is developing an enterprise risk-management process for
RTD and went through the initial assessment with RTD's management. We did peer comparisons and

then finally some internal audit reporting templates, recommendations, and things of that nature provided
to management. So with that, I am going to move on to the optimal internal audit structure.
We looked to sources. Primarily, the IIA is the main. The Institute of Internal Auditors is the primary
governing body for internal audit organizations. But we also considered peers and what other
organizations are doing as well as other government organizations, clients that we have, the
benchmarking, and of course the APTA recommendations as well.
We also spent a lot of time with management, RTD's management, discussing, what really are the
needs? What is going to be the best model? What will help you based on where your risks are? How are
you going to be able to manage those best? And through all of those discussions we feel that the optimal
internal audit structure is an outsourced function so that you have access to the specific subject matter
experts that you need for the key risks that you are facing at the current time and that you can continue to
stay on top of those key risks.
In looking at that, we took a look at the National Association of Corporate Directors to see what the best
practice structure is along with our own experience with outsourced departments and what we typically
see with clients. This is a traditional structure, where an internal audit function does report to your audit
committee as well as your General Manager and CEO. And then in an outsourced function, there's
typically a liaison to just make sure that things are running smoothly and information is being passed back
and forth between the two organizations appropriately. So this all comes from NACD experience with
other organizations and then, of course, the Institute of Internal Auditors which we always rely heavily on.
With that, I will move on to the optimal audit committee structure. And, again, some of these same best
practices coming from the same organizations-- the Global Public Sector Insight, Independent Audit
Committees in Public Sector Organizations which, again, is through the IIA. We also hold the
benchmarking report. The Institute of Internal Auditors does a benchmark review every year, and so we
used a lot of information from that as well and then NACD as well.
So some of, I would say, the key takeaways from this is that audit committee members need to be
independent to perform their job appropriately as well as having the right skill sets. So when we talk about
independence, we define independence as somebody who is not employed by RTD, does not provide
any services to RTD, and that the only duties they have are specific to their audit committee
responsibilities for the organization. So that's what a truly independent audit committee member is.
Having the right skill sets-- and we'll get into this in the next slide. But the typical ones that we see within
public sectors are going to be-- and any organization. But we specifically benchmarked public sector-financial and business acumen, understanding internal controls and governance, as well as industry
experience. And we generally see clients will have a mixture of that throughout the different members. So

you may have one that is very strong in finance and has that financial business acumen and then another
audit committee member that is very strong in industry or operations and maybe a third that's very strong
in internal controls, understanding risks like cybersecurity and things of that nature.
So the next slide gives you a benchmark to really show you what public sectors in the 2021 Institute of
Internal Auditors survey, where the majority of the expertise lies. And you can see that financial is very
high in industry-specific knowledge. And then right behind that is business management, as we spoke
about and then, of course, internal and external audit and operational experience.
So that's where we generally see-- that's where the IIA sees it. And I will say that in our experience with
clients and my previous experience, even as being a Chief Audit Executive for an organization, was very
similar to this. I'd say our audit committee also was very financial, business management, and operational
with some industry experience, and some audit experience as well. We had a CFO that was previously a
partner of an external audit firm.
Moving on to the next one, this is to discuss the meetings and the best way to approach meetings. Right
now in 2021, there were 10 meetings last year, and only five had the audit committee agenda on it, which
is in line with the benchmarked organizations for public sector, which was an average of five meetings a
year. But what we're recommending is to do more specifically what we see traditionally with
organizations, where there's a separate, official audit committee meeting that takes place four to five
times a year. And the audit committee chair then provides a report to the full Board of Directors at the
very next full Board meeting on what is discussed and more of an executive summary about the audit
committee meeting.
I won't go through all the details on this slide as I understand it's already been provided in your packet.
But we did just want to make sure that you had the information as to what the key recommendations are
for the three to five members and the composition. With that, I'm going to turn it over to my colleague
Dave to speak about the enterprise risk-management process that we went through with our RTD's
management team.
DAVE HARONIK: Thanks, Beth. RubinBrown performed a full enterprise risk assessment with the
purpose of identifying potential risks and risk events and for management to prioritize and to manage
those events. RubinBrown first conducted interviews with 12 members of RTD's senior management and
management to identify those key risks. We then identified a full enterprise risk universe, where 18 risks
were identified to be surveyed by RTD management.
The 37 employees that participated provided a great deal of insight and allowed RubinBrown to then
categorize and put the top five risks in a heat map that you'll see in the following page. Actually, the heat

map is two pages forward. But on the next slide, we'll discuss the top five risks that were identified and
the overall risk score.
So you will note that a lot of the risks are pretty common, that other organizations are seeing. And then
there are some that are industry-specific to RTD. We could also expect to see future updates to these as
it is best practice to identify the-- or re-perform a risk assessment because over time risks will rise and fall
with the economy, management's mitigation efforts, and the like. So also in the future, there should be
updates as to how those mitigation activities are progressing. And management may even elect to just
accept some of the risks that really can't be reduced without severe efforts.
I think the following slide is the heat map that is used to depict the top five risks and where they stand in
terms of severity, probability. And then the colors identify the risk preparedness. The probability of-- and I
guess I should also note that this is the perceived risk preparedness.
So the surveys pointed out what management, how they felt about them. Obviously, it could be skewed
within certain people's areas. But we did select or survey a wide range of management's employees to
get a good idea of all that.
It's interesting to note that the high risks all have some level of management preparedness, which is
great. But then we also would note that it is important for internal audit. And this is also one of the main
purposes of performing this risk assessment, for internal audit to validate the risk assessment results and
management preparedness in the future.
BETH WORMERSLEY: I'd-DAVE HARONIK: We'd like to-BETH WORMERSLEY: Sorry, I'd just like to give a little bit of information as far as what these ratings
mean since my understanding is enterprise risk management is new to RTD. So I wanted to provide a
little bit more information. When looking at the severity of a potential risk event-- and we define this in the
survey, so that it helps reduce some of that judgment that may come in to taking a survey. So there's both
quantitative and qualitative factors that go into looking at what the severity and the probability is.
But when we talk about severity, it's if the risk event occurs. So we're not saying that this has already
occurred. In some cases, it's something that just could occur. And in some cases, it's things that RTD is
already facing. But the severity is, how severe will those consequences be given the controls and the
processes that are in place to mitigate?

And then the probability is really that likelihood. How likely is it that this risk event is going to take place?
And then that overall rating that you saw-- let me switch back to this. This overall score is based on your
probability times the severity to get an overall risk ranking.
And then lastly, the risk preparedness, also we give management a scale before they take the survey so
that they have an understanding of, are we unprepared? Are we slightly prepared? And give them a little
bit of definition around that.
That's really to say, assess what your current processes are and what you know that you have in place.
And if this risk event does take place, how prepared are you as an organization to deal with that risk
event? Dave, did you have anything else to add?
DAVE HARONIK: No. Thanks, Beth.
BETH WORMERSLEY: Thank you. With that, we'd like to move on to the audit reporting and really
specifically the audit process. So the first three items that you see on this slide-- the audit planning, the
fieldwork, and the reporting-- that's a standard process for any internal audit. That is the initial internal
audit process that is performed.
So you plan. You identify those objectives. You go through the fieldwork and then give the initial reporting
to management and then to the audit committee. And then initial reporting has management remediation
plans for any deficiencies that are deemed important enough to have a remediation plan in place.
The follow-up piece is typically done semi-annually or annually. And that is another reporting to the
management team and then also to your audit committee specifically to say whether the action items that
management said that they were going to implement to remediate the issues identified during the initial
audit have been completed or not. And are they on target?
So sometimes you may see an item, especially if it's a longer-term item like a system implementation, that
needs to take place. You will sometimes see those stay on the follow-up a little bit longer. I've even seen
them go beyond annually.
But then if there are things that are very critical and high risk, you may want to have those more
frequently and have more frequent communication with the audit committee even outside of a standard
audit committee meeting just to give updates and status on where those are at so that high-risk items are
being taken care of and accountability up front. So the semi-annually or annually is for your more
traditional internal audit. But as I said, you might have some that you're going to want to follow up on
more frequently.

So this is just the standard audit process. Certainly, deeper-dive audits take a little more time. And then if
your process-- or if what you're looking at is more of a process level or a very specific objective that you're
taking a look at in that specific audit, it may not take as long as shown here. This is just an average for
you to get a feel and an understanding for that audit process.
Now, before diving into the audits, the main thing is to develop what that internal audit plan is. And one of
the key takeaways that I think is very important for audit committees to understand is that the audit plan
should be developed based on your enterprise risk management. So you're focusing all resources,
including your internal audit resources, on those areas that are highest and most key risk for the
organization. So you build it primarily based around your ERM and the results there.
And then remaining flexible throughout the year, while you're building a one-year audit plan remaining
flexible is key to accommodate emerging and new business risks. As we know, these things can pop up
at any point. I would say probably two years ago in January, not many people were thinking about COVID
and what remote workforce was going to look like. And everybody had to pivot very quickly.
And many internal audit departments pivoted along with that to say, OK, what are our key risks now that
we've gone remote? And they did make several changes to the internal audit plans. And we
recommended many of them for the clients that we work for to make sure that those high risks are being
evaluated and reviewed.
So it is important to remain flexible. And we recommend that on the quarterly, every four or five meetings,
that is a discussion topic with the audit committee to say, we need to make an adjustment to the audit
plan because of this emerging risk.
Or we're on track, and we're going to keep the audit plan as is. There are no current emerging risks. But I
feel that that's very important to always consider in the audit process for an audit committee.
For the next steps, as we talked about, this is just the initial start for RTD. RTD is going to be soliciting
proposals for an outsized-- outsourced, excuse me, internal audit department, establish the audit
committee, and then develop that risk-based internal audit plan. And since, we have completed the ERM
and turned that to RTD's management and then we provided some ideas for internal audits as well. But
that would have to come through whoever you select as your outsourced internal audit provider and your
established audit committee. So with that, I'd like to yield the floor to General Manager Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much. And with that, that concludes our presentation, Mr. Chair. So I
turn the floor to you. In fact, if there's questions then coordinate through Finance Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Actually, I did have a few follow-up points to make if I might, Mr. Chair?

VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, go right ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: First, I want to thank RubinBrown for their excellent work in completing the scope with
which they've been charged. And I think we need to keep that in mind. But as you can see, this
recommendation is a departure from previous internal audit practices at this agency. And I'm sure there
are many questions of which there are not yet answers.
I have several myself. And that's why we are suggesting-- Director Davidson and I, are suggesting an ad
hoc committee be formed to address the following. One, the audit committee charter-- not the internal
audit charter, but the audit committee charter-- audit committee responsibilities, audit committee
composition and how to determine who and what committee members should be on there to ensure some
independence, capability requirements of the Chair of the audit committee and members of the audit
committee-- those would include personal attributes, expertise, and skills-- this Board's process of
appointing audit committee members, and then a process for assessing audit committee performance.
So the reference document, the Independent Audit Committees in Public Sector Organizations that
Director-- or CEO-GM Johnson as well as the RubinBrown Brown representatives got used as a
reference, this is really a guide that refers back to the IIA standards. But it also provides tools and
templates for evaluating key components. I read through the document in its entirety as I had some
questions, and it was very helpful for me.
And I suggest that this be used as a workbook or a guideline for any ad hoc committee that may be
formed to develop some of the documents that I just listed. And it's important to note that if we do hire an
outside consultant for audit that they be brought into this discussion as well because they bring the
expertise.
So with that, Mr. Chair, that's the extent of my comments tonight. And I do look forward to moving this
change in our internal audit function forward to improve RTD and its accountability to the public. Thank
you very much.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks Director Catlin. Thank you and Director Davidson for your work on this today.
And I thank the RubinBrown team for the presentation and their work as well. We're going to go into
discussion now. And I see Director Dishell's hand up.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Mr Chair, and thank you to RubinBrown team along with Director Catlin,
Director Davidson, for your guys' work. Audit is really critical. I'm curious for anyone from the RubinBrown
team if we have anything showing-- I know we saw the composition, the typical composition of
backgrounds that individuals have.

I'm wondering if we have that shown over time just because my gut is that we may be seeing more of a
shift towards people with that IT, cybersecurity strength as that becomes more of an integral part of our
daily lives. Does that change year over year? Is there any data out there that shows those changes year
over year?
BETH WORMERSLEY: If you were to pull the benchmark reports year over year, you would see some
shifts. I would say that they're very slow. An audit committee is typically very focused on finance.
But what I am seeing myself within my clients is a lot of CFO-type persons or external audit partners that
have that IT experience coming on to audit committees because, to your point, cybersecurity being so
important. So we are seeing a lot of that. And the benefit of getting someone like a CFO that has been in
charge of not just the finance side but the IT side within their own organization where they're employed,
they bring both of that experience and that level of knowledge in one person.
BOBBY DISHELL: Awesome, thanks. That's really helpful.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Dishell. Director Cook, you're next. You're on mute, Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: I got to rehearse all that. So I just wanted to add, thanks to the consultants, but also to
Directors Catlin and Davidson for the work that went into this and working closely with the consultant and
GM-CEO Debra Johnson and other. I'm glad for the chance to explore further some of those through the
ad hoc committee. I assume most Board Members will be able to forward our questions about the
process.
But since we've got RubinBrown, I had a couple that I wanted to put to them. I was looking back at the
peer review presentation a few months ago. And one thing, their findings about the agency and its prior
practices included this statement about the risk assessment.
And it said, audits are mainly identified through interviews with management, which is only one of the
many sources for the audit plan. And I seem to recall a universe of factors that needed to be taken into
account. Did you just base your risk assessment and the identification of those areas of concern on these
interviews, or did you have other things that you folded in as well?
BETH WORMERSLEY: So when we prepare for the interviews in that process of gearing up to have
meetings with management, we do research ahead of time on industry-specific risks and bring those
ideas to those meetings and have those discussions with management. But a lot of what they're referring
to is the actual audit plan itself. So you perform the enterprise risk-management process, and that's
identifying all those key risks, whether they're operational, financial, compliance, all of that.

And there was a much larger universe than what you're seeing in this presentation. We try to focus just on
the top five because there are only so many resources that can be focused on any one thing at any one
time. So you always want to hit those key top risks.
But my understanding of what they were talking about in that report is not just relying on your enterprise
risk management to develop that internal audit plan, but other factors such as industry. Management
requests or Board requests often go into developing your internal audit plan.
And that is a next step. That is one of the items that would come from whichever firm you select for your
outsourced provider. They would go through that process of pulling in those ERM results as well as
industry-specific and RTD-specific.
So there would be conversations around that as well in developing what that internal audit plan should
look like. So the Institute of Internal Auditors will tell you to start best practices, to start with ERM, and
then consider those other items. Does that answer your question?
SHELLEY COOK: Well, I think partially. Mr. Chair, can I continue here?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, go ahead, Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: So you have conducted the enterprise-wide risk assessment. And so the template
includes these interviews and maybe some industry-specific knowledge. But then the next step in terms
of refining that internal audit plan based on the priorities identified through the ERA but also includes
some other factors is what you're saying? And that's in the next stage, OK.
As I understand it and from your presentation, it sounds like you mean for these risk factors and the ERA
to inform not just your recommendations regarding the structure of our internal audit function, but also the
likely internal audit plan that we'd have? Do you therefore see as item number one on our plan a look at
the Board's governance? And would the outcome of that be recommendations to the legislature about
how it might change? I mean, I'm just trying to get a handle on where this leads us.
BETH WORMERSLEY: That's a great question. So what we do when we're the provider providing
outsourced services to a client or even cosourced services to a client, we take that enterprise risk
assessment, the results. So you go through the interview process, which is with a smaller subset of
management. Then you go through the survey process, which we also did which is a larger group of
management, and identify getting from 18 to 20 key risks and getting it down to those top five.
Then what we do as far as developing the internal audit plan, that very next step, is looking at what those
risks are not, just the top five but all 18 as well, to say which ones are already being mitigated in another
area or are being looked at? So let's say you have another firm that's coming in that's specialized in

transportation and safety, where maybe if it came up high on your risk and that was something that you
wanted to consider for your internal audit plan. You would not want to duplicate efforts.
So if you already have a safety audit going on that's addressing the key risks that were identified in the
enterprise risk management, then that would be something that you would not include in your internal
audit plan. Rather, note it, and say this organization is already-- this consultant is already doing a safety
audit here. So we're not going to duplicate those efforts. Rather, we're going to focus the internal audit on
an area that is not being covered in another fashion. Does that help answer your question how you-SHELLEY COOK: Since it's been taken up elsewhere, it wouldn't be addressed even though it's identified
as the top risk.
BETH WORMERSLEY: It would be addressed. But it's being addressed through, in the example that I
gave, another safety audit group. So my background came from a transportation company. I was a Chief
Audit Executive for a transportation company here in Denver.
And we would do this enterprise risk process every year. And safety often came up high on the risk
assessment. There was a whole group, a whole safety audit group, that performed audits and then also
used third-party resources that were specialized in that particular mode of transportation.
And so we would not want to re-perform an audit that they were already doing because then you're
focusing two sets of audit groups or two sets of resources on one risk. So what we would do is say, what
are the areas that are not being addressed? And let's make sure that we have broader coverage. So it's
leveraging all your different groups and other consultants that you may have in or even internal groups
like your own safety group, for example. If they are performing audits and reviews, you wouldn't want to
have duplication of efforts so that you can hit more of your key risks that way.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, I think I got that. One last one, if I may. So the issue of the functional reporting, the
suggested change to the bylaws that the peer review committee had had all the personnel decisions
regarding the Manager of IT and IT audit, including but not limited to hiring, firing, promoting, demoting,
and setting salaries shall be made by the Board. But here, you've-- that said to remove, as I understand it,
to assure some independence.
Given that, how do we address the underlying intent of the functional reporting relationship? What are
your recommendations regarding how that's still assured even though we are outsourcing that piece?
How do we know that the Board is still in charge here?
BETH WORMERSLEY: So our recommended structure, the functional reporting of your outsourced firm,
would still go to your audit committee. And then the--

SHELLEY COOK: Not those individual decisions, I'm taking it? Or would they be presented for approval?
Or I mean, just trying to get a sense for how much or little we would be complying with that specific
recommendation.
BETH WORMERSLEY: And I think a lot of that is also going to be determined in the next steps. We
haven't gone to that level of detail at this point yet. General Manager Johnson, I don't know if you have
some additional information you would like to talk about on next steps.
DEBRA JOHNSON: No, thank you very much. And Director Cook, Ms. Wormersley is right on point. As
indicated by Finance Chair Catlin, this is the intent of what she was putting forward as an ad hoc
committee because this is outside of the scope of what RubinBrown was retained to do and the
parameters in which was to look at the recommendations that have been put forward by OSA and APTA.
Hence, that's where we are now. So I think these conversations would be better held relative to the ad
hoc committee that Director Catlin had made mention of.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thanks.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Cook. Is that it?
SHELLEY COOK: Yep.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. And Director Guissinger, First Vice Chair, you're up.
LYNN GUISSINGER: May I suggest that the Director Catlin go ahead if she's got something to add here
in case it answers questions?
VINCE BUZEK: Second Vice Chair Catlin, go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I was just going to add that it's my view that we are taking these
recommendations under advisement and then moving forward to flush some of the details out with what I
hope will be an ad hoc committee that is formed. There are a number of ways we can look at that. And
RubinBrown did have a limited scope. And we need to figure out what we need to do going forward.
I would also like personally with this ad hoc committee, I know I will be asking for the interview
questionnaire and the surveys that you used, not necessarily the results but just the questions that were
asked because I think it's important for us to understand the context. I also-- I am interested in a little bit
greater detail in your report when we have some time. And I know that we want to protect some of our
employees who don't want to have their confidentiality breached. And it's a matter of trust.

But I really would as we move forward with this committee, ad hoc committee, I would really like to delve
a little bit deeper into some of the root reasons for some of the concerns and the risks that were brought
forward. Thank you. That's all I had.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Second Vice Chair Catlin. First Vice Chair Guissinger, you're up.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And I thank you also, Second Vice Chair Catlin. I appreciate you
coming in with a next-step solution, you and Director Davidson, to move forward with an ad hoc
committee, take this under advisement.
And I think it's very important coming out of the state's audit and the accountability committee and the
focus on this that the Board is really in control here. And I guess I had one question. You say the
committee members should be independent, should be unelected members.
I guess I've got this in my first reading of the IIA. I think it's the red book that CEO Johnson sent me this
afternoon. It said, the committee's composition is also critical. It should include a majority of external
members. And it goes on Am I right that you're concluding that Board members should not be on the audit
committee?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Point of clarification, Director Guissinger, if I may. I did not send you copies of the
red book. I sent you the public sector document. So I just wanted to clarify that there is a difference in the
information that you received from me today. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, great. That was my question. Is it your position that the Board members
should not be on the audit committee?
BETH WORMERSLEY: So the recommendation that we have is to develop-- and, again, these are just
recommendations, and your committee will have to decide and determine how you're going to move
forward with this. But that you primarily focus on having individuals that have the right mix in skill sets and
that are independent so that you can meet all those other standards. What we generally see then is the
audit committee chair reporting to the full Board. So that the full Board is always informed.
They know what's going on. They're on top of the governance and understanding what processes and
audits are taking place and, what are the key risks really? And what does the full Board need to be
concerned about and make sure that there's alignment? And General Manager Johnson, I don't know if
there's anything else that you would like to add to that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: No I think it's spot on what you said, just collectively in reference to what has been
outlined in the public sector guidance that generally it's independent relative to the decisions that are
made in the auspices over which the organization needs to have clear-cut independence.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Right. I guess I see a difference between this public document that you sent me
and the position that no Board members because this clearly says a majority should be independent. And
I think that there's a difference between the Chair coming back and reporting to the Board and the Board
really having eyes and ears on what's being said and what's being looked at and all of that. So I guess
that's something further to take up with the ad hoc committee.
And then I guess just following up a little bit on some of what was asked earlier, the ERA, the risk
assessment, you didn't look at any other-- you didn't look at it the outcome of the accountability committee
that spent a year looking at RTD or the State Auditor or any of those things in making those decisions, is
that right?
BETH WORMERSLEY: So the way the ERM is done is interviews with the key management team to say,
what are those major risk items that would keep you from meeting your mission and your goals? That's
always the starting point for enterprise risk management, really identifying all those key risks and then
turning them into risk events that encompass because one person may say it one way and another
person may say it's slightly different. But they're pointing to the same key risk.
And then there's a survey that goes out to the larger group. So that's the process that we followed. It's a
standard. There's the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations that is also used quite a bit in internal
audit, and they're considered one of the main governing bodies. And they have a whole ERM framework,
and that's where we base our ERM process. It's based on that COSO 2013 ERM guidance.
So we go through that process of interviewing management, identifying those key risks, keeping in mind
what your strategic goals are. So we start out with the strategic plan and that document. And we ask
everybody to do that homework ahead of time before we meet with them so that they can look at it and
say, what are the key risks that we're really concerned about, that if this risk event happens, we may not
meet that strategic plan or that goal? Does that make sense?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes and no. It seemed like Director Cook read something that said you would base
it on interviews with management and other sources. And I guess where we clearly have other sources-for instance, where the state audit focused on the workforce issues that are two of the issues that are
raised here.
Does the fact that the state audit has focused on those raise those as a higher risk? It seems to me like
they might. But you don't consider any other external information, is that right?
BETH WORMERSLEY: Well, so in developing what the optimal structure is, we considered the
information that was in the APTA report. But as far as the ERM, that's really looking at strategy and
finding-- the ERM wasn't based on the internal audit group. It was based on the organization as a whole,

finance risk, compliance risk, and operational risk that RTD is facing that could prevent you from meeting
your strategic plan.
And then developing your internal audit plan will take into account, to your point, other factors beyond just
ERM. ERM is your primary starting point. But then you're also looking at other factors such as reports,
accountability committees. That's really where you dive in and get into that level of detail, and that is the
next-phase item. Does that make more sense?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sort of. Yeah, I guess. I still see and if you set these out as the top risks, it would
seem to me like we would be wanting to look at that determination from a lot of different angles, but I hear
what you're saying. I think for now, that's all of my questions. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, First Vice Chair. Director Lewis, you're up next.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I just wanted to clarify Director Guissinger, are you asking for the
accountability committee to be involved? Is that the concern is that there's no involvement of the
accountability committee?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, I'm just saying that if there's-- sorry, I didn't mean to do that. As we're putting
together a risk assessment, if there's other information out there that's current, that that seems like it's
relevant.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, sure. I just want to-- just I guess what comes up for me is Beth has given the
presentation. It's the focus on the expertise and the lack of-- and I mean this respectfully-- the lack of
transit and transportation expertise on the accountability committee. And so I just want to be mindful of
that.
But also, I akin this to-- and I think I might have. And you can tell me, Director Guissinger, if I'm hearing
you incorrectly, that there was interest in having more Board involvement on this committee as opposed
to having it be independent and independently monitored. And I mean, I find that akin to what the
accountability committee was. There weren't Board Directors, RTD Directors specifically, on the
Accountability Committee and really we were receiving information secondhand from you and Director
Whitmore. And so that's kind of what I akin it to. But maybe I might be misunderstanding that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Are you asking me?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think this is a very important, ongoing committee. Those committees were all-those meetings were all public meetings. Everybody could attend. I don't know what the story on these is.

But it seems to me like that there is room in the documents here and the guidelines for having somebody
on the committee that is a Board member and understands the Board and our needs and is part of the
conversation. I get it, that it sounds like maybe having independent members as a majority. I'm not trying
to take away the independence. I'm just-- I think that it's our responsibility to make this work. I think that
having somebody on that committee makes sense.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Beth, have you-- thank you, Director Guissinger. Has this come up for you with past
agencies? And if so, how have you approached that in the past
LYNN GUISSINGER: No.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No, no, not you, Lynn-- sorry, Director Guissinger, Beth. Sorry, I have a cold, so it's
hard maybe to understand me.
BETH WORMERSLEY: So I do not have another current client that has an elected Board. They are
nominated boards.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I appreciate that. Those are the only questions I have.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Davidson, you're next.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to address Director Guissinger-- good question in
the beginning just about the recommendations around the independent Board member. And I just wanted
to point out. I think this actually some of this discussion shows one of my initial comments that we have
more questions than answers at this point and also that we're in a little bit of uncharted territory with-- I
shouldn't say uncharted.
But there aren't very many of us that are elected boards-- RTD, RC Transit BART. And so we have some
things to consider. With an independent Board member, my understanding from the guidelines, the IIA
guidelines that we're referencing right now, is that they wouldn't be participating in a number of other
committees, a number of other activities. They would be present for their expertise.
What's particularly challenging here is that because we're elected, we're brought in not necessarily with
expertise that's been selected for audit. So we have some-- I think it's going to take some thinking in
terms of how-- and Beth, I don't want to speak for you here. But when we spoke about AC Transit before,
it sounds like there's not really a good model for us to go follow here.
We have to do, I think, some thinking about how our Board retains governance of that audit committee
and yet how we add the concept of having an independent Board member and more specifically an
independent audit committee and independent Board members on that. So anyway, that's one of those

things I just wanted to kind of remind everybody, we're-- this is why we need that ad hoc committee.
We've got quite a bit of research to do.
I think we'll take these recommendations under consideration as was referenced earlier. But anyway, I
just wanted to take the moment to touch upon that. And also, just to comment since the red book did
come up, the red book, the IIA framework, also does have some reference to how this is structured. But
it's quite broad, which is the value of having this, the guideline document that's being referenced here.
It gets a little bit more specific, but they are just guidelines as opposed to standards. Thank you. That's all
I just wanted to add, just a long winded way of saying that this is what I meant before, that we got as
many questions as answers and why we need that ad hoc. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks Director Davidson. Director Dishell, you're next.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, a lot to chew on and I go back and forth on the level of independence with the
audit committee. There are, as people have brought up in the past, recommendations from 2010 state
audits that haven't been implemented. And the audit committee historically has been run by the Board. It's
not to place faults on any one person. But perhaps as we look to the future, it might make more sense to
have that Director who's truly, they just do audit, or having that broad majority of people who are
independent from the agency.
And I mean that both financially-- not people who are receiving funds from RTD through grants, but also
people who have that expertise. Audit, it's no . secret. Accountability committee, the state audit, the old
state audit-- there's a long list of items that need to be implemented. And I think it's clear that perhaps
having a majority-elected Board govern that may not be-- we may need to put ourselves aside for the
betterment of the agency because clearly the way in which we've operated in the past with so much
Director control hasn't worked. And whether we failed as a Board to exercise control through the CEO or
otherwise, I think we can probably agree that we wouldn't have the long list of recommendations to
implement if we were running audit properly for the past however long the RTD Board has been in
charge.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Dishell. Is that all your comments?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, again, it's about I think that it's important for striking that balance here.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for your comments. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: If I may, thanks. Just a quick clarification, so the findings of the 2010 audit reaffirmed in
2020 wasn't that under the Board's control that audit wasn't being managed properly. It was that the
Board wasn't engaged in the way that it's meant to be given the usual direct line to the Board, dotted line

to the GM-CEO and her staff, that we weren't complying with that practice. That is generally accepted as
the way to go to assure independence from the operations that are being audited.
So I just wanted to clarify. It wasn't that it's gone awry under the Board's hands-on direction. It's that the
hands-on direction wasn't happening. So just have to put that point out there, thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks Director Cook. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to point out for clarification that we're all outside Directors,
unlike a private corporation where you have inside directors and outside directors. The inside directors in
a private corporation actually work day to day for the corporation, whereas the outside directors don't.
And they are supposed to bring in an outside, fresh view of things.
And when we were talking earlier tonight, I think that all got mixed up in trying to figure out what an inside
director was and what an outside director was. And I don't think that applies to us because we're a
governmental entity. And that's the only thing I wanted to point out. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Broom. Any last comments for discussion on this? Director Dishell
again.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, just for clarity, thank you, Director Cook, for clarifying that point about the state
audit as it relates to audit. But I'm also speaking about all of the internal and external audit
recommendations that we're still working to implement. If we were doing audit at its highest level, we
wouldn't have the laundry list that we have.
And so I think that's more of what I was pointing to, not the fact that the Board was not properly managing
the audit-- the Board's management of the audit committee and that specific recommendation, but more
just the laundry list of recommendations that we continue to receive that do or don't get implemented,
including our incredible backlog of deferred maintenance. So I'm looking forward to continuing to dive in
on and putting ourselves aside to look at, OK, what's really going to be best here for our organization?
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you Director Dishell. Director Lewis, lead us out of this discussion.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I will. I will just say ditto to what Director Dishell has stated. I couldn't agree more. And
then he stated it perfectly. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for all the comments and all the discussion. Thanks again to RubinBrown,
Second Vice Chair Catlin, Director Davidson, GM-CEO Johnson.

We're going to move on to other matters right now. So as Director Rivera-Malpiede mentioned at the
beginning, we're going to start other matters off. If anybody has any comments they'd like to make in
relation to the Marshall fire, we'll take those now.
KATE WILLIAMS: I did see Director Broom's hand up. Director Broom, did you-VINCE BUZEK: I think he put it down. Well, I'll make a couple of-- oh I'm sorry go ahead, Director Lewis.
I'm sorry. OK, I'll make it just a couple of comments.
And I live just east of Director Davidson. And he and I communicated on that night, and we were packed
and ready to roll. And it was a tense night, and it was difficult.
And we had a friend who was evacuated from Louisville and stayed with us for a couple of nights and
fortunately didn't lose her home, but knows several friends that did. And it's a terrible thing, and we need
to just keep these people in our thoughts. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Are you specifically taking comments about the Marshall fires or other matters just in
general?
VINCE BUZEK: First about the Marshall fires. If there's no further comments about the Marshall fire, we'll
go on to general, other-matter comments. Anybody else on the Marshall fire?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'll put my hand down, just sending my condolences to folks because that's tragic.
VINCE BUZEK: I don't see any other hands up. Oh, I do. Director Dishell, are you going to make a
comment on the Marshall fires?
BOBBY DISHELL: I am, yeah, absolutely sending condolences. And I'm happy that for those of us
assembled here are safe and especially, as Director Davidson mentioned, to those who are still missing. I
also want to take the opportunity. Growing up in California where we had wildfires pretty regularly the
importance of having an emergency, to-go evac kit-- and maybe Director Buzek or Davidson could
comment on whether they did or didn't or the importance of really having that go bag ready in case of an
emergency may be relevant for a safety moment in the future of what to throw in there, how often to
update it, things of that nature because it's incredibly just so sad to see that the incredible devastation
and making sure that we all can be as prepared as we can.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for the comment. Second Vice Chair Catlin, who was actually evacuated the
week before, do you have some comments?
PEGGY CATLIN: I was under evacuation orders and was by myself. And I think Director Dishell is really-I really appreciate you saying that. I now have my to-go bag ready and ready to go. And there are an

incredible number of things that you don't even think about, one of them being your passport, your birth
certificate, some available cash. There are a number of things.
And I have it all ready to go if I ever faced that again because it was very, very stressful. And I can't-- I
mean, I don't want to diminish anything that happened up in Superior and Louisville because that was far
greater. But it was really traumatic.
They weren't letting anyone in. So my husband couldn't get in to help me out, and I was trying to scramble
to see what I could get out the door in a very short order. So thankfully, that one did not turn out as bad.
But I dare say that if we had had the winds a week ago Monday that we had on Thursday that it would
have been a very different story.
So my heart goes out to all the people who lost their homes. I personally four families that lost their
homes up in Superior and Louisville. And I know that everybody is doing what they can to help those
people out.
But it's just devastating. And as was pointed out by First Vice Chair Guissinger, this is rather foreboding.
And it's something that we need to be mindful of. You usually think of it in terms of my neighborhood or
the mountain communities. But it's very real in an urban, suburban environment. And that just changes
the whole trajectory, I think, for our area. So my condolences and sympathies to everybody, but also the
miracle it is only two people lost out of tens of thousands of people that were displaced. So thank you for
indulging us.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments, Second Vice Chair Catlin. Anybody else about the Marshall
fire? Seeing none, Director Lewis, I'll take your other-matter comments.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to congratulate the Executive Committee on your
nominations and your selections and also provide an opportunity to offer you some words of
encouragement as you all journey throughout your new leadership positions. And an observation that
many of you all talked about the importance of diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging, and I want to
point out that the executive committee is now all white and all middle-aged folks. And while that is not an
indictment on any of you, I do want us to be aware of how that shows up in our leadership, particularly as
we are leading an agency and really wanting to ensure that those that are closest to the pain, that those
who are most vulnerable, that those that are most marginalized are at the center of our decision making.
There has been discussion and concerns about the leadership being very heavy in terms of the
representation of the north, and I trust that you all will lead in a way that is global and that prioritizes not
just your individual districts, but also prioritizes the agency as a whole. And I hope that as you all are
deliberating, you are making considerations in terms of how you all are prioritizing what members to put
on which committees, what members who are seen as leaders in your eyes, and how you evaluate that

criteria, that you do so in a way that truly does prioritize diversity, equity, inclusion, justice, and belonging.
And you see that throughout your decisions and in those placements and in your implementation and
execution. And so I'd like to offer that to you all as you all journey, recognizing that there is a lack of
diversity in and diversity within the executive committee. But that does not mean that the decisions that
you all make will lack diversity in terms of the decisions that you all make and the decisions that you
present and the way in which we lead the agency.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Chair, and thank you everyone for your comments. I do want
to start off with saying my heart goes out to those who were affected by the Marshall fire tragedy. It's
horrible to see.
But I also wanted to say a thank you to Ms. Johnson for her actions during this. And we're working
countless hours and her team and also all of our RTD employees with the Marshall fire. I just wanted to
start off with that. I also wanted to-- I had a conversation with Ms. Johnson yesterday that I did want to
bring up in a public forum.
I have been getting quite a few safety concerns from our RidgeGate Station, which is the southernmost
light rail station for the E Line. These concerns are mainly regarding folks getting off of the E line, either
using the RidgeGate station as a temporary shelter. Again, I've heard anecdotally from constituents who
have either been victims of theft recently and witnessing potential drug use on our vehicles and at our
stations.
And a few requests that have come up from my constituents are increasing a presence of security officers
at that RidgeGate station, an increase in presence of security officers at the Union Station for those
specifically boarding the E Line, and even as potentially pausing services to that RidgeGate station. I just
wanted to hear from Ms. Johnson her thoughts about that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may.
VINCE BUZEK: GM-CEO Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly. And thank you very much, Director Bouquet, for
broaching what we discussed yesterday in this public forum, recognizing the conversation that ensued.
We all know by watching news reports that the whole world is short staffed. We saw that as we look at
cancellations. And we too have been subject to that as well.

As I shared with Director Bouquet and as I said in other forums, being unhoused is not a crime. It is
societal issues that have plagued us. And in turn, public transportation is interwoven into the fabric of the
communities in which we serve.
So recognizing while we have auspices over delivering transit services, there's much needed partnership
as it relates to providing varying services as we work with jurisdictions going forward. Recognizing we had
that conversation yesterday, I was able to delve a little deeper. And basically what is happening from my
understanding, having coordinated with my team to talk to people in the area, basically there are
individuals that may be riding the system that are non-destination bound passengers.
And in doing that, they get to the end of the line station, and they may seek refuge. And it's my
understanding they were utilizing 911. And it's causing an undue burden because they're being asked to
be transported for services. And so recognizing that this is a problem that's prevalent, what we need to
do-- and I shared with Director Bouquet that I'm more than willing to work with jurisdiction as you know we
are working currently with the City and County of Denver as we look to mitigate issues in and around
Denver Union Station.
But that's greater than RTD in and of itself. So I want to say that this is nothing that's fallen on deaf ears,
but recognizing as well that there needs to be a handoff. As it relates to services, we do not have health
care clinicians, social service workers, and other type of personnel on our staff.
But what we can do is ensure that announcements are being made on our consist prior to getting to the
"end of the line" station because basically what's prevalent, from what I've learned, is that it's really Friday
and Saturday nights when the last consist is entering the RidgeGate station around 2:30 in the morning,
there's no way for people to get back. And that's where the problem has arisen. So what my team has
planned is basically making announcements stating that this is the last train that's going into service
because it doesn't turn back.
And so that's what we're going to do in the immediate future. But as I shared with Director Bouquet, I am
more than willing to lean in and have a discussion with staff at the City of Lone Tree so we can come up
with some comprehensive path forward because we can't enforce our way out of this because being
unhoused is not a crime. Thank you very much for the opportunity to address your concern, Director
Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: If I may, Chair?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, yes, sure.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I just want to thank you for providing that information in such a timely process, CEO
Johnson. Thank you for letting us know about what the quick-term solution is. And I think going forward,

we need more clinicians, we need more health care workers, and we need to be partnering up with our
local jurisdictions.
And that's what we talked about. And that's the hope going forward because this is, like you said, a
societal issue. And hopefully, we can do our part as an agency. So thank you very much.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Bouquet. First Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just very briefly, thanks, Director Lewis for your comments. I think speaking for
myself, but I think probably for all of us, we're looking forward to working all together this year and for the
good of the agency as a whole and with you and everyone else. Thanks.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Guissinger.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Any final other-matter comments? And just a reminder, executive committee
meets this Thursday at noon. So executive committee members, please be there. And other Directors,
you are encouraged, invited and encouraged, to attend as well. Moving on, I will now entertain a motion
to adjourn.
BOBBY DISHELL: So moved, Dishell.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: Bouquet. And anybody opposed? That passes 15-0.
Good night, everybody. Thanks for great meeting, and we'll look forward to working on 2022. see you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Bye-bye.
TROY WHITMORE: Bye, everybody. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Bye, thanks.

