Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Shelley Cook, District L
Bob Broom, District F
Vince Buzek, District J
Claudia Folska, District E
Lynn Guissinger, District O
Shontel M. Lewis, District B

Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
September 24, 2019 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
William R. Beins – Lead Dispatcher – 28 years
Leonard Greimann – Mechanic – 20 years
Michael Huffaker – Instructor/Supervisor, Technical Training – 23 years
Derrick L. McAdoo – Equipment Maintenance Supervisor – 20 years
John Perry – Deputy Chief, Law Enforcement Operations – 35 years
Denise M. Price – Central Warehouse Supervisor – 20 years
Christina Romero – Light Rail Train Operator – 17 years
Jeff Sanders – Division Supervisor – 22 years
Deedra L. Sims – Bus Operator – 24 years
Linda Singer – Division Supervisor – 16 years
James Ray Thompson Jr. – Bus Operator – 20 years

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Communications & Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Guissinger
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Lewis
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Williams
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Mihalik
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Broom

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of July 16, 2019

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Contract Option Award for the Purchase of 13 Cutaway Buses

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to exercise the option of
contract 25FK006 with Master’s Transportation for the purchase of 13 Goshen cutaway
buses to be used for the Access-a-Ride and FlexRide services at a price not to exceed
$978,957.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services
Task Goal #3 – Asset Management/State of Good Repair
B.

Approval of Contract for SalesForce Licenses

It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract to Carahsoft for licenses for the Salesforce Licenses
(Customer Care Case Management/CRM) for an amount not to exceed $2,200,000
over 4 years. Subscriptions for the Customer Care Case Management/CRM will be paid
annually.
General Manager’s Goals
Core Goal #5 – Communication
C.

Approval of Manion Contract Extension & Dollar Increase

It is recommended by the Finance, Administration, & Audit Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to increase the amount of the annual Street Improvements & Shelter
Installations contract with Manion Construction, Inc. by $1,000,000.00, and extend the
contract until December 31, 2020. Funding for this contract amendment is provided by
various RTD budget line items.
This action addresses Core Goal #1 - Successful Delivery of Transit Services of the
General Manager’s goals for 2019.

XII.

Recommended Action
D.

Purchase Forty-six (46) 40 foot Low Floor Transit Buses

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to authorize the purchase of
forty six (46) new 40 foot transit buses from Gillig, LLC and associated spare components,
and extended warranties for a total price not to exceed $22,527,120 with an option to
purchase up to 264 additional 40 foot buses over a five year period.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services
Task Goal #3 – Asset Management/State of Good Repair
E.

Approval of the 29th & Welton Property

It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors extend by two 90-day terms (for a total of six months) the option
for the sale of the real property located at 2907-2915 Welton Street, Denver, Colorado
(the “Property”), including execution of any deeds and other property conveyance
documents.
This action addresses one of the General Manager’s goals for 2019:
Task Goal #3 – Ensure Fiscal Sustainability

XIII.

Items from 3 Directors or More
F.

Approval of National Medal of Honor Museum Sub-lease

It is recommended by Chair Tisdale, Director Broom, Director Catlin, Director
Guissinger, Director Walker and Director Whitmore that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to negotiate and execute all
documents necessary for a sub-lease of the vacant portion of the real property located
adjacent to Civic Center Station on Colfax Avenue between Lincoln and Broadway,
Denver, Colorado (the “Property”), contingent on the National Medal of Honor Museum
(“NMOHM”) selecting Denver for its new museum. This would increase RTD revenues
by approximately $123,000 annually.
This action addresses one of the General Manager’s goals for 2019:
Task Goal #3 – Ensure Fiscal Sustainability

XIV. Old Business
XV.

New Business

XVI. Executive Session
Conference with Legal Counsel on DTP and RRP litigation matters. CRS 42-6-402 (4) (b)
(conferences with an attorney for the local public body for the purposes of receiving legal
advice on specific legal questions)

XVII. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

