Sep 24 2019
Board Meeting
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, gentlemen, for doing us that honor today. Ms. McManus, if you
would please now call the roll of Director.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Mihalik. Director Rivera-Malpiede.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 14 present, one absent. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. McManus, who serves as the Executive Manager
of the RTD Board of Directors. At RTD, ladies and gentlemen, safety is our core value, and we
begin each of our meetings with a short safety briefing. Now if we have a medical emergency
that necessitates that 9-1-1 be called, I will ask our RTD General Counsel to make that telephone
call.
Any medically-trained individuals in the room are respectfully requested to assist. If needed, an
automatic emergency defibrillator, and AED device, is in a glass case located just outside this
room on the wall to the right. And in the event that we must evacuate the building due to an
emergency, please calmly exit out the door you came in at the back of this chamber, go up the
stairs to the first floor, around the security desk, and exit through the front door. Police and
security officers will be there to direct you to a safe meet-up area. And anyone needing special
assistance in the event of an evacuation will be assisted by RTD staff as necessary.
On a related safety note, RTD takes every reasonable precaution to ensure the security of its
passengers, vehicles, and facilities. But we also rely on staff and the general public to be aware
of, and alert to, any suspicious or dangerous activity on buses, and trains, and around stations,
and platforms, and stops. As such, we encourage all RTD employees and patrons to download
the RTD Transit Watch app, which allows users to report such activity and communicate directly
with RTD Transit Security personnel on a real-time basis, in the event of an emergency. The
Transit Watch app is available via Google Play and the Apple App Store. Remember if you see
something, say something. And with the Transit Watch app, you'll never ride alone.
Thank you. Now please note there are a significant number of elected officials and others who
have attended our Board meeting this evening time with a particular interest in one of the items
on our agenda, and that's namely item 13, action Item F. Concerning the approval of the National

Medal of Honor Museum sublease. Out of consideration for their time, absent objection, we have
moved this matter to first position on the portion of the agenda dealing with substantive matters,
and we will proceed with consideration of that item presently. But first we have some other
matters to attend to.
And the first is something that we find always of great significance and importance here at RTD,
and that's our Retiree Awards. There are several retirees for the months of July and August, at
least two of whom, I believe, are present here this evening. First, we will recognize John Perry,
Deputy Chief of Law Enforcement Operations, who has been with the agency for over 35 years. I
will call upon our RTD Chief of Police, Bob Grado, to say a few words. Chief Grado, the floor is
yours, sir.
BOB GRADO: Thank you, Board. It's my honor to be here doing this tonight. John, why don't
you come up here and stand next to me? I'm going to get started, and then I'll let John jump in
here with a few words. So as you noted, Chair, John's retiring after 35 years of service to the
district. John worked for the Aurora Police Department starting in 1982 through 1984. After that
John started his career with RTD in our operations division. In 1986, John became RTD's thirdever Security Specialist. Over the years, John became intimately connected to literally every law
enforcement agency in the region.
He was known as the go-to guy for any need that a law enforcement agency would need to
interface with RTD. John was here for the inception of the legislation in 2004, which created the
law enforcement authority for the district and the transit police division. He was here for the
birth of our transit police. John remained a Transit Police Officer from 2004 to 2011, when he
was promoted to the position of Transit Police Commander. In 2017, John was promoted to his
final position of Deputy Chief of the Law Enforcement Bureau. John has been instrumental in all
of the security operations, and the development of the current security model that we operate on
today. With that, I'm going to hand off and let you take the floor.
JOHN PERRY: Thanks a lot. I just really appreciate the experience, to be able to come tonight. I
want to thank all my RTD family-- my wife [LAUGHS] who, for 30 years, got the middle-ofthe-night phone calls with me. And it's just been an amazing ride. And so my father was on the
Board of Directors. That's how I came into this organization. We ere, 35 years ago, having
dinner, and he said, you should get on with RTD and be a Bus Operator. And I said, well, why
would I want to do that?
[LAUGHTER]
And then I looked at the benefit package, and everything that RTD had to offer, and sure enough
tested and got hired. So your life really never goes in the directions that you expect it to. It's been
an amazing ride, and I just want to thank everyone.
[APPLAUSE]
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

[LAUGHTER]
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: Also with us this evening is Christina Romero, a Light Rail Vehicle Operator
for 17 years. Our Assistant General Manager of Rail, Dave Jensen, will do the honors. Mr.
Jensen, you, sir, have the floor.
CALVIN SHANKSTER: Sorry, Dave couldn't be here-DOUG TISDALE: Dave couldn't be here.
CALVIN SHANKSTER: Good evening, Directors. I'm Cal Shankster. I'm Senior Manager of
Planning and Systems for Light Rail, and I'm here to introduce Gary Schafer, the Transportation
General Superintendent. Thank you.
GARY SCHAFER: Thank you all. Chairman Tisdale, Members of the Board, and Dave Genova,
Thank you for giving us this opportunity to acknowledge 17 years of service to our district,
Christina Romero. Congratulations on that. Christina started out 17 years ago as a Passenger
Agent with the district. I don't even know that those positions anymore are existent. They've
changed out, but she started there. She came to Light Rail in 2013, and became an Operator for
us in the light rail system. She progressed through this system became, a Revenue Instructor.
Revenue Instructor, for us, is the Operators that take our new students out and teach them how to
operate trains out on the mainline.
Real strenuous job, and strained job. There's a lot of responsibilities. Did an excellent job for us.
She also became a group two supervisor for us, for a time when we had group two. So she filled
in for our supervisors. She participated in three local rodeos. One of the rodeos, she came in
second place. Which that means that she got to travel to Salt Lake City, and-- whoops. Hopefully
I didn't pull something down there. Yes, I did. She was in Salt Lake City. She came in first place
in the customer care portion of it.
[APPLAUSE]
I just personally want to take this time to thank Christina for all she gave to the district, and to
our passengers. In 17 great years of service, I thank you from the bottom my heart. Thank you
very much.
[APPLAUSE]
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: Have any of the other retirees joined us, perchance? So that we can recognize
you personally, individually? If not, I would like to note, for the sake of the record, the

individuals who could not join us tonight are William R. Beins, Lead Dispatcher, with us for 28
years. Leonard Greimann, a Mechanic with us for 20 years. Michael Huffaker, an Instruction
Supervisor in Technical Training for 23 years. Derrick L McAdoo, Equipment Maintenance
Supervisor over 20 years. Denise M. Price, Central Warehouse Supervisor for 20 years. Jeff
Sanders, Division Supervisor for 22 years. Deirdre L. Sims, Bus Operator for 24 years. Linda
Singer, Division Supervisor for 16 years. James Ray Thompson, Junior Bus Operator for 20
years. Please note the employees that we're honoring tonight have collectively contributed an
astonishing 245 years of service to the Regional Transportation District. On behalf of the Board,
please accept our most humble thanks and utmost appreciation for your incredible contributions
and your dedication to this, the finest transit agency in the nation. Give it up for them.
[APPLAUSE]
Ladies and gentlemen, we come now to our public participation period, which is open to anyone
who wants to address the Board. It is our custom to allow any of our elected officials present to
speak first so that they can get back to their own meetings and attend to their constituents'
business. If you have signed up to speak, I will call your name in the order in which you signed
up. If you have not signed up and would like to speak, I will ask for additional speakers at the
end of the list. And we will take those additional speakers at that time. Each speaker is allowed
up to three minutes. Let me repeat that. Three minutes.
We respectfully request that members of the audience refrain from any indications of support or
opposition to a speaker's comments, as such outbursts might reasonably have the effect of
chilling the free expression of thoughts by speakers. Please also bear in mind that by appearing at
the microphone you are consenting to being video and audio recorded by RTD, as all of our
meetings are recorded and made available on the RTD website. So if you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments only have to be submitted in writing. Please come to the lectern
when called, and state your name and address, and it can be your business address. If you have
any documentation or reference materials for the Board, please give those materials to the Board
staff prior to speaking.
So we begin with elected officials. And I am honored and pleased to say that we have with us
this evening the 45th mayor of Denver, Michael B Hancock. Mayor Hancock, if you would
please come forward. Thank you, sir.
MICHAEL B. HANCOCK: Thank you, Chairman Tisdale. To the Directors of RTD, I want to
thank you all for this opportunity, and let me thank Chairman Tisdale and Director Malpiede,
Director Genova, who have served as really kind of assistant and helping me to understand the
importance of this conversation, and the opportunity to come before you. I am Michael Hancock,
the Mayor of the City and County of Denver, 1437 Bannock Street, Room 350, Denver,
Colorado 80202. And I'm honored to come before you tonight to talk about the proposal before
you with regards to a parcel of land to help support Denver and the state of Colorado's efforts
around the National Medal of Honor Museum. This is a great opportunity for the City of Denver
and the state of Colorado, and indeed the Rocky Mountain region.

We have become known for our unity and collaboration as a region, and this is an opportunity
for us, once again, to demonstrate that value that we share here in Colorado. So let me Thank the
Board for reconsidering and bringing forward this issue for consideration. It's interesting, is that
collaboration and unity has allowed us to make sustained investments in RTD to increase our
connectivity. And it's that connectivity that, quite frankly, has Denver along with Arlington,
Texas, as finalists for the National Medal of Honor Museum. RTD has always, and will continue
to be considered a valued partner in economic development in our city and our region. And so I
am proud to stand with you today and ask for your support in supporting this resolution so that
we can continue our efforts and our economic success in attracting what I believe to be an
international gem to our city.
It's interesting that the investment that RTD has made was really one of the main reasons why
the National Medal of Honor Museum wants to come to Denver. The fact that many of the Board
members took A line from the airport to downtown when they came to visit our city. It's these
investments that I hear, not only from this selection committee, but from corporations who have
looked to Denver and have decided to move to Denver, why they've chosen to come to our great
city and to our region.
And so, this is an ample opportunity for us to further enshrine the commitments to these values,
to our transit partnership, and to leverage RTD for another critical component and attraction to
our great city. I want you to understand that the use of the RTD south lot is a critical component
to the museum project, and will provide transit connectivity from Civic Center Station directly to
the museum. Most museums incorporate green space landscaping and open space into their
design, and we think that this museum-- for example the mall, the mall in Washington is an
example, and even the Denver Art Museum are examples of opportunities. The National Medal
of Honor Museum wants to do the same. The size of the building lot will not support this, and
that is why the RTD lot, the soft lot, is so critical and will serve that function. So without the
ability to sublease this lot, Denver's proposal would not be competitive as Arlington. Thank you
all very much for this opportunity, and we appreciate the reconsideration, and for your support.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor. I'm going to ask-- I appreciate the Mayor
being here, too, and I know there's a natural excitement that you want to express. We're going to
ask you to try to quell that just a little, if you wouldn't mind. Next, it is my honor to recognize
the Mayor of our Arvada, Mr. Marc Williams, to come forward and to speak to the Board. And
again, Mr. Mayor, you can give your business address, and you'll have three minutes. Thank you,
sir.
MARC WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, Board. I am Arvada Mayor Marc
Williams, 8101 Ralston Road, Arvada, Colorado. Yes, my wife and I rode the gold line down
tonight to be here. I am currently the Chair Elect of the Metro Mayors Caucus, and I'm the past
President of the Colorado Municipal League. The Metro Mayors Caucus, representing 40 mayors
and nearly 2 and 1/2 million Coloradoans in the Denver metropolitan region, is pleased to offer
our highest level of support for the location of the National Medal of Honor Museum right here
in Denver, Colorado. Our region and state has a long, strong and proud record of supporting our
military and our veterans, and the location of the National Medal of Honor Museum would be
excellent for that. It would quickly become a landmark in our state, and provide inspiration to

future generations. This one-of-a-king kind National Medal of Honor Museum would represent a
major cultural asset that is projected to attract one million visitors a year.
Many of those visitors would rely upon your great public transportation system to travel from
and to this site, and that is so well-connected into our regional transportation system. This project
would bring a significant economic impact to the region. Our state folks have determined and
estimated, based upon economic models of similar museums, financial impact on new out-ofstate visitors, that this museum would generate between $600,000 and $3 million per year in new
sales tax revenue to RTD alone. We'd like to have them come out to Arvada while they're here,
and visit old town Arvada, of course.
The estimate does not include the following fiscal impacts and benefits that would also be
generated by the museum. New sales tax revenue from in-state, but out-of-district museum
visitors who would travel to Denver specifically for the experience, or new ridership and fair box
revenue generated by visitors to the museum. These folks would love to be here, would love to
see it. We urge your support, ask your reconsideration, and we thank the RTD Board for your
insightful and thoughtful consideration. We want you to partner with the state, the region, and
the city of Denver to make this happen. Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor. We appreciate your comments and your
being here tonight. Next, I recognize Denver City Councilor Chris Hinds. Councilor, if you
would come forward, please, and address us, and we'll have someone assist with the microphone.
[SNEEZING]
[ISIDE CONVERSATIONS]
DOUG TISDALE: No, I don't think it is.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: There a green light?
DOUG TISDALE: We'll restart the clock when we got a functioning here.
CHRIS HINDS: All right. There we go. Good evening, Board. My name is Chris Hinds, and my
address is 1437 Banock, Room 451, so I'm just upstairs from our Mayor of Denver. I am in RTD
district B, so thank you very much for representing us. I would also recognize two other
members. I would not be here today as an elected official if not for Director Folska and Director
Williams. Thank you very much for your support. I also happen to represent Denver City
Council's, District 10, which includes the proposed National Medal of Honor Museum site. And I
want to thank you very much for having us here this evening, and for reconsidering your vote.
I also want to say that I've been an elected official for about two months, and after the last vote, I
talked with a couple of the people that I know on the Board, and you have been heard. Just in the
last couple of months, I too have had to face votes where I had less than perfect information, and
I totally understand, and acknowledge, and empathize with people who feel like they did not
have full information, and that totally makes sense. So I have talked with some of my colleagues

who are here tonight, and I hope that you feel better informed about this vote. I would say I also
am one who lives my values. So if I'm going to ask others to come here before you today and
talk about why this is an important museum for the military, and for Denver, and Colorado, I'm
going to be here myself. So I did send a letter yesterday, but I wanted to follow it up to make
sure that you saw my face as well as my words.
And that if you had any questions or concerns about my support for the museum, that I was here
in person to answer or address any of those questions. You have been heard, and I hope that you
do have the information you need to move forward with a vote. If you do not, I'm certainly here
and welcome to answer any questions you might have. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Councilor. We very much appreciate your taking the
time to be here as well, and sharing your words. Next I will recognize Denver City Councilor
Christopher Herndon. Councilor, if you would come forward, please, and you will have three
minutes as well. Thank you.
CHRISTOPHER HERNDON: Chairman Tisdale and honorable directors, thank you for this
opportunity to speak. I am Chris Herndon, 4685 Peoria Street, Suite 245. Though I stand before
you as an elected official, the hat that I want to speak from today is that of a veteran. And I find
it fitting, because next week with my wife and I will be traveling to West Point for my 20-year
reunion. And there will be some of my classmates who aren't going to be there. Ben Smith, who
was killed in Iraq in 2003. Doug DiCenzo who was killed in Iraq in 2006. Dave Boris, who was
killed in Afghanistan in 2007. Paul Carron, who was killed in Afghanistan in 2010, just to name
a few. We're having conversations about the Medal of Honor awardees, but it's beyond that. If
Denver is selected, I'll walk those hallowed halls and I'll think of my classmates who have paid
the ultimate sacrifice. Two deployments during my time in the army, Kosovo and Iraq, I think
about the soldiers whose lives I was responsible for.
This is about them. This is about an opportunity to honor those who put their lives on the line.
Some paid the ultimate sacrifice and some did not. I recognize the challenges, as an elected
official, where you have to weigh various options. But I would ask that we would make a
positive vote so that Denver could be in the race to see this consideration, because this would be
an amazing thing for our city, for our community, and for our veterans. We can never do enough
to say thank you for the men and women who served, and I would ask for your positive vote.
Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Councilor. We appreciate your words. And I will just
note for the record, we have two Denver city councilmen, both of whom who spoke well within
their three minutes. Amazing, delighted. I think Mayor Hancock has an easier job than I thought.
Next, I will recognize Director Kate Williams from the RTD Board, who wishes to speak.
Director Williams, the floor is yours.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. It's different to be on this side. Mr. Chairman, fellow
Board members, and district A residents, I will be voting in favor of the National Medal of
Honor Museum being welcomed here to Denver. And I apologize if my previous words gave the
impression that I was opposed to the museum. I'm not a politician, even though this is an elected

position. I'm an advocate for older adults and people with disabilities. And I was asked to run for
this seat to speak for them. I acknowledge that my constituents include many more who do not
fall in those categories, and then I need to represent their interests as well. The threats that have
been made against my life, and the unimaginably vile statements that have been made to me on
my phone over my previous vote on this issue, have frightened me beyond words. I'm not brave
and honorable like 3,500 awardees who will be enshrined in the museum across the street from
the RTD property.
I apologize to those veterans and all of our active service people who I've offended. And I
apologize to my constituents, both those who asked me to stand my ground, and those who asked
me to reconsider. I'm just one person trying to do my best to represent a very diverse
constituency. For the record, I still believe that there may be better uses for this property, but that
doesn't mean that this is not a good use. It is of note that a variety of business and civic interests
have contacted me since I voted against leasing a piece of property, which is separated from the
proposed museum site by five lanes of traffic across one of our busiest streets. None of these
interests contacted me prior to last week's vote to discuss the importance of this project, or the
relevance of the independent piece of land. The information that was presented to me by RTD
staff, RTD's General Manager, and the current Chair of the Board was minimal and casual.
They neglected to give me complete and defensible reasons for the sale of a piece of land that is
not the museum site. But that does not excuse my poorly-chosen words. I sincerely hope that our
city council, which has not yet approved the funding to make this purchase a reality, receives
more complete information prior to being asked to vote on this same proposal. At this time, I am
losing my personal safety over what may be a moot point if the city and county of Denver does
not approve the funding. Again, I ask that you all accept my apology. And I thank you for your
tolerance in permitting this statement.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for your words, Director Williams. They are more
appreciated than you could possibly imagine, and we know you put a lot of energy and thought
into that. Are there other directly elected officials? I have a representative of an elected, but I
want to ask first if there are any other elected officials who would like to come forward to speak
at this time. Seeing none, then, let me turn to Stephen Emmon, a representative of Senator Cory
Gardner. Mr. Emmon, if you would come forward, please. Again, name, address, and then you'll
have three minutes. Up to.
STEVEN EMMON: Good evening and thank you for having us here tonight. My name is Steven
Emmon, and I am a regional representative for US Senator Cory Gardner. My address is 1961
Stout Street, Rom 12-300. Tonight, I come before you, and our office does not typically take
votes on local issues-- or takes positions on local votes, and we'll maintain that position tonight.
Instead, the senator has asked me to provide you guys with a letter sent to the CEO of the
National Medal of Honor Museum on September 4. I have printed off a letter for each member of
the Board, and turned that over to RTD staff. This is to provide context for your consideration
tonight. That is all I have.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Emmon, and we appreciate your taking the time
to be here. And please extend our greetings to Senator Gardner. Next, if there are no more

elected officials or representatives of electeds, the public participation log begins with Mr. Dean
Noechel. Mr. Noechel, if you would come forward, please, and you will have, sir, up to three
minutes. Name and address please.
DEAN NOECHEL: Good evening, Chairman Tisdale, RTD Board of Directors, fellow veterans,
and guests. My name is Dean Noechel, and I serve as the Department Commander of the
American Legion of Colorado, 7465 East 1st Avenue, Suite D, Denver, Colorado, 80230. I'm
here representing over 30,000 American Legion family members of Colorado. I appreciate this
opportunity and being granted the time. Let me share my sentiments and facts that will assist you
in your decision. We ask and call for your full support of the Medal of Honor Museum to be
located here in Denver, Colorado. For all veterans, the Medal of Honor is sacred reflects the high
value of courage and sacrifice rendered for our freedom.
Freedom isn't free. It is paid by a price that many men and women have paid. That understanding
for myself, and those that have served and continue to serve, is an understanding of duty and
service. Not for one's self, but for our country, and for all citizens that call the United States of
America home. I am sure that everyone here in this room those of someone, a loved one, a
family member, a friend, or neighbor, that has served. By your actions of support, you serve and
honor those we hold close. By your actions of support, you serve the high ideals of freedom.
Those principles and values are the foundation our nation was built upon. The Medal of Honor is
the highest award for valor, and actions against any enemy force, which can be bestowed upon
an individual serving in the armed forces of the United States of America. The importance and
significance of bringing the Medal of Honor Museum to Denver is paramount. To over a half a
million veterans of Colorado, Colorado veterans will strongly support this Medal of Honor
Museum. There are currently 80 living Medal of Honor recipients. 13 service members born in
Colorado have been awarded the Medal of Honor. Pueblo, Colorado is a hometown of four
medal of Honor recipients; William J Crawford, US Army, World War II; Carl L Sitter, US
Marine Corps, Korea; Raymond Jerry Murphy, US Marine Corps, Korea; Drew Dix, US Army,
Vietnam.
This past May 2019, and Pueblo Medal of Honor recipient Drew Dix stated, "This is not about
the four of us. It's about the medal recipients. All of us wear that medal. Wear it for those that are
unable to." The Medal of Honor Museum would not only recognize those Medal of Honor
recipients from Colorado, but all recipients throughout the United States. What an honor and
privilege for the City and County of Denver and Colorado to be home of the Medal of Honor
Museum. In closing in on behalf of the great many Colorado veterans who serve and served to
defend our freedom and our great nation, we encourage you to vote yes to bring the Medal of
Honor Museum home to Denver. Thank you for reconsidering this tonight.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Noechel. We appreciate your words. Let me now
recognize Mr. Eric Hiraga from the Denver Economic Development and Opportunity Office.
Good evening, Mr. Hiraga.
ERIC HIRAGA: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and honorable Board of Directors.
Thank you for considering the City's request regarding the National Medal of Honor opportunity.

My name, again, is Eric Hirage, Executive Director of Denver Economic Development and
Opportunity, 101 West Colfax Avenue, Denver, Colorado. I would like to speak today about the
City's portion of this proposal. Please note that pending the outcome of today's Board vote, and
in the event Denver is selected as the location for the museum, the City will enter into much
more detailed negotiations with RTD and the museum through the first quarter of 2020. Any
negotiated lease agreement will require City council approval, as stated earlier.
The proposed sublease would cover approximately one third, or 20,000 square feet of the RTD
south lot. Annual lease payments to RTD would be equal to RTD rental payment obligations due
under the ground lease, estimated at $123,000 annually, and escalating by 1% per annum. This
would offset RTD's costs in connection to the parcel. Under the proposal, the museum would
fund design, capital improvements, maintenance, and security of the open space-- again, at no
cost RTD. Under the proposed sublease, the site would be used as a publicly-oriented open space
leading to the museum. Final design will be determined by a national design competition, but
improvements will not include any permanent habitable structures, and use of the property shall
not interfere with RTD transit needs. RTD, as the primary lease holder, will have input on the
design of the improvements in terms of RTD standards, including lighting security, safety,
access, and operational needs.
I'd like to also mention that the lease agreements would commence upon the museum
demonstrating it has fully secured necessary funding to design and construct the museum, as well
as necessary funding to maintain the improvements and the premises. I do want to reiterate the
importance of RTD's south lot to the overall decision by the National Medal of Honor Museum
Board in making their site selection. Without it, we will not have a competitive proposal. In
addition, to state and RTD tax revenue, discussed earlier, the City anticipates $2 million in
annual incremental tax revenue to the City and County of Denver alone. Again, if Denver's to be
selected, the City, RTD, and the museum will be engaged in conversations around the details of
the vision of the south lot. Thank you, Board of Directors. We appreciate your partnership.
Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Hiraga. We appreciate your participation here as
well. Let me now recognize Mr. Randy Thelen from the Downtown Denver Partnership. Mr.
Thelen, if you'd come forward and give us your name and address. And then, again, you will
have up to three minutes to speak. Good evening, sir.
RANDY THELEN: Good evening, Chair Tisdale. Good evening, Board of Directors. My name
is Randy Thelen. I'm the Vice President of Economic Development for the Downtown Denver
Partnership. Live at 8565 East 50th Drive, and I'm a daily user of the A line. So thank you for
that service. I also want to say thank you to Director Williams. I had a chance to talk to a number
of you over the last several days and Director Williams, our conversation was wonderful. And I
understand, unfortunately, you had to face some lack of civility that we faced in this country
today head on, and I appreciate your comments here tonight. I'm losing my voice, so bear with
me, and I'm going to go off script a little bit, and just share two key points for you to consider.
This has been a very competitive process for us to win this sort of next national treasure, an
amazing National Museum here in the heart of our city. We started in competition with New

York City, Washington DC, Atlanta, Dallas, San Diego, and of course here in Denver, and we
made it to the final two.
They looked at all kinds of factors, but a couple of them played a key role. The connectivity of
the site. The 16th Street mall shuttle really depositing in potential visitors to that location was a
prime consideration, especially when you consider their initial site search was looking for more
of a five acre, traditional museum setting. More green space around their property that could
send that classic, reverent kind of location for museum presence. Our site did not offer that, and
so it was a struggle to get them to visit our community to take a look at what we could offer, and
the connectivity, and the prominence of the Civic Center Park, Lincoln Memorial Park, and all
the memorials and monuments that are deposited in the parks today. All of that tied in to make a
case that was appealing and attractive, and ultimately convinced them to make a site visit and
explore further. When we did tour the site, and as somebody said earlier, take the A line to Union
Station. Take the mall ride up to Civic Center Station, and then walk to the site.
They did immediately start to see the opportunity. They did immediately start to see the context
of all the facilities that are around it, all of our civic and cultural assets that surround Civic
Center Park. Candidly, they also saw the gravel lot that RTD owns, and instantly thought that
could help be a solution for the green space that they see as part of their project. And as you walk
it today, as you think about the walk from the mall shuttle at Civic Center Station around to the
site, it's not difficult to imagine what a grand promenade would look like. It's not difficult to
imagine how that would take a visitor to start their experience of the mall well before they step
foot into the facility, and that connectivity across that lane is something we can accomplish, and
is something that can give people of the right state of mind. And frankly, for all of Denver, and
all of the region, and all the state, give them a chance to have a taste of the experience, of the
museum experience, without even having to enter the museum. I think it's a special opportunity,
I'm thankful that you're willing to reconsider this evening. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Thelen. We appreciate your participation here as
well. Next I would like to call forward Rachel Benedict to the microphone. Please, if you would
come forward and give us your name and address, and then you will have up to three minutes to
speak. Good evening.
RACHEL BENEDICT: Good evening, Chairman Tisdale and RTD Directors. My name is
Rachel Benedict. I'm the Vice President of Sales and Services at Visit Denver, 1555 California
Street, Suite 300 Denver, Colorado, 80202. On behalf of Visit Denver, I want to thank you for
allowing us the opportunity to come and talk to you and provide our input regarding the National
Medal of Honor Museum from a tourism standpoint. This museum is a significant opportunity
for our city as a tourism destination. This is truly the chance of a lifetime for Denver to bring
visitors from around the world to experience this one of a kind national treasure. In recent years,
Denver has become one of the top tourism destinations in the country welcoming more than 31
million total visitors for the last three consecutive years. These visitors contribute $5.6 billion in
economic impact for our city and state, creating jobs and generating tax revenue that residents
would otherwise have to pay.

With such a broad range of world-class shopping, dining, attractions, arts and culture, and sports
offerings, many of these visitors are returning multiple times. In fact, 80% of overnight leisure
visitors in 2018 stated they would really enjoy visiting Denver again. And it's Denver's cultural
scene that drives much of this visitation. In fact, eight out of our city's top 10 visitor attractions
are museums and cultural facilities, which generated a record attendance of 15 million in 2017
according to the Colorado Business Committee for the Arts. With all these facts in mind, we
hope you will consider the vast economic benefits this museum would contribute to our local
economy for years to come, and not to mention the lasting legacy this creates for our community
and its future generations. We respectfully ask for your support from the National Medal of
Honor Museum by leasing your property to the City of Denver. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. Benedict. We appreciate your being with us here
this evening. Next, I'd like to recognize the Executive Director of the Governor's Office of
Economic Development and International Trade, Congresswoman-- former-- Betsy Markey.
Please, if you'd come forward, Ms. Markey, and please your name and business address for the
record.
BETSY MARKEY: Yes, thank you Mr. Chairman and Directors. Betsy Markey, Executive
Director of Office of Economic Development, 1800 Broadway in Denver. I'd like to read an
excerpt of a letter from Governor Polis, and also a bipartisan group of state legislators. "Dear
RTD Board members, as you know, our region and state are home to one of the most dynamic
economies in the country. We would like RTD to join us to help maintain that prosperity, and
partner to create a home for the new National Medal of Honor Museum, where Americans can
honor and learn the history of its bravest and finest. Colorado shares a proud military history, and
is home to several active duty military installations, and a vibrant veteran's community.
Many Medal of Honor recipients have called our great metropolitan region and state home. This
is our chance to honor the sacrifices and help to educate future generations about duty, sacrifice,
public service, selfless heroism, and humility. Our ability to attract the museum's interest is in
part based on all the investments our region has made in infrastructure and transportation. And
this will reinforce ridership and revenue, to help keep our infrastructure viable. Without your
support, we will lose out on a once in a generation opportunity to secure this amazing asset for
our region, state, and capital city.
We encourage you to consider the offer from the City and County of Denver to sublease the land
by the Civic Center Station to the City and create a collaborative, open space with the museum.
Sincerely, Jared Polis, Governor." Also signed by Leroy Garcia, President of the Senate. Stephen
Feinberg, Senate Majority Leader. Chris Holbert, Senate Minority Leader. Casey Becker,
Speaker of the House. And Alec Garnett, House Majority Leader. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. Markey. We appreciate your being here and
sharing that letter. And I believe, for the sake of the record, that letter is in the packet that the
Board members have. Next, I will call on Mr. Steve Kjonaas, who is one of our pledge leaders
this evening as well. So thank you, sir, and now you have the opportunity to give us your name,
address, and speak up to three minutes.

STEVE KJONAAS: My name is Steve Kjonaas. It's spelled K-J-O-N-A-A-S. You were really
close, Chairman, but too bad. Anyways, I'm Steve Kjonaas. I'm the Legislative Director for the
Veterans of Foreign Wars here in Colorado, and we represent thousands and thousands of
veterans. And Directors, thank you for your time. Thanks for your consideration of this
important decision that we're making tonight. Director Williams, on behalf of everyone in the
Veterans of Foreign Wars, we apologize. I literally speak with thousands of veterans every year,
and that's not the type of people we are. Let me go on.
Long time ago, there is a man in the Air Force, Airman 1st Class, Pitsenberger. He was only a
two striper. He was a para rescue man. He learned, his trade he learned his craft, through several
different schools. And in 1966, he was part of a rescue squadron in Vietnam. He often-- he lived
by how we all received medal of Honor recipients, on that it's not important how they died, but
it's important about how he lived. And as a retired Air Force firefighter, he used to be what these
para-rescue folks all the time. I would say they live by the motto, as I grew up as an Air Force
firefighter so others may live. Now let me tell you about his actions.
He embodies, often, what we say is a Medal of Honor awardees and on how we live. And much
as we honored the RTD Police Officer, John, as the go-to guy. The guy who makes things
happen. Those are Medal of Honor awardees. So in 1966 Pits, as he was often known, was
dropped until was dropped into a battlefield, the most bloodiest battlefield in Vietnam at the
time. And what happened was, there was this army unit, known as the Big Red One, who was
battling the Viet Cong, and the army unit was losing. They had 134 men fighting, and eventually
lost 80% of their force. The para-rescue folks went into this operation to save and to work on
these patients, who were being shot at, who were being killed, who were being injured. And on
that day that he got dropped in, that he did rescue hundreds of people there. And that I'd like to
say is that, based on how he lived, that's the reason we need this museum here in Denver. Thank
you for your time.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Kjonaas. We appreciate your being here and
participating in it. Next on my list is Matt Brady. Mr. Matthew Brady, if you'd come forward,
please, and give us your name and address. And you will have up to three minutes, sir.
MATTHEW BRADY: Thank you. I'm Matt Brady at 989 Navajo in Denver, 80204. My
privilege to be speaking here today, each Board member, and the Executive Director, should
have received a copy of my one-page summary, left yesterday, supporting the National Medal of
Honor Museum here in Denver. I have used RTD extensively since 1979, including getting here
tonight. As read, it should be a no-brainer to support. To emphasize, we have the opportunity to
downtown Denver the best venue attraction in decades. It will boost fare-paying RTD passengers
as well as attract more convention and conference bookings in our metro area. Locally, veterans'
families, and their out of town friends and relatives, educators that school youngsters will want
to visit the museum. With over 3,500 Medal of Honor recipients and accompanying military
history, there is plenty to look over.
It does not mean that Coloradans will be unable to tour the Medal of Honor Museum if it is built
in Arlington. It will only be necessary to pay the transportation to get there, and the lodging. We
spread our wealth and health out Texas. What is lacking now is our enthusiasm for the project,

but maybe that's changed. If the powers to be in Denver and Colorado appear lukewarm and
disinterested, then the selection committee will so note and think we have enough attractions
here and do not need any more. Seeing how welcoming and enthusiastic and helpful Arlington
people are, they decide the museum will go there, as Texas expects millions of visitors from this
project. You have to decide it's a no-brainer, and the vote for the Medal of Honor Museum in
Denver should be unanimous.
Also, no call for abusive behavior to any of our local elected officials. No matter what. Well,
thank you for your time. Any questions or comments?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Brady. We appreciate your-- oh, you had one
more thought? OK, you still have the mic.
MATTHEW BRADY: Tom is, at best, a distant relative.
[LAUGHTER]
I used to throw passes years ago, but I wasn't on his level. Nor am I financially. By the way, if
you have not received my one page summary, raise your hand as I have extra copies.
Everybody's got them. Good. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: They are in our package. Thank you very much, Mr. Brady. I appreciate that.
I was going to make the joke, I love your pictures, but I thought I'd let that go to. Our next
speaker is Izzy Abbas. Izzy, if you would come forward please, Mr. Abbas, and if you would
give your name and address, and you will have up to three minutes, sir. Good evening.
IZZY ABBAS: Good evening. My name is Izzy Abbas. I'm an Army Veteran, Desert Storm.
Former Commander of VFW Post One, current Commander of American Legion Post 5280. Yes,
we all get around. And I'm also a proud graduate of East High School. So I have a lot of love for
this city. We've heard some great stats tonight. We've heard some great stories. But one of the
things-- and Director Williams, you brought this up-- where you didn't have the information, you
weren't aware of what was going on. You weren't familiar with the subject matter, and that's
totally understandable. Right now our nation, less than half a percent of our nation currently
serves in the military.
When I give speeches on Introduction to the military to school kids all around the country,
always talk, ask them to guess. And I tell them, all the jobs the military does, and everywhere we
are in the world, and I ask them to guess how many people there are in the military. Most of
them think between 5 and 10 million. There's about 1.4 million in the military. Very small
number. And that's meaningful, because one of the things that this museum will do is help
bridging the divide between the general public and our SMVF community. Service members,
veterans, and their family community. And part of that is, if you look back to World War II, 14%
of this nation served in the military. You look at Vietnam where we had to draft, 7 and 1/2%
served. Right now, less than one half of 1% serves in the military.

If you add their spouses, their children, their loved ones who are constantly worried about the
dangers they're facing, that adds up to a sizable number. Here in Colorado, we've got over
400,000 veterans. But if you add the SMVF community, it's well over 2 million. We've got a
connection here in Denver. That's important we need to promote this connection. We need to
share that education, so more people have that understanding of what our men and women go
through. And with that, thank you for your time.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Abbas. We genuinely appreciate that. I next call
upon David Stone to come forward. Again, one of our pledge volunteers this evening, and we
thank you for that. Mr. Stone, if you would please give us your name, address, and you'll have up
to three minutes. Good evening, sir.
DAVID STONE: Good evening, Chairman Tisdale. RTD Board of Directors, my fellow veterans
and guests, my name is David Stone and I am the Colorado State Commander for the Veterans of
Foreign Wars of the United States. Our department headquarters is at 1400 Carr Street in
Lakewood, 80214. I represent over 23,000 veterans and veteran families across the state of
Colorado. And I am sure by now that you understand just how important it is for many of us in
this room tonight to be able to honor those whose actions stand out by telling stories of unique
heroism. That, the Medal of Honor represents. I would like to take a moment to talk to you about
just one of these stories that I think highlights the need for this museum.
It's September of 1943 in Italy, and a platoon from the US Army's 36th Infantry found
themselves hemmed in by enemy fire whenever and wherever they tried to move. On impulse, a
Private decided to act. He inched his way forward, belly to ground, and was able to get close
enough to the enemy to toss a grenade, clearing that enemy position. His comments followed,
inching their way up the hill. And again, this Colorado native crawled forward, and took out
another machine gun nest with a direct grenade hit. After his comrades caught up, he repeated
the process yet again, with another group of enemy soldiers huddled around machine gun. The
remaining enemy ran off and the Americans secured the hill. But in the heat and the confusion of
battle, it was thought that this hero from Pueblo had been killed, when in fact he had been
captured, and would be a prisoner of war until his camp was rescued. His comrades told his story
of bravery, and his father accepted his Medal of Honor.
And that's where this story would have ended, had it not been for a curious Air Force Academy
cadet, who in 1976 realized that that Janitor named William J. Crawford, who had retired from
the army as a Master Sergeant in 1967, was a recipient of the Medal of Honor. There is more to
this story and many other stories of honor, and it is our charge as veterans to tell them, and that
we will tell them in classrooms, and we will tell them in veterans halls across this state. And it is
our hope that one day we'll tell them in the Medal of Honor Museum in Denver, Colorado.
Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Stone. We appreciate your words this evening. Next, I'll call
upon Dennis Krueger. Mr. Krueger, if you'd come forward, please, and give us your name,
address, and you'll have up to three minutes. Good evening, sir.

DENNIS KRUEGER: Good evening, and welcome Board Members. Thanks for the opportunity
to speak. My name is Denis Krueger, 1335, East 19th Avenue. I came here today to thank you
for your vote for the last week, and realized where this vote's going to go tonight with the people
that we've heard before. I came here in opposition to a yes vote on this, because I don't believe
this museum belongs in either Denver or Arlington, Texas. This museum should either be in the
National Mall in Washington, Arlington Cemetery, or offered to one of the service academies to
have on their bases. So that's my comments, and thank you for your time.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate that, Mr. Krueger. Thank you for
sharing your thoughts with us this evening. Next I'll call upon Laurie Pace. Laurie, if you will
please come forward, and give us your name and address, and you will have up to three minutes.
And good evening, Ms. Pace.
LAURIE PACE: Good evening. I'm actually going to withdraw my comments, but thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh.
LAURIE PACE: Yep.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Well, so Laurie is not present?
LAURIE PACE: I am Laurie Pace, but I'm no longer going to speak.
DOUG TISDALE: , Oh I'm sorry. Thank you. I was not able to hear you clearly. Thank you very
much, and we will strike you from the list. We appreciate your participation. Is there anyone else
who would like to speak to us at this time for up to three minutes, and exhaust the list that had
been provided to me as the sign in sheet? You are welcome-- don't feel obligated-- but you are
welcome should you choose to come forward and speak. Hearing none, we will close the public
participation period at this time, and we will return to an item on the agenda, because I am now
informed that one of our retirees has in fact been able to make it with us this evening, and I
would like to give her the opportunity to be recognized. And I believe Mr. Worthen is making
his way to the podium to assist in that regard. And we have retiree Deirdre Sims, who was an
Operator for 24 years. Good evening, Mr. Worthen. The floor is yours.
[APPLAUSE]
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, Mr. Chair, and thank you to all your veterans for your service.
I'd like to actually honor another veteran from a different form of service. Deirdre Sims is with
us tonight. She has been an Operator for 24 years. She has been at East Metro. You're joined by
your family. Would you like to introduce your family?
DEIDRE SIMS: It's my mom, and my sister. She's an Operator now. And my daughter is
somewhere, I don't know.
[LAUGHTER]

FRED WORTHEN: So we thank you and your family for your patience, and thank you very
much for your service, too.
[APPLAUSE]
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
DOUG TISDALE: We have several other procedural matters that we have to go through before
we get to our substantive matters. And the next procedural matter is our committee reports. The
item on our agenda this evening is the consideration of the committee reports. The committee
minutes were included in the Board packet. Are there any questions from any Director relative to
any of the committee reports that were submitted? Director Lewis, you are recognized.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I have a correction.
DOUG TISDALE: Please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Packet page five, it says that I was here at 5:00 AM. 5:45 AM for the Board
meeting.
[LAUGHTER]
Let's correct the record.
DOUG TISDALE: And the Executive manager of the Board Office will so note. Thank you for
the correction. Any other comments, questions or corrections relative to the minutes for the
committee reports? If not, then as corrected, here those minutes will stand as submitted, and
become a part of the permanent record. Next matter is to refer to the Chairman of the General
Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee, if he has any updates that he
would wish to share with us at this time concerning the GMOC.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I have no report this evening. Our next meeting of the
committee is October the 8th. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: It is so noted that the GMOC will meet on October the 8th. Next item on our
agenda is the approval of the Board meeting minutes for the July 16, 2019, Board meeting. No,
that's not a typo. Since the Board did not have any action items to consider following the August
committee meetings, we were not required to call a Board meeting for the month of August. That
said, we now need to approve the minutes from the most recent Board meeting, which was held
back in mid-July. May I have a motion, please, to approve the minutes?
KATE WILLIAMS AND VINCE BUZEK: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Williams. I have a second from Director
Buzek. Is there any discussion on that motion? And we may vote by electronic ballot right here.
And if Director Williams and Director Buzek will vote, the rest of us may vote. And by a vote of

14 yes and none zero, there is one absent vote, they are unanimously accepted. And I will, just
for the sake of the record, note that sometimes people wonder why do we take procedural votes
like this electronically when it's something simple like approving the minutes? And the answer is
because our minute track service actually uses that to create minutes much more quickly and
more accurately, and therefore we have the electronic vote for those. I will now turn to the
Chair's report, and I will make this as quick as I can. There's a lot of activity that the Board has
been up to lately.
Second Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede, Director Walker, and I along with staff members attended
the APTA, that's the American Public Transportation Association Board Members and Board
Administrators conference in Jacksonville, Florida from July 20 to July 23. Denver Union
Station's fifth anniversary party was held on Friday, July 26, and directors Catlin, RiveraMalpiede and others were fortunate to be able to take part in that. Denver Metro Chamber held a
2019 State of the City luncheon at the Seawell Ballroom at the DCPA on Tuesday, July 30, and
directors Folska, Guissinger, and Williams attended that. Second Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede,
Director Lewis, and I were in attendance at both the 64th annual meeting of the Downtown
Denver Partnership, held on Thursday, August 1, and the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce's 12th
Annual Sabor event held the following day.
Director Williams attended the AARP conference on aging on Wednesday, August 21. Also on
August 21, I attended the Northwest Douglas County monthly membership luncheon. Director
Lewis and First Vice Chair Catlin participated in the Colorado Women's Chambers Women in
Government event, held at the Commons on Champa on Thursday, August 22. The Denver
Metro Chamber of Commerce annual meeting was held on Thursday, September 5, and Directors
Lewis and Williams attended. The Revolution Conference in Vancouver, British Columbia, took
place from September 8 through September 11. Directors Williams, Lewis, and Buzek, and 2nd
Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede all attended. My fellow Board members and I, once again, sat down
with our counterparts from CDOT's Transportation Commission for a dinner meeting, held in the
spirit of communication, collaboration, and cooperation, at Bistro Barbs in North Park Hill just
last week.
First Vice Chair Catlin, and Second Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede and I, along with members of
our staff, attended the transportation, and construction girl luncheon yesterday, where Second
Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede offered remarks. This was an extraordinarily powerful event and an
important opportunity for us to engage with the future leaders of our industry. Upcoming events,
Director Williams will be traveling to Keystone, Colorado, tomorrow to attend the 2019 CASTA
Fall conference. Director Lewis and Second Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede will attend an annual
luncheon held by the Women's Foundation of Colorado at the Colorado Convention Center on
Friday, October 11. And several of us, including Director Lewis, Director Whitmore, Director
Williams, First Vice Chair Catlin, Second Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede, and I will all travel New
York City to attend the American Public Transportation Association's Transformed Conference,
our annual meeting, from October 13 through October 16.
And if there are other matters that Directors would like to bring to our attention in terms of
activities past or future, please feel free to do that when we get to new business at the end of the

agenda. In the meanwhile, I turn to General Manager, for General Manager Genova's report at
this time. Good evening, Mr. General Manager.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I will get through my report rather quickly tonight. As
always, the version is in your packet, if you want to read through and see the detail. Burt I will
just outline a few of the highlights in the last month. We had a meeting, not just RTD, but a
variety of transportation leaders, with Senator Bennet's staff in Longmont on Monday, August
26. It was an interesting meeting. They just really wanted to listen and hear the perspective of
our transportation needs of various stakeholders in the state. So that was an interesting time to
spend with them. We continue to meet with Greyhound. We met with them last on Thursday,
August 29. Of course, they're highly interested in utilization of Denver Union Station and the bus
facilities. So we continue to talk to them. And we'll be bringing a briefing back to the Board on
that soon, as far as where those conversations are leading.
On Wednesday, September 4, I was able to present at a DRCOG Board work session on the
FasTracks report, on the remaining corridors. And then also on Reimagine RTD. A couple other
items I'll just highlight, is that earlier in the month, we launched the transit app feature of being
able to pay for your transit fare in the transit app. So now this is the second app that's very
universal, in addition to Uber, where people can buy transit fare in those apps. And again, just
like Uber, the transit app, I think RTD right now is the only one that's available to pay for fare.
Late last week, I had a very good call with DJ Mitchell. He's the Vice President of Passenger
Operations for the Burlington Northern Santa Fe. We had a good follow up discussion on the
Northwest Rail peak service plan, and I expect to hear some additional information from them in
a couple of weeks. They've been working on modeling, especially on working on the train time
to make that competitive with the bus trip. So I was very encouraged by our conversation, and I
look forward to following up with him in a couple of weeks. Just this last week, I began some
forums for employees to present the Reimagined RTD, and I've been on several of them. Over
the next week or so, I will be around to all of the divisions, just informing them about what our
work plan is under Reimagine, how we're going to be engaging employees, and the tools that we
have available for them to use today.
Later this week, I plan on sending to the Board of Directors the stakeholder, communication, and
engagement plan. This has been something the Board has had a lot of interest in as we've
developed our work plan under Reimagine RTD about the outline for how we're going to go
about public and stakeholder engagement. So my plan is to send that to you later this week. Also
we've made very good progress on the selection or the application process, in narrowing down
the selection on the advisory committee that's going to help us inform the Reimagine process,
and also the technical working group. And I hope to have information on some of those folks and
what that selection process looks like towards the end of this week as well.
And I will tell you also, in regards to Reimagine, the Reimagine RTD web page is live and
available. And there's several ways in there that people can interact with us. One is you can
subscribe by email to get updates on Reimagine. I would encourage everyone to do that. I've
done that. And there's a variety of other tools on that web page about how people can submit
comments, including an interactive map, and an idea wall where we can start to gather

information. And so those things are available now, and of course, this is just the beginning of
that. So I'm happy to take any questions, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. General Manager. Appreciate that. Are there any
questions? I know Director Folska has one. The rest of you may please, if you wish, sign in at
any time. Director Folska, you are recognized.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Thank you, Mr. Genova. That's an interesting
update. Two questions. First of all, can you elaborate on what DJ Mitchell had to say from
BNSF?
DAVE GENOVA: Yes, I can, Director Folska. So one of the things that we've been looking at,
even as we look at the peak service plan and trying to get those capital costs lower to a point that
we might be able to get there with funding, is their original modeling on the infrastructure that's
available now on the line. The train trip was about the same time as the bus trip. And so DJ being
very familiar with passenger services is trying to do some additional modeling to see what it
would take to make that train trip more competitive. And so he did share with me that they think
they have some preliminary information on the number of sightings that it might take, in terms of
an infrastructure improvement, to be able to deliver a faster train trip than a bus travel time.
So that was one encouraging area. And then the other thing is, he wants to talk to us about
alternative vehicle technology, in terms of what's available and what they see as coming
available in the market that might be of interest to us-- in terms of ve vehicle technology, I
should say.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So, EMUs versus diesel?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, not just EMUs, but battery-powered EMUs. And there's some other
technology that's coming out on the market as well. Most of it's in Europe, though, and not in the
US yet. Some of it's like fuel cell technology, as well.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, I have to say thank you for that. It's very encouraging. And I hope
that in that conversation, more will come of the improvement of the infrastructure in the local
communities to improve their congestion when other trains are passing through, that could have
flyovers and that sort of thing. My second question is, I love the interactive approach that you're
taking for reimagining RTD, and I'm kind of wondering specifically what are you and our AGM
of Communications planning for outreach and really getting our youth engaged and committed,
and really feeling invested in this process? Because ultimately, it is about them. Thank you,
Chair Tisdale.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate those questions, Director Folska.
Director Lubow, you-- Oh, I'm sorry. I apologize. I thought he was going to take it under
advisement, get back to you. I apologize. Mr. General Manager, would you please respond to
Director Folska's questions?

DAVE GENOVA: Yes, we do have plans to engage youth, and probably similar to focus types
of groups. We know there was some discussion about what role various individuals on the
Advisory Committee, and then also our technical working group. But we feel with the youth, that
that would be a better engagement with them, would be more like a focus group kind of an
environment. So we could reach many more than just a few.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Folska, and I appreciate your patience with
me on that. Director Lubow, now you're recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I'll be real quick. I was just wondering, Dave, if you
could tell us did we get a good bunch of applications for the Advisory Committee for
Reimagining?
DAVE GENOVA: We did. In total we received over 70 applications to serve on the Advisory
Committee, and then also the technical working group. And I saw kind of a preliminary briefing
today from the team, and it looks like we have very good representation in terms of
demographics across the district, and geographics. Organizations as well. There's still a few areas
we'd like to round out in terms of maybe a few more elected officials from the different tip
regions, but other than that, we feel that we've got a very good response, and we're very pleased
with it. We will be doing some outreach, though, in some areas that we felt were maybe a little
light that we'd like to bolster up.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lubow. We appreciate that. Anything further
you care to add at this time, Mr. General Manager?
DAVE GENOVA: No, Mr. Chairman.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. As I stated earlier, a significant number of elected
officials and others have attended our Board meeting this evening tonight with a particular
interest in one of the items on our agenda. Namely, that was-- which was originally cast as Item
13, Action Item F-- it is now, if you look on the screen, under Agenda Item 11, and its Action
Item A. And it's concerning the approval of the National Medal of Honor Museum sublease. Out
of consideration for their time and now without objection, we have moved this matter to the first
position on the portion of the agenda dealing with substantive matters, and we will proceed with
consideration of that item now.
And the item reads, "It is recommended by Chair Tisdale, Director Broom, Director Catlin,
Director Guissinger, Director Walker, and Director Whitmore, that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General manager and/or his designee to negotiate and execute all documents
necessary for a sublease of the vacant portion of the real property located adjacent to Civic
Center Station, on Colfax Avenue between Lincoln and Broadway Denver, Colorado, described
as 'the property' contingent on the National Medal of Honor Museum, also referred to as
NOMHM, selecting Denver for its new museum. This would increase RTD revenues by
approximately $123,000 annually. This action item addresses one of the General Manager's goals

for 2019, task goal number three, ensure fiscal sustainability." May I please have a motion to
approve?
PEGGY CATLIN: Move approval.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from the First Vice Chair. I have a second from the Second
Vice Chair. Let the record reflect that the movement is First Vice Chair Catlin, and the second is
Second Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede. Permit me to my provide, briefly, some context for this, as
the Board only infrequently sees matters that come forward pursuant to the three directors rule,
which is found in our bylaws. Following last Tuesday's committee vote on the question of
subleasing certain property to the City and County of Denver for the use and benefit of the
National Medal of Honor Museum, which vote failed to advance the matter, a written
notification of requested action item was submitted so that this item might come forward as a
new action item under our rules for consideration by the full Board this evening. The deadline
for such a submission was noon on Wednesday last week, just 14 hours after we had adjourned
the committee meeting around 10 PM on Tuesday night. As of noon on Wednesday, there were
sufficient signatories to the submission. The Executive Committee considered the matter on
Thursday, and posed a number of questions for over an hour to representatives of the Governor's
Office of Economic Development and international Trade, the Denver Economic Development
and Opportunity Office, and Downtown Denver Partnership, some of those people who spoke
today.
Those questions were answered in great detail. In addition, several pages of additional material
were submitted to the Executive Committee, and forwarded simultaneously to all of the Board
members, and also published on the website so that the public might see all of these materials.
The Executive Committee voted unanimously to forward this item to the full Board for tonight's
meeting. Since that time, other items concerning this proposed sublease have been received by
the Board office and have been submitted to the full Board, and made available to the public.
The matter is, therefore, properly before us this evening, which coincidentally is what staff had
proposed to the Board seven weeks ago, when the original action item was first presented to the
Board on August the 6th. The chair will now open the matter for discussion, and I will first
recognize Director Williams. You are recognized, Director.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I'd like to note for the record that I was not
invited to participate in this motion, and that's why my name is not there. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Director Whitmore, you are recognized.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just want to assure the public that my no vote last
week was not about greed, and certainly not about being unpatriotic. I appreciate everyone's
service, especially those in the room. And all of you being here tonight, it means a great deal,
and your stories and your testimony is quite moving. But it was about the Board's fiduciary
responsibility to direct this transit agency appropriately, with our taxpaying constituents and our
taxpaying transit utilizers first and foremost. Just last week, we once again heard of the financial
challenges ahead of us as we strive to continue service at current levels, keep our fares stable,

and hope to increase service and ridership. Now while our gravel pit isn't much now, what could
it be?
Well, we need it for expansion or for other facilities. How could it be effectively leveraged to
help us accomplish our mission of effectively, affordably, and safely moving people? Last week,
I didn't speak during debate on the potential park across the street from the proposed Medal of
Honor Museum. We were, I remind you, amid a four hour plus meeting, and I do not pride
myself on being a charter member of the Department of Redundancy Department. So I did not
speak. However, tonight I do have a couple of thoughts. There are some concerns that were
voiced so eloquently by my colleagues. I didn't feel the need to repeat.
A break-even real estate deal is not a smoking hot deal, per Director Buzek. 55-year lease is a
little problematic. I think Director Menten has voiced that a couple of times. I also was
concerned with the safety, maintenance, and appearance of the park to truly be an asset for the
museum and the City. Number of Directors, like Director Williams, mentioned that. I did,
however, appreciate I appreciate the staff assurances that this parcel will not be needed for Civic
Center expansion, and that the lot is not big enough for future RTD buildings. Perhaps most
troubling last week, though, was the lack of communications regarding the scope, prestige, and
economic impact of this magnificent facility, said eloquently by Director Rivera-Malpiede.
Now I'll take some blame for this, and not doing more research on my own, but prior to Tuesday,
not one stakeholder reached out to me. Not one. And our information was, at best, limited. Well,
as you might imagine, on Wednesday that changed greatly.
[LAUGHTER]
The floodgates opened, and we all heard from a plethora of sources with a great deal of relevant
and important information. Special thanks to Jeff Kraft from the Governor's Office of Economic
Development and International Trade. He was wonderful, and spent several hours with me on the
phone discussing items of importance. I also talked to Randy Thelen, who's here tonight. Thank
you for being here with the Downtown Denver Partnership. I appreciate your time and your
patience in addressing my concerns. And also Eric, for your fine documents. Very helpful. Very,
very helpful. Last week after the vote, I signed off on the document that resulted in the Board
revisiting this issue tonight, because I felt that more input and study was sincerely needed to
make the right decision.
And while I'm still a bit concerned about the lost opportunity of our lot at Civic Center, I
certainly have been convinced by Jeff, Randy, Eric, and many others, that for the greater good,
the next purpose of our gravel pit should indeed be a grand and river entrance for our vets at a
very special place, the National Medal of Honor Museum in Denver, Colorado. I sincerely hope
that we are awarded the museum, and I truly look forward to visiting it. Thank you to the
veterans and everybody else has been here tonight. Mr. Chair, Thank you for your indulgence. I
will be a yes vote tonight.
DOUG TISDALE; Thank you very much, Director Whitmore. We appreciate your words.
Director Buzek, you are recognized, sir.

VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair, and I will be echoing a number of Director Whitmore's
comments. I was also a no-voter last Tuesday, and I'd like to take a moment to explain why I
voted in that fashion. And as Director Whitmore said, we owe a fiduciary duty to our transit
taxpaying constituents to make responsible financial decisions. Applying fiscal policy must be
based on sound information, and must be applied even-handedly. When making decisions to
dispose of or monetize unused or unproductive property, the end use can only be one factor we
consider. It cannot be the sole determining factor. Monetizing such property needs to be done
with due diligence. Arguably, accepting the prior $1 per year subsidies would have been
monetizing the property, but that would not be a proper application of our fiscal policy.
Determining whether a disposition of property is fiscally sound is not cynical, and it's not greedy.
It's our legal obligation. Last Tuesday, we were not provided any financial data upon which to
make such financial decisions. We had a page-and-a-half, and a picture of the property. Instead,
we were given an emotional argument to turn a gravel pit, which it's not, into something
attractive, because the end use, the museum, would be a good thing to have.
We were asked to accept a break-even deal without knowing the value of the property or the
impact the museum may have on revenues in some other fashion. What made last Tuesday's
proposed action even more curious, and I think Director Whitmore alluded to it, was the irony
found further in our Director packet that we received. Because we had reports from our Chief
Financial Officer talking about the difficult financial position of RTD, and that in the very near
future we were going to have to make some hard decisions. And yet on the other hand, we are
being asked to make a financial decision without any information. That just didn't fly for me. My
district is frustrated beyond belief, and my district is North Metro Area, Westminster, Federal
Heights, Northglen They're frustrated beyond belief in what they see as RTD's failure to honor
its promises from the 2004 FasTracks legislation.
They have been told the north rail lines are not coming any time soon because of RTD's difficult
financial position. And RTD has been harshly criticized as a result of this information. Yet
attempting to ensure a real estate transaction makes financial sense was viewed as, somehow,
unpatriotic. In fact, the Denver Post and Daily Camera editorials stated in support of the heroes
that would be honored in this museum, RTD should be willing to sacrifice a bit of profit in
tribute.
But what is a bit of profit? Is that $1,000? $100,000? $100 million? We didn't know the answer
to that last Tuesday, and we have a fiduciary duties to our taxpayers to know that information.
That being said, I can tell you now why I will be supporting this item tonight. And as Director
Whitmore has alluded to since last Tuesday, our staff and outside agencies have provided to me,
and the Board, detailed financial information and projections that show the financial impact to
RTD of this property disposition will be quite positive.
In addition, I have also spoken with representatives of the Governor's Office, the Denver Mayor's
Office, as well as Denver and state Economic Development officials. Without this additional
new information, I have to tell you, my vote tonight would be the same as last week. With this
information, I am satisfied that I'm fulfilling my duties to my constituents and supporting
regional and state efforts that have merit. Thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Buzek. We appreciate your words as well.
Director Folska, you are recognized.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. And thanks to my colleagues, Director
Whitmore and Director Buzek. My speech will be much shorter because I echo your sentiments.
My decision tonight has changed because of the additional information we were provided with a
sound economic rationale for improving the district, and being able to deliver the promises that
we've made to all the constituents within the district. That being said, Mr. Chair Tisdale, I have a
question for you. You said, in your early remarks before opening it up to the Board members,
that this is the same proposal or issue item on our agenda as it was seven weeks ago. And the
same as it was last week. So , for the record, could you please explain to me how it differs as a
new agenda item, that we can then be assured that we're correctly voting on with the bylaws andDOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Yes, Director. I'd be happy to respond to the question. It comes
before us as a new action item. The previous item failed to pass out of committee, so it does not
come before us. However, six Directors signed a written notification of proposed submission of a
requested action item, and it comes before us. It is very similar, but it also has the benefit of
adding the new information, because the action item as proposed said that the additional
information responsive to the questions that were raised on Tuesday night last week would be
responded to. So it constitutes a new action item. It is based upon the original action item that
was first discussed by us in August, on August the 6th, and then discussed again on September
17.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Without all due respect, Mr. Chairman, could you please read me how the
agenda item is written in a new fashion?
DOUG TISDALE: If you'd like me to read the agenda item again into the record, I don't-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, how it's new from before. What's different about it? I know that we
all changed our vote because of this new information, but how is it written different?
DOUG TISDALE: The submission that was made to the Board office staff indicated that
additional information would be provided. It's not in the action item itself. We don't put those
details into a requested action item.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So the action item itself is not actually new or different. It's the same thing
from the last two times. Is that correct?
DOUG TISDALE: It is not materially different. That is correct.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Rivera-Malpiede, Madam Second Vice Chair, you are recognized.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I, too, was a no vote last week, and I
want to say that I want to thank my colleagues for bringing up the issue. And I think the central
issue was the lack of communication and information. And since that time, I want to thank the
Mayor and the Governor's Office for reaching out, and their teams, and Randy from the
Downtown Denver Partnership, and all of the hundreds of constituents in my community, and the
phone calls. And we had some really great conversations. And I want you to know, I am a yes
vote for this particular piece to move forward tonight. I find it an honor for us to be asked to help
move forward a momentous opportunity of sacred ground, and that's really how I see it. And so,
I just wanted to say that I am very honored to sit on this Board with such powerful and really
courageous people who really speak their mind and are here for the community's benefit.
When we ran and there was about half of us who were elected for the first time or re-elected in
November, the number one issue for my constituents was transparency and openness. And I
think the silver lining for me is that that's exactly what this was. And so I want to say to all of
you, all of the veterans, thank you so much for being here. Thank you for sharing those stories.
And I want you to know that I'll be going there a lot, and that I do see this as sacred ground, and
I'm honored to be part of it.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Second Vice Chair. Madam Treasurer, you
are recognized.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I agree with many of the comments offered. I did
want to speak to the specifics of the proposal and why it's an exciting proposal, especially with
the added information. We had been considering mainly the financial remuneration, not the
adjoining benefits of the sales tax increases, the ridership and fare revenue increases, and so
forth. There's a significant synergy, I think, that we potentially will see with our being adjacent
to this facility. It's part and parcel now of one of our key hubs, the Civic Center hub, and I think
that presents real opportunities for reimagining that area, as well, in terms of its function and use
for the metropolitan area, and the region, and the visitors from abroad. And then I just wanted to
indicate how I appreciate the outreach and the importance that this obviously holds for people.
And in hearing all of that, I've become actually very excited by the prospect of the museum
being here and being seen as part of a district that includes all the cultural resources we have
along that quarter. So just wanted to add that positive note. Thank you, Chair.
DOUG TISDALE; Thank you very much, Madam Treasurer. Madam First Vice Chair, you are
recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. First of all, to all of you veterans who spoke and
told your very moving stories, and I want to thank you for your service. My son-in-law served a
couple of tours of duty in the Marine Corps in Afghanistan, and was under fire. So I definitely
respect what you have all endured and I will be proud to take him, when he comes to visit, to the
museum, when he comes to visit. Excuse me. In my term here on the RTD Board, I have never
had as many constituents reach out to me as I have had in the last week. And this was a matter of
extreme importance to a number of my constituents, and I really appreciated them getting a hold
of me.

Even though I was a yes vote last week, they were reinforcing their desire to keep this. I share
Director Cook's growing excitement about the possibilities and the potential that exists here for
leveraging some marketing opportunities with both organizations. I believe that having the
museum there could increase our ridership, and the fact that we are so close with our Civic
Center plaza, it really, really provides some great opportunity for leveraging both agencies to a
higher level. So thank you again for coming and for speaking on this, and I will remain a yes
vote. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam First Vice Chair. Director Lubow, you are
recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank, Chair Tisdale. Very quickly, I wanted to thank the your service and for
showing up here. I really appreciate it. We all do, so thank you. I was a yes vote originally and I
will continue to be yes vote, because it seems obvious to me-- even without all the information-that this museum could be a jewel and a gem in Denver on so many levels, and I didn't want
anything to jeopardize it. So I will continue to be a yes vote. And again, thank you for showing
up.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lubow. Director Menten, you are
recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I have some questions. Well, I do focus on financials a lot.
[LAUGHTER]
With this specific situation, what I am concerned about is the loss of the south lot to use for
transit purposes. So therefore, I have some questions. Some will be mixed with finances. But in
the lease, I notice some specific terms, and specifically it is that there would be increased cost if
a certain inflation trigger was found. While we have mentioned, at first it was 30,000 square feet,
then 20,000 square feet, the same figure $123,000 is consistent with the word estimate plus 1%
increase, I believe. I do want to make sure that this sublease will mirror what is in our lease. So
that's my first question. And why don't we go ahead and-- oh, let me go to the next one. And I
apologize, there's going to be about six questions, but are these things that still hang after three to
four days dedicated to this issue and researching it.
The next is, I was really under the impression that sublease would be to the foundation, not the
City and County of Denver. City and County of Denver would fund it, but in my mind I was
imagining they would then give money to the foundation. The foundation would be the
subleasee. So, could you give me the answers to those two items?
DOUG TISDALE: Director Menten, may I ask you, if you have more questions, if you could
please give as a matter of courtesy to the General Manager all at once, so that he may respond at
one time so that we don't have a back and forth? OK, thank you very much, Director.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. All right, then I'm going to go to one of my main concerns, and that
is what if situations present themselves where we do need to to expand service at the Civic

Center plaza? I will give a couple examples that I could think of, and that I think the whole
community would be hopeful for. And we could talk about the senior population boom, and
those perhaps who had served in war and face a disability. Let's say, as an example, that Uber
WAV, which is Uber Wheelchair Accessible Vehicles came along. And let's say that our
transportation transformation, also called Reminagine RTD, suggested that just south of our bus
station, that would be a great spot to let out those who may have disabilities. But we did not have
that lot available to us. What would we do?
That would be one end of the question. And I would say that there's access-a-cab expansion.
Other things that would be very similar to the Uber WAV, which is not here in Colorado, but we
are hoping that they come our way so that we can reduce and expand our service in the same
way. The next is going to be-- I don't know that RTD can answer this one, but this is a question
that really bothers me. I heard during one of the speeches at the podium there that, ideally, they
would have been looking for a five-acre spot. And when I add up the square footage for our
south lot, at which is now coming in stated at 20,000, and I really haven't heard staff verify that.
But let's say it's 20,000 square feet, and then I look at what I believe is 1540 North Lincoln
Street, which is where the museum itself would be built-- which, by the way, that's never what
we were voting on. Just to be really clear, we were voting on a park.
None of the Board of Directors were ever opposed to the museum. Just going to restate that. But
if I add together the 20,000, let's say, square footage from our south lot, the 33,000 square feet
for the proposed museum, I just can't understand why we are not building this museum and the
grand entryway in the 133,000 square foot lot that sits in the park right across from our south lot.
And it's called Veterans Lincoln Memorial Park. Within that park-- I didn't even know this until I
did a thorough walkthrough-- is a Congressional Medal of Honor recipient a statue to Joe
Martnez. And after talking some vets, they didn't know that that statue existed. So it still puzzles
me why we are so driven-- some people-- to take 53,000 square feet that doesn't have the
existing infrastructure of a park setup, and why aren't we putting it in the park that has 132,000
square feet? It's so much more room.
And we all know, land is-- you just don't build it downtown. So I have a hard time understanding
why this beautiful museum, which could be even built bigger scale, and a grand entrance to this
park, why would we not be putting it in Veterans Lincoln Memorial Park, which is roughly 100
feet away from our bus line? So those are all the questions.
DOUG TISDALE; That concludes your questions then, Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: I hope so.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. OK. Now-- and we know, of course, you can't speak
for the National Medal of Honor Museum, or for State of Colorado, the City and County of
Denver, or others who have been involved in the application, including Downtown Denver
Partnership. So I leave it to you, General Manager, to decide which questions you can answer,
but if you would please essay your best answer to the questions raised by Director Menten, we
would all appreciate that, sir.

DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So the first question regarding the sublease, will it
mirror our lease? And certainly we have the opportunity to negotiate all of the details of the
sublease, would be in front of us. So there's lots of opportunity for us to be able to do that in the
negotiations. The second question, why City and County Denver and why not the foundation? I
would say that's probably still-- could be subject to negotiation on whatever the deal might look
like between the various stakeholders and the museum. So I think the City simply offered that
because they had the availability, and somewhat of the authority to do so. And that was the City's
way of stepping up to cover, I think the RTD's rent portion on the project. But certainly those
details could be worked out.
So currently, we haven't identified any other uses, nor do we speculate that we have any other
uses, for that parcel. The reason that the Civic Center facility is built to the extent that it is, is that
we built that for not only the current capacity, but some additional future capacity for buses. It
took us about five to six years to put together the funding just to do that particular facility
renovation. So were very limited financially. Even if we wanted to expand, we wouldn't be able
to. If there are other opportunities that come up in terms of additional demand for maybe some of
these other services, we would find ways to accommodate those.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. General Manager. We appreciate that. Director
Guissinger, you are recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair. Again, I want to start to thank by thanking the
veterans who came tonight, not only for your service, for which we owe you a great debt, but for
continuing to serve the veterans, and for going-- and as one of you said-- telling the story to
schoolchildren. I am very excited that this museum will give us an opportunity to tell those
moving stories to millions more people, and I'm very excited that it's coming here.
I also would say that I'm honored to sit on this Board, as I think Director Catlin said. I think
you're hearing how sincere and diligently people are executing their duties in choosing their
votes last week. And I also appreciate those who spoke in support of Director Williams tonight.
It's never appropriate that someone should be fearing their safety because of their public service,
and I appreciate you coming here. Looking forward to expanding our partnership with the City
and County, and state, and the region, in hopefully getting this museum to come to Denver.
Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Are there any other Directors who would wish to
speak at this time? The Chair will simply note, again, we thank all of the veterans, and we
remember. And we appreciate all of that, and we assure you that we remember. Additional
information was requested by this Board last week, and has been provided. And we thank
everyone who has participated in that process.
It would have been very nice to have had that information available. I think each Director would
have enjoyed it. I think that some Directors felt OK with the information submitted, but I
certainly understand the question, and I certainly appreciate the fact that staff, in collaboration
with so many other people, worked very hard to get that information so that everyone has a
reasonable, justifiable basis to make a decision tonight. If there is no further discussion to come

before this Board, and General Manager having weighed in response to the questions presented, I
will now call for a vote and ask that the First Vice Chair and the Second Vice Chair cast their
votes first so that we may proceed to a final vote.
By a vote of 14 in favor and none opposed, and one absent vote, the matter passes unanimously.
We thank you all very much for your participation. We will-[APPLAUSE]
You can now, yes. OK.
[APPLAUSE]
Now you can do it. All right, thank you. We're going to take just about, let's say a five minute
break, so that we will allow those who wish to leave to leave the room, and then we will continue
with our Board meeting. So we will stand in recess until the clock says 8:20-- I'm sorry, 7:20-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: All right. The Board meeting for Tuesday, September 24, will now come
back to order. The record will reflect that it is now 7:29 PM, Mountain Daylight Time, on
Tuesday, September 24. We move next to the unanimous consent agenda. Tonight, we have three
items on the unanimous consent calendar, and those are noted as agenda item-- and at least
originally-- but now they are remembered as agenda items 12, actions A, B, and C. They're
identified in your Board packet as the contract auction award for the purchase of 13 cutaway
buses, the approval of the contract for sales force licenses, and the approval of the Manion
contract extension and dollar increase. If any Director has a change to, or questions as to any one
of these items, please feel free to advise the Chair at this time and we will of course remove that
item from the unanimous consent agenda for consideration under the recommended action item.
Director Folska, you are recognized.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I do have a question, and I brought it up before,
about purchasing these new buses. And Director Williams, who is chair of this committee,
assured me that if we should need these buses to be electric, then they make those modifications- or for any other modifications that we might be able to make, and that sounds great. So my
question is this. Why aren't we ordering them to be electric today? I'll still vote for it, but I think
in light of everything, and in particular the climate summits and so on that's happening this week
at the United Nations, we should just be buying everything new that is already electric, and not
thinking that we'll change it from diesel. So can someone answer the question for me?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair-- Madam Director. We appreciate that
question, and I notice that at this point in time we've had someone come to the microphone who
can provide us with an answer. And we're talking about buses, so of course a must be Assistant
General Manager Fred Worthen, who will now respond to the question about electric buses.

FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. As I stated when we had our Operations Committee
meeting, right now, felt electric vehicles are not operationally or fiscally sustainable. The better
electric buses are nearly twice as expensive as clean burning buses. They require significant
investment in our infrastructure. They also require a significant amount of time to have the
infrastructure installed. There is a higher operating cost associated with them, and the mid-term
financial plan does not have the money to make such a purchase to be able to cover the capital
and operating costs.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you very much, Mr. Worthen, for that explanation. I would like to
offer you some information that we discovered when we were APTA this year. And being that
climate change was so important to myself and some other colleagues on this Board, we've had
an opportunity to learn from different people, and there are organizations out there-- I don't
remember them exactly. Many of the Board members here were in these meetings and will recall
that there are programs through USDOT to help transit agencies transition from diesel, or clean
fuel, to electric. And so I think I would encourage you to look at that, and before making these
purchases.
FRED WORTHEN; Yes, ma'am. We actually have looked at this. We have a grant that is
coming, that will be coming from the VW settlement, and also from a Low No (Low or No
Emmission Program). We'll be using that to purchase our next fleet. That will give us an
opportunity to test these vehicles in our operating environment. The other component, though, is
the cost-- the capital costs are usually only covered based upon just the bus purchase itself. There
are significant infrastructure costs associated with these. There is also significantly higher
operating cost, which these grants do not cover. In our case, when we look at the mall shuttle, it's
about $0.66 a mile to operate these vehicles. Whereas a diesel, it's $0.43 per mile. So there's
almost a 54% cost differential on the operational side.
So it's not just the capital side that we have to consider. We also have to consider the operational
cost.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, that's wonderful, and I think that the TLRC and the Governor would
be happy to know more details about this so that we can collaborate, cooperate, and
communicate. Thank you.
FRED WORTHEN: Yes, ma'am. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Folska. I like the way that sounded. That was
wonderful. And Mr. General Manager, anything to supplement or add to what Mr. Worthen has
said?
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I will say that one of those groups that we did meet
with at APTA-- and Fred, I'm going to ask you what's the name of that group-- we have we have
contracted with them to help us with our next set of specifications and technical requirements on
the next few electric buses that we're going to acquire.

FRED WORTHEN: That's CTE, and I forget what the acronym is, but it's Center for
Transportation and the Environment or something like that. CTE, I believe. So we are working
with them on the next vehicle purchase. We're working to try and get a contract with them to
help us with the procurement.
DAVE GENOVA: And addit-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So then my question was, can you do it for this-DOUG TISDALE: Director Folska, if you're going to talk, please-- no, you can continue. Just
pull the microphone near you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh yeah, the microphone.
DOUG TISDALE: Please.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So that's what I'm saying, to take the CTE's technology and their technical
support, and apply it to this purchase. Because this is over several years, right? This purchase, it's
not you're buying-FRED WORTHEN: The initial purchase that we have right now is for 46 buses, I believe. And it
is going to contracted services. Our contractors do not have the capability of supporting an
electric fleet at this time.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, I guess I'm that conversation needs to happen pretty quick, because
this climate isn't getting any better. So yeah, I'm just going to go crazy over this. So that's all.
Thank you.
FRED WORTHEN: I understand.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Folska. Director Guissinger, you are
recognized for any questions that you have as to any one of the three items on the unanimous
consent agenda.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I appreciate Director Folska's questions, and just wanted to
understand-- we got funding. It was $11 million between the two grants. Is it 14 buses, 18 buses?
What is it we have funding for electric buses?
FRED WORTHEN: You're referencing the Low No and the VW settlement?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah.
FRED WORTHEN: It is dependent upon how we worked the grant. It could be up to 18 buses
and infrastructure. But part of the number of buses will be driven based upon our assessment of
what the capital costs are. I expect that it will probably between 16 and 18 buses.

LYNN GUISSINGER: So we can use that money for to defray some of those infrastructure costs
that you mentioned, is that right?
FRED WORTHEN: Yes, in this particular case, we can use that to help with the capital cost.
And as I mentioned during our last Operating Committee meeting, we're also working with Xcel
to gain further assistance to not only get capital assistance, but also help us with some of the
operating costs things too, hopefully the future make this technology more viable.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And that's the petition that's in front of the PUC, and we're expecting a
decision on maybe this month or next month? Is that right?
FRED WORTHEN; Mr. Chair, if I may. So that's moving along, what we think is, in a very
favorable fashion. And-LYNN GUISSINGER: You think it's very favorable, did you say?
FRED WORTHEN. Yes. Yes. So I believe all the parties in that case have reached a settlement
that's now under review by the Administrative Law Judge.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And if we fix that problem, does that fix this $0.66 versus $0.43 issue
mostly completely, or?
FRED WORTHEN: It'll get better, but I don't know to the extent of how much better it will get.
But it'll be, I think, a significant improvement from what I've been briefed by staff.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, and just one more question. How soon do we expect to get
the VW and Low No money?
FRED WORTHEN: The award hasn't been formally made yet, but we expect that they will be-the awards will be announced within the next couple of months. We are programming in money
to do study and work upfront for the capital side in 2020, and put a purchase for an electric fleet
out late '20, early 2021.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I will support this item that's on the consent agenda, but I do share
Director Folska's concern, and I think lots of us share that concern that it's critical that we start
moving that way. And the state has expressed that, so I'm looking forward to our opportunities to
move towards electric buses. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Are there any other questions relative to any
items on the consent agenda? Seeing none, may I have a motion to approve the consent agenda?
BOB BROOM: Move approval.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Williams, I have a second from Director
Whitmore. Is there any discussion on that motion to approve the consent agenda? I'm sorry, was
resent Director Broom who made the second?

TROY WHITMORE: I don't mind taking credit.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, but you've had enough credit tonight. I'm going to give it to
Director Broom on this one. So Director Williams is the movement, Director Broom is the
second. Any discussion on the motion? Hearing none, if the vote would please proceed with
Director Williams and Director Broom voting first, and the rest of us will then vote. By a vote of
14 in favor, none opposed, than one absent from the meeting, that passes unanimously, and we
proceed now to the agenda item number-- and originally it was agenda 12. We have now
remembered it as agenda 13. And this is the recommended action portion of our agenda. The first
item is action item D, although now it's characterized as E on the agenda that you see on the
screens. And that's the purchase of 46 40-foot low floor transit buses.
It is recommended by the Operations Customer Service Committee the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to authorize the purchase 46 new 40-foot transit
buses from GILLIG LLC, and associated spare components, and extended warranties, for total
price not to exceed $22,527,120, with an option to purchase up to 264 additional 40-foot buses
over a five year period. This recommended action supports the following General Manager's
goals. Core goal number one, successful delivery of transit services, and task goal number three,
asset management, state of good repair. May I have a motion?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion for Mr. Whitmore, and I have a second from Director Second
Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede. Now, discussion as to the motion. Director Williams, you are
recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I'd like to point out, in light of the previous
discussion, that we do have the option on the long, big package to make them electric buses had
any time that we wanted to do that. GILLIG is able to provide those, and so I thought I would
make that statement, unless you guys want to contradict me.
[LAUGHTER]
DOUG TISDALE: Let us let us recognize the Assistant General Manager for Bus Operations, or
our Chief Operating Officer who will take the question.
FRED WORTHEN: AGM, Fred Worthen.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Worthen will take the question. You are recognized, sir.
FRED WORTHEN: So this procurement is authorization for diesel purchases only. We would
have to go out to do a new procurement for electric buses on a competitive bid. But as I stated
before, the options that are on this package could be not exercised-- the options require approval
from the Board each time we come forward for purchase, so this does not limit us to diesel on the

outlying years, but we would have to have a separate procurement for electric vehicles
themselves, which is part of what we plan on doing with the next set of buses that we have
coming on with the Low No and VW grant.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Williams, if you have a follow-up that you wanted to add now,
please?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, so are we committed to 264 diesel buses?
FRED WORTHEN: No, we only have options for 264 vehicles. Right now, the only
commitment is for the 46 in front of you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. As I understand it, this is a one-way benefit, i.e. we
have the right to hold them to sell us these buses at a certain price. They do not have the right to
compel us to buy those buses. Thank you very much, Assistant General Manager Worthen, and
we appreciate that. Director Folska, you are recognized.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Mr. Worthen, if you
don't mind, please-- so these first set of 46 buses are diesel. There is no change in that
whatsoever, no modification. Their lifetime is 13 to 15 years, is that correct?
FRED WORTHEN: The FTA actually recommends 12 years for heavy duty diesel vehicle. Right
now, our fleet is extended out between 14 and 16 years, depending upon the current state of our
mid-term financial plan. So for the reason that I stated before, we're entering into the
transportation transformation, reimagining RTD, and we were spending nearly $5 million in
figuring that out over the next two years. And I'm not willing to spend-- what was the amount for
these 46 buses?
$22 million, et cetera, et cetera, for 46 diesel buses, when we're clear that we need to transition to
electric. And I would suggest and encourage you to ask or go back to this process and see what
you can come up with for electric vehicles moving forward. And I hope that you don't go
forward on this. It's time to stop sucking the diesel fuel out of everything. We can't do it
anymore. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Folska. And the proposal that is before us this evening is
to approve this contract, but I certainly understand that it may be a negative vote on your part on
this contract, and also a desire expressed to staff. Going forward, can we have electric bus
contracts? And staff, I think, will continue to respond to that question based upon the technology
available. Director Lubow, you are recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Another riff on the electric vehicle theme. You had
explained before that the cost of the electric operation and capital cost was essentially
prohibitive, or at least purely competitive with diesel. And I understand that, but I don't like it at
all. I've been studying climate change for a very long time, because I worked for the EPA, and

this is a disastrous thing that we're heading into. So I just thought that I would vote for this,
because we have to move forward. But please do everything you can to move towards electric
vehicles, because at some point, and it may be very soon, we're going to be ordered to anyway.
Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lubow. Director Broom, you are recognized,
sir.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I would just urge a little bit of caution about putting all your
eggs in electric buses, into batteries. If they don't work out very well, you can't go back in and
retrofit them with a diesel engine. And you m we've got a requirement to serve an awful lot of
people, and just to have a bunch of dead battery buses sitting around that we can't utilize won't
get those people moved from point A to point B. Five, six years from now, maybe the technology
will be there, and they'll prove their ability to move these large vehicles through all kinds of
weather conditions.
And you know, our weather goes from 20 below zero to 100 degrees. And you can design maybe
for 70 degrees, but it's pretty hard to design for something with that big of a spread without some
experience. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Broom. Director Williams, you are
recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I'd just like to read a couple lines from this
proposal. "The 40-foot low floor buses are similar to that which is currently utilized at RTD,
with a proven seating layout that is approved by the Colorado Cross Disability Coalition to
maximize wheelchair passenger space. The buses are equipped with clean diesel engines,
meeting the latest EPA requirements. Overall, the estimated lifetime of each bus will reduce
emissions by over 100 tons of greenhouse gases, 6.5 tons of nitrous oxide, and 0.25 tons of
particulate matter, as compared to the engines in the current buses." Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Williams. I appreciate your observations, and
I believe that staff understands there's a vigorous discussion by the Board relative to exploring
what are the opportunities for electric buses in the future, and getting really good diesel buses, as
Director Williams just points out to us here, and we appreciate your continuing attention to that
matter. Director Menten, my comments must've stirred something. You are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Well, you know. What the heck. So, there was an analysis done-- this was
my early years on the Board, is Bruce Abel, and Steve out there, you were part of this discussion,
too. If you remember, we talked about propane and some challenges with those of our units, let's
calling it our rolling stock, that have more of an altitude change, things like that. There was an
analysis done-- I forget the guy that was your assistant. He retired now.
[INAUDIBLE]

Yeah. Can you just dig up that report, and at least send it to me? Maybe the other Board
Directors. But I think that had analysis, and I'm interested in the propane part, natural gas, some
of these other things that could be retrofit. But since that leg work was all done, and I don't think
it's that stale-- but you may be the judge-- I know I'm talking to him out there, but would you just
dig that up and please send that?
FRED WORTHEN: Yes Ma'amm
Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, and we appreciate the voluntary spontaneity of the
response there, and the willingness to share that with the Board. Is there further discussion on
this motion, for the approval of the purchase of 46 40-foot low floor transit buses? Seeing none,
if Director Whitmore and Second Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede will please vote, then the rest of
us may vote.
By a vote of 13 yes and one no vote, the item has passed. To the negative vote was cast by
Director Folska. And that matter then is approved and sent on for action. For the final
recommended action item this evening, we have the approval of the 29th and Welton property
option extension. It is recommended by the Financial Administration Audit Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors extend by two 90 day terms, for a total of six months, the option for the
sale of the real property located 2907 through 2915 Welton Street, Denver, Colorado, referred to
as the property, including the execution of any deeds and other property conveyance documents.
This action addresses one of the General Manager's goals for 2019. Task goal number three,
ensure fiscal sustainability. May I have a motion, please?
SHONTEL LEWIS: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: And that's Director Lewis?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second. Guissinger.
DOUG TISDALE: Guissinger. Sorry. Sometimes it's difficult to pick up the details, so-KATE WILLIAMS: Lewis first, Guissinger second.
DOUG TISDALE: It's Director Guissinger who made the motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: No, Lewis first.
DOUG TISDALE: Lewis made the motion, Guissinger made the second. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: All of us girls over here whisper.
DOUG TISDALE. Appreciate that. Feel free to speak into your microphone if you want to make
a motion. The acoustics in this room are not designed for people to hear. You may look at the

ceiling and wonder, where is it? Because there's not actually a ceiling there. In any event,
Director Lewis is the movant. Director Guissinger is the second. Is there discussion on the
approval of the 29th and Welton property option extension? Director Madam Vice Chair Catlin,
you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I wanted to disclose that, in the past, I have had a
business relationship with Burgess Services, which is not the same as the development company.
But I have had a business relationship with her probably five years ago. My independent
company. So I just wanted to make sure that the other Board members were aware of that. I have
not had any business relationship since, nor anything pending, but I just thought I should disclose
that. They are not the same company, but it is the same individual involved. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director and I take it your disclosure is such as to say
that you feel that you are qualified and able to vote on the matter, correct?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you. For the sake of the record, I think it is appropriate to
confirm that. Director Menten, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. After-- I've focused on this property for far more hours than I should
have. The developer was shared with those on the Board as Burgress Community Development,
LLC. There have been some other names for the principal, which is Denise Burgess, and so she
is the chosen developer for this. After last week's committee meeting, it came to my attention in
a Colorado Sun article that the same person had chosen to step in for a four-day period to run for
the US Senate. I don't know why, because there's plenty of people running. But in this article,
and there was confirmation Ms. Burgess, that there are still financial issues present, including
IRS, from previous business transactions. And I find it surprising that she might want to get in on
this deal, has spent two years trying to find funding, but doesn't seem to have some things in
order.
And I would hate to see us extend this for 180 days when there seems to be some challenges in
juggling all the balls. Is this-- so I'll leave it at that. But I thought I owed it to the Board to bring
it to their attention that we are giving a possibly 180-day extension, and there were four of us
who voted no last week, and whether we should be saying no to this extension and just starting
from scratch. I wanted to share that. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Menten. I appreciate that, and I'm going to
ask General Manager Genova if he can just to comment on this briefly, and not specifically in
response to the issue that Director Menten brought up, but rather, as I recall, last week when we
discussed this item, there was some uncertainty as to whether necessary documents had been
executed by the proposed purchaser to the City and the County of Denver as they had required.
Can you confirm one way or another whether that occurred?
DAVE GENOVA: Mr. Chair, my understanding was that Denver was awaiting another updated
proposal from the organization, which I understood that they did receive a grant or around this

the 17th last week. So I don't know whether the City's had opportunity to review that, and I'm
just going to look to Bill Sirois. Is that about the latest we know, Bill?
BOB SIROIS: Yeah, that's all I know.
DAVE GENOVA: So that's the latest.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you. So that's the extent of the information that's available to
us at this time, relative to this matter-- except that we did have some discussion on this at the
committee meeting, also. Director Lubow, you are recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. I was just wondering if Director Menten, if you have the Sun
article here or remember it, what was the allegation? That she dropped out of the race because
she admitted there was a problem with something?
DOUG TISDALE: Director Menten, you're recognized to respond to the question.
NATALIE MENTEN: As the story reads, she had submitted, and gave press release, and talked
to the press about running for the US Senate. Colorado Sun did some information requests, found
the federal tax liens, of which a majority had been resolved. But there was at least one
outstanding and, the article read, potentially others. These involved not only income tax
withholding, but also-- and I will ask everybody to bear with me-- but also not paying
withholding that was held from the employees. And I've personally spoken to people in the
construction industry that have had some challenges. And that was well before this came up.
This is going on about two years ago.
And in the article, there was comments. So once the Sun started to ask these questions, they said
we will respond by 4:00 PM. She withdrew from the US Senate race at 3 PM.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Let me ask, if the Chair may, an informational
question of the General Manager. And that is, the execution of this extension allows the City and
County of Denver to continue its discussions and negotiations with the proposed developer. It
does not, unless the terms that we laid out in the option are met, obligate us to convey the
property. So the specific provisions that we had in there about, for example, a certain amount of
affordable housing and so forth still have to be met. And the City and County of Denver would
have to demonstrate that there is a credible ability to do that before we would be obligated to
perform. Am I generally correct on that?
DAVE GENOVA: That's correct, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you very much. For that reason, the Chair will just state that I
think that we may have a protection built in. But I think the questions are worthwhile, and it's
important to note for the record. Director Folska, you are recognized.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. For me, it's not about the protections that are
built in. We assume that to be the case when we do these kinds of arrangements with the City
and County of Denver. I mean, that's just standard operating procedure in my mind. I think the
point here is that we are tying up our property for another 180 days when we could be out there
looking for a more viable developer, and really get something moving. And so I just think we've
already spent too much time on this. Two years is enough, and with all this new information I'd
say that it's time to fish or cut bait. Or cut bait and fish. What do you do? You fish and then you
cut bait, right? Yeah, one of those.
DOUG TISDALE: Fish or cut bait, well said. Yes, all right. Director Guissinger, you are
recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I haven't followed this nearly as closely as Director Menten has, but I
know that there is a letter in there from the Mayor asking that we do this, and I'm hesitant, given
where we've just been, to reject the City's request without fully understanding what that means.
So I don't know what our timing is, if we need to move forward on this tonight or what. I guess
my inclination-- well, I guess that's a question, is what's our timing?
DOUG TISDALE: If the General Manager had an answer, I believe it's September 30, but let me
have the General Manager address that.
DAVE GENOVA: I believe the current deal expires tomorrow. And it's not-- it just happened to
be the timing of our Board meetings that this is falling on our calendar now. So if we don't
approve the extension tonight, then it's a dead deal.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I guess, you know, I think what has been raised is concerning. But I also
feel like we've gone down this road with the City. They are working on it, we have some
protections built in, and I will continue to vote yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Guissinger. Director Williams, you are
recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: I would hate to see us alter our vote based on news reporting, personally.
And I don't think 180 days will make a difference. I think that we do have a reasonably well-laid
out plan for affordable housing-- I think it's 25%-- and I think that this has been brought to us as
proposal on a positive note by our staff. So that's all I have to say.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director. That's a stunningly articulate explanation, and I
appreciate that. Director Walker, you are recognized.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I'll be supporting this. I don't think anything in the proposal, and in the
recommended action, prohibits any other developers from approaching RTD if they're interested
in that, in making offers. And even though they might have the second position, if that option is
not exercised, they'll be lined up if one is. So I'll be a yes vote. Wait, I said they're wrong. They'll
be first in line if the exercise is not optioned. If the option is not exercised.

[LAUGHTER]
Thanks. I'll be quiet now.
DOUG TISDALE: Feel free to take it over from the top if you'd like, Director.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Call the question.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. All right, I believe the question has been called. I think there's no
objection to the question being called at this time. Director Lewis was the move-- I'm sorry,
Director Buzek, did you want to speak in before we call the question?
VINCE BUZEK: --going to make a comment about this calling the question, really read Roberts
Rules on how to vote.
DOUG TISDALE: Right. To call the question actually requires a vote. However, if there is no
objection to the question being called, then that's by a unanimous consent.
VINCE BUZEK: Requires a motion by the person who has been recognized by the Chair. It
requires a second and a 2/3 majority voting support.
DOUG TISDALE: As I say, as long as it's where we're going anyway, that was the practical
solution to it. That said, Director Lewis was the movant, and Director Guissinger was the second.
If you would please vote, then the rest of us may vote, and we will announce the result. By a vote
of 11 in favor, and three opposed, the motion does pass. The negative votes were cast by Director
Folska, and Director Menten, and Second Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede. And that concludes the
discussion as to that action item. We now turn to old business, and I'll ask first if the Directors
have any old business. I believe the General Manager has some for us, but is there any old
business from any Director? Director Broom, you are recognized.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Last week during the meeting, I made a motion to table the
museum issue because I could sense that there wasn't a lot of support for it at that particular point
in time. And I also could sense that there was very little information that was being provided to
the Board to make a rational decision on that, and the motion was ruled out of order. And I guess
I'm having a hard time squaring that with what then took place, where because it would have
taken eight people to vote in favor of that, which would certainly give you a sense that the Board,
that they wanted more information-- whereas that was ruled inappropriate. And then, the next
thing I know, a day later, there's this rule being brought forward that something that can be put
on the agenda if three Board members were to write and make written requests to do so. It seems
like we have an inconsistency here that needs to be dealt with somehow. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director. I will confess, I do not recall a motion to table being
raised. I'm going to ask the Vice Chair of the Committee, who is acting as the chair for that
committee, if she could address your comments, and then perhaps, if General Counsel has any
thoughts you may add, but Madam Vice Chair of the Finance Committee, can you respond to
Director Broom?

SHELLEY COOK: Director Broom is correct. He did make a motion. And as I recall, Rolf
Asphaug is the one who indicated it was probably not appropriate. Is that your recollection also?
BOB BROOM Somebody seconded the motion.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. And I apologize again for sort of walking on uncertain ground in that,
my first Chair attempt. But go ahead, Chair. Or, Rolf.
DOUG TISDALE: So, General Counsel, would you care to comment on this and either clarify or
further muddy the question?
[LAUGHTER]
ROFL ASPHAUG: Thank you, Chair. This is Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel. I'll try to do the
former. I'll try to do the former. I do recall that there was a motion that was made to postpone,
but that it was withdrawn, was my recollection, after certain discussion, especially because this
was a committee meeting, and the next committee that this would be brought up with was going
to be sometime later.
But the discussion we've seen tonight, if I may have just a minute or two, you heard all the
people in the audience talking about this Board reconsidering something that the Board had
considered. We have a very unusual set of bylaws that has, instead of smaller committees, we
have committees of the whole-- in other words, of all Board members-- but it doesn't require all
Board members to be in attendance. Those committees also don't require eight people to vote in
favor.
In fact, if you look at our bylaws, even though, generally, all the Biard members, or almost all
the Board members attend those standing committees, they only have a quorum of five. All you
need to have a valid committee meeting, for those standing committees, is five people, which
means you can pass something out of that committee with as few as three people. You can also
fail to pass something out of that committee with as few as three people.
Our bylaws also have a very unusual provision. Usually with organizations under Robert's Rules,
You refer something to a committee, and the committee can, examine it do a report, bring it back
to the Board as a whole, with a recommendation either to either to approve it or to reject it. The
Board as a whole usually gets the opportunity, regardless of whether the recommendation from
the committee is yes or no, to have a vote as the Board.
Now importantly for you, when you're sitting here tonight in a Board meeting as opposed to a
standing committee meeting, a quorum of five doesn't do it. You have to have at least eight
people, because you also have to have at least eight people voting in the affirmative to pass
anything. That's regardless of whether you have nine people here, or all 15 people. You have to
have eight people voting in the affirmative. And in fact, there's even some things that you need
more than eight people to vote for. They're very limited, but there are some things that require a
supermajority.

So it's a very unusual set of bylaws. And the last unusual thing that came into play, in this case,
is that our bylaws may be recognizing that quorum of five situation also has kind of a safety
valve, where if three or more Board members want to propose something to be put on the Board
agenda, they can do that by written notice given by a certain time frame, as the Chair pointed
out, and they can get it on the agenda that way on a Board meeting. Not in a committee meeting,
but on a Board meeting, like tonight.
Now, usually-- our bylaws now state that, as of March 2019, our bylaws state that "Normally,"
and that's quoting from the bylaws, "Normally, matters that are proposed by three members
should be referred to a standing committee, as well as to the Executive Committee, in the interest
of transparency, and so that there can be further discussion."
But it doesn't have to. And in fact, this Board has also approved the Board operating guidelines
that adopted the customs at RTD, the customs memo that I did a while back, that indicated that
you could have three-- it used to be you could have three members propose something and
potentially not even have it go through a standing committee, or the Executive Committee. That
was changed in March of 2019 in the interest of transparency, and it sounds like a good idea-well, I'm editorializing a little bit on that. But in the interest of transparency, there's additional
discussion. So I think that's an explanation as to the unusual situation we were in tonight where,
yes, were you reconsidering in the sense that there were 14 people here last week, and they're
same 14 people this week? Yes, but formally, technically, you are not reconsidering.
This is the first time the Board, acting as the Board and not as a standing committee that just
happened to have 14 people as opposed to five people present, was considering this matter. I
hope that helps a little bit.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, I appreciate the discussion. I'm going to go back to Director Broom in a
moment. I'm just going to note that the perfect punishment for any Director who gets out of line
at any point in time is to have Director Buzek, Chair Tisdale, and General Counsel Asphaug
speak to them for a while, and that would certainly fix their wagons. Director Broom, you are
recognized again, sir.
BOB BROOM: Well, thank you. But as you just mentioned, there was 14 Board members
present, and there was a deadline. And the deadline was fast approaching. There was no way you
could run this back through the committee again. The Chair should have ruled that the motion
was appropriate under the circumstances. And then if somebody wanted to challenge the Chair,
they could have challenged the Chair on that ruling. That, to me, would have been way to handle
it. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And because the Director mentioned you specifically,
at least categorically, Madam Treasurer, if you wish to respond, you may.
SHELLEY COOK: No, I don't. I appreciate the schooling there. And as I recall my question to
counsel was, is it debatable? Because that had come up earlier. It was a similar question. And in
the course of responding to that, the information came out that evidently caused you to withdraw,
so. But I take your point, and thank you very much. I do feel as though I'm learning.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate that. Anything further, Director
Broom?
BOB BROOM: No thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Madam Second Vice Chair, you are recognized.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Shelley, I could use a lot of schooling
on a regular basis. I just want you to know that. Under old business, and this is actually kind of
fun to do-- I think one of the greatest gifts that we have as a Board is to be able to be really very
supportive, and just honored to be on the Board with such amazing people. But I wanted to
recognize Director Lewis, because she hosted a panel at the International Rail~Volution in
Vancouver. And I was really proud that she was doing that. It was really cool. New Board
member, and I thought that was really great. So I just wanted to say congratulations.
DOUG TISDALE: I think that's outstanding, and I'm glad that you shared that with us, so that
the record is made. And so that everyone in the public will know that one of our new Directors
did, in fact, share at that panel. I think that's outstanding. Any further old business from Directors
before I ask General Manager if he has any old business? Seeing none, then General Manager, do
you have any further old business for us?
DAVE GENOVA: I do, Mr. Chair. And just a very brief update on the N line, before the Board
considers going into Executive Session later in this agenda to discuss DTP and the RRP contract.
So I just want to inform the Board over the last five to six weeks, I've been working very closely
with the N line project team, both the capital side and the operations team. We've been taking a
weekly deep dive into the status of the project as it relates to schedule. Our contractor, Regional
Rail Partners, RRP, they were supposed to have reached substantial completion on or about June
10. RRP claimed that they've reached substantial completion. However, after we completed our
review and verification all their information that they've submitted, and did all of our field
inspections, we disagree and we don't believe they met substantial completion.
Substantial completion is a key milestone, as that represents essentially a major turnover period
and in a capital project where we're able to get into more advanced testing. So it's a really critical
milestone. That milestone's not been met. There's still civil and systems work to complete. And
subsequently, we've not been able to advance testing to the point to maintain opening of the N
line for the first quarter of 2020. We've been working closely with RRP to separate out some of
their remaining work from the track way. So what I mean by that is that we have, over the last
few months, in trying to advance the schedule as much as possible, be able to have-- for RTD to
have control of the right of way, and then for DT-- I'm sorry, for RRP to work outside of the
track way so that we could get in and begin testing, and training of our operations unit.
So some of that has worked fairly well, but it has still been a problem for us as far as testing.
And then, as we previously reported, the Board will recall we had an incident during testing with
the overhead catenary system a number of weeks ago, in which there was a part of the hardware
that became disconnected from a receiver, and it caused the pantograph of the car to get tangled,
and resulted in a little damage to the car as well. So we stopped testing when that happened. And

again, that was several weeks ago. We've done a complete and thorough analysis, and the work is
nearly complete.
The good news around that particular item is that the design is good. It's not an issue with the
design. It was an issue with the torquing of the nuts and the bolts on the electrical system
hardware. So the contractor has gone through and adjusted most of those. We have to do-remaining work, in regards to that, is around the Union Station area. So I believe it's going to be
in a Monday or Tuesday coming up, where we're going to have to do a very short bus bridge on
the A line from Union Station to 38th and Blake, so that the contractor can get in there and make
sure all of those installs are done properly.
So I wanted to brief you on that, because I know there's been some questions about what's going
on with that OCS. So the other thing I want to point out about the opening of the N line, it's
really-- staff feels really strongly, unlike we did with the G line, we really recommend opening
the N line in conjunction with a run Board, and that's for two reasons. And one is the service
changes around the bus network and the the N line are more complex than they were on the G
line, and we think it would best serve the public if we do that in conjunction. But also, just as
important is, since we're doing this with our own forces, our own operating group, we have to
follow our collective bargaining agreement. And so we have to be in line with the run Board for
those processes. So that 2020 run Boards are January and that was our early target for the first
quarter, when we were expecting a substantial completion in June. That would have been the
earliest run Board we would have been able to hit, and we pushed very, very hard to try to do
that.
The other two run Boards in 2020 are May and August, and we're striving very hard to hit this
the sooner one. I'll let you know that, as soon as we get into the more complex areas of testing,
it'll give us a little bit more certainty about which run Board we think we'll be able to hit with
good certainty. And so that the next phase in testing that's really critical will be when we get in
to testing the wireless grade crossings, and that'll be with a single train or a double train, and
hopefully we'll get into that testing sometime next month. And then, after we complete that,
that's about a four week process if it goes well. If we get good data out of that testing, and then
we get FRA approval, then we'll move into even a more critical stage of testing, which is our
multi-train testing, where we'll really be able to stress this system with lots of trains running.
And we'll be doing the advanced testing of the wireless crossing, and then also the positive train
control.
So we could get into that as early as November, if all the other testing and approvals line up. But
that will be, I think at that stage will be-- after we get a couple weeks into the multi-train testing- will give us a really good indication of where we stand in terms of the schedule. And our goal
is, as soon as we have certainty, we will make everyone aware of this is the date where we're
planting the flag, and that we will target for revenue service. So how are we communicating this?
This is the first notification to the Board tonight. We wanted to make sure we were open and
transparent about this before we got into an Executive Session. Shortly after this discussion right
now, our Communications Team will be sending an email notification to our N line stakeholders,
which includes elected officials. We'll also be sending to the full Board key messages, so you

have information as you receive questions. And then we'll also be putting out a news release
tonight as well.
Our next briefing for the Board and stakeholders, what we'll do is similar to what we did. You
may recall with the quiet zones on the A line, and then towards opening of the G line, what was
really helpful, I believe, for the Board and for our stakeholders is that when we put together the
major pieces of work, and the major milestones and approvals that we need to get done towards
revenue. And so we'll be working on those items, and putting that together for our next
FasTracks Committee meeting, which is October 4. And then as we go out and present, and
update our stakeholders, we'll be able to say, these are the major pieces of work and approvals
we need to complete. To the best of our ability, we'll put some time frames to that where we can.
But I think, at least, that helps make it tangible on exactly where we are, and the items that are
left to complete as we get towards revenue service.
So I wanted to make the Board and the stakeholders aware of this as soon as we had our absolute
determination. When I originally started the deep dive work with the team, I was hoping that we
might have enough information to be able to say this will be the run Board that we're going to
hit, but we need to get into that testing, as I described. So should the Board opt to go into
Executive Session, as included on the agenda, to talk about some of the contractual issues, there
may be some additional information that is shared there as far as relationship to the project, and
what are the contractual options, and what do those kinds of things look like.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. General Manager. Important that we are
transparent, and have information shared with the Board as soon as you have it. Are there any
Directors who have any questions of General Manager based upon his statements in old
business? Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I just have one followup question around staffing. Can
you give us some staff numbers for the N line?
DAVE GENOVA: Let's see. Michael or Allen-- oh, Allen is here. If we can ask Alan to come up
to the podium, he can give us the latest on where they are with the staffing. Thank you, Allen.
You'll have to turn that mic on. It's pass-fail.
ALLEN MILLER: So this is Allen Miller, Deputy Assistant General Manager of Commuter
Rail. We will be at 62% staffing, as of next week. That puts us on target to be at 80% staffing in
February, which is where we need to be. We anticipate 100% staffing by April.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Lewis, any further questions or followup? Thank you very much.
Any other Directors with any questions for Mr. Genova, or staff related to the items that he has
addressed specifically on the N line? Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: So not withstanding these mechanical issues and issues with RRP, we wouldn't
have been ready to run the N line because of staffing issues? In the first quarter 2020? Staffing
issues.

DAVE GENOVA: Because of-VINCE BUZEK: Because April is beyond the first quarter of 2020.
DAVE GENOVA: That would have been an impact, certainly. I mean, we could have looked at
whether we could have run with a lower staffing number, similar to what we're doing now on bus
and rail side.
VINCE BUZEK: OK.
DAVE GENOVA: So there's always work-arounds we can-VINCE BUZEK: Thanks.
DAVE GENOVA: Oh, Allen's coming back up.
ALLEN MILLER: Again, Allen Miller, DAGM of Commuter Rail. That's not a true statement,
Director Broom. We actually keep throttling back our staff hiring for cost effectiveness. We see
where the schedule goes with the project, and we slow our hiring, or we speed our hiring
processes up accordingly for cost benefit. So if we were planning on opening in April, we would
have been at 80% by December. We would've been at 100% by January. But because we've seen
the shift and where the project is heading, we've had to move staff hiring into a different realm.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
[LAUGHTER]
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Director Williams, you want to follow that?
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm just caught by the 100% staffing, since in no other part of RTD do we
have 100% staffing needed. So I'm amazed that the line that isn't even open yet is projected to
have 100%. Could you help us with bus drivers and train drivers and stuff? That would be great.
Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Williams. Anything further, Mr. Genova,
relative to old business?
DAVE GENOVA: No, Mr. Chair. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, sir. We turn to agenda item number 15, new business.
Is there any new business for any Director? This is a reminder that, remember, this is your
opportunity, if there is something that we did not mention, past or future that you're going to be
involved in way of activity and so forth. Please feel free to add it at this time. Director Williams,
let's start with you.

KATE WILLIAMS: Hi, I'd like everybody to know that on October 3 at 5 o'clock at Union
Station is the beginning of the Pokey Race, which is-- let me see if I get it-- rolling in your
wheelchair, walk, ride your bike, and the bus, right? There's four modes of transportation, and
that'll be going on 17th Street, I think, starting at 5 o'clock on October 3 at Union Station.
Director Malpiede, Director Lewis, I think will be riding on the bus. And I think there'll be some
fun people riding their bicycles. Director Guissinger, are you going to ride your bicycle with
Doug Rex ahead of DRCOG? He said yes. And then I think-LYNN GUISSINGER: I say yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good. And I think Director-- I don't know what son what's Shoshana Lew's
title at CDOT? I think she's going to be walking, so it'll be fun to see who wins. But October 3 at
Union Station at 5 o'clock.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Director Whitmore, you are recognized.
TROY WHITMORE: Perhaps I missed this during your report, Chair. Do we still have TLRC
meeting on Friday out at Panasonic?
DOUG TISDALE: I'll let Mr. General Manager respond-DAVE GENOVA: Yes, it's still on it's still on my calendar, so I'm assuming it is still a go. So
that's out at-- to see the AV 61, yes.
TROY WHITMORE: At 11:00 AM, correct?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes. That's what we have, and I believe it's also on our two week calendar.
Yes. So it also appears on the two week calendar, and it reflects that Director Buzek, Second
Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede, Director Williams, and I will be in attendance. And Director Catlin
can be added to that list, and Director Whitmore will now also be added to that list, and Director
Guissinger.
[AUCTIONEER CHANT]
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
And Director Cook will be going. That's right. Better to over-notice than under-notice, is the
point. So we can provide amended notice relative to that meeting. Are there any other new
business items that Directors would like to bring up at this time? The Chair will note, for the
benefit of the Board relative to the advisor-- oh, I'm sorry. Then let me recognize Second Vice
Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I just have a question-- I guess I'll put it under new business-and that has to do with the Reimagine Advisory Board. And the-- I think, yeah, I might have
come in too early here or whatever-- but is there a reason why we couldn't have more Board
members on this Advisory Board? Because it is a public meeting anyway. And so it seems to me

the more voices, we have and the more institutional history that we can bring to the Board, to this
Advisory Board would be better. So I just had that question.
DAVE GENOVA: Well, I'll start with-DOUG TISDALE: Let me-DAVE GENOVA: I'm sorry, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Let me let me acknowledge General Manager Genova to respond to that.
DAVE GENOVA: Well, one, I don't have the full response. Just an observation that they're
publicly open meetings, and so every Board member would be welcome to attend just as, you
know, we'll have a limited number of staff that participate too. So even-- anyone can participate
in as many meetings as they wish, so they can be fully informed. I don't know if Barbara
McManus or Rolf would prefer to respond to the why we're suggesting that they wouldn't be a
Board meeting, because of the logistics around what a full Board meeting means.
DOUG TISDALE: And if I may, I'll give the Executive Manager an opportunity, but I will
advise that one of the constraints that we face is that should there be, as a scheduled matter, three
directors present, then we have to have all the panoply associated with audio and video recording
of the meetings and associated such things when it's a noticed meeting. As opposed to, for
example, the Transportation Legislation Review Committee, where it's simply a gathering that
we are all participating, and responding to questions, and showing them things, and not there for
the conduct of business. We're not going to be conducting business on Friday. But in this
meeting, for the advisory group, we would be conducting business. Coming up with collection of
information, distillation of information, and sharing of information with the RTD Board.
Now, all that said, the Board may say, that's fine. We want this to be a three-member committee
anyway. It is, and I hate to say it again, because know Director Buzek will notice this, but it's a
Board-driven process. And so the Board will, in fact, drive it. But let me allow Executive
Manager, if she has any comments you'd like to make in that regard, to speak at this time.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So the Chair's correct in how it's evaluated. If we had three or more
Board members on that committee, it would need to be conducted much as every committee and
every Board meeting, where it would need to be noticed, recorded, and all of the background
information, like every other meeting is conducted. So that would limit where we would be able
to do some of the meetings. I know, in speaking to the team and the General Manager, that they
were planning on having these meetings throughout the community and the district. And I don't
really know how we would be able to set that up. But if the Board chooses, then we'll have to
figure it out.
DOUG TISDALE: Manager, any further comment on that you'd like to make, or General
Counsel?
DAVE GENOVA: No. No, thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you. Director Rivera-Malpiede, does that respond to your
question?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, it does, but I'm wondering-- this is our one big shot in
terms of reimagining RTD, and it seems to me that we shouldn't limit ourselves to just two
voices on that committee, and that we should open it up to Board members who want to
participate. As a member of the Affordable Fares Task Force, I remember thinking it would have
been nice to have more RTD Board members available. And I understand the issue of going from
place to place, but with today's technology, it seems to me that might be a pretty easy thing to do.
They do actually write up the minutes of those, and it's open to the public. So it seems to me this
might not-- I guess I'm thinking it can't be that big of a reach to be able to include some other
folks. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Second Vice Chair. Madam Treasurer, you
are recognized.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair. I support the points that Director Rivera-Malpiede made,
and would underscore that we could work around, or perhaps revisit for this instance, the
requirements that are making it more difficult. But beyond that-- it'll be good to have
representation, and a greater number. But beyond that, we have to consider the way that this will
be received once it's done. And I think we have good representation from most areas, and
quadrants, and so forth, but from the Board, I think we ought to have somebody from the
northern suburbs or beyond. So I would offer that as my thought. I agree entirely.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Director Guissinger, you are recognized for
new business.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I agree with both of those comments. I would like to see
some support, somebody from the Board, from the northern area, and I agree with Director
Rivera-Malpiede's comments that having more is better. I'm not sure if there are-- if we're going
to have three people attending or four people attending anyhow, maybe we could, as Director
Cook said, revisit what the requirements are, if it's video or something. Do we have to have to do
that? Is that a Board policy? Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, and that issue is going to have to take-- 'cause I think that's above
my pay grade-- I think General Counsel and Executive Manager have to address it. My
understanding is that the obligation to record and make available the minutes is not something
that can be revisited. Whether it must be audio and video is something that I do not pretend to
know, and I look to others to respond to that as and when appropriate.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I assume that we'd be noticing these and recording them anyhow,
right? No?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, we wouldn't be recording them unless we had to fit within the
guidelines of the full Board. That means three or more members as part of the voting body of
that committee.

LYNN GUISSINGER: What would you be doing, taking minutes?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, we wouldn't need to videotape, but we would have to record
every session. And that also would require one of my staff to be in-- one or two staff members-to be at each of those meetings, which is right now on our schedule.
LYNN GUISSINGER: If there are only two Board members, we're not recording those meetings.
What are we doing?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No. There probably would be-- there probably would be information
that was posted on a regular basis on the website that General Manager Genova spoke of. But it
wouldn't be formal, and it wouldn't be part of what the legislature mandates for this body, when
three or more directors are part of that voting body. Which would be the case in this scenario.
DOUG TISDALE; I think the issue that we are addressing right now is if the Board wants more
representation, and two, what does that entail? In terms of what's being done at the meetings,
that's not a question for Executive Manager. It's a question for Mr. Sirois, it's a question for
General Manager. Those are the people who are going to be running these meetings. So if we
want, we can call Mr. Sirois forward and ask about that.
That's not really a question that our Executive Manager is able to answer, because she's not going
to be running those meetings. That said, there appears to be an appetite for an exploration. The
Chair will advise that the Chair intends, pursuant to the Chair's obligation in this process, to
appoint Director Catlin and Director Rivera-Malpiede to the Advisory Committee. And I believe
I've had this discussion with a number of people in the past, but it hasn't been formalized. But
that is, as we are now approaching creating this, and then that list is supposed to be presented to
this Board, I think, sometime next week or the week after for our review.
DAVE GENOVA: Well, I believe that we'll have that available. We may have it as soon as this
Friday, a draft list for the Board to review.
DOUG TISDALE: Right. But if there is an appetite for the Board to have more, then I think the
Board can address that at a committee meeting, and we ought to address that and see. And that
will give-- because we don't want to spring these questions on staff and just say, OK, now how
does this work? But that will give them an opportunity to confer and review, and see what
specifically would need to be done relative to handling those meetings. Because I have been
informed that one of the goals is to be able to have these meetings be somewhat peripatetic to get
around the district, and be in different places, and not just have to be here at Blake Street. That's
one of the issues. All right. Director Guissinger, anything further from you?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Thank you. Director Broom, you are recognized.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Could you consider making the Board members, ex officio
members of the committee, non-voting, and then get around that?

DOUG TISDALE; Again, I think that's an excellent question. And I think the General Counsel
and Executive Manager can address that question. So to the extent that you have such questions,
please, let's get them on the table so they can respond to it. General Manager.
DAVE GENOVA: Mr. Chair, may I suggest let us go back, do some of this research? Because
we will be doing an update at the October 8 committee meeting. So may I suggest we take it up
then, and we will have our research ready to go?
DOUG TISDALE: I think that's excellent, and I think this discussion helps to flesh out what
needs to be researched for that meeting.
DAVE GENOVA: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE; Any other questions associated with new business? Either your own new
business, or what we have been discussing. Madam First Vice Chair, you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. For the record, I support the previous Director's desire to
expand the participation for this to the extent that staff can figure out a way to make it work. I
think that would be beneficial. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam First Vice Chair. Anyone else care to weigh
in on this topic at this time? Director Walker-- I mean, Mr. Secretary, you are recognized.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Just for an opposing view, one thing to consider might be the position
of, or that the feeling of the members who aren't on the Board, so that they don't feel like they're
being overrun by the Board when it's not supposed to be a Board committee. So that's just an
opposing view, not for or against. Just something else to consider. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: I appreciate the articulation of that. I think it helps all of us to consider these
questions that we may be addressing at the October 8 meeting to discuss this further. So fair
advisement to all. Think about it, and bring your questions at that time. So you've settled on no
discussion, Director Buzek? I just want to make sure, because I saw your name go up and down.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, no, my hand was just twitchy.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Thank you. Understood. Any further new business to come forward?
Hearing none, then I will now entertain a motion to move into Executive Session for the purpose
of a conference with legal counsel on Denver Transit Partners and RRP litigation matters. And
this would be done pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes Section 42-6-402 paren 4, paren B,
which is conferences with an attorney for the local public body for the purpose of receiving legal
advice on specific legal questions. And I will note also, for the sake of this record, that the
motion for Executive Session contemplates that there will be some discussion given by the Ad
Hoc Committee. And I think that it might be appropriate before actually entertaining the motion
for Executive Session to have some discussion concerning what we have called the Litigation Ad
Hoc Committee, because that committee had the opportunity to meet with General Counsel last
week. And as you know, First Vice Chair and the Chair are the two members of that Ad Hoc

Litigation Committee. And we conducted that meeting with General Counsel Rolf Asphaug.
Why don't I, at this time, recognize First Vice Chair Peggy Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. You addressed what I was going to question, and that was
that we, in our charter for the Ad Hoc Committee, agreed to report to this Board, but we did not
agree to our in Executive Session, but rather an open session. So I was going to suggest that there
be a brief summary of what the Ad Hoc Committee's work was prior to making a motion to go
into Executive Session. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, and I think that perfectly addresses where I was going with that,
and I think it works well to recite now that the Ad Hoc Committee did meet with General
Counsel Rolf Asphaug last week relative to this matter, and it was-- 17, OK. It was on September
17 at 13:00 hours. We met with the-- I'm sorry 14:00 hours, I think it was-- with General
Counsel relative to each of the items that were-- I'll correct myself again. It was actually at 3:40
PM Mountain Daylight Time on Tuesday, September 17, one week ago, where Vice Chair
Catlin, and General Counsel Rolf Asphaug, and Board Chair Doug Tisdale were present to
discuss the status of the RRP litigation. Which for the sake of the record, the Ad Hoc Committee,
among other things, is monitoring the amount of fees that have been expended in such litigations,
and the amount of fees anticipated for going forward in such litigations.
And that, relative to the current litigations, there is an arbitration scheduled for September 30
through October 2 on the RRP matter. And as to the DTP matter, there is a two-day conference
for settlement conference purposes in December, approximately December 10 and 11. And there
is a bench trial-- that means a trial to a judge without a jury sitting in the case-- in May of 2020.
And I will ask First Vice Chair if she has anything that she believes should be shared beyond that
before we go into Executive Session for a full report on such litigations from the General
Counsel.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. I did speak with a number of Directors regarding this, and
I wanted to reiterate that the committee charter is very specific and very narrow in its focus, that
it's limited to any pending major civil litigations to which the agency is a party. It doesn't deal
with any personal injury, or employment litigation, or anything else like that. It's really just with
the pretty narrow focus on that. And so some people asked me about other questions, or other
potential issues that came up, and that is not the charge of this committee. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Now, if there are any specific questions that people
would like to ask at this time relative to the overview. And again, remember, not only is it just
civil litigations, it's only these two major civil litigations that the Ad Hoc Committee is meeting
with the General Counsel about. And it's because if there are any issues that might come up, that
might cause a surprise to the Board, and might be the cause of a newspaper story or something
such as that, the Board wants to be apprised of these things in advance. That's why we set up the
Ad Hoc Committee. There are no such items of which the Ad Hoc Committee is aware. The
further status as to the litigation, General Counsel can discuss in Executive Session. General
Counsel, do you have any observations to share in that regard?

ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair Tisdale, is in the interest of transparency, I could state in open session
there is no problem with this. On the DTP case, discovery is proceeding. Depositions are being
scheduled for later this Fall. You mentioned the two-day confidential mediation before Private
Mediator Randall W. Wolf. That's scheduled for December 10 to 11. Mediation has to be
concluded and reported to the court by December 31 of this year, and trial is scheduled in May.
For RRP, you mentioned that private arbitration that's taking place September 30 to October 2 on
some specific issues. I'll explain more to you in Executive Session. Before a three arbitrator
panel, the parties filed cross motions for summary judgment, which were all recently denied.
Which means the arbitrators want to hear everything that both sides have.
And the parties have exchanged their witness lists and summaries, and are doing final
preparations for the September 30 arbitration. That information is-- there's not a problem, as far
as I'm concerned, that would cause any issues providing at an open session. More information, if
you would like, that we talked about, could be provided in Executive Session.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Appreciate that. Madam Treasurer, you are
recognized.
SHELLEY COOK: Just to clarify something that you had mentioned, you're not being briefed
only on those two cases because that was the limited scope of the Ad Hoc Committee, but
instead you're only being briefed on those because they are the only cases at issue currently?
DOUG TISDALE: Well, they were not specifically called out, as I recall. I think we described
them as major civil litigations. And that takes things out of it like accident cases, slip and fall,
employment cases, and the like it's major civil litigations.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. At this point, is the Board ready for a motion to move into
Executive Session? I will note that, for the sake of the record and for everyone here, immediate-assuming I now get a motion and a second, and we have an affirmative vote-- immediately
following the Executive Session, the Board will then adjourn. The Board will not consider any
further substantive matters this evening. I want to dissuade anyone from the belief that somehow
we'll have an Executive Session and then come back into session, and take care of all things that
we really should have done, and wanted to do, and somehow didn't do when all the public was
here. So it's very clear that when the Executive Session is concluded, this Board meeting will be
over. And no substantive business will be conducted.
So therefore at this time, I will entertain a motion to move into Executive Session for the purpose
of conference on legal counsel on DTP and RRP litigation matters, pursuant to Colorado Revised
Action 42-6-402 paren 4, paren B. As to conferences with an the attorney for the local public
body for the purposes of receiving legal advice on specific legal questions, may I a motion? I
have a motion from the Treasurer, and I have a second from Director Whitmore. And is there any
discussion on that motion? Hearing none, if we can proceed to an electronic vote with Director
Cook as the movant, Director Whitmore as the second.

BARBARA MCMANUS: There is no electronic vote.
DOUG TISDALE: Say again now?
BARBARA MCMANUS: There's not usually an electronic vote.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, there isn't on this one? OK. I gotta keep up with these things. There is for
the minutes, but there's not for this. All right. OK. All those in favor, indicate by saying aye.
ALL BOARD MEMBERS: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed? There are none. That passes unanimously. It is now
10 minutes to 9:00. We will take a 10-minute recess. We do not anticipate this to be a very long
Executive Session, but it will take as long as the Director want. We'll now stand in recess for 10
minutes. Anyone not part of the Executive Session will-[AUDIO OUT]
--unanimously a motion to proceed into Executive Session, and-[AUDIO OUT]

