Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday August 23, 2011 at
5:50 p.m. Page 1 of 4
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

August 23, 2011

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday August 23,
2011 at 5:50 p.m. in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley, Cohen, Deadwyler,
Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen, Tayer and Tobiassen.
Directors Daly, O’Boyle and Riley

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jeff Becker, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke, Carolyn
Conover, Shelly Ellebracht, Kevin Flynn, David Genova, Mike
Gil, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien,
Barbara McManus, Brian Matthews, Doug MacLeod, Tai-Shrae
Parish, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Scott Reed, Jeanette
Scarpino, Daria Serna, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Walt Stringer,
John Tarbert, Liz Telford, Bill Van Meter, Ashland Vaughn, Del
Walker, and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Mike Amparano – DTP, Margaret Atenco, Ed Bush – CRMCA,
Mike Cheroutes – HPTE, Chuck Easterling – DTP, Tex Elam,
Gary Forbes – First Transit, Gerry Gardner – Boulder County,
Kim Gillan – CCCD, Stan Gronek – ATU 1001, Nehemiah Hall
– National Federation of the Blind – Denver, Lee Johnson –
First Transit, Theresa Kruse – CCCD, Jeff Leib – Denver Post,
Stu Livensparger – First Transit, Thomas Peterson – First
Transit, and Todd Peterson.

****
I. Call To Order
Chair Kemp called the Study Session meeting to order at 5:50 p.m. Chair
Kemp noted that the Gold Line – Federal Center Location will be moved to the
first item since several members of the public were in attendance.
II. Gold Line – Federal Center Station Location
General Manager Washington added that Bill Van Meter and Ashland Vaughn
will be presenting this item and to please refrain from asking questions until
the end of their presentation.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday August 23, 2011 at
5:50 p.m. Page 2 of 4
Bill Van Meter explained the project history, environmental studies and
process that lead to the Federal East decision. In 2008 Federal East was
decided to be the optimal location after extensive evaluation of both East and
West locations. Subsequent to input from Adams County, the station was
moved to the West side with the approval of FTA. Then, Adams County
removed their support of the West side and in response we moved back to the
original East side location.
Public involvement during this process included 129 public meetings held with
over 3,900 attendees and 70,000 visits to the FasTracks website. Citizen
comments were never expressed citing any issue they might have at any of
the meetings regarding the potential location of the future station.
Ashland Vaughn added that current design status does not support a station
platform on the West side due to the horizontal and vertical alignments
associated with our current profile through that area. From a capital cost
perspective, moving the station location at this time would cost close to $5.5
million.
General Manager Washington noted that for these reasons, due to potential
cost increases, delay to schedule and current station design plans, the staff
recommendation remains unchanged and Federal East is our final decision.
Chair Kemp reiterated that there was no action to be taken tonight by the
Board, but the purpose was to demonstrate that the public process was
followed correctly due to the concerns that the public process was flawed.
Director Malpiede thanked her colleagues for going with her to the Federal
East and West site and indicated that this Board has been committed to
listening to the voice of the community. This is a very emotional issue and
the biggest concern was that there was no public involvement and the voices
of the community were going unheard. But we can see that over a four year
period we had over 129 meetings, 3,900 individuals, and 70,000 website
hits. That is public involvement and those are huge numbers and the public
has been heard.
III. 2010 Service Performance Review
General Manager Washington applauded the Board for their courage in
approving a sustainable plan to make this agency sustainable going forward.
The approval of the Strategic Budget Plan which includes a service
optimization option means that we will not have to nickel and dime our
passengers with service cuts and fare increases as we have done in the past.
Bruce Abel indicated that the 2010 Service Performance Review will be
combined with the Preliminary 2012 Service Adjustments conversation. We
would like to discuss our preliminary thoughts on service optimization as part
of our ongoing conversations for achieving long term fiscal sustainability.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday August 23, 2011 at
5:50 p.m. Page 3 of 4
Since these changes are so large, we are approaching the Board early so that
any questions can be answered in a timely manner.
Jeff Becker noted that two key indicators for performance are Subsidy per
Boarding which is the economic statistic, and Boardings per Hour which
equals efficiency. If a route falls below 10% subsidy it would be reviewed for
possible adjustment.
IV. Preliminary 2012 Service Adjustments - Proposed
Jessie Carter explained that the proposed list contains all service routes in
either a green, blue or red label. Green routes have no proposed service
changes, blue routes represent proposed service cuts, reductions or
improvements and red routes are service discontinuances.
Bruce Abel indicated that we have tried to be a surgical as possible but at the
same time trying to look at major route restructuring and consolidating.
Director James asked if statistical information could be provided for Subsidy
per Boarding and Boardings per Hour for all routes so that questions from
constituents could be managed.
Director Tobiassen noted that the drivers have a very good feel for what goes
on with these routes and indicated that it is really important to speak with the
drivers to get their input. Bruce Abel explained that we do go out to the
garages each run board to solicit input from the drivers. We did have a
meeting with union leadership and are trying to socialize the changes the best
that we can.
Director Cohen inquired as to how these service adjustment savings relate to
headcount. Bruce Abel noted that 110 will be impacted; however, we
anticipate these adjustments to be accommodated though attrition.
Director Tayer added that this task is difficult but this is the most powerful
rational to make our revenue stream more sustainable. Also, we need to think
in terms of optimization by using our dollars most efficiently.
Director McMullen inquired if RTD has ever had a layoff. Chair Kemp indicated
that there was one in 1983.
Copies of the Proposed Service Adjustments are available in the Board Office.
V. Other Matters
Director Bagley indicated that the General Manger’s Performance Survey has
been completed by 8 Board members and is expecting full participation by this
Friday.
Director Bagley added that Mayor Jim Woodward of Englewood was

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday August 23, 2011 at
5:50 p.m. Page 4 of 4
disappointed in the outcome of the parking expansion project.
Director Anderson invited everyone to the City of Arvada for the FFGA signing
on August 31st. The town looks great and we are all excited and looking
forward to a great celebration.
Director Malpiede thanked Director James and Chair Kemp for their
participation in the Villa Park Neighborhood picnic. Everyone in the community
was excited and the weather was perfect. Also, thanks to Brenda Tierney and
her staff for they did a great job.
General Manager Washington added that this is the last time that we will meet
before the FFGA signing. The city is really laying out the red carpet for us and
we will have Peter Rogoff, Ray LaHood, Governor Hickenlooper, and
Congresswoman Diana Degette and Congressman Ed Perlmutter. The mock-up
EMU will be a short distance away and there will be a street market with
vendors from Arvada. This should be a very exciting event and are ready to
go.
VI. Adjournment
The Study Session adjourned at 7:55 p.m.

