Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on August 13, 2007
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

August 15, 2007

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting held on
August 13, 2007 at 6:00 p.m. in Rooms T and D

***
Committee Members
Present:
Chair Ruchman, Directors Christopher, Daly, Kemp, Kinton,
Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Tayer, and Yamrick
Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Liz Rao, Susan Altes, Rick Clarke, Dennis Cole,
Scott Reed, Daria Serna, Stan Szabelak, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois,
Marcia Fraley, Rick Clarke, Bill Van Meter, Caitlin Magee

Others Present:

Steve Fisher

Call to Order:

***
Chair Ruchman called the meeting to order at 6:27 P.M.

Cal Marsella made an announcement that US 36 did not receive the federal grant
from the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Urban Partnership Program. There was
not a reason given as to why US 36 did not receive the grant.
I.

Recommended Actions
Intergovernmental Agreement by and between the Colorado Department of
Transportation and the Regional Transportation District Related to US 36 and
Broomfield park-n-Ride and the 120th Avenue Connection Project
Liz Rao, Assistant General Manager, Planning and Development, introduced this item.
The proposal was outlined to the Committee at the June 11, 2007 Planning and
Development Committee meeting. This action is for an IGA with CDOT to complete
BRT phase 1 by building the slip ramps and the pedestrian bridge at the Broomfield
park-n-Ride.
The first part of the IGA relates to a property exchange. Susan Altes, Manager, Real
Property, showed a map of the area. CDOT needs land for extension of 120th
Avenue over US 36. This land goes right through the Broomfield park-n-Ride. RTD
will relocate the park-n-Ride to the Broomfield Event Center and receive property

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on August 13, 2007
Page 2 of 4

from CDOT to make this happen. Susan Altes explained the agreement with CDOT.
RTD has many park-n-Rides that are on CDOT property. With this IGA, the leases on
these park-n-Rides are extended for fifty years.
Staff would like to have a design/build project for the slip ramps and the pedestrian
bridge over U.S. 36. This project will complete BRT phase 1 as the Broomfield parkn-Ride will be the last park-n-Ride to get slip ramps so buses do not have to exit the
highway to pick up and drop off passengers.
The slip ramps will be operational at the end of 2009. Director Christopher asked if
there was any way to speed up the process since the parking structure is already
there. Stan Szabelak, Engineering Project Manager, gave his opinion that this is not
possible. Because the District is doing the project in conjunction with CDOT,
construction needs to be coordinated between agencies.
Director Kemp asked about BRT being a competing service with commuter rail and
avoiding issues that we had when the southeast corridor opened.
Director Tayer asked about having a measurement device (a countdown or a
thermometer) for the public to see when the parking lot will be available to RTD
customers. Susan Altes said that could be considered.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute all
documents necessary to formalize an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between
RTD and the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) related to CDOT’s use
of RTD’s property (approximately 22 acres) for the SH121/SH128 Intersection
Project, the 120th Avenue Connection Project and RTD’s use of CDOT property
(approximately 3 acres) for bus slip ramps and a pedestrian bridge at the relocated
park-n-Ride facility at US 36 and 116th Avenue. The use of property by each agency
will be pursuant to an Occupancy and Use Agreement that will allow each agency to
use the property for highway and/or transit improvements and will only terminate
should the highway or transit use cease to exist. The IGA will also include the
extension of leases from CDOT to RTD of land accommodating certain park-n-Rides.
Motion: Director Christopher moved
to forward this item to the full
Board at the August 21, 2007
Board Meeting.
Second: Director Tayer seconded
the motion.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on August 13, 2007
Page 3 of 4

West Corridor Value Engineering Proposals, Single Track from Simms/Union to the
Jefferson County Government Center
Cal Marsella spoke to this action. Jeffco Commissioners are very upset with the
single track west of Union.. The West Corridor is a candidate for a full funding
grant from the Federal Transit Administration. If the District went with the double
track, it would jeopordize the federal funding. Liz Rao mentioned that a passing
track would also put the district over the edge for federal funding by producing too
high a score on FTA’s Cost Effectiveness Index. Jeffco hired their own consultant
to study our figures. Jeffco has not allowed RTD to view any of the consultant’s
findings.
Kevin McCasky and Nanette Neelan are not happy with this recommendation. Cal
Marsella feels that the District has given every consideration and respect to
Jefferson County and the decision can not be delayed any longer because of the
need to submit a full funding proposal to FTA.
Director Martinez asked about the tunnel through I-70. Cal Marsella said it will be
single bore tunnel. The bridge over Indiana will be single track but will be wide
enough to accommodate double track in the future. Also the track bed will be
flattened and widened so that there will be room for expansion.
Director Christopher asked about the clarification of trigger #3 (on the Board
Report) regarding leftover funding from FasTracks. The bullet reads:
“and that if additional funds beyond the West Corridor are necessary to add
capacity to meet ridership demand then RTD will commit that if any funds are
remaining after the entire FasTracks Program is complete the Board of Directors will
use those funds to restore the cuts made that impact RTD’s capability to provide
the originally planned service.”
Director Martinez spoke that this trigger seems to give priority to the West Corridor
over any others.
Director Tayer offered some language for bullet three: “If any funds are remaining
after the entire FasTracks program is complete, the West Corridor will be eligible for
those funds.”
Director Pulliam said that this change would most likely be a deal breaker between
the Jefferson County Commissioners and RTD.
Liz Rao made the suggestion for bullet #3, “and that if additional funds beyond the
West Corridor are necessary to add capacity to meet ridesrhip demand, then RTD
will commit that if any funds are remaining after the entire FasTracks Program is
complete, the West Corridor will be a priorty for those funds to restore the cuts
made that impact RTD’s capability to provide the originally planned service.”

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on August 13, 2007
Page 4 of 4

Bruce Daly asked about the cost effectiveness figure. Cal Marsella explained that
for Federal Funding we can not exceed the fee of $23.99 per rider.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to incorporate single track from
Simms/Union to the Jefferson County Government Center as proposed in the 2007
Value Engineering (VE) process, thereby saving the project an estimate $36 million
and to accept the “triggers” that will continue to increase capacity of the western
end of the corridor alignment based on ridership demand.
Motion: Director Kemp moved to
forward this item to the full Board
at the August 21, 2007 Board
Meeting with the changes proposed
to the third bullet by Liz Rao which
reads “if additional funds beyond
the West Corridor are necessary to
add capacity to meet ridesrship
demand then RTD will commit that
if any funds are remaining after the
entire FasTracks Program is
complete, the West Corridor will be
a priority for those funds to restore
the cuts made that impact RTD’s
capability to provide the originally
planned service.”
Second: Director Christopher seconded
the motion.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed on an 8-1
vote (Director Pulliam dissented).
(Director Tayer left before the vote.)

III. Other Matters – Director Ruchman asked for an update of Santa Fe. Liz Rao
responded that it will be presented at the August 21, 2007 executive session.
Director Ruchman also request an update on the agency’s sustainability effort.

IV. Next Meeting Date – The next meeting of the Planning and Development Committee
will be September 10, 2007 at 6:00 p.m.
V. Adjournment - There being no objection, Chairman Ruchman adjourned the meeting
at 7:15 P.M.

