1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, December 3, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Judy Lubow

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Lubow called the meeting to order at 7:16 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
7:15 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

7:15 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Absent
Present

7:15 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Chair

Present
Absent

7:15 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Vice Chair

Present
Present
Present

7:15 PM
7:15 PM
7:15 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

7:15 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Absent

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

7:15 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

7:15 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

7:15 PM
7:15 PM

Directors Daly, Hoy and Rivera-Malpiede were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Rick Clarke, Chuck Culig, John Elias, Sherry
Ellebracht, Heather Ellerbrock, Kevin Flynn, Terry Howerter, Kate
Iverson, Tina Jaquez, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Doug
MacLeod, Barbara McManus, Brian Middleton, Jerry Nery, Scott
Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Bill Sirois, Patrick Stanley, Henry
Stopplecamp, Kirk Strand, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta
Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington

Others Present:

Maria Garcia Berry, Jenifer Brandeberry, Mac Callison, John
Desmond, Mike Dino, Jared Fleisher, Doug Gragg, Mark Lunsford,
Anne Miano, Bill Mosher, Kevin O’Neill, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn

B. CAC Update
Committee Chair Lubow indicated that there was a change in the Agenda and the
Citizens Advisory Committee would not be providing the Board with an update this
evening. They will present at the next FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting in
January, 2014.

C. Recommended Actions

• Renaming of I-225 Rail Line City Center Station
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the Aurora Metro Center Station name for the station on the
I-225 Rail Line currently referred to as the Aurora City Center Station in the
Environmental Evaluation document. This recommendation is consistent with
the current Board policy on station naming. It is also recommended that the
existing Centrepoint/Sable bus transfer facility located at the station area
also be renamed to be consistent with the light rail station.
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the December 17,
2013 Board meeting.
Director Folska seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Tina Jaquez, Public Information Manager for I-225, stated that
staff has collaborated extensively with the stakeholder, the
City of Aurora, to understand the reasoning behind this

change. She said based on this collaboration, staff
recommends moving forward.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Bruce Daly, Larry Hoy, Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Committee Chair Lubow declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Station Names for Eagle P3 Project
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the following station name changes for the Eagle P3
Project. For comparison, the current station names in use are shown in
parentheses.
Gold Line:
Pecos Junction (change from Pecos)
Clear Creek • Federal (change from Federal)
60th & Sheridan • Arvada Gold Strike (change from Sheridan)
Wheat Ridge • Ward (change from Ward Road)
East Corridor:
40th Ave. & Airport Blvd. • Gateway Park (change from 40th Ave. &
Airport Blvd)
Denver Airport (change from Denver International Airport)
Motion:

Chair Anderson made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the December 17, 2013
Board meeting.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Kevin Flynn, Public Information Manager for Eagle P3,
explained that RTD has a deadline from Denver Transit
Partners to confirm station names by the end of the year so
DTP may begin systems work. The Eagle Project staff has
met with Marketing to determine recommended station names.
He said that his team also solicited input from the six local
governments involved. He stated that based on this input
staff was coming forward with a recommendation for the six
station name changes.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Chair of the Board
SECONDER: Kent Bagley, Director, District H
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Bruce Daly, Larry Hoy, Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Committee Chair Lubow declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors appoint three (3) new members and reappoint two (2)
members to the FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee of the Regional
Transportation District (RTD) for three-year terms.
Motion:

Director Sisk made the motion to move this item
to the full Board at the December 17, 2013
Board meeting.
Director Solano seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning, shared
that the nominating committee received and reviewed 40
applications. He said staff did extensive outreach to solicit
candidates and applications. Bill Van Meter stated that the
nominating committee unanimously recommends the slate
presented to the Board. He noted there are two members who
would be serving their second term and three new members to
fill the seats of the terms limited CAC members.
Director Folska asked if the candidates were present. Bill Van
Meter said that due to the anticipation of the long evening
staff did not formally invite them. Director Folska suggested
making arrangements in the future so that they may address
the Board.
Director Folska thanked the CAC members, Roger Sherman
and RTD staff for listening to the Board’s request to see new
people and broaden the diversity of the CAC. She thinks the
nominating committee did a great job.
Director Sisk seconded Director Folska’s comments about
listening to the Board. He shared that he has known Mayor
Stuart for many years and thinks it is great to have her on the
committee.

Chair Anderson thanked the two Board members, Directors
Hoy and Rivera-Malpiede, who sat on the nominating
committee. She thinks they did a great job in reappointing the
two previous members and likes the diversity of the three new
members.
Director Bagley commented that the first listed new appointee,
Tyler Kealy, previously worked in an intern position at RTD.
He said that in the previous year he was the second runner up
but was an outstanding young fellow. Director Bagley said he
is excited he reapplied and is now a part of the CAC.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
SECONDER: Kent Bagley, Director, District H
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Bruce Daly, Larry Hoy, Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Committee Chair Lubow declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

D. Other Matters
Rick Clarke said there was a pending organizational change that he wanted to
discuss with the Board. Jim Starling, Project Manager for the West Line and now
on North Metro, will be leaving RTD for a job in the private sector. Rick Clarke
stated that this will be a loss to RTD. He noted that Jim has come up through the
ranks, starting as a Construction Inspector, moving to Head of Engineering on TRex, and then becoming Project Manager on the West and North Metro Lines. Rick
Clarke stated that this will be a loss to the organization but changes like this are
not uncommon. He said that Jim Starling will be with RTD until January and staff
has already begun the recruitment process.
General Manager Washington provided the Board with a fact sheet on the
DesignLine issue. He noted that staff has discussed DesignLine with the Board
several times. General Manager Washington informed the Board that there was a
recent newspaper article stating that DesignLine owes RTD about $31K and made
it sound like we gave them $21 million; however, he stated that this is completely
untrue and inaccurate. RTD purchased two 16th Street Mall buses with a five year
option to purchase an additional 57 buses. He shared that RTD began testing the
buses in 2012. Staff came to the Board for approval of the purchase of 34
additional buses at a not to exceed cost of $24.1 million but RTD did not pay
DesignLine. General Manager Washington stated that our agreement with
DesignLine was to only pay them when RTD received the buses. He noted that in

August Deisgnline filed for bankruptcy and RTD is still negotiating with the
bankruptcy court.
Director Tobiassen asked when we might get released from our agreement with
DesignLine so we can issue a new RFP. Marla Lien shared that when staff met
with the new owners they did not indicate they would voluntarily release us. She
informed the Board that RTD retained a bankruptcy attorney on the East Coast who
will petition the bankruptcy court that the contract be released. She said that staff
expects that to be granted but we cannot safely go out with an RFP until that
happens.

E. Next Meeting Date - January 7, 2014
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Lubow adjourned the meeting at 7:35 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

