1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

AGENDA
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, December 3, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Judy Lubow

A. Call to Order
B. CAC Update

• Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) Update
C. Recommended Actions

• Renaming of I-225 Rail Line City Center Station
• Station Names for Eagle P3 Project
• FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments
D. Other Matters

• Other Matters

E. Next Meeting Date - January 7, 2014
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: November 26, 2013

From:

Richard F. Clarke, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

November 25, 2013

Board Meeting Date: December 3, 2013

Subject:

Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) Update

Information

Prepared by:
MinuteTraq Admin,
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 3

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: November 26, 2013

From:

Richard F. Clarke, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

November 26, 2013

Board Meeting Date: December 3, 2013

Subject:

Renaming of I-225 Rail Line City Center Station

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors adopt the Aurora
Metro Center Station name for the station on the I-225 Rail Line currently referred to as the Aurora City
Center Station in the Environmental Evaluation document. This recommendation is consistent with the
current Board policy on station naming. It is also recommended that the existing Centrepoint/Sable bus
transfer facility located at the station area also be renamed to be consistent with the light rail station.
BACKGROUND
During the Environmental Evaluation process it was determined that a light rail Park-n-Ride station at
Sable Boulevard and Centerpoint Drive would be an appropriate location because of the existing bus
transfer facility. Proximity to the facility would provide efficient connections between multiple bus routes
and the future light rail route. The City of Aurora has expressed an interest in renaming the station the
Aurora Metro Center Station and on September 9, 2013, Aurora City Council passed a resolution
supporting the change of the name.
DISCUSSION
The City of Aurora Council supports this change because they believe it better reflects the station that
will serve Aurora citizens and visitors. The City envisions the station to be a vital element of the future
main street area of Aurora. The City also believes the name change will fit better with the future
development plans for the area around the station.
There currently is a bus transfer station adjacent to the future light rail station and since it is integral to
connectivity to RTD services including light rail and bus, it is important the name represent both the rail
and bus components.
The May 2011 Board Station Naming Policy revision grants the Board flexibility in allowing station
naming and the proposed station name fits the general criteria established by the Board as follows:
a. The proposed name is recognizable as a general geographic area to the public;
b. The name does not incorporate any trademark name;
c. The station is not set to open until 2016 (which is more than two years away); and
d. The name does not violate any existing naming agreement.
Consequently, the proposed station name is consistent with the Board station naming policy.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
This recommendation would have no immediate financial impact on RTD.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the Board of Directors adopt the Aurora Metro Center Station name for the station on the I-225 Rail
Line currently referred to as the Aurora City Center Station in the Environmental Evaluation

Packet Pg. 4

1.C.1

document. This recommendation is consistent with the current Board policy on station naming. It is
also recommended that the existing Centrepoint/Sable bus transfer facility located at the station area
also be renamed to be consistent with the light rail station.
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action and request the City of Aurora to consider further
alternatives. This action is not recommended since this name no longer reflects the plans of the City
or adjacent property holder.
3. Do not accept the Recommended Action and keep the station name as identified in the I-225
Environmental Evaluation. This action is not recommended since this name no longer reflects the
plans of the City of Aurora or adjacent property owner.

Prepared by:
Chuck Culig, Project Manager, Engineering
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 5

1.C.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: November 26, 2013

From:

Richard F. Clarke, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

November 26, 2013

Board Meeting Date: December 3, 2013

Subject:

Station Names for Eagle P3 Project

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors approve the
following station name changes for the Eagle P3 Project. For comparison, the current station names in
use are shown in parentheses.
Gold Line:
Pecos Junction (change from Pecos)
Clear Creek • Federal (change from Federal)
60th & Sheridan • Arvada Gold Strike (change from Sheridan)
Wheat Ridge • Ward (change from Ward Road)
East Corridor:
40th Ave. & Airport Blvd. • Gateway Park (change from 40th Ave. & Airport Blvd)
Denver Airport (change from Denver International Airport)
BACKGROUND:
Station names were originally assigned during the Gold Line Corridor and East Corridor Environmental
Impact Statements, both completed in 2009, and the Northwest Rail Corridor Environmental Evaluation
completed in 2010. These initial names were based on geographic locations and have been used on
plans, fact sheets and the website. Denver Transit Partners, the concessionaire on the Eagle P3 Project,
has given the Eagle Design Team a deadline of December 31, 2013, to confirm the official station names
in order for it to integrate the names into the signage design package, systems packages for LED and
LCD monitor displays, and audio announcements; and operations documents.
The Board previously voted to change the names of two stations on the Eagle P3 Project. On September
20, 2011, the Board approved changing the name of the East Corridor’s Colorado Station to 40th &
Colorado, based on Denver Fire’s request to differentiate the location from the existing Colorado Station
on the Southeast light rail corridor. Subsequently, on November 22, 2011, the Board approved changing
the name of the Northwest Rail Corridor’s South Westminster Station to Westminster Station, based on
a formal request from the City of Westminster to better fit into its land use planning in that area.
In order to respond to DTP’s deadline, Eagle Project staff met in early September with RTD Marketing to
apply RTD’s station naming policy to the station names on the project. Following that discussion, the
staff recommended these names, with three of them changed from their current names:
Northwest Rail Corridor:
Westminster (no change)
Gold Line Corridor:
41st & Fox (no change)
Pecos (no change)
60th & Federal

Packet Pg. 6

1.C.2

60th & Sheridan
Olde Town Arvada (no change)
Arvada Ridge (no change)
Wheat Ridge • Ward
East Corridor:
38th & Blake (no change)
40th & Colorado (no change)
Central Park (no change)
Peoria (no change)
40th & Airport (no change)
Denver International Airport (no change)
In Mid-September, the Eagle Design Team issued official letters to the six local governments on the
project to advise them of the proposed station names and provide them with the opportunity to request
alternate station names, if deemed appropriate and conforming to all the requirements of the RTD
Station Naming Policy. Local governments also would have to submit a completed RTD Station Naming
Form. The goal was to avoid later requests from stakeholders after DTP’s deadline.
DISCUSSION:
After RTD notified the local governments of the RTD recommended station names, RTD received the
following change requests:
Adams County requested the station at Pecos be changed to Pecos Junction.
Staff Recommendation: Change to Pecos Junction
This proposal supports Adams County’s land use planning for the southwest portion of the county along
the Gold Line and Northwest Rail, and takes its name from the geographical location of the physical
track interlock – or junction – where the Northwest Rail and Gold Line diverge from their shared
alignment south to Union Station.
Adams County requested the station at 60th & Federal be changed to Clear Creek • Federal.
Staff Recommendation: Change to Clear Creek • Federal
This proposal also supports Adams County’s land use planning for the southwest portion of the county.
It resolves the issue of multiple stations containing “Federal.” For fire and life safety reasons, it is
important to eliminate duplicate station names in the system and distinguish this station from West
Corridor’s Federal Center and Decatur • Federal stations. It adds a geographical identifier to the name,
including Clear Creek and the Clear Creek Trail, which can be accessed across 60th Avenue from this
station.
The City of Arvada requested the station at 60th & Sheridan be changed to 60th & Sheridan • Arvada
Gold Strike.
Staff Recommendation: Change to 60th Ave & Sheridan • Arvada Gold Strike
The proposal resolves the issue of multiple stations starting with “Sheridan” while also including a
geographical and historical identifier that is important to the City of Arvada. It is important to distinguish
this station from Sheridan Station on the West Corridor. The station is located less than a half mile from
the site of the first gold strike in what was to become the state of Colorado, in 1850 at Ralston Creek’s

Packet Pg. 7

1.C.2

confluence with Clear Creek. Arvada’s Gold Strike Park is located there. The Gold Line takes its name
from this historical point of fact.
The City of Aurora requested the station at 40th Ave & Airport Blvd be changed to 40th Ave & Airport
Blvd • Gateway Park.
Staff Recommendation: Change to 40th Ave & Airport Blvd • Gateway Park
The proposal includes the Gateway Park neighborhood in the station name while adhering to RTD policy
of listing street location identification. It also follows the precedent set at several stations including
Stapleton park-n-Ride, Southmoor Station and Arapahoe at Village Center Station. The 40th & Airport
Blvd park-n-Ride is an existing RTD facility, and under RTD policy third parties are to be responsible for
costs of changing the name. The master developer of the Gateway Park area has agreed to cover the
costs of updating station signage.
The City and County of Denver requested the station at Denver International Airport be changed to
Denver Airport.
Staff Recommendation: Change to Denver International Airport to Denver Airport
The proposal retains the most important element, that of the prominent destination. Airport managers
prefer the shorter name to facilitate designation on maps, signs and Ticket Vending Machines. More
importantly, airport managers have undertaken a marketing effort to reduce the use of the term “DIA,”
which is not the Airport Code known to most travelers. The Denver airport’s code is DEN. Airport
managers are concerned that visitors to Denver, who will make up a higher percentage of riders on the
East Corridor than other RTD rail lines, not face confusion when looking at maps or schedules by seeing
“DIA” as shorthand for the DEN rail station. It is likely that going forward, there will be more effort to
reduce the use of the word “International” in the airport’s name as well, so changing this station’s name
now eliminates the potential need to go through the expense of changing it later. RTD staff concurs with
the reasoning of airport managers for removing “International” from the station name and reducing the
likelihood of use of “DIA Station.” Clarity and consistency are important elements in communicating with
visitors to DEN and our new rail station there.
Staff Recommendation: Change to Ward Road to Wheat Ridge • Ward
In addition to changes requested by local governments, RTD staff recommends changing the name of
the Ward Road Station on the Gold Line to Wheat Ridge • Ward. This change is consistent with current
RTD policy. With only one exception, RTD does not use street name suffixes such as “St,” “Ave” or
“Blvd” as part of the station name. In addition to dropping “Road,” the recommendation adds the city’s
name, more consistent with the West Corridor’s “Lakewood • Wadsworth” and Southwest Corridor’s
“Littleton • Downtown” and “Littleton • Mineral.”
No Board action is required for the remaining Eagle P3 Project station names, which are unchanged.
FINANCIAL IMPACT:
There is no negative financial impact to the project at this time. DTP is requiring RTD confirmation of the
official Station Names prior to December 31, 2013, in order to avoid costs that would be incurred with
changing station names after DTP commences with station signage and systems packages. RTD sought
local government input now in order to avoid redesign costs later. Any station name changes after
December 31, 2013, would have cost implications to either RTD or stakeholders.

Packet Pg. 8

1.C.2

ALTERNATIVES:
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the following station name changes for the Eagle P3 Project. For
comparison, the current station names in use are shown in parentheses.
Gold Line:
Pecos Junction (change from Pecos)
Clear Creek • Federal (change from Federal)
60th & Sheridan • Arvada Gold Strike (change from Sheridan)
Wheat Ridge • Ward (change from Ward Road)
East Corridor:
40th Ave. & Airport Blvd. • Gateway Park (change from 40th Ave. & Airport Blvd)
Denver Airport (change from Denver International Airport)
2. Accept the initial RTD staff recommended three station name changes, not including the key
stakeholder requested changes: 60th & Federal, 60th & Sheridan, and Wheat Ridge • Ward. This is
not recommended as it is not responsive to key stakeholders’ land use planning and marketing
strategies around RTD rail stations, and invites renewed attempts to revisit station names after DTP’s
deadline, which would incur costs.
3. Do not accept the recommended action. Instead leave the names as currently defined. This is not
recommended as it would not be responsive to key stakeholders making the request. In addition, it
would leave in place several duplicate or similar rail station names in the RTD system at the risk of
fire and life safety response in emergency dispatch situations. The Board already has changed the
Colorado Station name to 40th & Colorado based on this reasoning.

Prepared by:
Caroline Seeberger, Architect Eagle P3
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 9

1.C.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

From:

William C. Van Meter,
Manager, Planning

Date:

November 13, 2013

Subject:

FasTracks
Citizens
Appointments

Assistant

Date: November 21, 2013
General

GM
Board Meeting Date: December 3, 2013

Advisory

Committee

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of Directors appoint
three (3) new members and reappoint two (2) members to the FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee
of the Regional Transportation District (RTD) for three-year terms.
BACKGROUND
The seventeen-member FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) advises the District on matters
relating to the implementation of the voter approved FasTracks program, and performs such additional
duties as requested by RTD. The Committee serves in an advisory capacity through the designated
liaison to the Board of Directors, staff and project consultants
Five current members’ terms expire on December 31, 2013. Three members have served two full terms
on the Committee and are not eligible for reappointment. The two current members who are eligible for
reappointment have expressed an interest in continuing to serve on the Committee.
Recruitment for citizens interested in serving was publicly advertised through the RTD Web site, a news
release sent to stakeholders, local publications and electronic broadcast media lists totaling 1,541
recipients, current CAC members for distribution to their networks, and through other distribution
channels. Applicants were asked to submit a one-page letter stating their interest in serving on the CAC
along with specific qualifications, highlights of related experience and expertise and a resume if
available. Forty applications were received by the deadline.
The Nominating Committee composed of two Board members and two Assistant General Managers,
recommend reappointment of the two current members who requested consideration based on
attendance, participation at meetings and Committee consistency. Representatives of the Nominating
Committee carefully reviewed each application received in order to fill the remaining three vacant
positions, considering criteria outlined in the Committee Structure adopted by the Board in 2005,
including:






Broad representation of stakeholder interests
Diversity
Demonstrated interest in public transit and/or the FasTracks program
Previous community service
Professional experience.

The Nominating Committee also took into consideration feedback and input from Board members given
during the year at Board committee meetings and during one-on-one meetings with the CAC co-chairs.

Packet Pg. 10

1.C.3

The following current members are recommended for reappointment to an additional three-year term
expiring December 31, 2016:
Bob Rizzuto is currently a Co-Owner and Broker Associate with KW Commercial Real Estate. Prior to
real estate, he spent over 30 years in senior management positions in both the private and public
sectors. He has served on many civic and professional organizations, including Jefferson County
Economic Development Corporation, Meeker Chamber of Commerce Board of Directors, Lamar City
Council, Applewood Business Association, Rotary International, Boy Scouts of America (Assistant Scout
Master), Junior Achievement, National Association of College and University Business Officers
(NACUBO) and Western Association of College and University Business Officers (WACUBO). He holds a
Master’s of Business Administration from the Colorado Division of the University of Phoenix. He is a
resident of RTD District M.
Karen Stuart is the former Mayor of the City and County of Broomfield, serving three terms, during
which time she was known for her regional collaboration and strong support of FasTracks. Stuart is the
Executive Director of Smart Commute Metro North Transportation Management Organization; a nonprofit, public-private partnership formed to promote transportation options and improvements, foster
economic vitality and enhance mobility in the Metro North region. She holds a Bachelor of Science
degree in Sociology from Marymount College, and a certificate from the Senior Executives in State and
Local Government Program from the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. Ms.
Stuart is a resident of RTD District J.
The following applicants are recommended for appointment to three-year terms expiring on December
31, 2016:
Tyler Kealy is a Client Service and Fund Accountant for Public Trust Advisors, a two-year old startup
finance firm in Denver. In 2011, Kealy graduated Magna Cum Laude from the Daniels College of
Business, University of Denver with a Bachelors of Science/Bachelors of Arts Degree in Finance. He was
a budget analyst intern for the Regional Transportation District, where he played a major role in
overhauling the District’s annual budget report with an emphasis on communicating RTD’s goals and
major accomplishments to the public. Kealy is a self-described “transit-dependent young adult” and
commutes regularly by bus and light rail. He is a resident of RTD District A.
Vivian Stovall is a retired Operation Support Coordinator at Denver General Hospital where she was
responsible for providing communications and vehicle maintenance support for the hospital. She
travelled the state of Colorado as a member of Governor Bill Ritter’s Transportation Finance and
Implementation Blue Ribbon Panel, outlining recommendations about how to address Colorado’s
transportation needs. Stovall is a member of the Denver Election Division Advisory Committee, the
Denver Regional Council of Government (DRCOG) Aging Advisory Committee, the Denver Commission
on Aging, and the Colorado Alliance for Retired Americans and other civic- and community-based
organizations. A recent graduate of the Transit Alliance Academy, she is a resident of RTD District C.
Darcy Wilson is president of Stan-Mar, Incorporated, a multi-disciplined construction company, which
has helped build numerous national and international airports; hospitals, sports arenas, transit projects,
and real estate development infrastructure projects. Wilson has worked tirelessly for years serving
community non-profit organizations such as the Committee for City and Airport Fairness, Denver
Scholarship Foundation, Epworth Foundation and Stapleton Redevelopment workforce development
committee. She holds a Master's in Computer Information Science emphasizing GIS from the University

Packet Pg. 11

1.C.3

of Denver but her true passion throughout the years has been to ensure all segments of our community
are allowed economic empowerment. She is a resident of RTD District B.

FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no additional financial impact.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors appoint three (3) new members and reappoint two (2) members
to the FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee of the Regional Transportation District (RTD) for
three-year terms.
2. Modify the recommended appointments to the FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee. This is
not recommended as the appointments follow an extensive public application process and are
within the parameters of the Committee Structure adopted by the RTD Board of Directors.
3. Do not adopt the Recommended Action. This is not recommended as this alternative would delay
the appointment process of the FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee.

Prepared by:
Roger Sherman, CRL Associates, Inc.
Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 12

1.D.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date:

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Director

GM

Date:

December 5, 2013

Board Meeting Date: December 3, 2013

Subject:

Other Matters

ATTACHMENTS:


DesignLine Memo

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Erin Klaas, Senior Board Office Assistant
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: DesignLine Memo (1823 : Other Matters)

1.D.1.a

Packet Pg. 14

