Jan 8 2019
Board of Directors Special Board Meeting
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
DOUG TISDALE: The Tuesday, January 8, 2019, RTD Special Board Meeting. The record will
reflect that we are convened as of 5:30 PM Mountain Standard Time. I would respectfully
request everyone to please silence your cell phones and other electronic devices. I would also
note now, for the sake of the record and for the benefit of the public, that this meeting is being
video and audio recorded.
Tonight, we are joined once again by the esteemed members of the RTD Color Guard, who will
post the colors tonight. Will everyone please rise. Color Guard, please proceed when you are
ready.
COLOR GUARD: Color, halt. Present [INAUDIBLE].
COLOR GUARD: Permission to post the colors.
DOUG TISDALE: Gentlemen, post the colors.
COLOR GUARD: Forward, halt. Right. Right. Forward march. Color, halt. Right, face. Post the
colors. [INAUDIBLE] Present [INAUDIBLE]
DOUG TISDALE: Ladies and gentlemen, please join me in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance. I
pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it
stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
COLOR GUARD: Forward, halt. Left face. Forward march.
DOUG TISDALE: You may be seated. We'd like to express our profound appreciation and
thanks to the RTD Color Guard for that wonderful presentation. It's a great way to start our
meeting.
Ladies and gentlemen, our first order of business is the installation of our newly elected
members. I am pleased to welcome a very good friend, the Honorable Ann Frick, former judge
of the Denver District Court, a woman with a distinguished career as a very able litigator I speak
from personal experience an arbitrator, and a mediator, and a woman who was a shining light on
the bench when she served on the Denver District Court. She currently serves as a member of the
Colorado Civil Rules Committee and is on the staff of arbiters at the Judicial Arbiter Group,
affectionately known as JAG.

At this time, I would ask our Directors-elect and Director Catlin please to come to the well so
that Judge Frick can administer to you the oath of office. And Your Honor, please feel free to
proceed whenever you are ready.
ANN FRICK: First, I want to thank you, Doug, for inviting me to come and perform this
swearing in. Other than riding the RTD Shuttle Bus on the 16th Street Mall for many years, I
really didn't know much about the history at all of RTD. So I got on the computer and looked it
up. So for those of you who may, like me, not know much of the background, let me give you a
few of the statistics that I just learned.
RTD was created in 1969 by the Colorado Legislature. It began operations in 1972. It's governed
by a 15-member Board. Each Director serves a four-year term. Half of the Board is elected, and
then it's a staggered term the other half is elected. Each Director represents a different geographic
district with about 180,000 constituents in each district. RTD serves bus, light rail, and commuter
rail covering approximately a total of 2,340 square miles. It serves approximately 2.87 million
people a year, and its annual budget is approximately $466.7 million dollars. So, obviously,
service as a Board member is a very large and significant responsibility. And I want to thank all
of you for performing that public service.
So let's swear you in. Please raise your right hand and repeat after me. So you're going to say I,
and then you're each going to say your name. And I think what we should do is just kind of go
down in order and say your name. And then the rest of it, we'll all do at the same time. All right?
OK, so I
VINCENT BUZEK: I, Vincent Buzek
SHONTEL LEWIS: I, Shontel Marie Lewis
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I, Angie Rivera-Malpiede
LYNN GUISSINGER: I, Lynn Guissinger
SHELLEY COOK: I, Shelley Cook
TROY WHITMORE: I, Troy Whitmore
PEGGY CATLIN: I, Peggy Catlin
ANN FRICK: Do solemnly affirm or swear
DIRECTORS-ELECT: Do solemnly affirm or swear
ANN FRICK: That I am an elector who resides at and then each of you state your address
DIRECTORS-ELECT: I am an elector who resides at

[INTERPOSING VOICES]
[LAUGHTER]
ANN FRICK: Which is within the Regional Transportation District and within Director District
and then please state your district in the county or counties in which your district is located.
Maybe for clarity, we should go down the row again. Here we go. Which is within the Regional
Transportation District and within Director District
DIRECTORS-ELECT: which is within the Regional Transportation District and the Director
District
VINCENT BUZEK: J, Adams and Jefferson Counties
SHONTEL LEWIS: B, City and County of Denver, and Adams County
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: C, the city of Denver, Edgewater, and a little bit of Wheat Ridge
LYNN GUISSINGER: O, Boulder County except for the east
SHELLEY COOK: L, Jefferson County and Adams County
TROY WHITMORE: K, Adams County, including Brighton, Commerce City portions of
Thornton and Henderson
PEGGY CATLIN: N, Jefferson County
ANN FRICK: From which I was elected
DIRECTORS-ELECT: From which I was elected
ANN FRICK: That I will support the constitutions of the United States and of the State of
Colorado
DIRECTORS-ELECT: That I will support the constitutions of the United States and the State of
Colorado
ANN FRICK: And that I will faithfully perform the duties of the Office of Director
DIRECTORS-ELECT: And that I will faithfully perform the duties of the Office of Director
ANN FRICK: Of the Regional Transportation District to which I have been elected
DIRECTORS-ELECT: To the Regional Transportation District to which I have been elected.
ANN FRICK: Congratulations to each of you.

[APPLAUSE]
OK, now you each have to sign two certificates. And so I think they're arranged in alphabetical
order. So Mr. Buzek, I think you're up first.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
You are very welcome. Congratulations.
OK, Peggy Catlin.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
Shelley Cook.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
Congratulations, here you go.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
Lynn Guissinger. Congratulations.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
Ms. Shontel Lewis.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
Congratulations.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
ANN FRICK: Angie Rivera-Malpiede. Congratulations.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
Mr. Whitmore. Congratulations.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you very much.
ANN FRICK: You are very welcome.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

DOUG TISDALE: May I express many thanks to the Honorable Ann Frick. Judge Frick, always
a pleasure to see you. Thank you for your assistance. And you still have the skills, as all good
lawyers do, of a good paralegal, being able to marshal all the documents and make sure they got
signed right. So that's wonderful. But we thank you very much for being here. And we are so
delighted to have all these members with us now.
[APPLAUSE]
Congratulations to each and all of you for joining us here on this RTD Board. It is our pleasure to
have you and it is a privilege to be in such an august group.
Ms. McManus, at this time, if you would, please do us the kindness of calling the roll.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek
VINCENT BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin
PEGGY CATLIN: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Folska
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
[CHEERING]
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lubow
JUDY LUBOW: Present.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Menten
NATALIE MENTEN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Milhalik
KEN MIHALIK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rivera-Malpiede
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm here.
[APPLAUSE]
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Walker
JEFF WALKER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore
TROY WHITMORE: Proudly present.
[APPLAUSE]
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams
[APPLAUSE]
KATE WILLIAMS: In honor of Director Sisk, I am also here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And Chair Tisdale
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you. 15 present, 0 absent.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much Ms. McManus. We appreciate that.
We begin each meeting with a brief safety briefing. And for those of you who haven't been here
before, I actually will have to say it, and say it perhaps a little slower than I usually like to,
because there are people who don't know about safety procedures here at RTD.
If we have a medical emergency and 911 needs to be called, I will ask our RTD General Counsel
to make that telephone call. Any medically-trained individuals in the room are respectfully
requested to assist. If needed, an Automatic Emergency Defibrillator, an AED device, is in a
glass case located just outside this room on the wall to the right.

In the event that we must evacuate the building for fire or any other emergency, please calmly
exit out the door in which you entered in the back of the room there. And go up the stairs to the
first floor, around the security desk, and exit through the front door. Police and security officers
will be there to direct you to a safe meet-up area. Anyone needing special assistance in the event
of an evacuation will be assisted by RTD staff as necessary.
There is a related safety note that we like to tell people, because safety and security is one of our
strategic priorities for 2019, that we do have an app that's available on your Apple phones or
your Android phones. And it's the RTD Transit Watch app.
And in simplest terms, it helps you to fulfill the instruction if you see something, say something.
It will put you in immediate real-time connection with our RTD security forces and allow you
also to send messages. Please keep that in mind.
And then my last safety moment here for our safety briefing, it's winter time, so remember to
dress warmly.
Thank you very much for your patience in that. It's kind of like the briefing when you get on the
plane when we have to go through this each time. So we try to dress it up a little bit when we
can.
We now turn to the election of the 2019 Board Officers. As stated in the Board bylaws, in the
first official meeting of the year, the Board will elect as officers a Chair, a First Vice Chair, a
Second Vice Chair, a Secretary, and a Treasurer. You have all received a copy of the RTD Board
Officer Election Procedures and Rules of Engagement that we will follow for the nomination and
election of officers.
Proceeding in accordance with the Board's bylaws and with Robert's Rules of Order, which is the
Board's designated parliamentary authority, we will begin with the position of Chair, and then
we we'll work our way through this process for the balance of the officers on the Executive
Committee.
Those Board members who nominate candidates, and those who are seconding nominations, and
any other speakers will have up to three minutes to speak regarding the candidates for each
position.
For each office, I will ask for nominations. When there are no additional nominations, the
nomination phase will close, and then a call will be made for a vote by secret ballot. Two Board
members who are not running for the office in question, along with our General Counsel, will be
asked to count the votes and to provide the tally either to me or to the Chair Pro Tem as
appropriate for announcement.
If no candidate for a given office receives at least eight votes that's the magic number with RTD
is eight votes we will repeat the process. If we proceed into additional rounds of voting, Board
members who wish to speak further on behalf of a candidate by providing new or additional

information may do so at that time. This will be done in what we would call a round-robin
fashion. Again, each speaker will be limited to three minutes.
Now, are there any objections or questions regarding this process before we formally commence.
Seeing none, we'll move forward with the process as we have defined it.
At this point, we will then proceed to nominations for Chair of the Board. The nominations are
now open.
And I have Director Williams has requested to speak. Director Williams, you are recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. I'd like to nominate Director Peggy Catlin for the
position of Chair. I think that Director Catlin has a fairly good record in transportation. She's
been involved at the state level. She's been involved at the national level. She's cool-headed and
well-spoken, and I think that she would do us justice in the position. Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate that. Are there any other we'll ask for
secondings as well. But let me ask first, are there any other nominations for the office of Chair?
[INAUDIBLE]
I have Director Walker. You were first on.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you, I'd like to nominate Doug Tisdale for Chair. Doug has served as
Chair for the previous year. I think he's done so ably, very openly. I think he's shown himself to
be a great negotiator, collaborator, and I think that the continuity of him returning as Chair for
the next year with the challenges that we face would be a good move on our part to have that. I
think would be a good move on our part to continue that continuity. So my nomination is for
Director Tisdale to continue as Chair. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And having been nominated now, I'm going to turn
the meeting over to First Vice Chair Natalie Menten to carry forward with the continuance of any
further speakers, nominations, or seconds.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Our next speaker then, Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chairman Tisdale. I will second Director Walker's
nomination. And I echo his nomination. I won't take any time because there wasn't any afforded
to us, but I wholeheartedly support Doug Tisdale as continuing on as Chair of the Board of RTD.
Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. And I do not see anybody else in the queue
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Excuse me, Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.

DIRECTOR: Director Catlin has not received a second.
NATALIE MENTEN: I do not know that a second is required. I think that's an optional, actually.
Rolf
ROLF ASPHAUG: Yes, this is Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel. A second is not required.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh, OK. I thought I heard that in the directions. Sorry.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, and so now I'm catching up here. And as we do not have
anybody else in the queue, we will now prepare to take a vote. And if we could ask for
assistance, please, from Director Guissinger and Director Whitmore to help us, please, tally the
count once we are done receiving our ballots, would you both be OK doing that for me please?
[INAUDIBLE]
Thank you. And please hand out the ballots when you are ready. Having done this before, if you
feel the need to fold your ballot, you may do so. But if you'd just like to turn it over and save the
time of unfolding, you can also do that. It shouldn't be too hard though with 15.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
All right, and the results are in. Chair Tisdale, congratulations, you will remain on as the chair
for the 2019 session. And remind me whether I do need to announce the count? Remind me,
Rolf, please.
ROLF ASPHAUG: You do not need to announce the count, Chair.
NATALIE MENTEN: If there were a question somebody could answer it. But otherwise, we'll
leave that.
ROLF ASPHAUG: That's correct.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, thank you very much. And now I will turn this back over to
Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I appreciate that. And thank you all very much. And
thank you, Director Catlin, for being available to serve because now we're going to begin the
process for First Vice Chair. So anyone who would like to nominate a candidate for this office, if
you would please indicate by clicking your speak button. And we will call forward speakers in
the order in which they are indicated.
Director Walker, you are recognized, sir.
JEFF WALKER: I am never the first to speak. This is strange.

[CHUCKLE]
So I would like to nominate Director Catlin for first Vice Chair. I believe she has a thorough
knowledge of transportation issues. We served together at CDOT back in the early '00s. She's
proven herself to be objective, reasonable, rational, and I believe she's very capable of serving as
the Acting Chair should the Chair not be able to perform as such. So my nomination is for
Director Peggy Catlin.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Director Catlin's name is placed in nomination. Let
me now recognize Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I'm going to talk very quickly, just like Doug Tisdale, but not as
successfully as he does. I have a lot to say in support of nominating Claudia Folska for the
position of First Vice Chair. Claudia is a very unusual person. She's smart as a whip and quite a
visionary thinker and leader. She sees deeply into problems and also into their solutions.
I wanted to talk about three instances of Claudia's creative leadership style while at RTD. The
first was she worked with me to craft a proposed P3 proposal to finish the FasTracks northwest
corridor, which unfortunately had been sadly stalled. As concerned citizens, we crafted a draft P3
proposal that was so environmentally beneficial it hopefully would be considered a pilot for
other government railroad P3 projects. Unfortunately, surprisingly, BN did not accept our P3
suggestion, but it was a great try and an attempt to get beyond the FasTracks funding crunch.
Other instances of her leadership one really exciting one was the student art contest. Claudia
initiated and promoted it and worked with RTD staff to see it completed. It was a wonderful idea
to get students interested in transit by promoting an art contest in which the winning student's art
submission would end up being wrapped around an RTD bus. It was very, very popular with lots
of submissions, lots of enthusiasm, and press coverage. It was great fun. And, hint hint, it would
be great to have more of these contests in the future.
Finally, Claudia has annually taken Girl Scouts on a popular tour of RTD facilities, interesting
young people in transit. And she has received both local and national recognition for conducting
these tours. In addition to the regular stuff, Claudia has done a whole variety of leadership
positions on the Government Relations Committee as well as the FasTracks committee and
DRCOG.
I believe Claudia would continue to be a real asset to the Board by continuing her service on the
Executive Committee. Please join me in voting for Claudia for First Vice Chair. Thank you so
much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much Director Lubow.
We have Directors Catlin and Folska nominated for First Vice Chair. Are there any other
nominations for First Vice Chair? Hearing none, we can then proceed with the election process
once again. I will ask First Vice Chair Menten along with Director Broom, please, to assist Rolf
Asphaug, our General Counsel, in the counting once the ballots have been collected.

And congratulations to our new Vice Chair, Director Peggy Catlin. Congratulations.
[APPLAUSE]
And thank you, Director Folska, for being available to serve.
We will now proceed with nominations for the office of Second Vice Chair. Please indicate your
desire to make a nomination by clicking on the speaker button, and we'll proceed from there. The
chair recognizes Director Claudia Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I would like to nominate Director Judy Lubow
for Second Vice Chair. Over the past six years that I've had the pleasure of working very closely
with Director Lubow, she has exhibited enormous commitment, passion, dedication, and has
been conspicuous in trying to bring the Northwest Rail further along in its path of completion.
But not just the Northwest Rail, she's been eager to continue moving the unfunded corridors
forward as well.
Director Lubow has also participated on a variety of committees. She has chaired the Operations
and Customer Service Committee, Capital Improvements and FasTracks Committee, and she has
served for the last six years as a Salary-Employee Pension Trustee. So please join me in
supporting Director Lubow for Second Vice Chair. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: And thank you very much Director Folska.
Director Walker, you are recognized, sir.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you I'd like to nominate Director Angie Rivera-Malpiede for Second
Vice Chair. I believe that her previous experience on the Board and her work in the community,
her knowledge of transportation issues at the practical level, her being a tireless advocate for the
transit-dependent and other underrepresented communities is of great value, and I believe that
she can ably serve as Chair should the Chair and First Vice Chair not be able to perform their
functions. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much Director Walker. And Director Menten, you are
recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, I would just like to follow up with the nomination for Judy Lubow
and thank her for her time that she's been on the Executive Committee. And I would like to see
her voice still remain on the Executive Committee because she is a voice for an area that, at
times, I fear we may be pushing off further in the distance than any of us would like to see for
the Northwest area. And it's a good reminder she does serve her constituents very well, and a
very caring person who also does a tremendous amount of research when we have intense
discussions that we do. Some of you will experience, and some of us have experienced for some
years. So thank you, Judy, and I just wanted to second that endorsement.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much Director Menten. Are there any other Directors who
wish to speak either to nominate or to second? Hearing none, with two candidates having been
nominated for the office of Second Vice Chair, we will proceed with the voting process. I would
ask Director Mihalek and Director Buzek, please, to assist General Counsel Asphaug after you've
had a chance to vote and turn in your ballot so that we may have two non-interested Directors
assist in that process. Ladies and gentlemen, you may vote.
And so congratulations to our new Second Vice Chair, Director Angie Rivera-Malpiede. And
thank you very much, Director Lubow, for being available to serve.
[APPLAUSE]
We will now proceed with the nominations for the office of Treasurer. So please, if you have a
nomination you would like to make for the office of Treasurer, please feel free to indicate now,
and we will identify candidates for the office of Treasurer.
Director Walker, once again, we acknowledge you, sir.
JEFF WALKER: This is strange. I'd like to recommend Director Judy Lubow for Treasurer. As
was mentioned before, she's a staunch advocate for the people in her district and all of the far
north metro and northwest parts of the district. She's a tireless advocate. She's participated in
almost every corner of this Board. I think she's an outspoken advocate for the transit-dependent,
those who aren't necessarily transit-dependent but don't have the access that other parts of the
regions do, and I think she's an excellent voice and representation on the Executive Committee
for those reasons.
DOUG TISDALE: And thank you very much. And I had to clarify because my hearing
sometimes doesn't work. That was a nomination of Director Lubow. OK, well, I just had to make
sure. So now I'm going to recognize Director Judy Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, and that was very kind of you, Jeff. But I am going to be
nominating Natalie Menten, and so I would decline that very kind nomination. But I appreciate
it. It was very sweet of you. So I would like to nominate Natalie. And this is the second and last
nomination I'm going to do. I don't want to do anymore.
Natalie's an incredible person, and there are many things that she works very hard about,
including the transparency, accountability, fiscal soundness, protection of the democratic checks
and balances, problem solving, as well as creating an environment of courtesy and respect to
work in. Natalie excels in promoting all these conditions, and she does that throughout her
experience on the Board. From my own personal experience, there is nobody on the Board that
works harder in studying RTD issues, particularly fiscal ones, than Natalie. She digs to the
bottom of things, is extremely knowledgeable, and is very willing to share her knowledge with
other Board members. She conducts a great amount of public outreach to her community
explaining transit issues to her constituents.

Finally, Director Menten has successfully spearheaded an important transparency initiative to
have RTD publish more financial records on its public website, which has turned out to be a
service to the community-at-large. Director Menten works hard at every task she assumes, and
this has included her RTD tasks. She has been an exemplary Chair of the Financial Committee,
and has served for several previous years on the Executive Committee. And her consistent hard
work at RTD warrants choosing her again to be on the Executive Committee, where I'm sure she
will continue to be an asset to the agency. Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lubow. We appreciate that. Director
Williams, you are recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I'm sorry I don't have a prepared speech to
present everybody, but I would like to second that I think that Natalie has done a great job at
keeping all of us informed that she goes out of her way to do a lot of work that perhaps some of
the rest of us, myself included, don't always do. And I'd like to second her nomination.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Williams. We appreciate that. Director
Buzek, you are recognized, sir.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I would like to nominate Director Shelley Cook for this
position. Director Cook is a Harvard-educated individual, served on the Arvada City Council for
a number of years, operated and maintained her own transit agency out of Arvada which
involved the operation fiscal accountability. She's got a strong background in that regard, and I
think she'd do a great job as Treasurer. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Buzek. We appreciate that. Are there any
other nominations to present for the office of Treasurer? Hearing none, we have two candidates
that have been nominated for the office of Treasurer. I would request that Director Williams and
Director Lewis assist in the count once the ballots are circulated and collected. Then if you
would assist our General Counsel, unless you wish simply to abstain in the vote. But if we can
pass ballots out now and the nominees for Treasurer are Director Menten and Director Cook.
Ladies and gentlemen, let us give a hearty congratulations to our new Treasurer, Director Cook.
Thank you very much Director Menten for being available to serve.
[APPLAUSE]
The last office that we have to elect this evening is the office of Secretary. And we welcome
anyone who wishes to make a nomination for the office of Secretary, please, to speak at this
time. The Chair recognizes Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you again, Chair Tisdale. I'd like to nominate Director Jeff Walker.
Jeff has an exemplary record with the RTD Board. He's been here for six years now I believe,
seven, eight, nine, do I hear 10? Going once. He's been here a long time. He is available here and
helps the RTD staff and would be somebody that I think would be willing, ready, and able to fill
the position. So I nominate Director Jeff Walker. Thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Are there any other nominations for the office of
Secretary? Going once, going twice, third and last call. We will close the nominations for the
office of Secretary, and we will and I think I can do this. We can proclaim by acclamation with
the full consent of the Board that Director Walker has been elected as Secretary.
[APPLAUSE]
The Chair takes the hearty applause as consent to the Chair's action. Thank you very much.
Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, at this time, it is my privilege to recognize yours truly as the
Chair of this Executive Committee and Board, and Director Peggy Catlin as our First Vice Chair,
Director Angie Rivera-Malpiede as our Second Vice Chair, Director Shelley Cook as our
Treasurer, and Director Jeff Walker as our Secretary. One more congratulations to all.
[APPLAUSE]
Let the record reflect that that brought to their feet two former Chairs of this Board, Director
Hoy, and Director Andersen, and Director Bagley joining in it as well. So we thank you for your
presence and your support throughout.
We now have a couple of procedural matters that we have to deal with that are items of business
that the Board discusses at its first meeting each year. And thank you and leave a message after
the tone. Please be sure that you are now signed into the E-Board room at this time because we
will be recording official votes for these items in our voting software.
The first item that we have before us is the Bank Account Signature Authorization Agreement. It
is recommended by the Finance Administration Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the attached Bank Account Signature Authorization Agreement, known as the
Agreement. May I have a motion to approve? I have a motion to approve from Director Lubow. I
have a second from Director Rivera-Malpiede. Is there any discussion on that motion? Hearing
none, we will proceed to a vote. All those in favor oh wait, I'm sorry. Director Lewis, I
apologize. Please, you are recognized Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Anytime I have a no vote, I'd like for you all to know the reason why I'm
voting no for this. So I don't know if you paid attention to the news and Wells Fargo and the
shady business that Wells Fargo has conducted in. And I think it's really important that if we're
truly advocating for our most marginalized communities and those who are preyed upon by
corporations and executives, that we start with making decisions today that create a better world
in the future. And I think we do that by ensuring that we are banking with folks who value our
communities, value our low-income communities, and aren't conducting shady business. And so
I just wanted to say that so you would understand why I was not in support of this. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. And we do appreciate when Director has an
objection or concern as to motion to express that. And I will indicate, just for the sake of the
record, that it's like Director Lewis is channeling Former Chair Sisk who made very, very similar
comments recently. Director Menten, you're recognized.

NATALIE MENTEN: Just to comment that we are going to be receiving soon the news on the
bid process and looking at another banking institution. So just as an update, in case that is a
question for anybody, it's in the midst. And actually last month, the Financial Administration and
Audit Committee, we did have an update, so we'll be bringing that forward. But thank you very
much. I just wanted to clear that.
DOUG TISDALE: We appreciate that amplification because I know that our CFO has been
involved in gathering that information and is getting it ready for a presentation to the full Board
in response to the discussion that we had several meetings ago to the same effect. Any further
discussion on the motion? Seeing none, if we would please proceed to vote, your screens will
light up now. And we have Director Lubow as the movant, Director Williams as the second. All
votes have been cast, and the record reflects that we have 14 Directors in favor, one Director
opposed. That is Director Lewis. That motion passes, and we will proceed with the execution of
the Bank Account Signature Authorization as necessary in the future.
Item number two, the selection of a location for the posting of the Board notices. The RTD
Board of Directors designates the entryway kiosk of the RTD Administrative Office at 1660
Blake Street as its official location for posting of notices of all public meetings in 2019 as
required by Colorado Revised Statute Section 24-6-402(c). In addition, to the maximum extent
feasible, notices of public meetings will be posted on RTD's Meeting Portal on the internet.
May I please have a motion to approve? I have Director Williams moving to approve. I have
Director Broom as the second on that motion. Is there any discussion on that motion? Seeing
none, if we would proceed to a vote, we have Director Williams as the movant Director Broom
as the second. Your screens will allow you to vote in just a moment here. Please vote.
We may have erroneously indicated Director Rivera-Malpiede as but we can let that count in any
event. By a vote of 15 in favor and none opposed, that motion passes unanimously.
Before I ask if there are any other new business matters from any Director, there is one very
important new business matter for us to note. And I know the former Directors who are present
understand this and appreciate this, and I know that the Directors who have been with us for
some time prior to tonight appreciate this. And all the rest of you will come to appreciate it more
than you know. Ladies and gentlemen, help me in wishing a very, very happy birthday to the
Board Liaison Officer, our Executive Manager, Ms. Barbara McManus.
[APPLAUSE]
Is there any other business to come before the Board before we ask for an Executive Session?
Hearing none, then let me, for the sake of the public particularly, give you some background.
And that is that we're going to have an Executive Session now. As you know, Executive Sessions
are rarely called, and they are very constrained in terms of their focus and their purpose. This
Executive Session is for the purpose of discussing security training, and it includes specialized
details of security arrangements. And there is a special section of the Colorado statutes that
allows us to have this. So what you're about to hear may sound somewhat convoluted, but the
bottom line is that we're going to have an Executive Session so that, particularly, the members

who have just been sworn into the Board this evening will understand what our special security
procedures are in the event of significant emergencies. So we have to do that.
So we're going to ask for an Executive Session for security training, including specialized details
of security arrangements pursuant to Colorado Revised Statute section 24-6-402(4)(d),
specialized details of security arrangements or investigations, including defenses against
terrorism, both domestic and foreign, and including where disclosure of the matters discussed
might reveal information that could be used for the purpose of committing or avoiding
prosecution for a violation of the law. We will entertain then a motion to move into Executive
Session for said purpose, that is security training and security arrangements pursuant to 24-6402(4d). Providing specialized details of those arrangements, including situations where
disclosure of the matters discussed might reveal information that could be used for the purpose
of committing or avoiding prosecution for or a violation of the law.
May I have a motion to that effect?
BOB BROOM: I move to go into Executive Session.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, I have a motion from Director Malpiede, and I'll take that as a
second from Director Broom. Is there any discussion on the motion to move into Executive
Session? Oh, yeah, we will take a break yes sorry. A request has been made. A point of personal
privilege has been raised relative to taking a break, which we will do immediately following the
taking of the vote on Executive Session because, for the sake of the public and everyone else, be
advised that we will have no further business to conduct following the Executive Session. Upon
the conclusion of the Executive Session, we will adjourn this meeting, and that will end our
proceedings. So no other business will be discussed tonight by this Board.
Now, that having been said, we have a motion to proceed into Executive Session. It is a
procedural motion that does not require to be recorded by the electronic board. So all those in
favor of Executive Session, please indicate by saying aye.
DIRECTORS: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed? Let the record reflect that the Board has unanimously
moved to enter into Executive Session. As I said, immediately upon the conclusion of the
Executive Session, we will adjourn from this Special Board Meeting and will not address any
additional Board business. We will now, for the sake of everyone's personal privilege, take a five
minute recess. This Board stands in

