2021-11-09
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, I am showing 6:35 on my screen, but why don't we give people one more minute to
convene. And I actually am showing 8:35 on my screen, since I'm on East Coast time, so we'll just give
another minute.
The Finance Administration and Audit Committee will come to order. We are convened as of 6:36
Mountain Daylight Time on November 9, 2021. I would respectfully request everyone attending to mute
yourself unless you are recognized to speak. Director Williams did such a great job of going over these
guidelines, as well as the safety moment that I'll try and be brief.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. The official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors continue to
be held remotely via Zoom for the health, safety, and welfare of our staff and public. Audio and video
recordings of the meetings, along with unofficial minutes, will be posted as soon as practicable on the
Board's website. Please visit the Board's website at rtd-denver.com and scroll to the link at the bottom of
the page.
If you would like to be acknowledged tonight, please raise your virtual hand and I will call on you as I see
you in the queue. Please state your name for the record. Those participating by phone, please press star
9, and star 6 will mute your phone. For this committee meeting as well, we will not be taking comments
from the public. Those interested in addressing the Board may do so at the monthly Board meeting.
Those dates can be found at rtd.iqm2.com.
Because this is also the last Financial Administration and Audit Committee of the calendar year 2021, we
have five recommended actions this evening. Our first recommended action is for the Board of Directors
to allow or to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to enter into a contract with Four
Nines Technologies to facilitate a system-wide fare study and equity analysis for a total value not to
exceed $1,503,000. Do we have a motion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved, Rivera-Malpiede.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second, Bouquet.
PEGGY CATLIN: Chair Rivera-Malpiede and Director Bouquet. So at this time, I will turn the meeting over
to Doug MacLeod for the staff presentation. You all received this information in your packet and have had
an opportunity to ask clarifying questions of staff prior to this meeting. I also believe that Chessy Brady is
joining us tonight. After they have provided their presentation, please raise your virtual hand to be
recognized if you have questions or comments. Mr. MacLeod, please.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair?

PEGGY CATLIN: Yes?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It looks like our General Counsel has her hand up.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, I see that. General Counsel Snyder, would you like to make a comment before we
proceed?
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Madam Chair. Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. I just wanted to note
for the record that we have all Directors except for Directors Tisdale and Lewis present.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
MELANIE SNYDER: You're welcome.
DEBRA JOHNSON: And Madam Chair, if I may, you referenced Chessy Brady, our TOD Manager, but
this is not an item of which you would be making a report on, just for clarification for all those assembled.
PEGGY CATLIN: You know what, I bounced down to the wrong item on my agenda. So Mr. MacLeod,
please.
DOUGLAS MACLEOD: Thank you, Madam Chair, and good evening. And actually, AGM Bill Van Meter is
going to do this presentation. It is coming through the Finance Department because there was not a
planning meeting scheduled. So Bill, please, go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, I'm getting it wrong. I guess three strikes and I'm out, but OK, Bill Van Meter,
please.
BILL VAN METER: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Doug. This is Bill Van Meter, AGM Planning. And the
request in front of you is in alignment with and consistent with the schedule and process that was
established for the system-wide fare study and equity analysis. And that process and schedule was
shared with the Board of Directors in a memo from General Manager Johnson to the Board back in April
on April 29th.
So specifically as pertains to this action, a request for proposals for consultant services was advertised on
September 10 of this year and four consultant teams submitted qualifying proposals on October 18. The
Technical Evaluation Panel reviewed the submittals and determined that the recommended team, Four
Nines Technologies, was the most qualified consultant based on established criteria.
The Four Nines Team, to go in a little more detail, had the best combination of relevant technical
experience, a strong public engagement plan, and in-depth knowledge of RTD fares and past programs.
There was a small business enterprise goal of 15% set for the contract, as noted in the Board report. Four
Nines is committed to 20% SBE, or Small Business Enterprise, participation.
Finally, funds to support this study are included in the 2021 budget. It was part of the amended budget
action that you approved earlier this year. Thank you. Happy to field any questions.

PEGGY CATLIN: Excuse me, I'm muted. I want to apologize. I was going off a previous agenda briefing
document that I had a different order for these proposed actions, so I apologize. But I do see that Director
Guissinger has her hand raised.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair. Thanks, Mr. Van Meter. You mentioned that they have an indepth knowledge of our affairs and passes. Have we worked with Four Nines before?
BILL VAN METER: We have worked with Four Nines before. They were on the team that worked on both
the 2015, 2016 fare study, as well as helped support the pass program working group study efforts.
LYNN GUISSINGER: They were a consultant on the pass program working group, is that what you
mean?
BILL VAN METER: Yes, that is correct.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's all, thanks.
BILL VAN METER: Yes.
BOB BROOM: Move approval.
PEGGY CATLIN: I believe that Chair Rivera-Malpiede had already moved and Director Bouquet had
seconded. So at this time, I would like to call for a-- well, just to see if there are any no votes for this
contract. Seeing none, the motion passes 13 in favor with two absent.
Now for the second recommended action, and maybe I can get this straight, for the Board of Directors to
authorize the execution of all documents necessary for the release of the southern portion of the real
property located at 1050 North Ames Street, Denver, Colorado-- parentheses the "Property"-- from the
Certificates of Participation that financed the Property's acquisition, including execution of any lease
amendments, deeds, and other financial, legal, or zoning documents. Is there a motion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved, Rivera-Malpiede.
BOB BROOM: Second, Broom.
PEGGY CATLIN: Chair Rivera-Malpiede and second by Broom. Now, we have a staff discussion. And for
this, I'm going to ask is Chessy Brady available for this presentation and Mr. MacLeod? So I think I got
these in the right order now. Mr. MacLeod would you like to start out?
DOUGLAS MACLEOD: Yes, Thank you, Chair Catlin. I apologize for the misordering of the draft
document. We ended up changing that with the final version, so thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: My fault.

DOUGLAS MACLEOD: Thank you for your patience. So yes, Chessy Brady is joining me this evening.
Chessy is the Manager of Transit Oriented Development from the Planning Department. This particular
action item is coming to the Board through the Finance Committee because it mainly has to do with the
financial component of releasing collateral attached to our certificates of participation.
So what this action item is asking is when we issue certificates of participation, those are basically RTD
borrowing money, and then supporting those borrowings with collateral, so the assets that we purchased
are collateralized to the investors until those certificates of participation are paid down. Throughout that
process of paying down those certificates of participation, RTD is able to release collateral, if necessary,
and this is just one of those such cases in which we believe it will benefit the agency.
So with this request, it would be a very minor change to the overall collateral under these COPs-Certificates Of Participation. We do have the concurrence of Bond Council and Internal Counsel, and
there's very little risk associated with this. So Chessy Brady has a short presentation to give a little more
details behind this action item. So Chessy, please go ahead.
CHESSY BRADY: Great. Thank you. So Chessy Brady, TOD Manager in the Planning Department. And
as Mr. MacLeod said, this is a very low-risk action for the agency to take, but has the potential to reap
some benefits. So the property in question is right on the border of Denver and Lakewood. The border is,
in fact, basically that white dashed line on the-- maybe the right side of that white dashed line, so it's just
slightly over into Lakewood of the parcel.
The parcel was acquired as part of the Sheridan Park-n-Ride to complete the W line. It's vacant and it's
about half an acre. It was valued this year at $2.8 million. And like the affordable housing and other
development that's gone in around it, it has potential for development, but because it's part of these tax
exempt COPs, it's not currently available to be developed. So what this action does is take it out of those
restrictions and open it up for future development.
I think Mr. MacLeod gave you the basics of the COPs, but basically because these are tax-exempt
securities, we can't have a private use on this parcel. And those COPs financed this garage Wadsworth,
as well as some light rail vehicles, bus fareboxes, GPS equipment. And despite the value of the parcel
being 2.8 million, it's really a very minor piece of the total COPs, the remaining collateral.
So what we've done over the past few months is work with Butler Snow, our Bond Counsel, to get their
opinion that this removing the parcel will not have a material adverse effect on the COP structure. They've
agreed. We're now at a point where the Board considers the amendment documents, which are included
in your packet. The Asset Acquisition Authority will then approve, if you approve, and they've already
been alerted to the potential for this. The property will then be released from the COP structure.
And as it turns out, that seems like that's actually the easy part. Once it's actually removed, then we'll
work with Denver and Lakewood to separate the vacant parcel from the shared Park-n-Ride parcel, go
through the planning processes, get the new zoning in place, and come back to you for a Board
authorization to solicit for development.

RFP, RFQ, at that point, will speak to you about is it leased, is it sale, is it residential, is it affordable? So
those conversations are all to come. At this point, all we're doing is making this financial adjustment to
enable those future discussions. So that's it for me, and we're happy to take any questions.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Mrs. Brady. I appreciate that. Are there any comments or questions for either
Mr. MacLeod or Mrs. Brady? Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, just to clarify, I just want to make sure that these are sort of execution-ready
versions. So we approve and will it come back to the extent that the opposing side has substantive
comments or is this an authorization for negotiation?
CHESSY BRADY: I think if we could, it might make sense to refer that question to our Counsel Aimee
Beckwith who's on the line as well.
AIMEE BECKWITH: Good evening, everyone. So we present documents to the Board in substantially
final form, so they are ready to execute. And there shouldn't be any-- for this transaction, there won't be
any additional changes to the documents.
PEGGY CATLIN: Would you kindly state your name and position for the record.
AIMEE BECKWITH: This is Aimee Beckwith, Associate General Counsel.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Aimee. I didn't catch the name when Chessy mentioned it, so thank you.
Does that answer your question, Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yep.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Any other comments? OK, I have Chair Rivera-Malpiede being the mover
and Director Broom being the second. Are there any no votes on this action item tonight?
Just for the record, I'd like to say that any time we can get rid of a COP, it's a good day in my book,
regardless of how significant it is in the overall picture, so well done. I don't see any no votes, so the
motion passes 13 in favor with two absent. Thank you, Mrs. Brady and Mr MacLeod.
We're moving through these rather quickly. The third action item is for the Board of Directors to approve
the 2022 Fiscal Policy Mr. MacLeod?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Do we need a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, I apologize. Yes, we do. Is there a motion, please?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
VINCE BUZEK: Second, Buzek

PEGGY CATLIN: I have Director Williams, and I have a second by Director Buzek. Now, Mr. MacLeod, if
you would like to give the staff presentation on the fiscal policy for 2022, please.
DOUGLAS MACLEOD: Thank you, Madam Chair. This will be a verbal presentation. The fiscal policy is in
the packet. We provided both a final version and a red line version, so you can see the changes from the
previous fiscal policy that was in effect in 2021. The Board approves these policies as the policy-making
body, so each year this time, we come to the Board and ask for approval of this fiscal policy for the
following fiscal year.
This policy, as many others, can be changed at any time by the Board. And in the event that as we go
through the strategic planning process, we do identify some changes or clarifications that need to be
made within that fiscal policy, we can certainly address those at that time.
As you'll see within this fiscal policy with the red line version, there's a lot of red in there. Our intent, really,
was to clean up that fiscal policy. There was a lot of extraneous information, but we also wanted to align
the references to the strategic plan. There's been a lot of discussion about the strategic plan, and this
fiscal policy really aligns with that strategic plan, and it also sets the framework for the preparation of the
2022 budget, as well as the mid-term financial plan that was approved by the Board last month.
So just to point out a few of the substantive changes, other than the cleaning up the language, we did
make several changes to references to the strategic plan to make it clear that the fiscal policy should
align with the strategic plan.
We added a phrase in there to limit the capital carryforward. The carryforward is the year over year where
we have a capital project that may span multiple years. We need to carry that funding forward and get
Board approval for that. However, we don't want to keep continuing to carry it forward if it's not being used
or is not necessary, so we've limited that carryforward to three years. We added that phrase within the
language, or the life of the project, whichever is shorter.
We also changed the references to capital expenditures to align with the asset management plan, which
is part of the goal of the strategic plan and our strategic priority of financial excellence. We also cleaned
up the fund balance section, really aligned around the financial success strategic priority in terms of
cleaning that up to say that we really just want to keep the three months of unrestricted fund balance. And
there were a lot of examples and other things within that language, but the goal has always been to have
three months for that solid financial foundation for our agency.
And then finally in the COVID response policies, that section was added last year with the 2021 fiscal
policy. At the time the Board approved that 2021 fiscal policy, it was November of 2020. Much of that
discussion and that framework around that COVID response fiscal policy had to do with what the
prioritization would be for expense reductions moving forward because as you'll recall at that point, we
had made many of the expense reductions that we thought we could at that point in time, but it was really
2021 going into 2021 one fiscal year where we anticipated making reductions in staffing, cutting out a lot
of the other costs. So that had the prioritization.

We have removed that reduction in cost section from the COVID response policies, but we've left intact
the COVID response policies for restoration of expenditures. So those are all still mostly the same. You'll
see there is one small change in there. We did take out the section referring to-- pardon me-- restore
reserves to three months, if possible, because we've already established up in the fund balance policy
that we will maintain a three-month reserve policy.
And then we clarified the language on restoring service. So we added restore service as human
resources allow and ridership demand allows. So those are the main substantive changes. We did
remove reference to things like the performance indicators in the quarterly performance report because
we will be aligning our efforts going forward with the strategic tactics and the metrics associated with that.
Finally, we did get a request from a Board member to add a phrase within the revenue section. That
phrase would be, "to be empathetic to customer's fare cost pain points." Really, what the intent of that
phrase would be within this fiscal policy is to acknowledge the efforts that are being undertaken currently
by our organization under the Fare Study and Equity Analysis. So those are the primary changes. And
General Manager Johnson, would you like to add anything?
DEBRA JOHNSON: No, Mr. MacLeod. I think you spoke very well, and I unmuted myself as it related to
the revenue policies-- the first one adding item D in reference to the conversation that we had in
recognizing that it's imperative that we are empathetic to customer care cost pain points as we go forward
relative to ensuring that not only are we being understandable and that our affairs are implementable, but
quite naturally, recognizing that Title VI of the Civil Rights Act have different components in which we do
have a fare disparate impact policy collectively.
This speaks more to what we're trying to do collectively as an agency, of course, looking through the lens
of equity and ensuring that we have an understanding of what our customers need most, so thank you
very much for that reference you mentioned and thank you to Director Cook for engaging with me as we
had that conversation today.
DOUGLAS MACLEOD: Thank you, General Manager. And one other thing, Madam Chair, that I'd like to
add is that what we would do is we would add that change within this red line document, and then replace
it within the Board package tomorrow. So that would be available for the Board to review before the final
vote next week. And that concludes my comments, Madame Chair, if anybody would like to ask questions
or have comments.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. MacLeod and Mrs. Johnson for that amplification of that piece. I see
Director Broom first in the queue. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I don't know whether this falls under 2022 fiscal policy or not,
but apparently, we have a policy that we're going to try to achieve an 85% resumption of services within
the district. I don't recall the Board reaching or having any discussion and coming up with that being our
goal. Could somebody speak to that?
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. MacLeod or Mrs. Johnson?

DEBRA JOHNSON: I was going to speak to it, and then Mr. MacLeod, feel free to add on. So in
relationship to having discussions that ensued as related to receiving rescue and relief funds from the
federal government, specifically CRRSAA and American Rescue Plan dollars, there always has been a
discussion as related to our service adjustments and that collectively, we would be working toward the
restoration of service 85% pre-pandemic levels.
That was done through the adoption of your actions with our service planning. That has been the
guidepost in which Mr. MacLeod has put forward the mid-term financial plan, as that being the baseline
as we're striving going forward, recognizing that there are extenuating circumstances and relationship to
achieving that quite naturally the great resignation that has plagued us as we look to attract and retain our
employee source being our people power going forward. But that has been discussed in various different
aspects and been put forward. Mr. MacLeod.
DOUGLAS MACLEOD: Thank you, General Manager. And I would just like to point out that we do not go
into that specificity within the fiscal policy. We do mention the 85% service level within the budget that
we'll be asking the Board to approve later. That is just to provide context as to the size the numbers, the
sizing of the budget. But within the fiscal policy, the only thing we say is restore service as human
resources and ridership allows.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, but you know, I would have thought that there would have been some
discussion and maybe give and take on whether the goal should be 90, or 70, or whatever, but I just don't
recall that conversation taking place, but thank you for your response.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Broom. I see Director Davidson next in my queue, but was it
Director Dishell that was second? Right now, it's showing-ERIK DAVIDSON: I believe [INAUDIBLE].
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Go ahead, Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you so much. Could you tease out-- and I apologize for possibly being a bit too
academic here, but could you tease out what is the grand restoration or what is the restoration
expenditure guidance for expenditure restoration under COVID-19 response policies? What's just part of
our planned budget? Just to get some background on the question from my perspective, restoring service
as a part of the COVID-19 policy would be a restoration, or am I off because that was a reduction in
expenditure we made under the COVID-19 policy? I'm just trying to understand where it comes into play.
PEGGY CATLIN: General Manager Johnson, would you like to start out?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I would like to start out because I think words matter and as we talk about restoration
of services, recognizing that there could be some routes that aren't restored. So if anything, what we're
looking to do as it relates to the 85% of pre-COVID levels, we're talking about the aspect of service
delivery in and of that as we go forward.

And more specifically as we look to Reimagine RTD, recognizing the System Optimization Plan basically
served as our guidepost early on when decisions were made about that reduction in service to be able to
balance the budget in such a way. And as we go forward, recognizing that there's a clear cut nexus with
Reimagine RTD that is helping to drive where we are collectively with adding back elements of service to
get to 85%, that's all intertwined. So that's what I would offer up as it relates to your comment about
restoration because that really isn't restoration.
PEGGY CATLIN: Does that answer your question, Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: So what type of expenditure would fall under the COVID-19 policies for guidance for
restoration?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So basically, we're talking about having people power. Quite naturally, we need to
have adequate resources in reference to deploying service. We need to have our assets in a state of
good repair. We need to have hoists available so we can maintain our buses to put them out on the road.
Without having viable equipment and assets, having people power is for naught if they don't have
anything to utilize in reference to maintaining equipment or operating.
BOBBY JOHNSON: Got it. OK, I would like to move to amend the fiscal policy. I would like to move to
amend the fiscal policy to strike what is now the first bullet point, "do not utilize existing price of balances."
Given the severity of the situation that we're in, it seems to only be appropriate that should we need extra
funds in order to hire more people to respond to demand or be able to take more people on to make
these types of expenditures that we shouldn't be hamstrung by a piggy bank that's for construction. So if
anyone would like to second, that'd be great. If not, go back to my screen and hang out.
PEGGY CATLIN: Forgive me, I do not have that on my screen. Mr. MacLeod, would you like to read what
he is proposing that we strike?
DOUGLAS MACLEOD: Certainly. And I'll call that document up. One thing I would like to mention is that
with all the fund balances, the Board still has the authority to change how we use those. And a case in
point would be this particular language of "do not utilize existing fund balances" was in place in the 2021
fiscal policy. However, the Board did approve use of $8 million of that FISA funding for the Northwest Rail
Study. So it does allow for the flexibility under the Board's discretion. This was more, I think, guidance at
the time, but certainly, you know, I'm not trying to say we shouldn't do the Amendment, but I just want to
give some context about how that's been utilized by the Board in the past. So I'll get that attachment
called up.
PEGGY CATLIN: While you're doing that, is there a second to Director Dishell's motion for the purposes
of discussing the Amendment? I'm not seeing a second, so that-- pardon me?
BOBBY JOHNSON: I said not a problem.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you though for bringing that up and for bringing up that point. Are there any
other-- Director Davidson, I see your hand is raised.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thanks, Madam Chair. It's more just a comment for the Board, maybe even just
a note to self, a reminder, something I'll throw out there. So the strategic plan has given us a chance to
baseline, as General Manager Johnson alluded to earlier on a different topic, and as we head into next
year, we're going to have some of these baselines. I think we're also going to have a lot more clarity on
our budget as it relates to our federal funding.
So I know that we're evaluating this fiscal policy at the end of the year, but I would suggest that the Board
probably within this committee here-- I recognize our committees are going to change a bit-- have some
discussion on our fiscal policy. I think 2022 is going to be the right time for us to address that.
So I'm not proposing any changes now, and I don't have any questions. I just would say thank you, Mr.
MacLeod, for some simplification here. I think it actually gives us an easier place to start from. But when
we do go through that strategic planning, I would submit that from a policy standpoint, this is an important
place for the Board to dialogue earlier in the year, as opposed to later. It probably takes the form of a
discussion item in our Finance Committee.
So just a comment to throw out there for the Board to recall when we're going through our strategic
planning next year and a thank you to Mr. MacLeod for the simplification that's going to give us an easier
starting point. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Davidson. And I think it's good material to keep in the record as a
reminder for us as we go forward in 2022. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And I would agree with that. I think that I appreciated the work that you
did, Mr. MacLeod, in clearing these up, but I'm not sure how long we've been rolling these over. So
starting back from a little more of a conversation about the policies seems to make a lot of sense.
I was going to raise this in the budget conversation, but since Director Broom raised it, I'll mention it now
is the 85%. You know, I guess I asked a couple of Board members about it with the MTFP. And that's a
planning document, which I think it's a very reasonable thing to be looking at as planning with the budget,
it sort of gets into the system. But even for next year, I think it makes a lot of sense. But it really is, in my
mind, sort of a big overarching question about where we're going with our service provision at a policy
level.
So I would encourage us also next year, and it may be coming up with Reimagine, and I think it's even
policy for Reimagine is where this Board to have the discussion about where this Board sees the agency
moving in terms of whether we're contracting our services-- shrinking-- I guess maybe contracting is a
confusing word there-- our services and the balance there. So I hope we can put that on the schedule for
2022 as well.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Good comments. Are there any other questions of Mr.
MacLeod regarding the fiscal policy? I'd actually like to call for a vote. We had Director Williams as the
mover and Director Buzek as the second. Are there any no votes for our fiscal policy 2022? Seeing none,
that motion passes 13 in favor and 2 absent. Thank you.

Moving on to our fourth recommended action for the Board of Directors to approve the 2022 Investment
Policy, is there a mover?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved, Whitmore.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Whitmore. Is there a second?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second, Davidson.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second, Director Williams. You can have it, Director Davidson. Go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: Dr. Davidson. Now, we have I believe a Board presentation from, again, Mr. MacLeod,
as well as Brenden Morgan. Is that right, Mr. MacLeod?
DOUGLAS MACLEOD: Yes, correct. Thank you, Madam Chair. And actually, Brenden won't be joining us
this evening. This item is the investment policy, also a policy that we ask the Board to approve each year.
The investment policy sets the guidelines for how RTD invests its money. It's largely based on statutory
requirements.
RTD follows the state statutory requirements for investments and is a little bit more restrictive in terms of
the way it invests its money, but this policy, really, in order of priority, is based on safety of principal,
liquidity, so nearness to cash of those funds, so that we have them available when RTD needs the
funding. And then finally, yield. So we want to get the best yield we can, but we don't want to jeopardize
safety and availability of that funding.
One thing I'd like to point out is within the Board package, so within minute track, the red line policy was
included, but we had a small technical glitch where it did not get uploaded to the package that was
posted. So we will rectify that and get that posted in tomorrow's package. We didn't notice that until this
afternoon, so my apologies. What I'd like to do is just share my screen and briefly go through the pages of
the investment policy, and I think what you'll see is that we had very few changes to that policy.
So hopefully, it looks like I'm sharing. So essentially-- great. Thank you. We basically just changed the
dates on here. A lot less red on this version compared to the fiscal policy, so I'll just scroll down slowly.
Changed the effective date to be 2022. We did change the reference to the titles to update those to the
current titles of the existing employees. Again, title change.
Scrolling down, we did have one change to the reference of the index that will be used. So we use a
benchmark when we provide the quarterly investment report to the Board. It compares our investment
returns to an index. The name of that index changed to the Intercontinental Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Treasury Bill Index. So we just changed the date to the ICE BofAML terminology. Nothing really changed.
It's just the Intercontinental Exchange was purchased by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
And then finally, none of our ratings have changed or our investment restrictions in terms of portfolio
composition. Those are all set by state guidelines for the most part. And then we've changed titles to be
more reflective of the actual titles. The controller position no longer exists, and these are just titles.

And that's the entirety of the changes that we're making, so very minor changes. And we will get this
uploaded into the package tomorrow. And again, my apologies for the technical problem that we had with
that. So with that, Madam Chair, I'd be happy to take any questions or comments.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. MacLeod. Your minor technical problems weren't as great as my major
mix up earlier this evening. Are there any comments of Mr. MacLeod at this point with regard to our
investment policy? I see Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, this is more of a request than a question, which is if we could get a list of the
corporations where I saw corporations were listed on there as a place where we hold investments. To the
extent we were making direct investments in different corporations, it would be great to see a list of those
just because to the extent there might be corporations out there who are acting in interests that are not
aligned with our strategic plan. As we look at other types of policies, just making sure that we're aligned
with those where we're placing a direct investment. Obviously for aggregated accounts, mutual funds,
things of that nature, it's next to impossible to do, but for making direct investments, it'd be great to see
who we're investing in.
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. MacLeod, is that something that could be readily done?
DOUGLAS MACLEOD: Yes, absolutely.
PEGGY CATLIN: I see him nodding.
DOUGLAS MACLEOD: Yes, absolutely. And just to give context, so RTD is not allowed to invest in equity
positions, so we do not invest in stocks, for instance. Most of our holdings are very safe in US treasuries
or US agencies of the federal government. And then we primarily invest most of our money with Colorado
Trust, which the state uses as well. It's an investment pool. But yeah, we can definitely provide that
portfolio breakdown for you, so thank you for that request.
PEGGY CATLIN: But correct me if I'm wrong, Director Dishell, but you're more interested in any direct
investments, as opposed to pooled investments?
BOBBY DISHELL: Correct, but helpful to see it either way. There's lots of pools to swim.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, sounds good. Thank you for accommodating that, Mr. MacLeod. Are there any
other questions or comments regarding the investment policy? Seeing none, are there any no votes? I
have Director Whitmore as the mover and Director Davidson as the second. Are there any no votes?
Seeing none, that motion passes 13 in favor with two absent.
Moving on to our fifth and final proposed action that is for the Board of Directors to adopt resolution
number blank, series of 2021 for the adoption of the 2022 budget, resolution number blank-- fill in the
blank-- series of 2021 for the 2022 budget appropriation, and resolution number-- fill in the blank-- series
of 2021 for the appropriation of 2022 previously appropriated capital. So is there a motion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved, Rivera-Malpiede.

SHELLEY COOK: Second, Shelley Cook.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, I have Rivera-Malpiede and Director Cook. And now, I will turn it over to Doug
MacLeod again. And I believe that Todd Nikkel assisted you on the preparation of this. And I don't know if
he's here today, but I'll let you start out, Doug. Thank you.
DOUGLAS MACLEOD: Great. Thank you very much, Chair Catlin. And this is the request for the Board to
approve the 2022 budget for the 2022 fiscal year, January through December. I do have a presentation
with a few slides to go through, so I'll go ahead and call that up.
So Todd Nikkel has joined tonight, and I'd like to point out that his old title is on this title page. We had the
vacant position of Senior Manager of Budget. We've been working to recruit that position. Todd was
selected as the candidate and accepted the position, so I do need to update his title to Senior Manager of
Budget. I'd just like to say I'm very happy that he accepted the position. He's really the brains behind
coordinating our budget preparation, and our mid-term financial plan, and other forecasts. So I'd like to
thank Todd for that.
A couple of housekeeping items, just to go back where we've been, so we did post the budget for public
view by the 15 of October as is required by state statute. That was posted on the RTD website. It was
also provided in the Board office with a hard copy, and we also gave public notice through two daily
newspapers. So we did meet those statutory requirements to give the public notice for a comment period.
Next week at the Board presentation where, hopefully, the Board will make the final approval on this
proposed budget, there will be a chance for public comment and the Chair of the Board will be given a
script to read entering into that public comment period regarding the budget.
So without further ado, I will go through this presentation. And I'd just like to point out so we've been
keeping these presentations at a pretty high level. We do provide detail within the budget package that's
in the Board package. We also are available for questions. So if anybody has any additional questions,
we've already fielded a few, but any detailed questions, any information that we haven't provided that
you'd like to see or the public would like to see, we'd be happy to provide. We just want to try to keep it at
a high level to avoid getting down into the weeds too much, I suppose.
So go down a slide here. So you'll see the slide presentation is somewhat like the P Task presentation,
which we're trying to discuss this budget within the context of our strategic plan. So in terms of an
organizational alignment, what we've done with this budget request is to appropriate the funding along
with the strategic plan priorities.
So in terms of the financial success strategic outcome, we've got a balanced budget. And we showed that
in the mid-term financial plan in which all of our funding sources, including our reserves, minus our
expenses equal at least 0 or better our financial success criteria that we actually save money. And we are
doing that with this budget and actually contributing to reserves. So we feel comfortable that this meets
that strategic outcome.

The costs themselves were aligned with providing an 85% service level. So we do have the funding within
the budget to provide those 85% service levels at this point.
Asset maintenance is also one of the priorities of the organization. We've discussed many times that we
need to take care of the assets that we have, and we've had several presentations to the Board by the
asset management team with the Asset Management Plan that's provided to the FTA. We have aligned
both our fiscal policy on our budget, as well as our MTFP-- Mid-Term Financial Plan-- to take care of
those asset maintenance backlogs, as well as the ongoing asset maintenance to ensure that we have
good equipment for our employees, as well as safe equipment for our customers and employees.
The budget is also human resource focused. We have provisions within the budget for compensation that
we think is adequate, or not adequate, but good. We have talked about being an employer of choice. We
talk about strategic priority of employee ownership. This was one of the primary focuses of the
development of the budget. We have provisions within the budget for employee training engagement, and
also the aforementioned equipment maintenance, which provides good equipment for our employees not
just in rolling stock, but also the equipment used for our maintenance folks and others.
And then finally, the budget adheres to our fiscal policy both in the 2021 fiscal policy, as well as the 2022
fiscal policy, but more so the 2022 fiscal policy because, as I mentioned, it aligns with the strategic plan.
So why do we have a budget? And I think we all know why, but the Board authorizes the expenditures,
but just as a reminder, RTD must follow these appropriations. And you've noticed we've come back to you
on occasion and asked for permission to do budget transfers.
So once the Board appropriates this funding, we follow that funding. If there's any significant changes to
that budget, we need budget money elsewhere, we do come to the Board and ask for permission to move
that budget. So really, you as a policymaking body set the course with the budget appropriation in terms
of our spending.
We do believe this budget provides a solid financial foundation. We think that or we know that based on
our projections of revenue and the expenses that the Board would appropriate that we can also keep a
solid foundation in terms of available cash and adequate reserves to deal with any unexpected
emergencies.
The budget also sets the course for future years in the mid-term financial plan. This budget was included
in the budget column. We have made a few changes to the budget, essentially bringing some of those
expenditures forward for the state of good repair items or asset management. So overall, the mid-term
financial plan has not materially changed.
The budget also allows for course corrections. We can amend the budget at any time with Board
approval. If there's any changes as we go through the strategic planning process, certainly, that would
lend itself to making changes to this budget as well, but that requires Board approval and appropriation,
so we would come to the Board for any changes regarding that.

So we did present the proposed budget in October at the Financial Administration and Audit Committee.
So what we'd like to do with this slide is describe the changes that have happened to the budget since we
presented that proposed budget. So as of October, our total expenditures, excluding capital
carryforwards-- and these numbers are in the thousands, so the 1,571,065 is actually $1,571 billion was
the appropriated expenditures that we have presented in October.
Since that time, we've had a few changes to the budget, which is included in this package that we're
requesting that the Board approve tonight. Just briefly, operating expense carryforward, those are
expense projects that did not get completed in 2021 that we need to carry forward the funding, as well as
revenue sources were already available so there's really zero net impact on the bottom line. But in order
to fund those, we need to bring the appropriation for the expense forward.
We had some minor expense adjustments in things that we missed in the initial budget presentation with
some small operating expenses, as well as a couple of positions, personnel expenses. And then what I
referenced just a few minutes ago with the mid-term financial plan projects, these are not new projects.
These are actually state of good repair asset management projects that we want to bring forward into this
year, that in the mid-term financial plan were shown in future years to be completed.
So our total expenditure changed since the last budget presentation would be 26,317 million included
within this budget for a new total expenditures of 1,597 billion. The previously approved capital is projects
underway. The largest pieces of that, 300 million of that is with FasTracks. It's really the finalization of
some of the lines that were recently completed and opened for revenue service.
So we actually still have some punch list items on some of the older lines as well, but the North Metro
line, we have some work still to do on some of the other lines like the A line, et cetera. Those are the
types of expenditures that we're carrying forward. The funding is already available and we're carrying that
funding forward.
Most of the funding that pays for these is in the form of bond proceeds when we issued bonds to build
these projects. We still have the proceeds that have been set aside to complete these items, as well as
grant funding. We have some capital grant money left from the federal government that also was set
aside, so that will be carried forward as well. So even though the total district-wide appropriation looks
very large at $2 billion, I have a slide in a few minutes that I'll get to that kind of breaks it down into the
components.
So this one is a little bit more detailed level before I get to the summary level one, but basically, here's
how that total appropriation of 1,597 billion breaks down. So operating expenses is almost half of the
appropriation. We've talked many times about the debt load that RTD has, so we have debt, interest, and
principal payments of 153 million and 81 million, so a total of $235 million of our revenues go towards
paying debt each year. That's about 25% of our total revenue, so that's a significant burden for us.
We do feel-- I'd like to go back up to the operating expense number-- that does represent the 85% service
level and the other items that we spoke about, so we feel that's a good number and we feel that that's
adequate or sufficient to get done what we need to do, while also keeping reserves in place.

New capital expenditures, this is part of the asset management plan, 146 million. FasTracks Internal
Savings account, $20 million. Each year, what we've done with FasTracks Internal Savings account is
we've added dollars to that. Those additions really consist of a reduction in how much FasTracks has
been paying to the base system to provide bus feeder service. We refer to that as rubber tire service
because it has to do with buses.
Within the original FasTracks plan, that plan contemplated that FasTracks would pay the base system to
provide feeder bus service to these new rail lines that FasTracks was building. That initial calculation was
based on a compounded 1% growth in bus service each year. What the Board voted on some years back
was to limit that growth to the consumer price index, instead of this compounding 1% growth.
In effect, what that did is it adds about 18 to 19 to, in this year or next year, $20 million. It's a reduction in
the amount that FasTracks pays the base system for feeder service. That amount gets put into the FISA
account. And again, the FISA account is up to the Board's discretion regarding the funding, as well as the
use of that funding. So we're just continuing down what the Board has instructed in terms of a path
forward with the FISA for now.
These last three items-- the Board appropriated, capital replacement, and unrestricted fund-- those total
444 million of the $1.5 billion. So even though it looks like a huge number, a big chunk of that is really
being kept within the agency. Why we're asking the Board to appropriate fund balances is to set that
money aside, keep it in fund balances. The Board is the only body that can authorize use of those funds,
but by appropriating them, it puts them within those reserves and does not allow them to be used for
something else. And then, again, the previously approved capital of 428 million that we're carrying
forward year over year.
So my final slide, it's kind of bringing those into their categories in a smaller way. So 771 million operating
expenses, 235 million of debt service, capital expenditures to maintain our assets of $147 million, $444
million stays in reserves, and then we have the $429 million in capital carryforward.
So that is a quick summary of the appropriation that we are asking the Board to approve, and I'd be
happy to take any questions, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Broom has his hand raised.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. Do we have a list anywhere of the services that make up the
15% that we're not going to be able to reinstate?
PEGGY CATLIN: I don't know. Mr. MacLeod or General Manager CEO Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So as we talk about-- Debra Johnson, General Manager. Thank you, Madam Chair.
Director Broom, as we talk about what that is, we're going through the Reimagine RTD process. Very
soon, we are going to have discussions with the Board as we look to discern what might be optimal as we
weigh different elements regarding the guiding principles that you all adopted in April relative to

Reimagine RTD, that is, and then more specifically as we look at revenue service hours and the cost for
the expenditure and making informed decisions going forward.
So at this juncture, we don't have a list readily available. We'll be working with all of you as we basically
put that forward for your consideration through the Reimagine RTD process.
BOB BROOM: Oh, thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I do see, I believe Director Guissinger was next, followed by Director Cook.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks so much, Mr. MacLeod. It's very clear. I like the new way of presenting the
budget, and I think it's very helpful for all of us and for our constituents. And thanks for answering my
questions this week.
I had one more question I forgot to ask you, which is with the 85% return of service, does that split out?
Did you have to look at, I guess, the run boards to say we're at 70% now. And I assume that will stay until
May based on our previous decision. Do you bring back a certain amount in May and a certain amount in
September and in that way to get to the 85%?
DOUGLAS MACLEOD: Great question. And no, we did not. So what we said is each of the AGMs helps
develop their budget. So for instance, bus, they determine what their staffing levels would need to be. So
as we build the budget, we actually build it by position. So we know how many operators they need. We
know how many mechanics they need, et cetera. It was all based on providing 85% service level.
So January 1 of 2022, we have the funding available to meet that service, to have those resources in
place. Now whether that happens or not is dependent on our ability to hire and retain. However, we do
have the funding available to make that happen. So we did not do it in pieces throughout. It's basically
available January 1 through December 31 at 85% for the funding side.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks so much.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Cook, please.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you so much. And again, just to make note of the sea change in how we
present this budget at this stage of adoption, I really wanted to acknowledge you all on that, and also,
getting it out there for public comment. Have we, since it was put out or since our last hearing on it, have
we had comments submitted by the public?
DOUGLAS MACLEOD: No, we have not gotten any comments. I would say that that's not atypical. We
hardly ever get any comments. In fact, I don't think we've ever gotten any public comments until it comes
to the public comment time during the Board meeting. We've gotten the occasional comment during that
period. We've never got any written comments or otherwise in this interim viewing period, and same holds
true for this period. All the questions have come from either the Board or from staff.

SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair, a couple of others-- questions?
PEGGY CATLIN: Of course.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thanks. I could have asked this under the fiscal policies, but we talk about using
intergovernmental assistance or grants to finance only those capital improvements that are consistent
with the strategic plan. Do we have or are we developing a list of capital improvements that would flow
from our strategic plan, Doug or anybody?
PEGGY CATLIN: General Manager CEO Johnson, would you like to address that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, yes, and I'll have Mr. MacLeod further expound on that. Recognizing, as we
talked about, our asset management plan and recognizing that we have a backload of $290 million in our
state of debt repair, we're using that as the guidepost collectively. That's why we have the alignment with
the asset management plan.
And then more so as we look at critical elements in reference to ensuring that tying back to the P Task,
quite naturally in recognition of that comment regarding asset management in our facility maintenance
and so forth, that's all intertwined, and we collectively, being the team, are having conversations relative
to those projects as we go forward. But Mr. MacLeod, please feel free to expound as it relates to those
projects because I know there are some identified in the budget as it stands.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, go ahead, Mr. MacLeod.
DOUGLAS MACLEOD: Thank you, yeah, you're absolutely right. So there are projects that we do want to
go through as we go through the strategic planning process, constantly reviewing those projects that are
on the list, reprioritizing those projects to align with our direct strategic direction.
So I think there's going to be lots of opportunities to really dig down into that detail and really set a course
for how we're spending our money. There may be some projects that we decide we don't need to use and
may want to direct that money elsewhere. So at least at this current point in time, all the asset
replacement needs that have been identified within the asset management group, we do have the funding
available to meet those needs.
PEGGY CATLIN: Does that answer your question, Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, and just one wrap up from it. By the way, is that OK, Madam Chair? I'm sorry.
That policy also includes an explicit provision that we're going to look at operations and maintenance
costs. You know, sometimes, it's easy to get the grant money to build something, but you've got to take
into account those later costs.
Along sort of a related line, to the extent there was reporting over the weekend about the bipartisan
infrastructure framework and how some of that money might be tapped, our spokesperson said some of
that money might be tapped for this backlog of state of good repair projects.

To the extent that we are able to address that or mitigate that some and assuming that the 85% service
level long term is really a function of finances, assuming that we address the workforce issues, I do agree
with Director Broom and Director Guissinger about that it would be beneficial to talk about that level,
maybe have some planning in case we can bump it or whether we should bump it in terms of trade-offs
and so forth. Just thought I'd say that. Thanks so much, again, for all your work on this.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Cook. I think that's a good point. We're all kind of waiting to see
what that infrastructure bill means for RTD. I see Director Dishell has his hand up.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. At the risk of asking what might be a silly question, can we
quantify what metric we're using when we say 85% of service or metrics that we're using?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, Director Dishell, it's service hours.
BOBBY DISHELL: Service hours. So it's which doesn't necessarily mean-- as we exited the old world in
March of 2022 and re-enter a new world, it doesn't necessarily mean that 85% of what existed before will
exist again. It's that 85% of the hours we provided will exist, meaning it's not necessarily when we get
back to 100%, if and when we get back to 100%. 100% of the system as it existed before the pandemic
may not be the same 100% of the system that exists post-pandemic. It's based on the number of hours of
service that we're providing. So if we increase service on 15 instead of bringing back some other line, that
still gets us towards that 85%.
DEBRA JOHNSON: That is correct, hence in our previous discussion and my response, I said words
matter and not using the term "restoration" because then it might not be the same. But yes, basically in
transit service delivery, we always talk about the revenue service hours. That's what it's predicated upon
as we talk about looking at the cost per revenue hour and what we're expending because that basically
consumes the vast majority of what our budget entails because all the different elements that go into that.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you. That's helpful because I know a lot of conversation sort of talks
about going back.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And General Manager CEO Johnson, thank you for that clarification
because I'm not sure that our public fully understands that particular metric, and so thank you, Director
Dishell, for bringing that up.
BOBBY DISHELL: I have one supplemental question, if I may.
PEGGY CATLIN: Of course.
BOBBY DISHELL: Paratransit services, while I know they may not be the largest line item budget, how
much of a hit did that take and what goals do we have or are we still operating our paratransit services at
the same level we operated pre-pandemic?
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. MacLeod?

DOUGLAS MACLEOD: Thank you. I don't know specifically about paratransit, so I can get those numbers
for you, Director Dishell, and the rest of the Board as well. So let me do some research on that, and I'll get
back to you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I just wanted to make sure those folks are also included.
PEGGY CATLIN: So are you just wanting for paratransit or all special services, including FlexRide?
BOBBY DISHELL: Well, I don't know. I was asking paratransit, but if we can include it all.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, I'm interested in the FlexRide too.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, include it all.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you, Mr. MacLeod. Are there any other questions before we go to a vote? I
don't see any other virtual hands raised. And I want to thank you all for zooming through these five action
items. I have Chair Rivera-Malpiede as the mover and I have Director Cook as the second. Are there any
no votes for the 2022 budget tonight? Seeing none, that recommended action passes with a vote of 13
affirmative and two absent. Thank you.
We do not have any discussion items tonight, but we do have five briefing items that were included in
your packet, and I would encourage you all to look at those. And if you have any questions of staff, please
feel free to reach out.
At this point, are there any other matters to come before this committee? Seeing none, we are adjourned.
By my computer, it's 9:41 PM, but by your computer, it is 7:41 PM.
And I neglected to mention that there will not be a meeting in December, but the next meeting of this
committee, however it is, transformed will be in January of 2022. So with that, I wish you all happy
holidays, and we will have a discussion at the Board meeting, but no further committee meetings at this
point. So we are adjourned at 7:41 PM Mountain Daylight Time. Good night, all. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good night.

