Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
March 29, 2016 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Robert P. Austin – Bus Operator – 45 years
George Gill – Technical Training Instructor – 21 years
Marla Lien – General Counsel – 25 years
Magic Miljenko – Bus Operator – 15 years
Gary C. Nelson – Senior Accounting Technician – 24 years
Royola B. Willrich – Light Rail Train Operator – 28 years

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Folska
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Deadwyler
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Menten
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Francone
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Lasater
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Chair Tobiassen
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Chair Tobiassen

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of February 16, 2016

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Resolution No. __ Series of 2016, RTD Position on Senate Bill 16-123

B.

Resolution No. __ Series of 2016, North Metro Project Property Acquisition

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
pass the attached property acquisition resolution certifying properties as necessary for
construction of the North Metro Project and authorize staff to proceed with all requisite
legal process under state eminent domain law.
C.

Purchase of Six (6) Articulated Buses

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager, or his designee, to exercise an option
and amend contract 13-FK-001 in an amount not to exceed $4,127,000 with New Flyer
of America Inc. for the purchase of six (6) additional 60’ articulated buses and associated
spare components.
It is also recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the transfer of $4,127,000
from the intercity bus procurement project to cover the cost of the requested 6 new
articulated buses.
D.

B and G Line Bus and Rail Service Plan

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the B and G Line Bus and Rail Service Plan package as revised and
summarized in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost of approximately $72,700 in
addition to the cost of the B and G Line commuter rail service cost as included in the
Concession Agreement, and, further, to authorize the Interim General Manager or his
designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose
service is impacted by these changes.
E.

Construction Amendment for Contract 35 DP-003 – Platte Hoist Replacement

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the Interim General Manager to amend contract 35 DP-003 with
Precision Construction Services for an additional $1,687,083, increasing the contract notto-exceed amount to $2,322,433.

F.
Architectural / Engineering Contract with Short Elliot Hendrickson (SEH), Contract
11 DO-025 - Contract Amendment
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the Interim General Manager to amend contract 11 DO-025 with SEH
to allow for additional architectural / engineering design services in the amount of
$1,000,000 for a new, not-to-exceed contract amount of $4,000,000. Work is
administered on an as-needed, work order basis. The amended amount is to be funded by
various Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) approved future projects and existing projects under
contract.
G.
Resolution No. ___, Series of 2016 A Resolution Expressing the intent of the Board
to be reimbursed for certain expenses relating to the financing of the FasTracks Project
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), expressing the
intent of the Board to be reimbursed for certain expenses relating to the financing of the
FasTracks Project.

XII.

Recommended Action
H.
Line

Resolution No. __ Series of 2016, Operations and Maintenance – North Metro Rail

It is recommended that the Board of Directors pass the attached resolution authorizing the
General Manager to procure and/or execute any necessary work orders, change orders and
amendments with Denver Transit Partners (DTP) or its subsidiaries/subcontractors for the
operation and maintenance and any additional capital requirements for the North Metro
Rail Line in accord with the Board approved annual budget up to the start of revenue
passenger service of the North Metro Rail Line.
I.
Resolution No. __ Series of 2016, Southeast Rail Extension Project Property
Acquisition
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
pass the attached property acquisition resolution certifying properties as necessary for
construction of the Southeast Rail Extension Project and authorize staff to proceed with
all requisite legal process under state eminent domain law.
J.

Anschutz Shuttle Pass through Funds

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the Interim General Manager or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Agreement with the University of Colorado in an amount not to
exceed $2,157,000 for the purpose of distributing grant funds in order to fund the
Anschutz Shuttle. This Agreement is for the period 2016-2019.

K.

Route L Pass through Funds

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the Interim General Manager or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Agreement with Boulder County in an amount not to exceed
$2,080,000 for RTD to provide expanded Route L service. This service will be funded
through CMAQ grant funding and local match funds provided by Boulder County. This
Agreement is for the period 2016-2019.
L.

Route 324 Pass through Funds

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the Interim General Manager or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Agreement with the City of Longmont in an amount not to
exceed $1,470,000 for RTD to provide expanded service on Route 324. This service will
be funded through CMAQ grant funding and local match funds provided by the City of
Longmont . This Agreement is for the period 2016-2019.
M.

Route 62 Pass through Funds

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the Interim General Manager or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Agreement with Commerce City in an amount not to exceed
$1,695,000 for RTD to provide the new Route 62 service. This service will be funded
through CMAQ grant funding and local match funds provided by Commerce City. This
Agreement is for the period 2016-2019.
N.

Superior Call-n-Ride Pass through Funds

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the Interim General Manager or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Agreement with the City of Superior in an amount not to
exceed $530,000 for RTD to provide Superior Call-n-Ride service. This service will be
funded through CMAQ grant funding and local match funds from the City of Superior. This
Agreement is for the period 2016-2019.
O.

Broomfield Call-n-Ride Pass through Funds

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the Interim General Manager or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Agreement with the City and County of Broomfield in an
amount not to exceed $527,000 for RTD to provide expanded Broomfield Call-n-Ride
service. This service will be funded through CMAQ grant funding and local match funds
from the City and County of Broomfield. This Agreement is for the period 2016-2019.
P.

Construction Award for RFP 14 FH - 050 – Civic Center Renovation Project.

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the Interim General Manager to award a contract to the most qualified

proposer, Mortensen Construction, in the amount of $26,526,319.50 for the Civic Center
Renovation project. Additionally, the Interim General Manager shall be authorized to issue
contract amendments within the approved budget of $30,882,564.

XIII.

Old Business

XIV. New Business
XV.

Motion to Move into Executive Session


C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(e) - General Manager Contract

XVI. Resume from Executive Session
XVII. Recommended Action
Q.

Approval of General Manager Contract

XVIII. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

