June 2, 2020
RTD Planning, CP, FasTracks Committee
JUDY LUBOW: Good evening, everyone. This is Judy Lubow. And I'm Chair of the Planning,
Capital Programs, and FasTracks Committee. And I'm now calling to order that committee for
tonight, June 2, 2020, at 5:30 Mountain Daylight Time.
I would respectfully ask that everyone connected to the call mute your phone and set your ringers
to silent. Right now, I'm going to inform you that Chair Rivera-Malpiede has asked for a point of
privilege to be able to speak at the beginning of this meeting. So I'm going to call on the Chair
now.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Tonight, I would like to ask everyone
within the sound of my voice to join us in a time of silence in honor of George Floyd, the anguish
that our community is experiencing and our nation. And I'd like to start with a quote by the great
Maya Angelou.
I've learned that people will forget what you said. People will forget what you did. But people will
never forget how you made them feel. I will be back, Director Lubow, in eight minutes and 46
seconds to regain this meeting to you. Thank you.
Thank you, Madam Chair.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. That was a very moving and powerful and ultimately sad experience.
So I wanted to thank everyone for sharing that with us.
And now because we must, let's proceed to our meeting. Please note that under the current
pandemic circumstances, the official meetings of the RTD board of directors are being held
remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. During this time, meetings will be
primarily audio recorded. The audio recordings along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings
will be posted as soon as practicable on the board's website. Please visit RTD-Denver.com and
scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to the board of directors page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged
during tonight's proceedings, I ask you to please announce your name and wait for me to call on
you before proceeding to speak. We have a lot of people on the phone. And speaking out of turn
will only add confusion to the record and to the proceedings.
Please note that at the appropriate time during our discussion and voting processes later on in the
evening, I will call on each director in turn. So please know that your time to speak will come.
And if possible, please hold your comments until that time.
OK, at RTD, safety is our core value. I'd like to begin this meeting with a short safety briefing.
Even though we've all heard and heeded this health advice time and again since the beginning of

COVID-19, this information bears repeating if we are to stay vigilant in the weeks and months to
come. We aren't out of the woods yet. So I'm going to highlight certain sections of the general
health advisory.
Stay home when you are feeling sick. Self monitor for flu-like symptoms. And consult with your
doctor's office via phone as necessary. Clean and disinfect frequently touched services both at
work and home. Wearing a mask has also been shown to reduce the spread of the virus.
RTD patrons are encouraged to wear masks when using public transportation. For RTD employees,
please refer to signage in your work areas as well as the recent letter from our chief safety officer
Mike Meader on the topic of mask use in the workplace. And finally, continue to limit close
exposure to those outside of your household to the greatest extent possible. This includes practicing
social distancing aboard buses and trains and around stations, stops, and platforms. Thank you.
Tonight, in our committee, we have two recommended actions on the agenda. So for each
recommended action, I will read the action and then ask the directors if there is a motion. The first
recommended action is the RTD boundary certification and director district designation.
It is recommended by the planning, capital programs, and fast tracks committee that the board of
directors authorize the board secretary to certify the boundary map and description to reflect three
new annexations in the town of Erie. It is further recommended that all three of these newly
annexed parcels be assigned to District I, which is district Lubow. This recommended action
addresses the following general manager's goals for 2020, core goal number three, strong financial
management. Do I have a motion?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, so moved.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Second, Whitmore.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. OK. So this time, I would like to ask staff to present any pertinent
information regarding the action, noting that the action was included in the packet, and directors
have had time to ask questions offline. Directors and members of staff, please state your name for
the record each time you speak.
CHRIS QUINN: Hi, this is-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JUDY LUBOW: I'm sorry, go ahead.
CHRIS QUINN: Hi, this is Chris Quinn with RTD Planning staff. So just real quick, the action
being requested by state statute, anytime a municipality on the edge of the RTD boundary, anytime
they annex parcels of land outside their boundaries, those-- and if those areas are outside the

district, they automatically are in the district. So the action they're asking for is really just to
designate it to a specific Director district, since it's the only logical action point to [INAUDIBLE].
I might also add that, in this particular case-- so the boundary will be amended and then, as a
reminder, toward the end of the year we will be beginning the redistricting process. Districts will
be reassigned a Director district-- individual Director district boundaries AUDIO OUT].
BOB BROOM: Chair, this is Bob Broom.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yeah, I have a question. Is Castle Rock considered a city within our district? And
if Castle Rock were to annex property, would it come into the district, or, because a lot of Castle
Rock is not in the district that additional annexations would not be in the district.
JUDY LUBOW: Well, I'm going to ask Mr. Quinn to respond to that, but it's apropos that I'm
going to ask all the Directors for discussion, and Director Broom, you're the first one on the list.
So this is apropos.
But in any case, Chris, do you have any response to that?
CHRIS QUINN: Yes. In response-- this is Chris Quinn with RTD Planning. In response to Director
Broom's question, several years ago, I believe it was back in maybe around the 2004-2005
timeframe, part of Castle Rock was in the district and part was out. They held a town-wide vote to
completely de-annex, and the results the election were that they completely de-annex themselves
from the district. So no parts of Castle Rock are now within RTD.
BOB BROOM: OK, thank you. That's the only question that I had.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you. Now I'm going to ask each of the Directors in turn if they have
any discussion questions or comments. Director Buzek, please.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. I don't have any questions, but I just want to make a
comment that it just sounds like Chris' phone is cutting in and out. I don't know if anybody else
had that problem. I didn't hear much of what he said, but I don't have any questions in any regard.
Thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you very much, and thank you for that comment. Director Catlin,
please?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. I don't have any concerns or questions regarding this
proposed annexation, and I'm glad that Mr. Quinn did remind us that we will be facing new district
boundaries starting next year. So thank you for that.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Cook, please.

SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Madam Chair. No questions. I'll support the motion.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No comments, thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No question, thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Lewis, please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No questions.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: No questions.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Nothing from me. Thanks, Chair Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: No comments, no questions, no concerns. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: All right. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Nothing from me, thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Nothing for me.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: No questions, Madam Chair.
JUDY LUBOW: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No questions, Madam Chair.
JUDY LUBOW: And for myself, no questions also. Since this appears to be a non-controversial
item, instead of polling each person I'm going to ask the Directors generally, is there anybody who
is going to vote no on this item? If you would indicate that?

If there are no votes, we're just going to take this and consider it as passed unanimously. OK, thank
you everyone, and thank you Chris. Let's-- I'll read the next recommended action.
OK, the next recommended action concerns the parking structure management agreement at Old
Town Arvada Station. It is recommended by the Planning, Capital Programs, and FasTracks
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
negotiate and execute an intergovernmental agreement with the City of Arvada to govern parking
management at the Old Town transit hub, the parking garage at Old Town Arvada Station.
Do I hear a motion?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
SHELLEY COOK: And Shelley Cook second.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. OK. So let's-- I'm going to ask the staff to present any pertinent
information regarding the action, noting that the action was included already in the packet. Would
somebody in the staff like to present some pertinent information?
CHESSY BRADY: Yes, thank you. This is Chessy Brady, TOD Manager in the Planning
Department. Since we presented this item as an update in April, we've continued to negotiate with
Arvada and we've had a very positive, constructive working relationship with them that we're very
appreciative of. The premise of the IGA hasn't changed since April, but there are two tweaks that
I wanted to bring to your attention.
One is that Arvada will be able-- we are-- this idea permits Arvada to start charging when the
garage is effectively full, which means about 85%. If it reaches and is sustained at 85%, they will
then have the option of charging $2.00 per day.
Secondly, the fees that Arvada collects from that revenue-- or that revenue will go towards
managing and maintaining their garage, and any transit-supported projects, such as first/last mile
projects, that they might have nearby, which would come with RTD's approval. And keep in mind
there that A, the garage currently is more or less empty, utilization has essentially dropped to zero
with the pandemic. So we don't know how long it will take it to get back up to 85%, or to get ever
to 85%. It was only at about 65% in March. But it-- so we don't know when that may happen.
And secondly, back of the envelope, just looking at the numbers, we wouldn't-- I think Arvada
will be very lucky to have their management and maintenance costs covered by those-- the fees
that they might accrue. I-- this is just-- this is not a gold mine. This is not a moneymaking operation.
Being able to charge in this location is about managing the parking demand and managing the
garage. So I won't go through the deal points. You have them in the Board report, but I'm happy
to answer any questions.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much for that presentation. Now for our discussion, I'll go to
each Director in alphabetical order. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: No questions. I support this.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No questions, thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No questions, thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: No questions, just wanted to underscore one point, that this effectively adds
200 spaces to the numbers that RTD passengers are able to use at no cost to us. So thank you,
Madam Chair.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No questions. I'll support it, thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No questions. I'll support, too. Thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No questions.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Menten?
Director Menten?
OK, Director Menten, are you having trouble with your mute?
NATALIE MENTEN: Oh, sorry, I usually don't do that. I apologize. I think I have one question-or two, actually. And the one is that when it requires approval of using the fees that are collected
by Arvada for another transportation-related type of task, and there was approval needed, what is
that process?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
--staff, or Board, or-- sorry. Go ahead.

CHESSY BRADY: Nope. This is Chessy Brady in the Planning Department. Our assumption has
been that it's a staff-level approval.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And so if Arvada wanted to go hire a transportation manager who was
going out to meetings and getting a $100,000 contract, that would be completely within line of
using that money in that way? As long as RTD staff approved that, correct?
CHESSY BRADY: The way we have characterized it or intend to characterize it is that it be for-and we haven't specified this, so we should talk about this when we go on with Arvada, but is that
it would be for capital investments. So something more like bus stop improvement, or bike racks,
or something that facilitated something capital-related that-- or perhaps operations-related, but not- our intention was not that it be staff-related so that's something we can definitely look into and
make sure that that's clear.
NATALIE MENTEN: Does that mean that that could be changed before we do a final vote?
CHESSY BRADY: We can-- yeah, we can definitely-- I can definitely come back with more
information in-- I think it's in two weeks.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So just as a heads-up, Chelsea, I really appreciate the work that you've
done on this. For tonight I will vote no, and that's simply because when I did serve as our
representative on DRCOG, it brings great concern to me when we are paying people-- in some
cases we had $100,000 or more grants that were things I thought should be going into capital but
we were just paying somebody to go out and tell people to ride the system.
And I didn't think it was the best way to spend money, and I would be much more comfortable if
there was some sort of a protection in place, knowing that it goes to the maintenance, goes to
capital, those type of things. So again, I appreciate your work coming back with those changes.
And, of course, we're not on the final vote, so just if you could let me know what those
conversations come back with, that would be great. Thank you very much.
CHESSY BRADY: Absolutely.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
Director Mihalik, any questions or concerns?
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I do not have any, thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: No questions, Madam Chair, and I do appreciate Director Cook's [TALKING
IN BACKGROUND] amplification. I'm sorry, I'm in competition with someone. I appreciate
Director Cook's amplification of an important point regarding the agreement. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Walker?

JEFF WALKER: Nothing from me, thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Nothing for me at this time.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. No questions.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No questions. Thank you, Madam Chair.
JUDY LUBOW: All right, thank you, and no questions on my part. So at this time I'm going to
call for the vote and we'll proceed in reverse alphabetical order. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: I am in favor of this.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, [ECHO].
JUDY LUBOW: All right. Director Mihalik, please.
KEN MIHALIK: I'm a yes.
BOB BROOM: All right. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: No.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Myself is a yes. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sorry, yes.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: And Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: All right, thank you. So we have 14 yes votes and 1 no votes, and the no vote
was Director Menten, and this motion passes. Thank you.
OK. So now we're going to go to Updates. We have one Update on the agenda tonight, and the
Update is Continuous Improvements and Innovation. I would urge and ask staff to give a short
presentation about this Update. Thank you.
BILL VAN METER: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General
Manager for Planning, and I want to kick it off by just making a brief introduction of Rebecca
Tate. Rebecca is our Manager of Continuous Improvement and Innovation. She started at RTD in
January of 2016 as the lead consultant with the Customer Care Continuous Improvement Pilot
Program. Since then, Rebecca has led improvement projects across the organization. She stood up
our Innovation Network Teams in Light Rail and Commuter Rail, OR Customer Care-- I'm sorry.
And those were some of the projects that were showcased just in February of this year at the RTD
Innovation Fair.
Rebecca holds a bachelor's degree in economics from McGill University in Montreal, and a
Masters in Urban and Regional Planning and an MBA from the University of Colorado in Denver.
She is our Manager of Continuous Improvement and Innovation, and is prepared to add a few more
comments.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.

REBECCA TATE: Thank you, Bill, and thank you, Madam Chair. This is Rebecca Tate, Manager
of Continuous Improvement and Innovation. Thank you for the opportunity to speak with the
Board tonight and provide an update on our program. Before I get started, I just wanted to make
sure-- I wanted to confirm with the Chair that I am coming in clearly over the phone.
JUDY LUBOW: You're doing fine, thank you.
REBECCA TATE: Thank you so much, Madam Chair. In the interest of time, and due to the
format of this meeting, I won't go through each slide, but I would like to highlight a few items and
then answer any questions you all may have.
The first item I want to highlight is our team's involvement with the Employee Engagement Survey
and our work around the four focus areas that came out of that survey. David Zimmerman from
our team led that survey last effort last fall. I believe he shared those findings with you all last
January, and since then we have supported such initiatives as the Employee Engagement
Committee, the Communications Committee, the Deployment of Employee Public Information
Displays or the EPID, and others, all aimed at improving engagement levels across the
organization.
The next item I would like to highlight a core component of our program that Bill introduced that
addresses all four of those survey focus areas is the Innovation Network Team Program. And you
all may recall that RTD held its first-ever Innovation Fair this past February where many of you
got to meet the team members and check out their improvement projects.
Just to jog your memory, since February now seems like a completely different era, those projects
included Flex Ride Customer Service Improvements, Maintenance of Way Asset Mapping, and
many, many others. We currently have two teams, one in Light Rail Operations and another in
Customer Care, and they include represented employees in our operations field.
These teams provide those employees with the opportunity to learn process improvement and
change management tools that they can use to address frustrations in their workplace, all while
improving communication workgroups. And finally, I would like to highlight our team's
involvement with the Reimagine RTD efforts.
To date, we have worked on the Employee Engagement Component for the System Optimization
Plan through the creation of both an Operator and a Customer Care Task Force to provide feedback
on the developing plan. You can read some of that feedback in the presentation. Those are direct
quotes from task force members, all with a deep interest in ensuring we provide good service to
our riders. Moving forward, our goal is to lead improvement efforts aimed at preparing our
organization and our workforce for what's next through the Reimagine process.
That's all I wanted to focus on for today, and I will answer any questions anyone may have. Thank
you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you so much for that presentation.

Now we'll go to a discussion, and I'm going to ask each of the Directors in turn if they have
questions or comments. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: No comments.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No questions, no comments. Thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. Good slide show presentation. I appreciate it, but I
also wanted to say that I enjoyed the Innovation Fair in February and was very impressed with the
ingenuity and creativity of our employees. So thank you very much.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, just agreeing with Director Catlin. That creativity is more needed and
will be needed [INTERPOSING VOICES] more than ever. So thank you very much for what y'all
are doing.
JUDY LUBOW: You know, I'm wondering if somebody is not muted because we're hearing some
static on the phone. So I'm just suggesting. OK, thank you, Director Cook. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No comments, thank you, Chair.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No comments, thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No comments.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I do have a comment. I love the idea of creativity and getting more
interaction with our employees to improve things. I think it's terrific and essential. I'm just
wondering, given this upside-down world that we now live in with the pandemic, where it feels
like we're in almost an Alice in Wonderland inversion and things are not the same that they used
to be, how has that change impacted what you folks do in your field, which is innovation to begin
with?
REBECCA TATE: Madam Chair, this is Rebecca Tate. We definitely struggled a little bit with
continuing on with some projects. When crises arrive, Process Improvement takes a backseat, for
sure. But we're picking up the pieces again and we're moving forward, and I think that through all
of this, this has provided an opportunity to highlight some of those areas where we can focus our
improvement efforts in the future.

The pandemic certainly provided a stress test of sorts to our internal systems and we were able to
identify some bottlenecks that we can work on to improve organizational agility and become a
more nimble organization that can address future needs. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I'd love to learn more about that. Perhaps at some future meeting we
could learn more about those changes. Thank you. Director Menten? Do you have any questions
or comments?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, I have a comment. So I wanted to say that I also appreciated the
Innovation Fair, and what got me just very, very excited was the ways to save money, and I look
forward to seeing that excitement in the RTD employees who were there, and look very forward
to hopefully having another one of those, perhaps before the end of the year. I don't know if that
would be possible or not, but that was a very good, informative display of how we can be creative.
That's it. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Tisdale, please.
Oh, I'm sorry. I forgot Director Mihalik. Forgive me.
DOUG TISDALE: I was going to say, I'll be happy to go, but I think-JUDY LUBOW: [LAUGHING]
DOUG TISDALE: --it's Director Mihalik's turn.
KEN MIHALIK: Well, I'll keep it real short. I don't have anything, but thank you for the
presentation. You've definitely got a lot of challenges ahead of you. Thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Now, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Mihalik said what I was going to say, so I have no further comment.
Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: All right. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Nothing for me, thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: I appreciate the presentation. No comments for me, thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have a couple of things I want to say. I also
attended the Innovation Fair and I, like Director Menten, found some very cool stuff. Our guys

and girls have done some great work saving the District money, making things work better, and
I'm appreciative that they did that. So that's all I have to say. Thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. OK. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I also attended the Innovation Fair and
I have to say that this is what makes passion in our employees, to be able to be creative and do
things and thinking outside of the box. I thought they were innovative, and when they talked about
their specific projects, you could just see how excited they were, in terms of being able to present
it to folks. And so I really appreciated that and I really look forward to them doing more in the
future. Thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you all. OK, that's the end of our discussion for this one update.
Now let's move on to Information Items. We have two Information Items, and they are RTD's
Fixing America's Surface Transportation, i.e. FAST Act Reauthorization Priorities, as well as the
Southwest Chief and Front Range Passenger Rail Commission. So these information items, we do
not ask questions in the Board meeting. However, Board members are urged to speak to
appropriate staff members after the Board meeting if you have questions or comments.
OK. Next up is other matters. Are there any other matters?
BOB BROOM: Madam Chair, Bob Broom.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
BOB BROOM: I'm not sure if this is the appropriate place to bring this up, but I wonder if we
could get an update on service to downtown Denver, given all that's been going on.
BARBARA MCMANUS: This is Barbara McManus. Director Broom, we have a bullet point in
Other Matters in Government Relations to cover that item. Would you mind waiting until-BOB BROOM: No, that would be fine.
BARBARA MCMANUS: --we get to that point?
BOB BROOM: That would be fine.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Barbara. OK. Any other concerns from other Directors?
All right. The next meeting date will be August 1st-- 4th, 2020, and here we go. It's-- we're going
to adjourn this meeting now. We-- I'm going to refer you to Director Guissinger, who will chair
the upcoming meeting, which is Communications and Government Relations, and I suggest that
we take a five-minute break. Thank you.

