Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Shelley Cook, District L
Bob Broom, District F
Vince Buzek, District J
Claudia Folska, District E
Lynn Guissinger, District O
Shontel M. Lewis, District B

Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
May 9, 2019 at 12:00 PM

I.

II.

Call to Order
Chair Tisdale called the meeting to order at 12:00 p.m.
Committee members in attendance:

Chair Tisdale, 1st Vice Chair Catlin,
2nd Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede (via
phone), Secretary Walker (arrived
late, left early but participated by
phone), Treasurer Cook

Others present:

General Manager Genova, Board
Office Executive Manager Barbara
McManus

May Board Meeting Agenda Review
Presented by Chair Tisdale.
Chair Tisdale reviewed changes to the Board’s Governance Manual as adopted by the
Finance, Administration, & Audit Committee on May 7, 2019, to ensure that all
amendments proposed during the meeting were properly incorporated. The Executive
Committee discussed and approved by means of consent additional minor ministerial
changes.
Motion:

Director Catlin made the motion to approve moving
the May 14, 2019 Board agenda to the full Board.
Director Cook seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Main
Motion:
III.

The motion passed with 5 in favor and 0 opposed.

Recommended Action
Presented by Chair Tisdale.
A.
Expense Policy Amendment
It is recommended by the Chair of the Board of Directors and the Executive
Committee that the Board of Directors approve an amendment to the RTD Board of
Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual (Expense Policy) regarding the
attendance or participation of a Director’s spouse or significant other or invited guest
in a local, transit-related event when the Director is unable to attend the event.
This recommendation is consistent with the General Manager’s 2019 Core Goal #2
– Strong & Ethical Leadership.
Main
Motion:

Director Rivera-Malpiede made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the May 14, 2019
Board Meeting.
Director Walker seconded the motion.

Substitute
Motion to
Table Until
June 13,
2019:

Director Catlin made the motion to table the main
motion until the Executive Committee meeting
scheduled to be held on June 13, 2019.
Director Walker seconded the motion.

Vote on
the
Substitute
Motion:

The motion passed with 5 in favor and 0 opposed.

IV.

Other Matters
Barbara McManus spoke.
The committee discussed the appropriate use of local expense funds for transitrelated purposes, specifically with respect to a requested expenditure of an unusual
nature. The committee agreed to discuss the matter further with RTD General
Counsel before rendering a decision.
General Manager Genova and Chair Tisdale spoke.

V.

Adjourn
Chair Tisdale adjourned the meeting at 1:20 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

